We’re used to political humour on Facebook and Twitter, but how about Tumblr?Hark back to the days of the general election and you may remember theMilifandom, a group of teens who loved Ed Miliband and found their own way to support him. In a nutshell, politics Tumblr is similar, where people, predominantly young people, discuss in their own language the ins and outs of stereotypically dull current affairs. There are fandoms, there are jokes and there are plenty offlower crowns for everyone.In the third episode of Updog, a podcast which takes all internet things as extremely as the rest of the world takes politics, we take a look at the world of#loliticson Tumblr with the help of Evening Standard diary reporter Marie Le Conte.The British lolitics set come in all shapes.There are those who are fans of individual politicians. The Milifandom set is still going strong, even now he’s no longer Labour leader:And there was definitely a lot of excitement around Jeremy Corbyn becoming Labour leader:In fact, you can find a meme about pretty much any political party:It’s not just Ed Miliband who has his own fandom.There are the Osbabies, people who fancy George Osborne and the “Fandies” who really like Andy Burnham:Then there are the mashup blogs Tumblr does so well, such as this one by this week’s guest, mixing pictures of politicians with Kanye West quotes:Want to follow future episodes of Updog? Good! You can follow us on Twitter@Updogcastand future episodes are posted every week on Fridays.
In the summer of 2014, Mackenzie had just started working two minimum-wage jobs in Colorado when she suffered a major epileptic seizure at home, one that left her reeling and disoriented. She was home alone and, following the attack, too bewildered and drowsy to know to call in sick. The infraction was enough to earn Mackenzie, who was 22 at the time, a so-called “no call, no show” blot on her record from each employer – a restaurant, where she worked tables, and a gym. While both companies knew about Mackenzie’s history of severe seizures, this was, they said, grounds for dismissal. She was told not to return to work. “I’m in the process of fighting it,” she tells me. “But both companies have a lot of money … ”Mackenzie’s seizures are so severe – she was featured earlier this year on MTV’sTrue Life: I Have Epilepsy– that she is unable to drive (or climb, or swim, or wield a knife, among many other things). Neither will she take the bus to work because, if she suffers a fit on board, well-meaning members of the public inevitably call for an ambulance to take her to the hospital – a costly trip in the US. Indeed, Mackenzie’s medical debts currently total more than $30,000. Jobs that are walking distance from her home are hard to find, and harder still to hold down.Related:Twitch's co-founder on the curious appeal of watching gamers gameAround the time she was dismissed, Mackenzie had started watching Twitch.tv, the online video streaming service on which you can log in to watch so-called “streamers” present live TV broadcasts. She’d heard that some of these presenters, who usually played video games on air, were popular enough that they were able to earn a living from their broadcasts. Moreover, many of these streamers were unable to work other jobs. There wasNoHandsKen, a quadriplegic streamer who is dependent on a ventilator to breathe;Brolylegs, who, despite having no arms, is an expert player of Street Fighter, a game that requires immense dexterity (he describes himself as the “best Chun-Li with no hands”);DHHGamers, which stands for Deaf and Hard of Hearing Gamers, a Twitch community for hearing-impaired gamers who stream and play a variety of online games; and a slew of others. Sensing a problem-solving opportunity, Mackenzie set up an account. Rather than trying to disguise her illness, she instead decided to advertise it via the droll handleMackenseize.NoHandsKen plays World of WarcraftIn 2014, Amazon bought Twitch for $970m, a seemingly ludicrous amount for a website whose value and appeal might appear, to non-viewers, nebulous and ill-defined. In fact, the pitch is simple: Twitch is a service on which anyone is able to broadcast anything live online, from a live concert to a poetry recital. Broadcasters each have their own channel, and viewers follow their favourite presenters, like radio listeners who track their preferred DJs as they move from station to station. Viewers can channel-hop, leave live comments on what they’re watching, and even donate money to support the broadcasters they enjoy. Twitch is arguably the most democratic broadcasting television service yet devised, even if its subject matter is currently narrow. (Programmes on Twitch’s precursor, justin.tv, were general interest, but its popularity was immediately surpassed by that of Twitch, which launched as a video game-focused spinoff in June 2011.)Unlike, for example, YouTube, the videos are not recorded for posterity (though some do end up there). Like live television, the moment passes and is lost. Log on to watch your favourite broadcaster while they are offline and you’ll be greeted with a blank page. This is appointment-viewing, as evidenced by the fact that, as well as individual broadcasters, Twitch also hosts live events, especially increasingly popular eSports tournaments, in which professional video game players compete for growing prize pots. In March, more than a million viewers logged in to watch the Extreme Masters World Championship in Katowice, Poland – the record for the number of concurrent viewers watching a single channel on Twitch to date.Brolylegs plays Street Fighter IVTwitch’s inscrutability derives from two factors. The audience is predominantly teenage, and the material they watch predominantly footage of people playing and talking about video games. Nevertheless, the numbers involved are extraordinary. A data survey in April 2014 found that Twitch hada 43% share of all live-streaming web trafficin the US. In the same year the site began to attract an average of100 million unique viewers per month. Viewers watch for an average of106 minutes per day– which adds up to many billions of minutes watched on Twitch per month. Video games are no longer our species’ ultimate time-waster; that dubious accolade goes, instead, to watching other people play video games.On a wet Thursday morning, Mackenzie sits at her computer wearing a grey hoody and a pair of bulky headphones, with one can slipped off the ear. Her webcam is positioned flatteringly above one of the two computer screens in front of her. She ping-pongs her head between the two screens, one of which displays the match she’s currently playing over the internet – a competitive card game calledHearthstone– and the other the Twitch chat log, where her viewers leave comments on what she is doing.Mackenseize having an epileptic seizure during a gaming stream“Eight, nine, 10 … he’s coming up to 11 health and we have eight damage,” she says, leaning in to the monitor at the climax of a match. “So if we get a dark bomb … actually, we can Boom? No, we can’t Boom Hellfire. That’s fine.”The conversation, which is arcane to anyone who is not versed in the complexities of Hearthstone, appears to be one-way. Mackenzie’s is the only voice we hear, but she routinely responds to questions that her viewers pose in chat, turning the stream into a dialogue – “kenz, whats your favorite vanilla-flavored ice cream flavor?” asks one viewer.Later, the conversation turns to epilepsy. “I started smoking two years before I had any seizures,” she reports. Another viewer suggests that weed can be useful in controlling epilepsy.“At first I didn’t know what to do,” Mackenzie tells me, of her Twitch debut. She watched other streamers, studied their techniques and the things they talked to their viewers about while playing their chosen game – usually tips and techniques about what they were doing in the game, mixed in with more general talk about their lives. “If I enjoyed sitting in a particular stream, I’d copy what they did.” It was a steep learning curve. “I knew that this wasn’t going to go anywhere if I only streamed for a few hours each day, or only every other day,” she says. “I had an opportunity, and I wasn’t going to waste it. Almost from the start I was doing 60 hours a week. I’d wake up, get dressed and showered, then start streaming from 11am through to 11pm every single day.”Related:SpecialEffect: the charity making video games available for allThe hard work paid off. At first, Mackenzie would have a few dozen players entering her stream. A year later, that figure averages around 350. Mackenzie now has more than 27,000 followers, who are notified every time she starts a broadcast. She is also able to earn a living from this newly minted vocation. “Because I knew I wanted this to become my job, I installed a donation button right from the off.” This allowed viewers to donate money to Mackenzie in one-off payments, but the income was naturally uneven. “One month someone would donate a crazy amount of money,” she recalls. “Then the next month I’d only make $400. The first few months it was random, but I was still making more money than I had made on minimum-wage jobs to which I had to walk or catch the bus.”After six months, Mackenzie was invited to joinTwitch’s partnership programme, which allowed her to add paid subscriptions to her channel. Around 11,000 of Twitch’s 1.5 million streamers are partners. It costs viewers $4.99 per month to subscribe to a channel; half of this goes to Twitch, and the rest goes to the streamer. While Mackenzie’s income is still uneven, it has steadied now, and she has even been able to pay off some of her medical bills.The reasons for Twitch’s success can be difficult to unpick. Undoubtedly, it’s the latest triumph to rise from the recent seismic shifts in broadcasting. During the past five years, the rise of so-called “casters” has made internet stars of numerous young YouTube and Twitch broadcasters. The 24-year-old SwedeFelix “PewDiePie” Kjellberghas more than 28 million subscribers to his channel, an audience that rivals that of America’s slick-haired talkshow hosts. PewDiePie reportedly earned $7.2m in 2014. The stars of these services share some of the attributes that propelled TV stars to fame in decades past: they are likable, watchable, humorous or insightful – even if they are, usually, laser-focused on a particular niche.PewDiePie plays Grand Theft Auto VThe site’s success is also down to the interactive relationship between streamer and viewer. “The reason why Twitch is so sticky is because it is not just people watching video games; it’s a social video experience,” explains Chase, who helped launch the service in 2011. “The broadcasters are talking to the viewers and the people in chat are interacting with the broadcasters and each other; it is a very dynamic conversation.”Stacey Rebecca, a Twitch streamer from Croydon who suffers from postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome – chronic back pain that makes it difficult for her to leave the house unaided – agrees. “It’s the excitement of it being live,” she says. “It’s more interactive and more personal for that reason. Getting to witness silly and cool things happen live makes it more interesting than YouTube to me.”Nevertheless, positive communities don’t happen naturally on Twitch, just as they don’t elsewhere on the internet, where the veil of anonymity encourages abusive behaviour. “I had to be strict about who I let in,” says Mackenzie. “That stunted building my audience. It’s easy to get a large audience, especially as a woman, if you don’t moderate your chat at all, and you just let people come in and say whatever they want. A lot of people do drunk streams, or smoke on screen, and I don’t do that. It’s been slow and steady to build, but every time someone comes into the channel and enjoys it, they stay for a long time. I’m proud of that.” Nevertheless, Mackenzie chooses to keep her surname a secret, so as to maintain a certain degree of privacy, even as she lets strangers into her home via a video linkup daily.Stacey Rebecca, who had a following as acosplayer(someone who dresses up as characters from films, video games and comics) before she joined Twitch, has also worked hard to cultivate a non-toxic community. “There are things called ‘stream raids’, where a group of bored teens will visit certain channel and post insults in the chat log,” she says. “But it’s copy-and-paste stuff. Because I’ve already done the cosplay stuff, I’ve heard pretty much every insult. Very often it’s not personal. They’re just looking to get a reaction, and if they don’t, they get bored.”Stacey Rebecca plays HearthstoneOnly a relative handful of disabled streamers earn their living from the service, but as well as providing a supplemental income, Twitch offers a support community. “Twitch gives me that feeling of being less isolated,” says Stacey Rebecca. “I have a lot of regulars, and it’s nice to have that kind of friendly group that I can essentially hang out with each day without having to leave the house. And because I’ve been open about my mental health problems, I attract a lot of viewers who are experiencing anxiety. It helps us both feel less isolated. It’s a mutually beneficial arrangement.”As well as providing new jobs, Twitch has proven a powerful fundraising tool. The site claims that it helped raise more than $10m for charity in 2014. When she lost one of her friends to suicide recently, Stacey Rebecca held a 12-hour charity stream, raising more than £6,500 forMind, the mental health charity. “The charity was a little confused about what I was proposing,” she says. “So I explained it like a telethon – like Comic Relief, but online.”Related:YouTube star PewDiePie responds to 'haters' over $7.4m annual earningsLikewise, Mackenseize sees her work as helping to promote understanding about epilepsy. When she had a severe seizure live on air, soon after she first started streaming, she says it only strengthened the bond between her and her viewers (she subsequentlyuploaded the footage to YouTube, to show people what a seizure looks like). In this way Twitch is helping to foster openness and vulnerability around illness in a way that would have been unthinkable in the past.Even so, it’s been difficult for Mackenzie to explain to her family what she does. “My mum never says anything positive about the stream,” she says. “She doesn’t want to view it as a positive thing because she just wants me to come home. But yesterday she said on the phone that my stream gives her faith in humanity, because there are so many strangers out there willing to help.”While the positive aspect to the arrangement is clear in Mackenzie’s case, her schedule is nevertheless gruelling and, as she mainly focuses on a single game – at which she has become an expert – surely repetitive. Is it still fun? “Oh yes,” she says. “Times a million. There will always be challenges in the game because the developer keeps adding new cards and mixing things up. That keeps the game fresh. And I am always so excited to stream. There’s never a day I don’t want to. Well, maybe when I’m feeling lazy, and don’t want to take a shower or do my makeup. But once I start, I always end up loving what I’m doing.”
Apple should have been awarded an injunction against Samsung in their long-running smartphone patent war, the US court of appeals ruled on Thursday.The court of appeals for the federal circuit in Washington DC said the lower court, led by US district judge Lucy Koh, abused its discretion by denying Apple an injunction against Samsung after a juryordered the Korean company to pay $120min May last year for infringing three of Apple’s patents.Slide to unlockThe case involved patents covering slide-to-unlock, autocorrect and data detection features.The appeals court ruling said that Apple’s proposed injunction is narrow because it does not want to ban Samsung’s devices from the marketplace, and that Samsung can remove the patented features without recalling its products.The case was sent back to a federal district court in San Jose, California, to reconsider the injunction.Little impactAfter the jury verdict last year, Koh refused Apple’s request for a permanent injunction to stop Samsung from selling the infringing features on its smartphones.Calling Apple’s injunction request “unfounded”, a spokeswoman said Samsung will ask the full slate of federal circuit judges to review the latest decision.Apple reiterated its previous comments about the case, saying: “Samsung wilfully stole our ideas and copied our products.”Michael Risch, a professor of law at Villanova University School of Law, said the impact on Samsung of the latest decision could be limited because the company has been bracing for a possible injunction, designing around the features or abandoned them already.In the Apple-Samsung patent wars, “Apple has won every round,” he said. “But the reality is it hasn’t actually slowed Samsung down.”The two companies are embroiled in aseparate case stemming from 2012, which saw Apple initially awarded $930m for Samsung infringing patents and design features, whichwas reduced by $382m in May this year. The final amount of damages is still in dispute within Koh’s court.•Samsung and Apple battle over the smartphone ‘floating voter’
Somewhere on Steven Spielberg’s cutting-room floor are 20 minutes of footage shot for Minority Report, the sci-fi film from 2002 in which Tom Cruise memorably manoeuvred content around wall-sized computer screens by waving his hands. The 20 minutes were written by John Underkoffler, who also came up with the idea for the “gesture interface” used by Cruise, in his role as a chief of police catching criminals before they knew they intended to break the law.The extra scenes – lost from the film – showed the back room: the people who processed all the data that was then routed upstairs to Cruise (playing police chief John Anderton) who would then waft them around the room.But 13 years on, where are the wall-sized gestural interfaces? Or even laptop-screen-sized gestural interfaces? Why aren’t we all filing documents and doing ... whatever we want, by waving our hands around? Underkoffler, now chief executive, chief scientist and founder of Oblong Industries, says there have been two problems: getting the technology right, and getting that integrated into the “full stack” of tasks that we want to do.Underkoffler’s advisory role to the film came because he had worked at MIT’s Media Lab, where “I became sort of obsessed with user interfaces. I felt that by 1994 the UI [user interface] that the Mac had introduced [in 1984] and had come to be standard, well, after 10 years surely it’s time for something new?” He says he became “sort of obsessed” with UI, and with giving human hands top priority because “they are incredibly fine instruments”.When Spielberg was looking around for advisers, the Media Lab was an obvious place to go because of its reputation as the source of many ideas and people that shaped the future. “They felt they wanted to get the direction for how computers might be operated in 50 years’ time. I was responsible for making sure all the technology in the film was coherent” – that you didn’t have gestures in one place yet clunky keyboards in others. “It was a simplification of the MIT work.”The idea of throwing files, text, video and pictures around a giant screen suspended in front of you wowed audiences. But, despite a lot of effort since then, gesture-control systems haven’t, by and large, thrived. An independent company called Leap Motion, based in San Francisco, excited some in 2013 by releasing a small gesture detection system that plugged into Windows PCs and used infrared light to detect finger movement. Google has also demonstrated its intention to explore this space: at its Google I/O developer conference in May, there wasa brief demonstration of “Project Soli”,which is a short-range radar-based system that can measure movement, velocity and distance at up to 10,000 frames per second – and in theory would let you control your smartphone, or any other equipped device, by waving your hand and waggling your fingers in a particular way.And, of course, millions of Xbox owners also have the gesture- and voice-driven Kinect module on or near their TV sets for games interaction.But Leap Motion has disappointed: even the developers to whom it was dished out have struggled to find compelling uses, and Techcrunch reported in May 2014 that only 500,000 units had been sold, short of expectations. Leap Motionlaid off 10% of its staff early in 2014. Meanwhile Project Soli remains an unknown: it might become part of future Android phones, though Google doesn’t have a strong track record in making hardware; for every Chromecast, there’s a Nexus Q and Google Glass.As for the Kinect, even Microsoft seems to have lost heart. It’s not a requirement for the Xbox One; and few games even make use of it, because although it could work well, it wasn’t totally reliable at interpreting motion. That made precise gaming frustrating.So what is the problem with gestural control? Why hasn’t it broken through, in the way that we so expected from Minority Report?“I think there are two problems,” says Underkoffler. “First is getting the enabling technology. Leap Motion have done an impressive job with one piece of the technology, which is the detection of hands and fingers, but it stops there. It’s missing the full stack – how you manipulate things such as files. It’s as if you had a Logitech mouse but you didn’t have the operating system that could understand what it meant. You wouldn’t have much. We really need people who are thinking from end to end, from the raw mechanics to the input through to the human interface. It has to be expressed by the software and the OS [operating system]; that’s what the original Mac team did: they started with a bitmapped UI [where each point on the screen was represented by data in a memory location] that was also the OS.”The other issue, he says, is using gestures for the right tasks. “For instance, touch isn’t popular on laptops or desktops, but it’s very, very good on phones. It’s the wrong mode for a laptop, but exactly right for a mobile device, where your expectation about interactions is very reduced. So the question becomes, where is a gesture the right way to get things done?”In other words, what problems does a gestural system solve that a GUI with a more accurate pointing device such as a remote doesn’t? Underkoffler thinks that present UIs have “a clerical soul” - they’re about moving files around, generally, and are “anti-collaborative.”That idea of collaboration is part of what got left behind on the Minority Report cutting-room floor: all those people working together to create the coherent picture that Anderton would then dissect. (The film was already long, though.) Now Underkoffler is trying to create an environment for it.Oblong Industries’ key product, Mezzanine, is “a commercial version of the Minority Report computers”.Mezzanine is a collaborative conference room system, which melds standard presentations and videoconferencing, with interactions controlled by “wands”. So it’s not quite the gestural world that we thought we’d glimpsed.But Underkoffler is sure that bigger screens, and gestures to control them, are going to become increasingly important as we move towards doing more ambitious tasks mediated directly through computers. “We started our digital lives about 30 years ago, with screens about the size of a laptop now. That’s about the size of an A4 piece of paper. Weirdly, the pages we work with have gotten smaller with tablets – and then phone screens, which are about the size of 3in by 5in cards.“Different tasks fit into these different spaces more or less well. But if you’re working on a complex problem such as planning a difficult surgery, or doing urban planning, or bridge design, you wouldn’t plan those on three-by-five cards, you’d use a table or a whiteboard. You need space to display ideas. And it’s the same for their digital counterparts.”Bigger screens are certainly becoming available. Microsoft has probably gone furthest, with its gigantic 234in (5.94m) “Cinema” interactive screen, intended for trade shows. By contrast Apple, like Microsoft with the Kinect, seems to have let the chance go by. Despite buying Primesense, an Israeli company that specialised in 3D sensor technology (rather like the Kinect, developed by another Israeli company) for around $350m in November 2013, there is no sign of any gesture-based devices or interfaces from the company: its new Apple TV interface, shown off at an event in September, uses the Siri voice control system and buttons, not gestures. (It’s not known whether the Primesense expertise is part of the motion-sensitive controller, which can be used for games.)It may take the arrival – at a date unknown – of Google’s Project Soli to show whether gestural control has a future. Until then, Underkoffler will be unsatisfied. But we’ll always have Minority Report.
American Airlines was forced to ground large parts of its fleet on Thursday night, after a computer malfunction led to a widespread outage.Flights from Chicago O’Hare, Dallas-Fort Worth and Miami were all halted while the company struggled to deal with the issue.The issue began around midday local time, and continued until mid-afternoon. The airline didn’t go into any more detail on what caused the malfunction, while the Federal Aviation Authority’s advisory only detailed it as “airline issues”.During the outage,an American Airlines spokesman told Time Magazine: “We have resolved connectivity issues that led to a ground stop today at our Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth and Miami hubs. We apologise for the inconvenience and are working to get our customers on their way as soon as possible.”The grounding is just the latest in a long string of US airlines forced to delay or cancel flights due to computer errors. In July, United Airlines wasforced to groundthousands of flights across the US after what the airline described as a “network connectivity issue”. In June, United again wasforced to groundflights due to “automation issues”.And in April, American Airlines delayed multiple flightsafter the iPad app used by pilots crashed. Introduced in 2013, the cockpit iPads are used as an “electronic flight bag”, replacing 16kg (35lb) of paper manuals which pilots are typically required to carry on flights. They distribute information such as flight plans throughout the airline’s fleet, but failed across the airline on 29 April.
As England and Fiji prepare to kick off this year’sRugby World Cup, tens of thousands of fans will be watching in the stadium, and millions more on television.In 2015, though, your smartphone and tablet provide plenty of ways to keep up with the action, and indulge in your rugby union habit around the matches in other ways. Here’s a selection of 10 of the mobile apps worth trying.Official Rugby World Cup 2015 App (Free)iOS/AndroidStart with the official app for the World Cup, with news, a full schedule, push notifications and a Dream Team game to keep you occupied. The ability to personalise it to the country you’re following is a sensible touch too.Official Rugby World Cup 2015 App.Rugby Nations 16 (£3.99)iOS/AndroidHistorically, rugby has been a difficult sport to turn into a great video game. Rugby Nations 16 is an excellent effort on mobile, though: its developers have put a lot of work into making smooth touchscreen controls, and the presentation is top-notch.Rugby Nations 16.Ultimate Rugby (Free)iOS/AndroidThe official World Cup app is all well and good, but many fans will prefer independent slants. Ultimate Rugby is brilliant on this front: deep news and data, with the promise of comprehensive coverage throughout the tournament.Ultimate Rugby.ITV Rugby World Cup 2015 (Free)iOS/AndroidIf you’re based in the UK, ITV’s official app is definitely worth downloading for its video highlights of every World Cup game – useful for keeping up with the action while at work. The broadcaster will also use the app to poll fans on key moments.ITV Rugby World Cup 2015.Rugby World Magazine (Free + IAP)iOSThis is less about day-to-day news during the World Cup, and more about a considered take on the sport of rugby, with plenty of back issues to explore from its archives during down moments between matches.Rugby World Magazine.Flick Nations Rugby (£0.79)iOS/AndroidOne way to remove the complexity of rugby games is to focus on the kicking. This is part of the wider category of flick-sports games (eg football and American football) where you swipe to boot then steer the ball. It’s extremely addictive.Flick Nations Rugby.All Blacks: Rugby Union App (Free)iOS/AndroidObviously you won’t want this app unless you’re supporting New Zealand, but it’s the best of the single-nation apps released ahead of the World Cup. News, videos, live match-stats, plenty of history and (on iOS) even an Apple Watch companion.All Blacks: The Rugby Union App.Rugby World Cup 2015 Programmes (Free + IAP)iOSYou can’t be at the stadia for every World Cup match, but you can get your hands on the official programmes in digital form, courtesy of this app. Charged via subscription, there’ll be 48 programmes over the next month.Rugby World Cup Programmes.Photograph: PRRugby Manager (Free + IAP)iOS/AndroidThere aren’t as many rugby management games as football ones, but this is the pick of the bunch. It’s an absorbing simulation of club rugby as you hire players, train them up then pitch them into action with (hopefully) unbeatable tactics.Rugby Manager.World Rugby Laws of Rugby (Free)iOSFinally, an essential download for those in-match arguments with friends about whether a particular moment flouted the rules of the game. It’ll also show you the key referee signals and play videos to explain more complex laws.World Rugby Laws of Rugby.What have we missed? If you have good rugby app recommendations, the comments section is open for your thoughts.
It’s Friday!
The British government wants the support of technology firms for its “snooper’s charter” surveillance bill, yet that bill could end up being undercut by the US decision to back off in its own fight with the tech firms and also leave UK consumers free to guard their communications in such a way that no government can compel disclosure.The home secretary, Theresa May, this weekinvited the biggest US internet firms and British telecoms providers to a meetingto seek their support for the legislation, officially known as thedraft communications data bill.The legislation is expected to include powers that will require firms to collect and store for 12 months the browsing history of users, along with records of voice calls, messages and text services. It might also require firms to give the police and security services access to the data.Related:MI5 chief calls for more up-to-date surveillance powersBut requirements to store browsing history can do nothing if the communications are encrypted, as are an increasing proportion of online services. More and more web surfing is done through a secure connection, represented on the web to the user by the https prefix in a browser address bar.Use of those connections used to be limited to ecommerce and online banking, but through tools such as the HTTPS Everywhere plugin, as well assecurity requirements from firms such as Apple, use is now widespread.Companies including Facebook, Twitter and Google, now offer secure connections by default, and in June the White House announced a policy pushing all federal websites to do the same.While secure web connections do not prevent ISPs (and, by extension, police and security services empowered by the new bill) from identifying domains visited – such as Google.com or Facebook.com – it does prevent their seeing which pages on a site were visited, as well as any data exchanged.That information remains available to websites, which can be legally compelled to hand it over, but increasingly communications technologies are designed so that even the developers cannot aid law enforcement.Apple’s iMessage and Facebook’s WhatsApp, for instance, are both secured using “end-to-end” encryption. A message sent from Alice’s iPhone to Bob’s phone is encrypted using Bob’s “public key” before it even reaches Apple’s servers. If the company were told to intercept Alice and Bob’s communications, it would be unable to read the messages sent between them, even though they travel through its servers.In September, just such a case occurred. Apple wasforced to declinea US justice department order to eavesdrop in a case involving drug dealers. Apple was unable to give live access to the messages, though it was able to provide some information by reading messages stored in a different, unencrypted, format in one of the suspect’s iCloud backups.US law enforcement has been pushing against this sort of encryption by technology firms.The head of the FBI has demandedthat companies insert “backdoor access” to their communications to help in the fight against Islamic State (Isis).But the battle has been gradually going the way of the tech companies, and on Wednesdaythe Washington Post reportedthat the White House had backed away from trying to deal with the issue through legislation.If the White House does drop the battle it will leave Britain with little option but to accept the widespread use of encryption. The UK’s ability to directly lobby the big American technology firms is limited, and in a report leaked in June theformer British diplomat Sir Nigel Sheinwaldsaid that a new international treaty was the only way to get the co-operation of the companies. Without the support of the White House such a treaty seems unlikely.Without the co-operation of the tech firms what the UK government can do when facing widespread encryption is limited. In June the Home Office confirmed that, for extreme cases, it was considering inserting “black box” probes into the transatlantic cables, to collect data leaving and entering the UK. But if the communications were encrypted on their way to the US, such collection would have little value.Nicholas Lansman, secretary general of the Internet Service Providers’ Association, the industry body for UK providers, has said that the laws on communications interception are too complex, but that any change should leave “appropriate safeguards” in place.“ISPA believes that law enforcement should have reasonable access to communications data as long as the governing legislation has appropriate safeguards, and oversight arrangements, and does not damage inward investment and the UK’s position as a leading place to do business online,” Lansman said.The ISPA is calling on the Home Office “to follow the advice of parliament and consult with industry and the wider internet community on the investigatory powers bill”, and says “it is important to get the balance right between privacy, security, maintaining user trust and the cost to industry, as key issues such as retaining third party data, judicial oversight and data hosted abroad, are discussed”.The split between how the UK and US each sees encryption and security, and in how they engage with the tech firms, highlights the increasing difficulties in regulating transnational tech companies.As Europe has found with Brussels’ clash with Facebook over user tracking, with the “right to be forgotten” battle with Google, and with the EU’s antitrust investigation, fitting local rules to companies whose users are located around the world is not a simple task. For an individual country like Britain to do so, it will be even harder.
Amazon has released a new 7in Android tablet that costs just £50 and a range of new Fire HD tablets designed to survive the rough and tumble of family life.The Fire Tablet is designed to undercut competitors from Samsung and others in the low end of the market, while providing a good user experience for the price with a low resolution IPS screen and what Amazon says is twice the processing power compared to rivals.Amazon also claims the Fire Tablet survives its “Tumble Test”, which subjects the tablet to a spin through a washing machine, twice as long as Apple’s iPad Air 2.The tablet has seven hours of battery life and expandable storage via a microSD card slot. It is available in a £100 “Kids Edition” – twice the cost of the regular version – with a thick rubberised case and software designed to allow access only to age appropriate content.The Fire tablet will also be available in a buy-five-get-one-free offer, although how many families will want six tablets is up for debate.The Amazon Fire tablet on the left and the Kids Edition on the right with the large rubber case.Photograph: AmazonAmazon also launched two higher-end tablets, the Fire HD 8 and HD 10, with 720p 8in and 10.1in screens respectively. The new tablets are thinner at 7.7mm thick, and lighter than Amazon’s previous models. Comparing favourably to similarly priced rivals, but around 1mm thicker than top-end tablets from Samsung or Apple.Amazon is pitching the Fire HD tablets as media consumption devices with 16:10 ratio widescreens and stereo speakers, plugged directly into its music and movie streaming and book services, with a new version of its Fire OS software.Cameron Janes, Amazon’s vice president of product management, said: “Our customers may send an occasional email or take them into work, but fundamentally people buy our tablets to read books, listen to music or watch video.”The new Fire OS is the first tablet operating system to rethink the way users navigate through their installed apps and media in one matrix, displaying apps in a grid, but media in categories similar to virtual magazine shelves, including recommendations based on previous activity.Amazon’s Fire HD 10 tablet is 7.7mm thick and designed for watching video.Photograph: AmazonAmazon’s “On Deck” feature will automatically download movies and TV shows that it thinks the user might like to see in the background when on a Wi-Fi connection, dynamically managing storage should it be needed by something else. Owners not signed up to Amazon’s Prime service will be shown the first episodes of Amazon’s original TV shows.Amazon claims its Fire HD tablets are tough enough to stand 200 turns through its Tumble test. TheApple iPad Air 2only managed 30 before the screen smashed, according to Amazon.The Fire HD 8 with 8GB of storage will cost £129.99 and the HD 10 with 16GB of storage £169.99. Both have expandable storage via microUSB and undercut rivals from Samsung and Apple by more than £200.Amazon Fire HD Kids Edition tablet reviewAmazon to offer Washington Post app for free to Fire tablet owners
John and Ed were approaching Black Rock desert on the way to Burning Man when the email arrived from a friend. “Thanks for letting us stay in your apartment this weekend!”John looked at his husband in confusion. There must be some mistake – they had left their San Francisco apartment with their professional housesitter.“No, it’s definitely your house – your car, your wedding photos, your cats,” said his friend. “We found it on Airbnb.”In what is just the latest symptom of San Francisco’s overheated property market, John and Ed discovered that their housesitter had rented out their apartment while they were away, charging $2,000 for five days. Worse still, Ed had found the housesitter onTrustedHousesitters.com.Photograph: Jennifer Morrow/flickr" width="460" height="276" class="gu-image" />It’s quite probable that John and Ed forgot all their troubles as soon as they got to Burning Man. Photograph: Jennifer Morrow/flickr“We met him in May this year,” said Ed. “We used him twice before, but met him in person for the first visit and then got a police check and followed up his references. He seemed a nice enough guy.”The housesitter fed the cats and even fixed their internet connection. John and Ed said they had no idea he also planned to rent out their house to strangers.“I feel violated, and pretty upset that somebody I thought I could trust has done this to me,” said Ed. “He told our friends that there was a ‘misunderstanding’ between us, but there’s no way I told him he could go ahead and make $2,000 for himself.”The couple’s friends changed the locks, and the case was reported to the San Francisco police. But police were unable to help, because John and Ed had willingly handed over their keys. The couple are instead pursuing the housesitter in a civil lawsuit.The housesitter’s profile was still visible on TrustedHousesitters.com at the time of writing, despite requests from John and Ed to remove it. It shows him sitting in private jet, and claims he has worked for Google and GE.At least the cats were fed Photograph: Oliver Symens/flickr“I read about TrustedHousesitters in the New York Times and figured I’d see if any opportunities made sense,” the profile reads. “I’m a very caring person and will treat your animals and house as if they were my own.”TrustedHousesitters told the Guardian it had facilitated “more than 1m nights of house sitting” since it started in 2010, and that it always recommended references and police checks were conducted before agreeing a sitter – as John and Ed say they did. The site said it had disabled the housesitter’s profile, which it said would be removed from the site in the next scheduled update.“TrustedHousesitters also provides a housesitter agreement form to ensure both parties understand of what is expected them including who is permitted to live at the premises during the term of the agreement,” said a spokesperson, who claimed that it was harder to investigate the complaint because John and Ed’s agreement with the housesitter had not been made using the site’s own secure messaging tool.“As a result this particular housesit was not registered on the site, so we did not hold the details of who the housesitter selected was,” the spokesperson said. “We have made multiple attempts to contact the home owner requesting the housesitter’s details.”Airbnb acknowledged the complaint and confirmed it had removed both the property listing and the housesitter’s profile. Ed criticised the company’s “lackadaisical” approach to the complaint and said its slowness to respond had aggravated the situation, possibly exposing other Airbnb users to the same fraud.Airbnb, which has claimed its service peaked this summer when providing accommodation for 1 million people on just one night, has a large complaints team, though this is understood not to be a common complaint.“We have zero tolerance for this sort of fraudulent activity, and this host and this listing have been permanently removed from Airbnb,” said a spokesperson.“When we receive complaints about fraudulent activity, our team works quickly to review it. We regret that we did not review this more quickly, and we have reached out to these individuals and apologised.”One Direction’s Niall Horan: not used to being stuck in the garageSan Francisco police would not say how many complaints they handle related to Airbnb, but advised anyone using the service to take precautions when renting out their property and to lock valuables away.“Anyone who is a victim of crime should contact the police and notify Airbnb,” said officer Albie Esparza. “We work closely with Airbnb anytime there is a theft or criminal conduct. People must register to use those services, so there are ways to backtrack or trace a person who rented.”The Guardian contacted the housesitter, who did not immediately want to comment.John and Ed have decided to ask a friend to look after their apartment the next time they go away, and will not be using TrustedHousesitters again.“It was strange coming home to find things moved,” said Ed. “The blankets I put on the back of the couches for the cats had been removed, and I still can’t find my laptop charger.“And our cardboard cutout of Niall from One Direction had been moved – someone had taken him out of the living room and put him in the garage.”Names have been changed
Amazon is moving into 4K content with a new Fire TV box and ultra-high definition content through its video streaming service.The new Fire TV builds on the success of last year’s streaming media box, which Amazon claims has been the best selling box on the market in the UK and Germany, beating Apple TV among others.Amazon is bullish in the face ofApple’s new box, claiming the new Fire TV is 75% faster, handles 4K content, and has a more efficient compression system for full HD content that will allow twice as many of its customers to stream 1080p video over poor broadband connections than the number who currently can.All of Amazon’s original TV series will be available in 4K, as will American TV shows such as Breaking Bad and hundreds of recent movies. Rival service Netflix, which also has a library of 4K content, will be available in ultra HD on the new Fire TV. Connection speeds of at least 15Mbps will be required for 4K content.Streaming media will also use what Amazon calls “ASAP”, which predicts what users are likely to want to see and caches a portion of the show or movie on the device in the background so that it starts instantly rather than having to buffer. The Fire TV can also use microSD cards to add further storage or for local media playback.The company released a new games controller with a headphones port and voice search support, claiming to have the largest games library of any media streaming service, with over 3,000 apps, games and channels available through its Amazon app store.Amazon’s announcement comes in the wake ofApple’s reinvigoration of the Apple TV, which has new features such as voice search, and is bringing the company’s App Store into the living room.Fire TV, which has been on sale for a year in the US and Europe, already had suggestions, voice search and the company’s X-ray information system for movies and TV shows, as well as games and apps.The streaming box also has instruction videos and Amazon’s built-in live-person tech support called MayDay, which can guide users through features and settings via the phone and with remote control.The new Fire TV will cost £79.99, with pre-orders starting today and shipping from 5 October. Whether it will be as popular as the previous Fire TV, given greater competition in the market from Apple and jack-of-all trades Roku, remains to be seen.Amazon also released an updated Fire TV stick and several new Fire tablets.•Apple TV upgrade brings App Store into living room•Which is the best streaming media box?•Amazon releases Stick version of Fire TV streaming box in UK
Less than a day after the launch of iOS 9, Apple’s latest operating system, content blocking software is at the top of the app charts worldwide.In the UK, two content blockers have hit the top 20 paid apps, withPurifyat number 11 andPeaceat number 12. In the US, the take-up has been even starker: Purify is at number 5 in the charts, and Peace is the top paid app in the whole country.The popularity of the apps suggests that mobile adblocking - which has been enabled in Apple’s default Safari browser for users who have upgraded to iOS 9 - could become even more widespread than it is on desktop.A 2014 report suggestedthat on desktop almost 150 million browsers were using some form of adblocker.The rise of adblocking has proved concerning for web publishers, many of whom rely largely or exclusively on display advertising for revenue. In Germany,four major broadcasters have now tried and failed to win in court against Eyeo, which makes one of the largest adblockers: AdBlock Plus. Publishers argue that blocking display ads hurts their business, and is unethical because it allows users to view content without paying the implied price of an ad impression.The developer of Peace is Marco Arment, a high profile iOS developer known for being the first employee of Tumblr, as well as his previous apps Instapaper and Overcast. Peace isn’t his first entry into adblocking: a side-effect of Instapaper, the first of a class of apps which download content to read off-line, was stripping the adverts from saved content, in order to make them cleaner and easier to read.But Peace is Arment’s first app where ad blocking is the primary focus, and he has addressed the ethical concerns of such a move a number of times. “We shouldn’t feel guilty about this,” he said in the app’s launch announcement. “The ‘implied contract’ theory that we’ve agreed to view ads in exchange for free content is void because we can’t review the terms first — as soon as we follow a link, our browsers load, execute, transfer, and track everything embedded by the publisher. Our data, battery life, time, and privacy are taken by a blank check with no recourse.”Arment hasexpressed his hopethat blocking bad ads will lead to publishers being forced to adopt “better monetisation methods”, from selling adverts directly (and so cutting out the data-collecting middlemen) to collecting direct payments from readers. To that effect, Peace offers the ability to “whitelist” sites easily from the share menu in Safari, if a user wants to support a specific publisher.But others argue that the rise of adblocking will instead have a counterproductive effect, driving publishers to platforms where adverts – and tracking code – cannot be blocked. Facebook and Apple News are two such platforms, as Casey Johnston, a technology journalist, writes: “Driving publishers to Facebook will not get rid of invasive trackers; it’s only declaring allegiance to the most comprehensive one, which has bought data from brokers with hundreds of millions of consumer profiles, and whose privacy policy doesn’t prevent it from selling users’ data, as long as it is anonymised (a process widely considered insufficient for privacy protection).”If adblockers do continue to prove popular with users, they could also be a major weapon in Apple’s arsenal against its key competitor, Google. Unlike Apple, which makes the majority of its revenue from hardware sales, Google’s income still relies largely on web display advertising. As such, it is unlikely to ever encourage the use of adblocking to the same extent as Apple, and haspreviously banned adblockers from the Android app store. Currently, however, Android users can block ads, but only if they install a specially downloaded browser.
I have just bought a new HP laptop running Windows 10. How can I get my pictures, applications, tax returns etc off the old one and onto the new laptop in the right places?TerryThe answer to this question used to be a free Microsoft utility called Windows Easy Transfer (WET), which was first supplied with Windows Vista. However, when Microsoft released Windows 8, it did a deal with Laplink to provide a free version of its PCmover program instead. Earlier this month, it announced a similar deal for home users of Windows 10.So, you can now download a version of PCmover Express either via Microsoft’s web page (Move your files, folders, and more, for free) or fromLaplink. It’s not hard, but I recommend reading the 19-page illustrated user guide (PDF) before you start.This “limited time offer” does not apply to business users, who are, I guess, identifiable because their PCs are connected to domains. Commercial users can buy the program for a discounted price of $19.95 or £13.95. Multi-license packs are available.Alternatives to PCmoverEaseUS has also entered the market with an alternativeWindows 10 Easy Transfer Tool, which is also a free download for home users. I haven’t used it, but I have previously recommended EaseUS’s free backup and partition management utilities. (Yes, you should do a backup before you upgrade to Windows 10.)EaseUS also offersSystem GoBack Free“to downgrade Windows 10 to Windows 7/8/8.1”. This could be a good idea. The Windows 10 upgrade allows you togo back to your old operating systemin a few minutes (go to Settings, Update &amp; Security, and select Recovery), but this relies on a “windows.old” folder that will be deleted after 30 days to save disk space.Zinstall Easy Transferis a commercial program that does the same thing for $59. It comes with support, which can be expensive, and a money-back guarantee if you run into a technical problem that the company cannot solve.For completeness, you can still use Windows Easy Transfer, which may appeal if you’ve used it several times before. A user called champlagne has explained the process onMicrosoft’s Answers website. The basic idea is to move the WET files wdscore.dll and MigAutoPlay.exe along with the data migration file.In theory, you can do the transfer via a cable, a network connection, or DVD or CD-ROM discs, but I recommend using an external USB hard drive. It’s generally the most reliable approach, and means you have a separate backup of your data.Moving applicationsAll the easy transfer utilities move personal data and files, not applications. That’s much harder to do. In general, it’s better to re-install programs from scratch, using original media and any product keys required. If you have downloaded programs from the web – including browsers and email programs such as Windows Live Mail – it’s better to redownload the latest versions and do a clean installation. If you have downloaded any apps from the Windows Store, you can easily re-install them by going to My Apps.However, there are commercial utilities that will move programs from one Windows PC to another. The leading example is Laplink’sPCmover Professional, which costs $29.95 or £20.95 (half price offer). Another is Zinstall’sWinWin($119). However, EaseUS offers a free version ofTodo PCTrans Free 8.0, which will transfer two applications. The unlimited version, Todo PCTrans Professional, costs $49.95. SeeTransfer data, software and applications to Windows 10.If all else fails, you may need to go back to your old PC, run the appropriate program, and File/Export the missing data to an external hard drive. You can then connect this to your new PC, and import the data into the program, or its new replacement. This may well include browser bookmarks and passwords. Also, double-check that any offline email files have been copied across.This is less of a problem than it used to be now that people are using more cloud-based programs and syncing services, and as Windows itself becomes a cloud-based operating system. Nowadays, when I set up a new PC, I just sign in with my Microsoft (outlook.com) account and pick whichever older PC I want it set up like. Windows then installs all the apps, settings and wallpaper for me.It may also be important to “de-activate” some programs that you have installed on a new PC. This applies to Microsoft Office and Office 365,AdobeCreative Suite, and Apple iTunes, among others.Active vs permanent dataWhen setting up a new PC, think about which files you need on a day-to-day basis and which ones could be stored elsewhere. If you’re moving from a PC with a 500GB or terabyte hard drive to one with a 64GB SSD (solid-state drive) or 32GB eMMC Flash drive, you may be forced to think about it.If you are a typical user, then you’re actively using a relatively small number of documents, spreadsheets, recent photographs and so on. You can probably upload all of them to the OneDrive account that is integrated into Windows 8/8.1/10. OneDrive provides 15GB of free online storage, and – unlike Google Drive – this is separate from your email storage. Of course, you can also use free storage at Dropbox, Flickr, Amazon and other sites.You may also have a large collection of unchanging media files – photos, music and movies – and old documents that could be stored safely on an external hard drive, a PC server, or a NAS (network-attached storage) device. If you use a PC server or NAS, the files can be shared with multiple PCs and mobile phones.It takes a very long time to move gigabytes of media with an easy transfer program, and I don’t see the point. For example, I have all my music files in one big, hierarchical directory on an external hard drive, backed up to a second external hard drive. (FreeFileSyncon my desktop PC keeps them in sync.) I never copy them from one laptop to another. Instead, I just load any albums I currently want to have as local files – a different selection each time – via network shares.In fact, we’re just getting to the point where many people could use SD and microSD cards to move data around in bulk. Today, 32GB cards are cheap, 64GB cards are affordable, and larger sizes not out of reach. You can fit 200 to 300 albums on a£10 32GB microSD cardand move it between various laptops and mobile phones. However, this is not archival storage, and you should have backup copies on an external hard drive and (if possible) online as well.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Uber has claimed that its “optimistic leadership” would help ease the transition for city authorities as they deal with the introduction of self-driving cars.Speaking at a conference in San Francisco on Wednesday, Kalanick said self-driving cars could reduce the 30,000 annual deaths on US roads by using centrally controlled, algorithmic traffic management systems to prevent accidents and reduce congestion at peak times. But he also intimated that self-driving cars would be part of Uber’s plans to expand its business in the transport industry.“We don’t want to be like the taxi guys who came before us – we embrace the future,” Kalanick said. “There’s an insane amount of good that comes out of this [technology], which is why so many companies are working on this.“The best thing is to be in a place with optimistic leadership when interesting things happen with driverless cars so that we can help with that transition. In 10 to 15 years there will need to be leadership in cities and with the companies that make this technology to make that transition, and that’s an interesting challenge and opportunity.”Related:Is Uber's ultimate goal the privatisation of city governance?Kalanick did not explain how its network of drivers, which was estimated to number around 160,000 by December 2014, would be employed in a network of self-driving cars. “What are the new ways of making a living that now exist as the world goes robotic?” said Kalanick, who did not answer his own question.Self-driving cars, also known as autonomous vehicles, are being developed by several companies including Tesla, Apple and Google. Google has a stake in Uber of just under 7%. Uber opened its own self-driving car lab in Pittsburgh in early 2015, partnering with engineer from Carnegie Mellon University.Related:Uber and the lawlessness of 'sharing economy' corporatesKalanick also said that his ambition is to make “every car in San Francisco an Uber” which, he claimed, would reduce car ownership and mean less traffic congestion. “That’s giving an hour of time back to every citizen every day. Give that hour to your family, to your community. Time is a luxury. Fewer cars, less congestion, more parking, less pollution and creating thousands of jobs.”Uber Pool, the service’s ride-sharing service, is not as profitable as the standard Uber service, he said, but made the price much cheaper for users. Uber is also experimenting with Uber Eat, which will deliver local takeaway food, and even an Uber helicopter service. But the core service of cab rides is based on a marketplace idea, he said, matching people selling rides with people who want to buy them.“Before Uber it was hard to get around this city because there just weren’t enough taxis,” he said. “We started because the taxi system was broken and not working for drivers or passengers.”Kalanick claimed San Francisco’s cab drivers have to rent their cars for $140 per day and make $40,000 per year, but said the system benefitted the owners of the licence because any down time for the driver meant they lost money.Regulators in Europe, however, and not agreed with Uber’s analysis of the regulated taxi market and claim the company, which is currently valued at $50bn, has been flouting regulation designed to protect consumers since it launched in the EU in 2014.
The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, received a chilly welcome ahead of hisfirst US state visitnext week as Barack Obama responded to growing China-bashing among presidential candidates by listing his own demands on Beijing.Though insisting thehostility of Republican candidates such as Donald Trumpwas unhelpful, the president warned China to curb its cyber-attacks on US companies or face a race to “weaponise the internet” in retaliation.“This is not just a matter of us being mildly upset, but is something that will put significant strains on the bilateral relationship if not resolved, and … we are prepared to take some countervailing actions in order to get their attention,” warned Obama during remarks to the Business Roundtable.“Frankly, although the Chinese and Russians are close, we’re still the best at this,” he added. “And if we wanted to go on offense, a whole bunch of countries would have some significant problems. And we don’t want to see the internet weaponised in that way.”The remarks are Obama’s bluntest yet on the threat from commercialcyber-attacks, which he claimed are distinct from state espionage of the sort the US has been shown to engage in through leaks from National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden.The White House has repeatedly denied the NSA engages in trade espionage, despite reports, based upon documents leaked by Snowden, that the agency spied on foreign companiessuch as Brazil’s biggest oil company, Petrobras.“We will do everything we can to stop you from getting state secrets or transcripts of a meeting that I’ve had, but we understand you’re going to be trying to do that,” said the president. “That is fundamentally different from your government or its proxies engaging directly in industrial espionage and stealing trade secrets, stealing proprietary information from companies. That we consider an act of aggression that has to stop.”But the president also lashed out at Chinese economic, military and environmental policy, claiming “you can’t breathe in Beijing” and “you can’t go around pushing your little neighbours around just because you’re bigger”.“As they have matured, what we’ve said to them is, with power comes responsibility, so now you’ve got to step up,” said Obama. “You can’t act as if you are a third-world country and pursue protectionist policies, or engage in dumping, or not protect intellectual property at a time when we’re now – when you’re now the second and, eventually, probably the first-largest economy in the world.”The blunt tone of the president’s remarks contrasts starkly with the usually diplomatic White House preamble to state visits but may reflect growing concern in the administration that anti-free-trade speeches by Trump and, to an extent, Democratic rival Bernie Sanders are shaping a negative public perception of US economic performance relative to competitors like China.“America is winning right now. America is great right now,” said Obama in a direct retort to Trump’s aim to “make America great again”.“Now, you wouldn’t know any of this if you were listening to the folks who are seeking this office that I occupy,” he added. “In the echo chamber that is presidential politics, everything is dark and everything is terrible.“I’m here to say that there’s nothing particularly patriotic or American about talking down America, especially when we stand as one of the few sources of economic strength in the world.”Obama insisted it was not constructive to suggest the US was losing its battle against Asian competitors, but used some choice language of his own and called on China “to start abiding by a basic code of conduct” over military and economic behaviour.“I think in some areas, the Chinese understand this; I think in other areas, they don’t. I think in other areas, they still see themselves as the poor country that shouldn’t have any obligations internationally,” he said.“In some cases, they still feel that when we call them on issues like their behaviour in the South China Sea, or on intellectual property theft, that we are trying to contain them as opposed to us just wanting them to abide by the same rules that helped create an environment in which they can rise.”Behind the comments was also a veiled threat that the US remained the superior world power for now and its president could get a lot more combative in future.“The good news is that our fates are sufficiently intertwined… and in many ways, they still need us a lot more than we need them,” concluded Obama. “I think that there are going to be continuing areas in which they move, as long as we don’t resort to the kind of loose talk and name-calling that I notice some of our presidential candidates engage in … it tends not to be constructive.”
School officials in Texasare standing bytheir decision to detain Ahmed Mohamed for bringing a homemade clock to school, but the 14-year-old old has found some incredibly high-profile supporters, including the US president and the chief executive of Facebook.Ahmed, from Irving, Texas,left school in handcuffson Monday after his English teacher told him and the school’s principal that his homemade clock looked like a bomb.Ahmed Mohamed wants to move schools after arrest for homemade clock –link to videoIn the days since the incident, Ahmed – who was not charged but was suspended for three days – has become an overnight internet celebrity, attracting the attention of Barack Obama, Mark Zuckerberg, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the rest of the internet community.The presidenttweeted:Cool clock, Ahmed. Want to bring it to the White House? We should inspire more kids like you to like science. It&#39;s what makes America great.&mdash; President Obama (@POTUS)September 16, 2015Zuckerberg, who founded Facebook out of his Harvard dorm room,wrote on Facebookthat “having the skill and ambition to build something cool should lead to applause, not arrest. The future belongs to people like Ahmed.”He then invited Ahmed to visit him at work.“Ahmed, if you ever want to come by Facebook, I’d love to meet you. Keep building,” Zuckerberg wrote.And Google invited him to its science fair, but only if he promised to bring his clock.Hey Ahmed- we&#39;re saving a seat for you at this weekend&#39;s Google Science Fair...want to come? Bring your clock!#IStandwithAhmed&mdash; Google Science Fair (@googlescifair)September 16, 2015According to Topsy, the hashtag #IStandWithAhmed has been tweeted more than 367,000 times in the past 24 hours and was trending worldwide on Twitter. Many used the hashtag to share their disgust about Ahmed’s treatment:We cannot say we want more STEM graduates and then simultaneously arrest STEM enthusiasts#IAmAhmed#IStandWithAhmed&mdash; Christopher Emdin (@chrisemdin)September 16, 2015The look on this kid&#39;s face while he&#39;s wearing a NASA shirt and handcuffs should haunt all of us.&#10;&#10;#IStandWithAhmedpic.twitter.com/7R02HZ0FnQ&mdash; Charles Clymer (@cmclymer)September 16, 2015Obama was not the only politician tweeting his support of the Texas teen. Hillary Clinton alsojoined in:Assumptions and fear don&#39;t keep us safe—they hold us back. Ahmed, stay curious and keep building.https://t.co/ywrlHUw3g1&mdash; Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton)September 16, 2015Some people began sharing photos of themselves with clocks or watches to show solidarity:In solidarity with@IStandWithAhmedCAIR-Chicago staff brought our clocks to work too.#IStandWithAhmedpic.twitter.com/NK9CWhyfru&mdash; CAIR-Chicago (@cairchicago)September 16, 2015Brought my clock to work today.#IStandWithAhmed#Solidaritypic.twitter.com/h4Jr0siF1A&mdash; Simran Jeet Singh (@SimranColumbia)September 16, 2015Found this awesome old gif of me in my bomb making factory.#IStandWithAhmedpic.twitter.com/MJJv5mclZB&mdash; Philip DeFranco (@PhillyD)September 16, 2015Watch out, it&#39;s a brown guy with a clock!#IStandWithAhmed@IStandWithAhmedpic.twitter.com/8lzzrEakoi&mdash; Tariq Khokhar (@tkb)September 16, 2015Do I look dangerous yet?#IstandwithAhmed#ahmedingpic.twitter.com/15cAGd8Y7s&mdash; Ana Marie Cox (@anamariecox)September 16, 2015Among the messages of support were a few offers for Ahmed himself. Bobak Ferdowsi, also known as“Nasa Mohawk guy”, tweeted:I can&#39;t imagine if be working@nasatoday if anything like this had ever happened to me.http://t.co/OajWwPXchB#IStandWithAhmed&mdash; Bobak Ferdowsi (@tweetsoutloud)September 16, 2015Hey Ahmed, give me a call in a couple years. We could always use smart, curious &amp; creative people.https://t.co/02a4feMrk5&mdash; Bobak Ferdowsi (@tweetsoutloud)September 16, 2015Dr Chanda Prescod-Weinstein, a theoretical astrophysicist at MIT, tweeted:.@anildash@IStandWithAhmedwe would love to have Ahmed visit us at MIT!&mdash; Chanda (王嬋娟) (@IBJIYONGI)September 16, 2015Meanwhile, Ahmed and his family have set up a Twitter account,@IstandwithAhmed, to share updates, tweeting that he was on his way to meet with an attorney.Thank you fellow supporters. We can ban together to stop this racial inequality and prevent this from happening againpic.twitter.com/fBlmckoafU&mdash; Ahmed Mohamed (@IStandWithAhmed)September 16, 2015Going to meet my lawyer.pic.twitter.com/YCxOOeOz3Z&mdash; Ahmed Mohamed (@IStandWithAhmed)September 16, 2015
Police and school authorities in Irving, Texas are under fire after arresting a 14-year-old boy for bringing a homemade clock into school.Ahmed Mohamed, an engineering hobbyist, made the timepiece and brought it to school in the hope of impressing teachers and fellow students in his first few weeks at MacArthur High School. But when he showed it to an English teacher after it beeped during her lesson, she told him it looked like a bomb.Later in the day, the school’s principal and a police officer came to pull him out of class, and again the principal told Ahmed that “it looks like a movie bomb to me”. Throughout, the student says, he told everyone who would listen that the device was a clock, but police still led him out of school at 3pm,according to local reports, “his hands cuffed behind his back and an officer on each arm”.Ahmed&#39;s sister told me to post this. Yes this situation is real for those questioning.pic.twitter.com/Oxd0JxUS6O&mdash; Prajwol/Ru (@OfficalPrajwol)September 16, 2015A police spokesman told the Dallas Morning News that they didn’t believe Ahmed was building the clock out of pure curiosity. “We have no information that he claimed it was a bomb,” he said. “He kept maintaining it was a clock, but there was no broader explanation.”When asked what other explanation “It could reasonably be mistaken as a device if left in a bathroom or under a car. The concern was, what was this thing built for? Do we take him into custody?”Ina letter sent out by Dan Cummings, head of MacArthur High School, the principal told parents that “Irving Police Department responded to a suspicious-looking item on campus yesterday. We are pleased to report that after the police department’s assessment, the item discovered at school did not pose a threat to your child’s safety.”Cummings recommended parents “talk with your child about the Student Code of Conduct and specifically not bringing items to school that are prohibited. Also, this is a good time to remind your child how important it is to immediately report any suspicious items and/or suspicious behavior they observe to any school employee so we can address it right away. We will always take necessary precautions to protect our students.”The case comes against the background of accusations of Islamaphobia in Irving, where the town’s mayor, Beth Van Duyne, became something of a national celebrityafter she accused Islamic leadersof “bypassing American courts” by offering voluntary Shariah-law mediation to worshippers. The Council on American-Islamic Relations has said Ahmed’s case “raises a red flag for us: how Irving’s government entities are operating in the current climate … We’re still investigating, but it seems pretty egregious.”The actions of the school and police have also struck a chord with hackers across the world, who view the treatment of Ahmed as emblematic of a clampdown on the freedom to tinker with electronics. The Electronic Frontiers Foundationtweeted that“Making clocks is not a crime”, while Wired Magazine respondedby posting their own instructions onHow to Make Your Own Homemade Clock That Isn’t a Bomb”.Anil Dash, a prolific blogger and founder ofThink-up, quoted Barack Obama saying “Together, let us unleash the imagination of our people, affirm that we are a Nation of makers, and ensure that the next great technological revolution happens right here in America.” Dash added that “many of us have been moved to offer support to Ahmed and his creativity,” and has started to crowdsource a list of ideas “that can help change the culture of Irving to be more welcoming to innovators of all kinds”.I used to take circuit boards &amp; electronics to school, even as the only brown kid. Now, my entire job is building a community of makers.&mdash; Anil Dash (@anildash)September 16, 2015If any of our early geek experiments had gotten the most terrifying response possible from teachers &amp; police, would we have kept doing it?&mdash; Anil Dash (@anildash)September 16, 2015Ahmed has received a three-day suspension from class. According to the Dallas Morning News, he has vowed never to take an invention to school again.
Some excellent news for lovers of negativity: Facebook will soon be rolling out a “dislike” button. People havelong pointed outthat it doesn’t feel right to “like” posts about natural disasters or announcements of illness and death. So only those posts featuring kittens, heartwarming news stories, and inspirational greeting-card slogans formatted as pictures for no reason generate a lot of “likes” and, in turn, are shown to others. The infantilising tyranny of “like” skews Facebook content towards the moronically optimistic.Related:Facebook working on 'dislike button', Zuckerberg saysIt’s not clear that “dislike”, however, is the best possible way to express “empathy”, as Facebook’s famously empathetic founder,Mark Zuckerberg, has explained the move. “Not every moment,” he pointed out sagely, “is a good moment.” (Though perhaps more moments are good moments when you are a billionaire.) For empathetic purposes it might have been better to label the button “Oh dear” or, asa tribute to Kurt Vonnegut, “So it goes”.What is certain is that “dislike” will be gleefully abused by millions of Facebookers to express not empathy but joyously efficient one-button hostility or sarcasm. This may lead to a global spike in defriending, an illustration of Facebook’s awesome power: like some sort of cyber-Antichrist, it will, with one button, have sown discord among the nations. Negativity, Zuckerberg protested, is not “what we’re here to build in the world”, but it might be a refreshing antidote to Facebook’s miasma of stupid positivity.Now that Facebook has crossed the Rubicon, however, it is surely opening itself up to user demands for an ever-widening expressive range. Our emotional vocabulary will soon have been reduced to an emoji-like lexicon of button-based Newspeak, and we can relax knowing that we need never post or comment on Facebook again. I hope that it won’t be long before there are buttons for “Headdesk”, “Ewww”, “That is actually an unflattering selfie”, and “I note with alarm that you have reproduced”.
A bug has ben found which allows anyone in possession of an Android smartphone running Lollipop to unlock the device by bypassing the lockscreen with a very long password.The vulnerability, discovered by researchers at Texas University in Austin, potentially affects 21% of Android devices in use and requires the attacker to simply overload the lockscreen with text.The bug affects only those users with smartphones running Google’s Android Lollipop using a password to protect their devices – Pin or pattern unlock are not affected.The attacker need only enter enough text into the password field to overwhelm the lockscreen and cause it to crash, revealing the homescreen and giving full access to the device, whether encrypted or not.John Gordonfrom Texas university said: “By manipulating a sufficiently large string in the password field when the camera app is active an attacker is able to destabilise the lockscreen, causing it to crash to the home screen.”Googlereleased a fix for the security holeon Wednesday for its line of Nexus devices, describing the bug as of “moderate” severity, but that it was not actively being exploited by attackers according to the company’s knowledge.The researchers demonstrated the attack on a Google Nexus 4, and required the attacker to use the emergency call function to copy hundreds of characters to the clipboard. By using the camera, the settings pull down menu and prompting the password entry screen the long text string could be pasted into the password box causing it to crash.The Guardian could not replicate the bug on aGoogle Nexus 6or aMotorola Moto G– and entering that much text proved difficult and time consuming.About 20% of the billion or so Android devices across the world run Google’s latest version called Lollipop, including new devices from Samsung, LG and Sony.These devices will require a software update to fix the bug, but users will have to rely on the manufacturer of the smartphone and their mobile phone operator to roll out the update, rather than Google directly.The attack requires physical access to the smartphone, and cannot be performed remotely. Users worried by the attack can change their lockscreen preferences to a pattern unlock or Pin code, which can be up to 16 characters long, instead of a password.After theStagefright security vulnerability, Google, Samsung, LG and other Android smartphone manufacturers recently pledged to release monthly security updates for their latest devices, in an attempt to help prevent this kind of attack being used.•Samsung keyboard bug leaves 600m Android devices exposed to hackers
Having sued the BBC in 2015 over its plans for a drama based on Grand Theft Auto, it should come as no surprise that Rockstar Games was unimpressed by the final results.The GTA developer delivered a sharp response to The Gamechangers - which starred Daniel Radcliffe - on Twitter, while it was airing, in tweets aimed directly at the broadcaster:@BBCThis new Rentaghost isn’t as good as I remember&mdash; Rockstar Games (@RockstarGames)September 15, 2015@BBCWas Basil Brush busy? What exactly is this random, made up bollocks?&mdash; Rockstar Games (@RockstarGames)September 15, 2015Besides causing a spike in Google searches outside the UK for TV shows of the 1980s – if Netflix snaps up the Rentaghost archives now you’ll know the reason – the tweets reflected wider criticism from the games industry (including some who worked on the original Grand Theft Auto) of the programme’s accuracy and quality.Brian Baglow, for example, ran the PR and marketing department for DMA Design, the developer of the first GTA game which was later rebranded as Rockstar North. He tweeted throughout the airing of The Gamechangers:Hang on. Every innovation in GTA and they pick character customisation as the most important. Issuing my first#04FFFS#GameChanger&mdash; Brian Baglow (@flackboy)September 15, 2015I seriously doubt anyone from rockstar dressed up as East Fucking 17 to pop out &amp; film in Compton#gamechangers&mdash; Brian Baglow (@flackboy)September 15, 2015WWDSD? What WOULD Don Simpson do? A better job of#gamechangers&mdash; Brian Baglow (@flackboy)September 15, 2015So far the ACTUAL crunch montage is reminding me of fathers Dougal &amp; Ted trying to write their Eurovision entry#gamechangers&mdash; Brian Baglow (@flackboy)September 15, 2015Criticism of the drama included the quality of its dialogue; the sympathetic portrayal of lawyer Jack Thompson; its portrayal of the games-development process; and its historical accuracy.Mike Dailly, who spent nearly 10 years as a senior programmer at DMA Design, was also tweeting his thoughts during the broadcast:We need a new game engine!&#10;&lt;change scene&gt;&#10;So...we&#39;ve made a new game engine...&#10;&#10;*sigh*&#10;#TheGamechangers&mdash; Mike Dailly™ (@mdf200)September 15, 2015Why is Jack Thomson being portrayed as the calm, intelligent guy fighting evil? He got barred didn&#39;t he?&#10;&#10;#TheGamechangers&mdash; Mike Dailly™ (@mdf200)September 15, 2015So I guess &quot;Factual Drama&quot; means... there was a true story, but we made one up.&#10;&#10;#TheGamechangers&mdash; Mike Dailly™ (@mdf200)September 15, 2015Steve Hammond, who wrote for DMA Design, tweeted several photos which he said showed the real setting for the original Grand Theft Auto – albeit several years before the events portrayed on screen:GTA being created in 1996. Everyone wore their own clothes and not company branded apparel!#TheGamechangerspic.twitter.com/rB0Q5qCDAX&mdash; Steve Hammond ⌨ (@snap2grid)September 15, 2015This is the DMA Design office building where GTA was originally created in Dundee, Scotland.#TheGamechangerspic.twitter.com/tvxDSYluOB&mdash; Steve Hammond ⌨ (@snap2grid)September 15, 2015This year,Rockstar Games made it clear that it was not involved in the production, filing its trademark infringement lawsuit to “ensure that our trademarks are not misused in the BBC’s pursuit of an unofficial depiction of purported events”.With its last game Grand Theft Auto V having trained its guns (well, itsexploding smartphone prototypes) on Facebook in the form of a social network called “Lifeinvader”, it remains to be seen whether Rockstar takes similarly satirical revenge on the BBC in the next instalment in the series.For those of you interested in a more documentary take on the original Grand Theft Auto, meanwhile, this may make for enjoyable viewing:
Snapchat has launched its first in-app purchases, offering users the chance to buy the ability to replay already-seen pictures and videos.The new feature, which is only available in the US for the time being, offers “replays” in packs of three for $0.99. Without them, users can only view any given picture or video once, and get one additional replay for free each day.The offer is the latest move away from the idea of “ephemeral messaging” which once lay at Snapchat’s core. Initially, the draw was that users could send a message just once, safe in the knowledge that once it was viewed, it could never be viewed again. Replays, introduced in 2013, chipped away at part of that, offering the ability to view one message a day a second time; so too did the introduction, in October that year, of Snapchat Stories, which lets Snapchatters post pictures and video on the app which is infinitely replayable for 24 hours after they’re published.Snapchat said: “We’ve provided one replay per Snapchatter per day, sometimes frustrating the millions of Snapchatters who receive many daily Snaps deserving of a replay. But then we realized — a replay is like a compliment! So why stop at just one?”One of the less welcoming of new Snapchat lenses.Photograph: Alex HernAlongside the introduction of extra replays for a fee, the new update also introduces “lenses”. Using facial recognition technology, Snapchat is able to alter the user’s face in real-time, with frankly terrifying results.Seven lenses are included in this first batch, and while Snapchat doesn’t say as much, it seems likely that the firm will be experimenting with in-app purchases to offer more variety in the future.Sherlock, cyborg, lovestruck and … sad?Photograph: Alex HernThe new features are the first major overhaul to Snapchat’s core messaging product in a while. Recently, the company has shown more of a focus on its media offering, Snapchat Discover, which lets publishers such as Buzzfeed and Vice upload news stories and shareable content directly to the app. The feature, which is ad-supported, has reportedly been a nice earner for Snapchat, with adverts selling for around 10 cents a view.Snapchat gets up to half the sale price of each ad, and in March 2015 Recode reported that a given ad was seen by up to a million people each day, adding up to a potential income for Snapchat of $50,000 per advert.
Facebook is introducing a ‘Dislike’ button. Or at least something like it, for people to “express empathy” for status updates they feel awkward about liking – from people posting about the death of a loved one to news stories about crises.“Not every moment is a good moment,” said Mark Zuckerberg, as he confirmed that work had begun on an alternative.Why stop there, though? The average Facebook feed is full of stories begging responses beyond “Like” or even “Dislike”. If you’re reading, Zuck, here are some more candidates for shipping as soon as possible. Please.1. ‘U OK hun?’Sounds similar to the empathy button being worked on by Facebook, but for many of us this would play a different role: a coded “stop moaning” for friends who can’t stop posting passive-aggressive complaints.2. ‘I’ve had better in Wimpy’Tough love for friends who just can’t stop posting their Instagram burger shots.Tough on Instagrammed burgers; tough on the posters of Instagrammed burgersPhotograph: REX Shutterstock/REX Shutterstock3. ‘Mum, step AWAY from the emoji keyboard’“That’s enough smilies and dancing ladies for this week. And btw that’s not a happy brown ice cream.”4. ‘That’s racist’As ideal for friends sharing far-right memes as it is for the latest unpleasant news story. This button even shipswith its own GIF.5. ‘Dad, this is obviously a hoax’“Remember that conversation we had about checking Snopes before sharing?”6. ‘Emotional blackmail’For when you don’t want your sympathy for sick children/endangered animals to be measured on whether you share a bad-fonted infographic with dodgy grammar.7. ‘I DON’T PLAY CANDY CRUSH ANY MORE AND I HAVE NO LIVES TO GIVE’“But can you help me unlock the emo goose in Crossy Road?”8. ‘I give it a year’A short, sharp burst of cynicism for the 374 wedding shots that just appeared in your feed. Even better when deployed by the parents.Wait till their friends get on Facebook...Photograph: Andy Roberts/Getty Images/Caiaimage9. ‘It’s raining here I hate you’Catch-all response for any photograph that includes a blue sky, water, a cocktail and a pair of legs.10. ‘Your baby looks like all the other babies!’Harsh, but they’ll thank you for it. Eventually.11. ‘Clickbait’Those made-for-viral slideshows won’t downrate themselves. Approximately 4.7 seconds after this article is published, someone will suggest this button for the Guardian in the comments.12. ‘No’So many uses. All the uses.
By now, you knowZoella. When you hear the word “vlogger”, her squeaky-clean, baby-faced brand is exactly what comes to mind. But vloggers are varied. Older, rounder and balder individuals have also amassed millions of views, subscribers, and pounds on YouTube. But they don’t do it by filming 20-minute lipstick reviews. Instead, they film their children.The daily vlogging of family life is nothing new.The Shaytards, an American family with five children and over 3.7 million YouTube subscribers, have recorded every day of their lives for the past eight years. But family vlogging is on the rise and hundreds of Britons are now copying the Shaytards.Jonathan and Anna Saccone-Joly have been filming their children Emilia and Eduardoliterallysince themomentof their births. Their daily videos, viewed by 1.1 million subscribers, showcase the realities of family life: cooking, shopping, bathing and eating. Loyal fans follow every move and some younger viewers evenwrite fan fiction about being adopted by the family.At first glance, it all seems harmless enough. The family earnsthousands of poundsa year from adverts and product placements in their videos, neither Jonathan nor Anna need to work traditional full-time jobs. What parent wouldn’t want to get paidto spend every day with their young children?The answer to that might be the parent who received acard threateningto “gouge out” the eyes of their baby daughter. Or the parent whowas toldthat pictures of their naked child have been uploaded to paedophe websites. This might put many off daily vlogging, but neither event has deterred the Saccone-Jolys.“I have never felt threatened,” says Jonathan, though he says he discussed these incidents with the police and his gated house is now surrounded by CCTV cameras.@XoSweetTweetsXothere are a lot of disturbing websites on the internet friend :)&mdash; Jonathan SacconeJoly (@JonathanJoly)October 16, 2013Less immediately tangible than these threats, but perhaps no less serious, are the longer-term legal, moral, and psychological consequences to filming, and making celebrities out of, your children.“Parents need to think very carefully about how the material they are filming is available for the world to see in perpetuity,” says Prof John Oates, a Senior Lecturer in the Child and Youth Studies Group at the Open University, and founder of the British Psychological Society’s Media Ethics Advisory Group (BPS). This year, he has represented the BPS in the UK government’s development of regulations to safeguard child performers.'I have never felt threatened,' says Jonathan​ , though he says  his gated house is now surrounded by CCTV cameras“Some children are bullied simply because they’ve been shown on TV.” he says, “Footage of a child that might be fine aged two or three could be very distressing if it was available on the blogosphere when they were 12 or 13.”The BPS’s list of potential harms – defined as “immediate or delayed, short-term or long-lasting effects” – is long.“The first potential harm is simple emotional distress,” says Oates, “followed by harm to self-esteem, and a loss of a sense of autonomy.“Mental fatigue is another problem,” continues Oates, “as well as an increase in a child’s generalised anxiety level, which could lead to general anxiety disorder.” GAD is a long-term psychological condition that causes an individual to feel anxious on a daily basis. It can lead to restlessness, panic attacks, or trouble concentrating and sleeping.It’s worth noting that the children of YouTube probably don’t face the same risks that drove traditional child stars like Lindsay Lohan or Macaulay Culkin off the rails. Oates explains destructive behaviour isn’t necessarily caused by the stress of being a child star. He adds if a child has a “secure attachment”, meaning they trust the adults around them to be a secure base in times of distress, potential harms can be alleviated.Unlike traditional child performers, however, the children of YouTube are not currently subject to any psychological guidelines or legal protection.In February 2015, the Department for Education updated theirlicensing legislation for child performance, but specified “this does not extend to user-generated content, for example where young people or a family record themselves and share it on a website or social media”.The current legislation states that children should not perform for more than six consecutive days, and children aged five to nine should not perform continuously for more than 2.5 hours a day. But it does not extend to user-generated content – the children of YouTube, who are filmed day and night, seven days a week, are not protected. They are also not protected from taking part in meet-and-greets and signings with fans at events such as VidCon, which have been known to last up to eight hours at a time.When asked why the regulations do not apply to YouTubers, a Department of Education spokesperson said: “We trust parents to act in the best interests of their children.”Though a nice sentiment, it seems perhaps a little naive, especially when there are financial gains to be made. Without legal protection, there is no guarantee that a child will see a share of these earnings. Nor is there any requirement for a child to consent to being filmed.Jonathan believes his children do want to be part of his videos, though he admits Emilia, who is three, is more extroverted than one-and-a-half-year-old Eduardo. He talks happily about a recentclip he filmed of her singing in a restaurant. “If she didn’t want to do it, she wouldn’t have,” he says, “My filming isn’t directional, it’s observational … I don’t make [the children] do anything.”Ofcom’sMarch 2015 guidelinessay producers should seek expert advice on whether or not young children are assenting. They also note that older “children may find it difficult to contradict an adult’s suggestion to participate”.Oates says “for younger children we look for signals that they are assenting”, noting that babies and toddlers can’t verbally consent. “You have to observe carefully. A very young child may simply go quiet. Other signs they’re not assenting are self-touching, repetitive behaviours, or curling in on themselves.”In The Shaytards’ video entitled DAD! CUT THAT PART OUT! from April 2014, nine-year-old Avia begs her father to remove part of the video where she talked about flirting with a classmate. “But this is good footage!” her father replies, before she gives in with an exasperated “FINE!”.“I promise you, listen, in 10 years from now, you will look back on this video and you’ll be like ‘that was so cute … I’m so glad I have that memory’,” he continues. Hopefully, he’s right. But will she be equally happy that 3,108,012 strangers now share that memory with her?Katie Marie of YouTube channel Katie&amp;Baby, shortly after the birth of her daughter (and co-star), Ellie.Photograph: Katie&amp;BabyThe truth of the matter is that every YouTuber has a different approach. Katie Marie, the 23-year-old owner of YouTube channelKatie&amp;Baby, started vlogging in 2009 and later filmed a series of videos documenting the first 34 weeks of her daughter Ellie’s life. She has over 3.2 million total views on her videos.“From the moment she was born, I knew I wanted to film most of her life, because time is so precious,” she says. However, Katie is very careful when filming Ellie, and edits out any footage that may be inappropriate.“If Ellie is in the bath I always make sure to film her from the shoulders up as you should respect your child’s privacy in certain aspects,” she says.Katie says she will respect her child’s wishes if she doesn’t want to be part of her YouTube channel when she is older. She also makes sure Ellie profits from the videos.“I have started to put [some of our YouTube earnings] into a savings account,” she says, “All the money I earn usually goes on Ellie, so all the profit goes to her and that’s how it should be, as if Ellie wasn’t in my videos I think they would be pretty boring.”Jonathan also rejects the idea he isn’t doing this for his children. “Obviously we’re their parents … they have trust funds,” he says. “I want my children to have a better life than me.”Oates recognises some of these benefits, that children “may acquire status, financial rewards, and enjoyable exciting experiences”, but adds that some form of regulation is needed. “There is difficulty legislating such a fast moving field. Currently there’s also a lack of evidence, so we have to rely on case studies.”While YouTube has been around for more than a decade, it still carries a sense of mystery that sometimes intimidates or leads to it being ignored by those who aren’t part of its culture. The law will take some time to see YouTube performances in the same way as it does other work, if it ever does. YouTube itself could regulate its users, but as yet it’s too early to know what the long-term effects on the child stars will be.Are the parents worried about any impact on their children’s futures? “Come back and speak to me and Emilia in 10 years,” says Jonathan Saccone-Joly. “I’ll put it in my calendar. We’ll see then.”
It’s Wednesday. Comments are now ON!
Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg says the company is – at long last – responding to the desire for a “dislike” button on the popular social media site.“I think people have asked about the dislike button for many years. Today is a special day because today is the day I can say we’re working on it and shipping it,” Zuckerberg said during a Q&amp;A at Facebook’s headquarters,according to reports from Business InsiderandCNBC.Bloomberg had a slightly different quote from the Facebook chief: “People have asked about the dislike button for many years. We’ve finally heard you and we’re working on this and we will deliver something that meets the needs of the larger community.”Zuckerberg has for years dismissed calls for such a button to accompany its “like”, to avoid a Reddit-style voting system: likes v dislikes, outweighing each other below someone’s posts.But, reportedly citing news stories such as the Syrian refugee crisis or the death of a loved one, Zuckerberg seems to understand that a “like” doesn’t always convey a user’s true thoughts on a post.“What they really want is the ability to express empathy. Not every moment is a good moment,” Zuckerberg said, according to Business Insider.The chief executive did not offer a timeline on when to expect the new button in action – or confirm what it would be called.“We have an idea that we’re going to be ready to test soon, and depending on how that does, we’ll roll out it more broadly,” he said, according to CNN.
It just became a little harder to force someone to take copyrighted videos off YouTube, after a ruling from a three-judge panel in California found that before filing a removal notice, copyright holders must consider whether the way their intellectual property is used could be considered “fair use” under US law.Further, according to Monday’s decision from the ninth circuit court of appeals, if an entity misuses legal takedown notices, it is taking a financial risk of its own.A “plaintiff may seek recovery of nominal damages for an injury incurred as a result of a ... misrepresentation,” wrote judge Richard C Tallman, in a decision that authorizes the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) to move forward with a 2007 lawsuit against Universal music on behalf of YouTube user Stephanie Lenz. “Fair use is not just excused by the law, it is wholly authorized by the law.”Lenz v Universal Music is often referred to as the “dancing baby” case; in 2007, Lenz videotaped her 13-month-old bobbing up and down to Prince’s Let’s Go Crazy and later received a digital millennium copyright act (DMCA) takedown notice from Universal.Lenz then did something rarely done by recipients of takedown notices: she sent YouTube a counter-notice saying that her video didn’t violate copyright and didn’t misuse Universal’s intellectual property, and that she was going to put it back up. She reposted the video,YouTube did not take it down, and it has now been viewed more than 1.4m times.The EFF sued Universal for misrepresentation on Lenz’s behalf, alleging that the company had misused the DMCA notice to appease Prince.“One thing that’s often overlooked is that for a site like YouTube or any other user-generated content site, complying with takedown notices is optional,” said Mitch Stoltz, senior staff attorney for EFF. “The law doesn’t require it. The law creates an incentive for it, because then they’re not liable if they get sued, but they could also choose to go to bat for their users.”Lenz alleged that Universal only sent her a takedown notice because Prince had spoken publicly aboutwanting to sue YouTube and eBay. At the time, YouTube was locked in litigation with Viacom over the hosting of many hours of Viacom content, notably the Comedy Central series The Daily Show and South Park.Universal claims that if it loses the lawsuit, it will also lose the ability to swiftly react to copyright violations.YouTube’s adoption of a zero-tolerance policy for uploads of movies and TV episodes is a part of the reason the company no longer regularly locks horns with corporate rightsholders like Viacom. But it is still the target of many complaints from musicians and their representatives, notably the threat ofa $1bn suitfrom music industry executive Irving Azoff, covering songs written by everyone from the Gershwins to the Eagles.Though the suit has dragged on since 2007, courts have consistently ruled in favor of Lenz, noting danger in the presumption of guilt on the part of anyone against whom a DMCA notice is filed.“As Lenz points out, the unnecessary removal of non-infringing material causes significant injury to the public where time-sensitive or controversial subjects are involved,” wrote Jeremy Fogel, a judge who declined to dismiss the lawsuit in 2008.
Jeff Bezos unveiled his space travel company Blue Origin’s brand new rocket on Tuesday morning at Cape Canaveral, Florida.The rocket, which Bezos did not name, appears to be a completely different model from the company’s New Shepard rocket,which launched in April. The new model is long and bullet-shaped, whereas New Shepard is squat and blunt.“It’s vertical takeoff and vertical landing,” the Amazon founder told a press conference. “It’s a great architecture because it scales to unusually large size. I want you to know, one day, and I don’t know how long this will take, I look forward to having a press conference with you guys in space. I look forward to it very much.”Bezos’s Blue Origin is in competition with several spacefaring firms belonging to his fellow billionaires, among them electric car entrepreneur Elon Musk’s SpaceX, and Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic. Google executives Larry Page and Eric Schmidt have invested in a similar company called Planetary Resources.Also at the conference, at which Bezos spoke alongside Florida governor Rick Scott, it was announced that Blue Origin would build and launch rockets out of facilities in and around Cape Canaveral. Its BE-4 engine will be assembled and tested nearby. “You’ll hear us before you see us,” Bezos told the crowd.With the aid of about $40m from state coffers (DiBello touted Scott’s “pervasive attention to return on investment”), the company aspires to add space tourism and its attendant industries to Florida’s economy, Bezos said. With its new berth at the Kennedy Space Center, the company joins Musk’s SpaceX, which has leased the historic launch pad 39a (the pad that supported both the first and the last flights of Nasa’s Space Shuttle).Florida is already home to many tourist attractions and will have space tourism of a less factual kind in a few years when Disney opens its Star Wars theme park in the state (ground-breaking on two parks, one in Florida and one in California, begins in 2016). But Bezos may actually beat Han Solo into orbit: Blue Origin plans launches “later this decade”, in Bezos’s words.“One thing we’ve tried to do in the last four and a half years is continue to diversify our economy, and the leader in that is aviation and aerospace,” Scott said. “We just went to the Paris Airshow and talked to so many companies; they all want to do business in Florida.”Presidential candidate and Florida senator Marco Rubio issued a statement in support of the venture. “Policy makers at all levels of government need to make sure America continues to be the best place in the world to do business,” he wrote, “that innovation across all industries is allowed to flourish and that our education system is revolutionized to help equip our people for the new jobs that are coming.”Frank DiBello, president and CEO of Space Florida, a state-run economic development group, said Blue Origin’s arrival in the state heralded a new era for the “space coast”.“Florida’s vision for the space industry is for Florida to become the creator of and global leader in space commerce,” he said. “We’re pleased to see this pad come back to life.”
Watch out Uber; Mercedes-Benz is coming up on the inside lane. In comments made at the Frankfurt auto show, Dieter Zetsche – CEO of Mercedes owner Daimler – suggested the company might develop driverless cars.Related:Self-driving cars: from 2020 you will become a permanent backseat driverMercedes, which is Germany’s oldest car manufacturer, sees a future in a market catering to people who, while not keen on car ownership, are interested in premium and high-end transportation such as limousine travel.“This is a concrete development goal of ours,” Zetsche said toReuters. “It would be even more convenient if the car came to you autonomously.”Zetsche believes that Daimler could combine other companies it already owns to form the best service. Daimler ownscar2go, a car pooling service which allows users to rent nearby vehicles via an app, and has recently part-acquired mapping service namedHERE. Daimler also ownsMyTaxi– a cab app similar to Uber.“I think you don’t need too much imagination to see that by combining these strengths, attractivebusiness modelsare possible,” Zetsche said.Related:Robot cars: 10 things you need to know“And it would be extremely practical if the car2go appeared without needing to be prompted, once my appointment in the calendar had come to an end.”Mercedes displayed a futuristic lookingprototype autonomous carduring trade show CES in January, and a video of a self-driving “Mercedes-Benz Future Truck 2025” was released in July 2014. Back in 2013, an S-Class vehicle also made an autonomous journey fromMannheim to Pforzheim.Daimler’s video for their self-driving truck.The idea that Mercedes might be moving into app-supported rented luxury vehicles might worryUber, which operates UberLux and UberExec for customers who prefer to travel in high-end vehicles.Meanwhile, the driverless car industry continues to expand. Google yesterday appointedHyundai’s former US CEO, John Krafcik, to head up its efforts to develop autonomous cars, while Toyotaand BMWhave their own plans for autonomous vehicles.•Self-driving cars: from 2020 you will become a permanent backseat driver
Nearly half of all edits to articles about places on Wikipedia were made from just five countries,researchers at the University of Oxford have found.The UK, US, France, Germany and Italy are the source of 45% of the edits on “geocoded” Wikipedia articles, which have a longitude and latitude associated with them to link them to a specific place in the world.And the Netherlands alone – which doesn’t even fit in the top ten countries by number of edits – still has more edits to its name than all of Africa combined.The researchers, led by Dr Mark Graham from the university’s Oxford Internet Institute, argue that the study shows that “local voices rarely represent and define their own country”. Instead, high-income countries have a disproportionately loud voice on the crowd-sourced encyclopedia, so countries that have many Wikipedia editors can “dominate the production of knowledge about smaller countries”.They looked specifically at articles about places to focus on the “uneven geographies of participation”. It may be tricky to argue where an article about theoretical physics should be edited from, but there is no debate over whether or not the editor of an article about a location in Nairobi is local if they aren’t based there.To make matters worse, of the small number of edits that do come out of poorer countries, many are about Europe and North America, further entrenching the knowledge dominance of the developed world over the content of Wikipedia entries.Graham said that: “Even on Wikipedia, widely touted as one of the web’s most open and most inclusive platforms, we see that low-income countries are represented far less than locations that are economically advantaged. Europe and North America, with already high levels of internet access have the loudest voices and they largely define the world view of even the smaller, less affluent countries rather than the people who live in them.“In practice, we see how existing inequalities and imbalances don’t just make places invisible, but also suffocate certain voices and perspectives. Even those in less economically advantaged places are drawn to write online about places that are already highlighted in a bright glow of information production.”Where possible, the researchers looked at data from every one of the 300-plus languages Wikipedia is written in. But even the inclusion of editions such as theSotho,XhosaandFijian Hindican’t overcome the bias amongst the userbase.Wikipedia has long been fighting to tackle a lack of diversity among its pool of editors, which frequently filters through to the choice of articles created and expanded. The Royal Society, one of Britain’s oldest scientific institutions,holds an annual “edit-a-thon”in an attempt to redress the site’s gender imbalance.The events are having an effect: in the four years they’ve been run, the Royal Society has run out of female fellows to create articles for, having to move on to more obscure female scientists such as 18th-century illustratorsSarah StoneandMaria Sibylla Meriam. Even so, the event is little more than a drop in the ocean. By most estimates just one in 10 of Wikipedia’s editors are female, even though its readership is split 50-50.Similarly, fewer than 1% of Wikipedia editors self-identified as trans in 2011, and the site has been criticised for creating a hostile terrain for those editors. Most recently, a heated row broke out when WikiLeaks source Chelsea Manning came out as trans, which eventually led tomultiple editors being bannedfrom editing pages related to trans issues.
Is there anything that strikes fear deep into the heart like an invitation to the poetry reading of a guy that you met once, at a party, and who wore a cravat?Thanks to Facebookintroducing read receiptson its events, swerving the kind of soiree that’s about attractive as a chlamydia diagnosis has just become a lot more difficult – and a more dangerous social minefield.Read receipts on Facebook private messages have already cornered the market in awfulness, given that it is now impossible (withoutworkaround browser extensions) for users to view a message without the sender knowing.The faux excuse: “Oh! I’m afraid I missed the message! Silly me!” has been a thing of the past for a while now, forcing the uninterested and those who prefer to never leave the comfort of home to invent illness and failing public transport to avoid social interaction.Social media is not for connecting with people – it’s a conduit for feelings of inadequacy and candid pictures of politicians with witty slogans scrawled on top. Deep down, we all know this.But with the introduction of read receipts on events, people are going to know that you didn’t even bother to look at the details of a protest march you would rather eat soggy broccoli for the rest of your life than attend.Read receipts are, to me, 1 of the most awful &amp; invasive things online. Facebook is inexplicably obsessed with them.https://t.co/ulokdnv929&mdash; John Colucci (@johncolucci)September 15, 2015facebook messenger REALLY needs a &quot;nope out of this conversation and combust into the sunset&quot; option to avoid read receipts&mdash; marissa nein (@marijuissa)August 25, 2015Facebooktoldthe Daily Dot that it is “piloting the ability for private event hosts and guests to know whether their friends they invited have seen the event”.I emailed a rep to ask what we were all supposed to do now that we couldn’t feign ignorance of baby showers; I’m assured more information on the change will be made at a later date. I knew my email was read and received only because the rep replied, and that, my friends, is how it should be.•Message read. But what kind of weirdo keeps read receipts on?
It’s been a busy summer forUber. In San Francisco, the app-based transportation service and world’s richest startup is testing on-demand mass transit with itsSmart Routesoffering – essentiallycarpoolsrunning bus-like routes. Elsewhere, Uber is expanding into China,raising $1.2bnto back apush into100 Chinese cities over the next year.To build its Eastern empire, Uber is maintaining itsinfamously aggressive tacticsby hiring an “elite team of launchers”. Thejob advertisementsounds like Uber is looking for CIA operatives, not brand ambassadors: “At base, this job entails being dropped into a city or country where Uber has zero brand and physical presence, quickly figuring out who and what make that city run, and then building a new business from scratch – in a matter of weeks – which sets Uber up for long-term success”.With a well-financed combination of rapid roll-out and local infiltration, Uberhopes to overcomerival services and strict regulation.This continual growth – new services, new regions, new markets – has many wondering about Uber’s ultimate goals. Uber is flush with cash, explicitly expansionist across the globe, and engages instrong-arm politics. Its goals, and its methods for achieving them, will make an impact.Governance by app and the end of politicsSome commentators argue thatUber’s endgameis to be the death knell for current modes of public mass transit. Graduating from service provision to infrastructure operation on public roads, the company would become like a utility, not justa competitor with cabs. And as it privatises an increasing proportion of transport infrastructure, public services will be abandoned to decay, with Uber providing marginally more optimised transit options (Smart Routes, UberX, UberBLACK, etc) for a profit.While this vision of privatisation is partly correct and rather grim, it misses a key point:Uber wants inon public infrastructure. But it is considerably less clear that the company actually wants to become a utility, which would mean taking on long-term responsibility for a huge fleet of vehicles and employees.A more apt understanding of Uber’s ambitions is that the company wants to be involved in city governance – fashioning the new administrative capacities of urban environments. Rather than follow government rules, like any other utility, Uber wants a visible hand in creating urban policy, determining how cities develop and grow, eventually making the city itself a platform for the proliferation of“smart”, data-based systems.While Uber is currentlyfighting for deregulation, it is misleading to understand this as simply attempting to remove legal barriers to market forces. Rather, it is a process of disrupting political power. And Uber has already established itself as a power player.Power in urban spaceTo date, Uber has successfully lobbied for (or forced)changes in regulation, pushed backagainst the mayor of New York in a high-profile battle, and is currently fighting to avoid a majorclass-action lawsuitthat threatens to reclassify someUber drivers as employees. That’s right: Uber really doesn’t want to manage employees and vehicles.Related:Uber and the lawlessness of 'sharing economy' corporatesUber is more interested in urban governance than in becoming a utility. That’s not to say Uber intends to run for public office or even that it intends to participate in a democratic process - its power is better exercisedoutside of those limited positions and procedural rules. What we are witnessing instead is Uber’s participation in the early days of retrofitting the “smart city”.Such retrofitting means not only implementing on-demand private services for an increasing number of urban dwellers, but paving the way fordeep integrationofdata-driven systemsin every facet of city life.Uber’s ambitious power grabs are underwritten by a vast data capture and analysis infrastructure, making it the lead inspiration for “disruptive” services (just think of the plethora ofUber for Xstartups). Even if Uber the company were to disappear tomorrow, itsmodel of service– theplatform economysold to us with promises of cheap convenience and “sharing” at the cost of ubiquitous data capture – would remain.Data, drivenWhat these platforms offer is an invaluable infrastructure of real-time data analytics for governance. The more dependent we are on them for services, the more entangled we get in thepolitics of their designers, purveyors, and owners.Philosopher of technology Langdon Winner throws this into stark relief in his bookThe Whale and the Reactor, arguing: “The things we call ‘technologies’ are ways of building order in our world”. They influence and structure how we travel, communicate, work, and so much more. He continues: “In that sense technological innovations are similar to legislative acts or political foundings that establish a framework for public order that will endure over many generations”.Uber and other major “sharing economy” players are not merely gracing us with the innovations they tout. They are playingtechnological politicsto lay the groundwork for new forms of governance.While Uber may enjoy positioning itself as apolitical, it is more illuminating to see the company as a harbinger ofnetworked urbanism– where cities are driven by big data analytics and networks controlled in part by machines – which will force us to ask the question: what does it mean to govern?
It’s Tuesday and I’m currently watching the Sony press conference from Tokyo Game Show wishing I was there.
The latest version of Apple’s iPhone and iPad software promises better battery life, a smarter Siri and true multitasking – but does it deliver and is it worth upgrading?The first thing you notice when you fire up an iPhone or iPad after installing iOS 9 is the lack of newness. It looks like iOS 8, it feels like iOS 8 and behaves like iOS 8 – the changes are subtle.For instance, I didn’t notice until a week in that the type face had changed. The whole operating system uses a new “San Francisco” typeface instead of the traditional Helvetica.First introduced with the Apple Watch, San Francisco promises to fit more on-screen. It does precisely that but it’s a blink-and-you-miss-it change, as is the fact that Passbook is now called Wallet.Notifications within the pull-down Notifications Centre are now in chronological order too, which is much better, and can be cleared individually or by the day, but there’s still no “clear all” button.Cards, public transport and a better keyboardThe running app cards are bigger, making it easier to see what’s happening before tapping into an app.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOne of the bigger visual changes is within the recently used apps switcher. Double pressing the home button brings up cards that are bigger, so you can more easily see what’s going on before tapping into an app, while location-based apps or apps that have been triggered from a Mac or iPad using “hand-off” are there too – an obvious improvement.A couple of Apple’s apps have been improved too. The Notes app now supports drawing and photo insertion, though only if you use an iCloud account to sync them.Public transport within Apple Maps.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianApple Maps also has public-transport directions, but is still not as good as rivals Google Maps or Citymapper. The phone app will try and identify unknown callers from your email, or give a rough location based on the number, which it did for me as it could never find the number in an email for anyone who wasn’t a contact.Apple’sNews appwill also launch with iOS 9 (but not in all markets), bringing headlines and stories from a collection of news sources.The Apple keyboard is also much easier to use now that the keys are not always capped up. Pressing the shift key raises or lowers the case of the keys so that it is much easier to see whether you’re about to punch in a capital or lowercase letter. Swiftkey and others have had this feature since iOS 8’s launch.The keyboard will also display cut, paste and text formatting keys in some apps, which are useful – although the iPhone often needs to be in landscape orientation for them to show up.Lowercase keys and keyboard shortcuts.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTwo-finger cursor control is also available, which uses the keyboard as a giant trackpad; I found it more trouble than it was worth.Siri, Proactive and suggesting appsThe biggest feature addition for iOS 9 is Siri’s new “Proactive”, which is essentially Apple’s take on Google Now.A pane accessible by swiping right on the homescreen, iOS 9 displays Siri’s suggestions of people you might want to contact and apps you might want to use at that particular time or location.Siri’s new powers include surfacing apps and contacts it thinks you will want access to due to the time of day, location or other triggers.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSiri tracks your usage and learns when you might want an app or to contact a particular person. Perhaps you call your mum every Sunday at 1600, or use Google Maps on your commute home.It should be able to scan your email and pull up flight details, warn of traffic delays on a commute or show things from your calendar, but I haven’t flown anywhere recently so can’t comment on whether it actually works.In practice, I found Proactive to always suggest the Mail, Settings, Twitter and App Store apps – obviously I use them a lot. Showing me the Music app when I plug in a set of headphones was vaguely useful. It will likely get better the longer you use it.Privacy and SiriSiri also suggests trending news you might want to read, but the headlines it promotes are only pulled from a few sources and I didn’t find them particularly useful. Once Apple News launches in the UK, which it hasn’t yet, it might improve.Compared to Google Now on an Android phone, Proactive isn’t quite there. But it is better than Google Now on the iPhone purely because it’s baked in and isn’t restricted to being an app.One thing to note is that Apple professes to do all this without sending your data away – unless you use Siri to ask for something – where as Google Now and Microsoft’s Cortana are powered through the cloud, tracking your movements and all the data privacy implications that may or may not have. This won’t matter much to most people, but for those it does, it’ll matter a lot.My interactions with Siri in general seemed improved. I still find it awkward, as a Briton, talking to an inanimate object. Beyond setting alarms and trying to get it to play music while in the car, you can at least instruct Siri to “Google” things for you, or “Yahoo” if you prefer, which opens in Safari. The default “search for” command uses Bing.Spotlight can also search within apps, but requires the apps to support it, which they don’t have just yet. That will improve as apps get updated.Real multitaskingSlide Over adds quick access to other apps that support it.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe big change in iOS 9 for the iPad is the introduction of true multitasking. All iPads from the iPad Air and iPad Mini 2 and up will get “Picture in Picture”, which displays video as an overlay. Handy, but common to TVs since the 1990s.Slide Over also allows quick access to another app such as Twitter while in Safari, for instance. It slides over from the right and sits there until you’re done using it and go back to the app it is partially covering.On the iPad Air 2, and the forthcoming iPad Mini 4 or iPad Pro only, Split View places two active apps side-by-side on one screen. Each app can be given more or less of the screen with a slider in the middle. It works precisely like Windows 8’s side-by-side app view or Samsung’s multi-window – handy for when you’re trying to watch a live blog or stream and want to keep an eye on Twitter, for instance.Apple promised better battery life with iOS 9. I’ve barely noticed any change, but at least it isn’t worse. A low power mode is available, which claims to add three hours to the battery life by shutting off push and email fetching, automatic downloads and reducing the performance of the processor, but seemed to do little when I activated it when low on battery. Your milage may vary.Split View offers true multitasking, with both apps visible and active on one screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianVerdictIt’s a free update, runs on any Apple iPhone or iPad currently running iOS 8 and legions of people are going to install it. Thankfully iOS 9 is as fast and works as well on an iPhone 6 Plus and iPad Air 2 as iOS 8. Whether that’s the case on an iPhone 4S or 5 remains to be seen.Is it the best iOS yet? Yes. Could Apple have done more? Absolutely. Notifications still aren’t cleared from Notification Centre when they are within apps and you still can’t clear all notifications in one go; push notifications still only deliver the alert and not always the actual message, which is infuriating in signal-poor environments, and you’re still forced into the Settings app to change simple things too frequently.Its new features have appeared elsewhere before – from Windows to Android – but it is probably worth updating for the keyboard and multitasking alone, just don’t expect a revolution.The iOS 9 update will be released on 16 September and while optional, will start to be required by some apps in the near future.Picture in picture allows users to keep watching a show or movie while doing work, perfect for the cricket or the next World Cup.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian•Apple iPad Pro and iPhone 6S launch: key points at a glance
A delightful new puzzle game,Sentris, was released on Steam last month. Beautiful and engrossing, it leads the player through increasingly complex musical levels, in which you have to place blocks in the correct point in a spinning circle to add in different loops and instruments to an electronic track. The game is deeply enjoyable, tapping into one of the deepest human instincts: the sense of rhythm.Newborn babies have a sense of rhythm. Only days after birth, scans can detect the brain anticipating a missing downbeat, or noticing the rhythm “stumble”. There’s stilldebate about whether animals share this traitbut dance, drumming and music are common across human cultures. There’s something in us that just likes it. Even without the skills to play an instrument, there’s a satisfaction to a game that allows you to control music, to bring it to life, even to feel that you’re playing it.The classics here areGuitar HeroandRock Band, games with simplified “instruments” that rely on a good sense of rhythm to complete a variety of songs successfully.The games have spawned numerous sequels and a new version,Guitar Hero Live, is out this autumn. The faintly sneery critique sometimes levelled at these games – that it’s not like you’re playing an instrument, and that you might as well spend your gameplay time on learning musical skills – misses the point. There’s a deep pleasure in joining in with a rhythm, as anyone who’s ever clapped along to We Will Rock You or taken part in a Mexican wave can testify. If you don’t regularly attend religious services, there are few opportunities for communal non-performance music-making. But musical rhythm games give players the opportunity to lose themselves in the music.The cult hitRez, released in 2001, was perhaps never bettered as an experience of entering the music itself, of letting you feel at one with the music. It might have been be a game best played when you had just got in from a club night in 2002, but its trance-like hypnotic combination of beats and visuals is still worth seeking out on older consoles. Again, inRez, you don’t need to feel that you’re playing the music, rather that you’re playing with it, that it’s become tangible. An out-of-body experience.Electroplankton, a great way to entertain young children.Photograph: ElectroplanktonIf entertaining a fractious child on a wet afternoon, I can highly recommend the venerable Nintendo DS gameElectroplankton. It contains several ways to experience music, including a level in which the child loops tunes together, and one where the child sings notes to smiling, swimming underwater creatures which then repeat the music in a variety of funny voices. I say “the child”. It’s possible I mean “me, when I’ve just delivered a draft of a novel and I’m having a duvet day”.For my money, the best of all music games isAuditorium, a puzzle game in which you move coloured blocks to redirect streams of light to add instrumentation tracks to a piece of music that builds across the levels. It’s mesmerising and calming, the game that’s most likely to give me that tingle at the back of the neck – the frisson which, like the sense of rhythm, is still beinginvestigated by neuroscientists.No one really seems to know definitively why frisson and the related phenomenon ASMR (autonomous sensory meridian response)happen, but everyone who experiences this feeling agrees that they’re deeply enjoyable, banishing stress and anxiety, with some even claiming they can alleviate headaches or other physical symptoms.I’m not sayingAuditoriumshould be available on the NHS, just that a half-hour spent with that tingle moving slowly down my spine and across my back … has rarely felt like a waste of time.“All art,” said Walter Pater, “constantly aspires towards the condition of music.”Like that frisson, there’s something about music that reaches beneath the hood of the conscious mind, tugging at us emotionally without the need for the stories of literature or the representations of objects and people in visual art. And in games, the most immersive of forms, music has perhaps found its natural partner.
When, in 1985, Nintendo’s in-house genius Shigeru Miyamoto unleashedSuper Mario Broson the nascent world of gaming, he could scarcely have imagined that it would act as the definitive blueprint for one of the games world’s most enduring genres: the 2D side-scrolling platformer. Still less that, over 30 years later, he would be able to let any old gamer emulate his development process (albeit with vastly superior tools than the ones he had in 1985), while melding the most venerable gameplay with a truly 21st-century gaming phenomenon. But that’s what Super Mario Maker does: by giving gamers the means to create their own Super Mario courses, it enters the realms of user-generated content alongside the stunningly successful likes of Minecraft and LittleBigPlanet.Super Mario Maker gently eases you into your quest to become the new Miyamoto, with a half-built course that you must jazz up simply by painting new elements on the screen of the Wii U’s Gamepad, using the stylus. You can add various blocks, either vanilla or containing power-ups and rewards, enemies such as goombas, trampolines, pipes and so on. Then, using the so-calledCoursebot, you can name your creation (the game carefully explains that an interesting name can attract a much bigger audience) and publish it for all to play. Although, sensibly, you aren’t allowed to publish it until you’ve completed a play-through – it’s dead easy to make courses that are physically impossible to negotiate.At first, there’s plenty of potential for embarrassment, when you realise that perhaps your level-design skills aren’t quite yet on a par with those of Miyamoto, and what you’ve posted for others to play is not going to change the face of gaming at a stroke. But Coursebot, mercifully, lets you delete your juvenilia, and as you persist, you will undergo a number of small realisations about what constitutes a good side-scrolling 2D platform level.You will, however, have to demonstrate a certain amount of persistence when you start playing Super Mario Maker. That’s because, rather than giving you the full palette of course-design elements right away, it starts you off with a very limited set, then drip-feeds a daily selection of new ones, after monitoring how much time you’ve spent playing the game. This is somewhat frustrating: a walk-before-you-can-run approach is all well and good but, from the off, you can download vast amounts of courses that others have created, full of exotic elements like doors,Boos, lava and platforms that move along carefully delineated paths, but you can’t properly edit those levels until you’ve played Super Mario Maker long enough to have acquired those elements.After three decades of Mario games, Nintendo is inviting players to create their own levels in the bouncy plumber’s homeland.Photograph: APStill, that approach does at least focus you on the basics of designing Super Mario levels, which can only be a good thing. And cute touches abound. You can re-skin your mini-masterpieces at the touch of an icon – initially, you’re given the classic Super Mario Bros art-style, along with that of New Super Mario Bros U, but there are countless others to acquire, taking you through some of the more obscure historical iterations of the game. Every art style has an underground variation, so you can instantly make sub-levels, accessible via pipes. Underwater and boss levels are possible, and hooking up amiibos gives you exotic, non-standard Mario power-ups. The fact that, unlike Miyamoto himself, Super Mario Maker owners are free from the tyranny of having to make coherent, structured games means that there’s already an awful lot of wild and inventive experimentation on show. Although you are still encouraged to make whole worlds, consisting of groups of four levels.Once you’ve played Super Mario Maker enough to unlock everything (a process that takes the best part of a week), something of a step-change occurs, and you can get busy busting the Mario conventions that have stood for three decades. But if your skills do prove a tad deficient, Super Mario Maker still has plenty to offer. Course World is a giant repository of user-generated levels, and you can opt to take the 100 Mario Challenge, which picks sets of eight courses and gives you 100 lives with which to reach the end – not as generous as it may sound, since difficulty levels tend towards the fearsome. A 10 Mario Challenge offers a similar experience, but with tightly selected levels that showcase some of the more outlandish forms of gameplay that Super Mario Maker supports, and are designed to get your creative juices running. Plus you can dive into any random level in Course World that sounds appealing, or sample anything made by particular individuals who have impressed you.Once you overcome the initial frustration engendered by Super Mario Maker’s refusal to give you all its tools at once, it provides a wondrously moreish experience that will enthral a generation of tinkerers. Much as a generation of young teens has been enthralled by Minecraft. And as anything you create in Super Mario Maker will appeal to people older than 15, as well as plenty who are younger, it offers a great progression for Minecrafters who have honed their design skills, yet are starting to feel like one-trick ponies. If it throws up a whole new generation of Miyamotos, it will go down as one of the most significant games in history.Viewed purely as a game, it’s a curiosity, lacking appeal to those who demand instant action. But it is surely destined to become known as a cult-classic, and it will be interesting to see if it fuels a spike in Wii U sales.
Playful visions of the future of technology are springing up across Brighton this month, from dystopian immortality machines to global choirs, open to the public and mostly free.TheBrighton Digital Festivalincludes conferences, performances and installations based on artistic approaches to the digital world and vice versa. Arts co-ordinator Laurence Hill says it is the most expansive to date: “In 2011 there were 40-odd events . This year it’s topped 180.”Among the events are six officially commissioned “experiences”, funded by the Arts Council. Familiars, running until 20 September, is an example of how unusual and esoteric these commissions are.Data from shipping, railway and aviation activity within a 100-kilometre (62-mile) radius of Brighton is translated live into a network of audiovisual formats and broadcast inside a darkened chamber. “We’re totally dependent on it, but it’s also very abstracted. “Transport infrastructure is enormous,” says Georgina Voss, who masterminded the experience with Wesley Goatley. There’s a weird glitch between the importance of these systems and how little we know about them.”Leila Johnston’s sci-fi experience How To Live Forever aims to be similarly absorbing. Running for two days (22-23 September) and housed in a “specially made booth/tent”, the piece posits a near future in which we can extend our lives indefinitely by digitising our brains. Johnston hopes to engage her “volunteers” by putting them through the motions of uploading their brains, and having them investigate the idea of perpetual life. “Speculative technology is the window-dressing,” she explains, “but the show is really about belief.”More eccentric still is James Shreeve’s “alternate reality” installation Mood Vendor, in the audience visits a futuristic clinic where they undergo “treatment” to make them happier, developed by a shadowy community of thinkers.“I’m an autistic artist,” says Shreeve, “and Mood Vendor came out of a joke I had with my friends, when we were discussing utopia. I said, “In a perfect world, people like me would live far away, and we’d work on greater things.”This premise snowballed into the concept behind his immersive, unsettling artwork, at the festival from 23-30 September.“I’m excited and terrified at the same time”, says Shreeve – an attitude his audience may well share.
The surprise star of Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain is the Fulton surface-to-air recovery system (or STARS), an experimental technology dating back to the 1950s that allowed a covert operative be airlifted out of hostile territory by an aeroplane travelling at low altitude.The STARS fit nicely into the world of Metal Gear Solid, with its mixture of cutting-edge real-world tech and science fiction gadgets, and at first glance, it is so bizarre that it seems like it could only have come from the fictional side of the divide.The agent puts on a harness, inflates a helium balloon attached to it, and lets the balloon float off into the sky, where a plane with a specially-designed attachment scoops it up, catching hold of the cord. It then rapidly hauls in enough rope to get the evacuee safely above ground, before slowly pulling in the rest while they slipstream behind the plane as it pulls away towards its cruising altitude.It is probably one of the most unlikely military inventions ever put into use, and all the more surprisingly, only resulted in one fatality during its 28 years of operation. Eventually rendered obsolete by long-range helicopters, it was finally taken out of use in 1996.Of course, Metal Gear Solid V touches on some of this, letting the player airlift Snake out of play using the system. But the real star (or STARS) of the show are … animals.Because Metal Gear Solid V is the first game to let you attach a sheep to a helium balloon, catch that balloon with a plane, and airlift the sheep to your secret mercenary base floating off the Seychelles.This high-stakes animal rescue is the topic ofthis week’s Updog podcast, the Guardian’s new podcast which takes stupid internet things very seriously. We examine the speed with which the Fulton STARS went viral, taking in everything from riffs on the same joke that gave our podcast its name:KAZ: Snake, do you have the intel yet?&#10;SNAKE: No, but I&#39;ve got some upbear&#10;KAZ: *sigh* ...what&#39;s upbear?&#10;SNAKE:pic.twitter.com/HhFpd8Qw50&mdash; The Pham, Tom Pain (@RedbirdMenace)September 1, 2015Through mash-ups with last week’s viral phenomenon:Metal Gear vs Duck Army (by@keefstuart)https://t.co/8yDbEYA0eg&mdash; Updog (@Updogcast)September 4, 2015To … well, to somewhat odder stuff:Yes, that last video isn’t technically from Metal Gear Solid V (it’s actually an uncut trailer from 2013’s spin-off game Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance), but once you fall down the rabbit hole of Metal Gear memes, it’s hard to stop at just one game.For the full history of Metal Gear’s love affair with the internet, as well as a look at what culture feels like when you experience it entirely through second-hand quips on social media, listen to Updog (and follow us on Twitter at @updogcast).Want more weird video game memes?Follow us on Twitter @Updogcast. You can find all the Tech Weekly podcastshere.Metal Gear Solid – everything you need to know about the entire series
If one thing comes to mindthe moment you boot up Forza 6, it’s this: if developer Turn 10 turned its hand to creating a car, it would be a wonderful piece of engineering. This latest in the now-decade-old franchise is a meticulously crafted package, with an incredible attention to detail in almost every facet of its design.Having made major missteps withForza 5, Turn 10 has recognised and rectified where necessary. While its predecessor was a tight-fisted, condensed racing experience with a cut-down list of cars and tracks, Forza 6 is generous and dauntingly broad, more in line with series highpoint Forza 4. It has also excised the monetisation that plagued the Xbox One launch title and, while these shifts aren’t enough to make Forza 6 truly exemplary, it’s still a fantastic ride.Not only does it run at 1080p and at an unflinching 60 frames per second, but it has been put together with precision. The downside is long load times, but the plusses outweigh the minuses. Navigating menus is clean and pristine, and there’s still much joy to be found in looking at cars up close in Autovista, peeking in bonnets to look at glorious V8 engines and hearing the satisfying “clunk” of doors unhinging open as you clamber in.This is a game that feels as premium as the Ferraris and Lamborghinis that sit in its 450-strong garage. With a car roster of this size, not only is it impressive that Turn 10 has achieved such a level of consistency, but it’s also a testament to the studio’s understanding of motorsport that every car still feels distinct and unique to drive: 1960s open-wheel racers join family saloons and 4x4s, with each vying for your attention.Where Forza 5 was a slow slog at times, Forza 6 moves so much quicker, even stealing Forza Horizon’s lucky-spin tombola that spits credits or free cars at you to make curating a garage so much more rewarding. Race mods act like perk cards and attempt to add even more variation into individual events, which can be single-use boosts to your grid position or to car performance, or event-based parameters such as being locked to cockpit view. Using mods affects your credit bonuses at the end of each race, and despite adding colour to individual events I found myself forgetting about them as they felt like an inessential obstacle.Really strong new additions to Forza 6 are showcase events – another cheeky takeaway from Horizon. These one-time challenges put you in cars you may not have unlocked yet for exciting career highlights. Whether it’s sitting in a hyper-car, taking part in an endurance race or taking a spin around the Top Gear test track to knock down some obstacles, it makes Forza 6 feel much more fun.Turn 10’s understanding of motorsport permeates through Forza 6. Each new race chapter you enter is prefixed with a slickly-narrated overview complete with racing trivia, but it’s a shame that these short scenes set up expectations that the game never quite hits. Richard Hammond and James May – coyly titled “automotive journalists” now that their Top Gear involvement has come to a punchy end – do well to evoke the sense of excitement about getting into a beastly Subaru Impreza to tackle the dusty twists of a point-to-point, until you remember there’s no real rallying in Forza 6. Similarly, my heart skipped a beat when the game mentioned the thrill of pit stops and tyre management as I waited to race in an open-wheel tournament, but these features aren’t even in the game. It’s odd that Turn 10 highlights its own game’s omissions.Thankfully, the driving and racing remains some of the best available on Xbox One. Driving with the Xbox One pad’s rumble triggers is still sublime, and Turn 10 has seemingly added even deeper nuances to its handling model. You canfeelwhen you’re running to the edge of your grip, or have hit the brakes too late as you run into the hairpin at the bottom of Abu Dhabi’s Yas Marina. Forza 6 may not boast the sense of speed or pure carnage of some of its more arcade counterparts, but it’s a racing game that puts driving at the forefront of the experience.Still, with such top-tier driving I expected more dynamism from how Forza 6 deals with its new night races and wet weather conditions. The individual beads of rain strolling up and off your windscreen, responding to the physics of each turn, look absolutely incredible, as do the 3D puddles, which wreak havoc with your trajectory if taken too lightly. But only a small handful of tracks have wet weather variations. This is the same with night races, too, which test your mettle as you hurtle toward an unseen apex in the pitch black. It all looks great and adds a touch of variation to events, but the lack of changing conditions or a dynamic time-cycle feels like a missed opportunity.Elsewhere, theDrivatarsystem is still occasionally shonky and still doesn’t consistently deliver on the promise of “real human brains in AI cars”, but these are infrequent problems. Forza 6 feels like a worthy apology for the misjudgements it made with Forza 5. With competition from the likes of Driveclub and Project Cars, the franchise isn’t quite the benchmark it once was, but it’s damn good to see Turn 10 back on track with such impressive flair.Microsoft; Xbox 360/Xbox Oneexclusively; £42.99; Pegi rating: 3
For most of us, the internet of things (IoT) might call to mind specific gadgets – slick innovations likeNestthermostats or theApple Watch– that seem to owe their provenance to science fiction and promise a more wired world, as well as theinevitable automationof everyday life.Then there are people like serial entrepreneur Nova Spivack, someone who’s far less enamoured of thenext IoT devicethan he is with something infinitely geekier: the data that can be captured.He doesn’t dispute, for example, all the predictions about what a large market opportunity IoT represents. Among such estimates is the one from consulting giant McKinsey, which forecasts that over the next decade the economic impact of IoT could reach as much as $11 trillion a year. Likewise,tech firm Cisco projects a surge in connections of people, process, data and things that could reach 50bn by the end of the decade.To Spivack, the chief executive ofbig-datamining companyBottlenose, the opportunities and promise of the IoT market also go much deeper than dollar signs. To him, the market’s potential has less to do with gadgets – the “things” themselves – than with the secrets and insights they unlock about the world.He points to examples includinginsurance­-related use cases, where a device monitoring a car’s performance could report a driver’s habits back to the corporate mothership, with the data being used to adjust premiums up or down accordingly. That’s one example among many of how, as computing power gets cheaper and smaller, sensors can turn almost anything into an internet­-connected device – which means almost anything can likewise become a data-­generation device.“The internet of things represents a major data opportunity”, says Spivack, who also co-founded the startup incubator that gave birth to Apple’s digital assistant Siri. “There’s just no other data opportunity that comes close.”Spivack’s point is that when everything comprises sensors and has an IP address of its own, the world will see a huge increase in the amount of data being generated – vast streams of data that expand at such a fast clip it takes new kinds of machines and processes to peer into the streams and find some actionable insight.In other words, he thinks it is the data and the requisite machine learning needed to make sense of it that will comprise the IoT market’s killer app.“It’s going to be the challenge of the next decade,” says Spivack. “As everything gets an IP address and starts reporting, the question will be – where is this device? What’s its status? What’s going on around it? The amount of data that every device can stream out is going to be huge.”McKinsey’s research helps prove his point. In astudy of more than 150 IoT use cases, McKinsey found we may be using as little as 1% of data being generated – an indictment of how much potential is being left on the table.A typical oil rig, for example, is festooned with as many as 30,000 sensors, McKinsey notes – yet most oil companies are only using those to detect and control anomalies, not to do things like prediction and related analysis.“In a way, I think the world is becoming more like the stock market,” Spivack says. “You can now measure theories about everything and make predictions about what needs to be done when resources are running low. If every device in a factory is reporting its state all the time, including when failures happen, you can use machine learning to look at all the devices that are connected, and at what their state was before and during failure events to learn to determine the early signs of failure.”Meanwhile, the benefits of machine learning also serve to underscore thedarker side of IoT.Entrepreneurs like Spivack may look forward to the business potential of IoT devices throwing off more real­-time data than has ever been available before. But those devices will giveSnowden­-era consumers,already worried about things like their social-media posts and Amazon order histories being hoovered up by intelligence services, a fewnew questions to ask:Will the generation of IoT­-related data be enough of a benefit for users that they’re comfortable giving up more of their privacy? Do they trust the makers of connected cars, smart homes, activity trackers and the like to keep their data secure and to be transparent in their usage of that data? And not just be transparent about its usage, but its possible sale down the line to a third party?So far, available survey data about consumer attitudes towards data, privacy and the IoT market – as well as their attitudes about privacy in general – is instructive.APonemon Institute surveyof 1,900 consumers, for example, found a whopping 82% of respondents say IoT manufacturers had not provided any details about how their personal information is handled.A recentPew studyof almost 500 Americans, meanwhile, also found that 88% of respondents said it’s important that someone or some agency or group not watch or listen to them without their permission. Likewise, 63% said it’s important to them to be able to “go around in public without always being identified”.There are a host of reasons why consumers might look at a Fitbit or smart home device and not feel the same sense of control over their privacy they might have with the more familiar computer programs and traditional devices they use every day. For one thing, notes UK communications regulator Ofcom in arecent report about the market, the IoT comprises a wide range of devices, not all of which have keyboards or screens – making it sometimes unclear what the device is doing.Meanwhile, the multiplicity of devices spans not just product classes but countries, which is why Ofcom has pointed to growing support for more international standards to govern things like data collection.“Data captured in one country may be processed or stored in another, and different countries may have different data privacy regimes,” the Ofcom report reads.Ofcom has a few suggestions to bring some order to IoT data collection, including making terms and conditions for data­-sharing simpler for consumers to understand, and that device makers should build a focus on informed consent into their products.The urgency for companies to do so will only grow as the market continues to expand and IoT devices increasingly proliferate. Examples of how that proliferation is taking place include US–based retailer Target recently opening the doors in San Francisco to an “open house” – a combination retail space, lab and meeting venue – focused on IoT. The 3,500-square-foot space will display new IoT tech as well as serving as a hands­on showroom where guests can experience the products for themselves.Carnegie Mellon Universityhas also become a kind of test lab for IoT technology from Google, thanks to apartnership between the two organisationsthat calls for deploying sensors and accelerometers across the campus, among other things.The goal, says project lead investigator Anind Dey, is to deploy an IoT infrastructure campus-wide. That’s why Google gave CMU seed funding and access to Google technology, according to Dey, the Charles M Geschke director of theHuman-Computer Interaction Instituteat CMU.“We have already begun work on this open infrastructure and have deployed it in a few spaces on campus”, Dey said. “In a year’s time, we hope to be working with the city of Pittsburgh to deploy our technology throughout the city.Related:Why the internet of things favours dominance“The goals are to turn CMU into a living laboratory for IoT – that is, a place where research and development can go on, in the same place that users will use the technology on an everyday basis.”As part of that process, he says to expect an app store for IoT applications developed by CMU and others. Laura Ballay, a fellow faculty member at the Human-­Computer Interaction Institute, said the project also gives a sense of how there are “so many interesting applications” when investigating the ways technology can help people within the context of a city. And yet – she also thinks one of the harder things to solve when it comes to IoT is the idea of giving people thedegree of control that they want.Most people, she says, would be overwhelmed by giving them complete granular control over everything an IoT device could do and the data it could collect, asking them for permission every step of the way. Device makers also can’t really build off assumptions about the consumer’s appetite for privacy today, since such attitudes morph a bit over time.Data may be one of the biggest opportunities to tap via the IoT, but if it’s not handled correctly, she and others think the market won’t have enough users for it to fully take off. It’s atricky balance, she says – figuring out what to collect, how to use it and how to appropriately inform the user.“A lot of times technology precedes the people side of things”, Ballay said. “The technology will continue to evolve, but where it becomes interesting to me is when people enter into it and how they think technology should behave. What might have been true 20 years ago is not necessarily true today. Determining what’s right to foist on the world should be at the heart of every designer working on these projects.”To her mind, these are not things that you can necessarily ask of end users.And so the tug­-of-­war continues. On one side, IoT devices continue to multiply, with theAltimeter Group notinghow this year’s Consumer Electronics Show was packed with things like connected flowerpots and Bluetooth-enabled tape measures. On the other end, there arefearsthat all the washing machines,toastersandcarsin a given city will start flooding, sparking, smoking, and spying.“Adding a sensor to something does not magically endow it with value for its user, particularly when weighed against potential risks”, the group’s report reads. “One study found that the top reason consumers hadn’t purchased in-­home connected devices was because they didn’t understand the value.“As a society, we all face the potential to both suffer and benefit from a connected world. It is the responsibility of the entities that are digitalising our physical world to educate, to safeguard, and to help foster new, responsible behavioural precedents in the internet of things.”
The former head of defunct bitcoin exchange Mt Gox, Mark Karpelès, has been charged with embezzlement by Japanese prosecutors, according to reports from the Japanese media.Karpelès is alleged to have embezzled ¥321m (£1.7m) from the bitcoin exchange, which collapsed in 2014 after revelations of a massive shortfall in customer funds.He is alleged to have transferred money from Gox’s bank account to other accounts in October 2013, where it was mainly spent on buying licenses for 3D-rendering software,according to Jiji Press. Some of the money was also allegedly used on an “expensive custom-built bed”, Jiji added.Karpelès was arrested in Augustin connection with the loss of hundreds of millions of pounds worth of bitcoin when the exchange collapsed.At the time, a spokesman for the Tokyo police said French-born Karpelès, 30, was suspected of accessing the exchange’s computer system in February 2013 and inflating his cash account by $1m.He has denied the charges, saying he had intended to pay back the money, according to the Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper.In January this year,Yomiuri said that, contrary to reports from Mt Gox, the vast majority of missing bitcoins from the company’s stash were stolen by an insider, with just 7000 bitcoins, or 1% of the shortfall, attributable to hacking attacks from outside the company.
A new advanced robotic hand that is wired directly into the brain has been successfully tested, allowing paralysed man to “feel”.The hand, developed by the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins university, is part of a research project into advanced replacement limbs funded by the US military’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa).The 28-year-old man, who has been paralysed for more than a decade after a spinal-cord injury, had electrodes from the prosthetic hand inserted into his sensory and motor cortexes. This allowed him to both control the hand with thought and sense when the fingers of the hand were touched individually.Sensors in the hand detect pressure applied to any of the fingers and create electrical signals to mimic touch sensations. When blindfolded, the volunteer could determine which finger on the hand was touched with nearly 100% accuracy, according to Darpa.“At one point, instead of pressing one finger, the team decided to press two without telling him,” Darpa program managerJustin Sanchez said. “He responded in jest asking whether somebody was trying to play a trick on him. That is when we knew that the feelings he was perceiving through the robotic hand were near-natural.”Sanchez added: “Prosthetic limbs that can be controlled by thoughts are showing great promise, but without feedback from signals traveling back to the brain it can be difficult to achieve the level of control needed to perform precise movements.”By wiring a sense of touch from a mechanical hand directly into the brain, this work shows the potential for seamless biotechnological restoration of near-natural function. We’ve completed the circuit.”The hand and the neurotechnologies on which it relies are hoped to allow those who have lost limbs to not only gain fully functioning replacements but also the level of control that can only be offered with sensation.Other robotic arms from Darpa’s Revolutionising Prosthetics project, including one with enough fidelity to allow a volunteer to drink from a water bottle.•The future for augmented humans: ‘In five years you’ll see exoskeletons on the building site’
It’s Monday and it’s raining – what could be better?!
How did you get into games testing?I was a footballer, then I went in to the building trade – for my sins – and spent a few years carrying bricks up and down ladders. I was really into games and had this sense of what makes people tick when they’re playing them. Then somebody said to me, “You know there’s a games company in Guildford you can test games for.” That company was Bullfrog. I went there in 1994 to do two weeks’ work experience.And took to it immediately?I did. Now I’ve been doing it 22 years. I wasn’t academic, I didn’t go to school much or have any qualifications. I knew how to switch a PC on; that was about it. But I had a passion for games, I was outspoken and good with people. It’s funny, because I took those people skills from the building trade.And you moved from being a tester to running a testing company?I took over Bullfrog’s QA [quality assurance] department for a few years. Then I helped Peter Molyneux set up the QA at Lionhead. When Microsoft bought Lionhead, I went and set up my own company,Testology,in 2006. And we’ve done pretty well. We test a lot of the biggest games in the world. My missus tells me, “you’re an entrepreneur, Andy”. I’m not, though. I just had a passion for something and the balls to set up my own company.Andy Robson of Testology.What is testing’s role in games, and why is it important?Testers and those in quality assurance are normally the end of the process of making games. We find all the crashes, bugs and issues with a game. We find those problems, tell the producers and they try to get it fixed. At the start a game can have hundreds of thousands of bugs, and we have to find them. It can take months. It’s a tough job, and when I started it was looked down upon.Has that attitude changed?Now QA and testing is a true discipline in itself. And it’s important. If people are spending money they want a quality game. And developers now are seeing that QA can be part of making sure the gameplay experience is a good one. We got involved at Bullfrog at involving QA right from the beginning of a game’s production and design, and that’s become more normal now. QA feedback can really help improve a game’s design. We’re looking at setting up proper apprenticeships in QA to help add quality to testing.Perhaps that came from the building site; the idea of an apprenticeship?Maybe, yes. When I was young, apprenticeships were important. When I left school I was an apprentice footballer on £28 a week. Apprenticeships are important, and I think the games industry could do more of it. They make skills more accessible.www.testology.co.uk
Before we moved, we filled boxes. “Why are you packing those CDs?” asked my wife, eyeing them. “You’ve put them all on a hard disk, and with streaming services you can get what you want.”I opened my mouth to offer a devastating rebuttal. No sound emerged. In other news, it turns out that charity shops love secondhand CDs. I looked forward to streaming it all.We last moved in 2006, when Inotedhere how essential broadband had already become. (And also, hilariously, that six megabits was “adequate for nearly everything we do today”. To be fair, the BBC’s iPlayer was then more than two years from launch.)“After bereavement or divorce, moving is the most stressful life experience,” my wife said as the boxes piled up and we tried to figure out where the mugs, kettle and milk were. Perhaps so – then we tried to get our broadband sorted out. Our previous broadbandprovider wasn’t interested in us because we got our phone service from BT, – everything’s about the bundles now – so I had to call them to get broadband. Urgently. Without it, the risk of divorce or my death was rising rapidly. Though mobile data and phones have improved enormously since 2006, getting one bar of 3G reception in the new house was challenging.“Hello, I’m Leon,” said the enthusiastic person in the BT call centre. His Scottish accent made me wonder if he was2007’sX Factorwinnerfallen on hard(er) times. He told various whoppers about our potential line speed – “Four megabits, and up to eight megabits!” – while our router suggested 2.5Mb/s on a good day; BT’s own line checker later confirmed this. Leon wanted to upsell me to BT Sport, which I knew our line would be too slow for. By now I was annoyed, but also wanted broadband, dammit.What I really wanted – and Leon would have been delighted to upsell me to – was properly fast broadband: fibre-optic cable, right up to the front door. No chance. Fibre delivery to rural areas like mine is a hot mess. The key problem is that BT hasn’t put the money into it because it hasn’t been forced to.The original BT privatisation in 1984 missed the chance to create a properly competitive market in fixed phone lines by letting BT own the infrastructure as well as the phone service. It took 30 years for other suppliers toget 50% of the fixed line market. Despite the best efforts of Ofcom, its regulator, BT still effectively controls their pricing via BT Openreach, the division that looks after the infrastructure.Compare with the electricity, gas and train businesses, where no provider owns the infrastructure; or mobile, where competition was built in from the start through a duopoly, which expanded to a four-way then five-way fight which means we now have one of the world’s most flexible and lowest priced mobile markets.But on fibre it’s different. Openreach is easily the most profitable division within BT, generating about 50p in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation for every £1 of revenue. Such anomalies suggest either a monopoly, premium pricing, or both. That’s not right for a business that should be supplier-agnostic and building a new network based on fibre rather than copper. (By contrast, Network Rail’soperating margin is 30% or so; National Gridabout the same.)Rural fibre relies on government handouts to get BT to replace copper with fibre. But even those fail. A big contract in Devon and Somersetcollapsed in Junebecause BT’s “best offer” didn’t match the council’s need for 95% coverage. So who else will step up? For now, nobody. Does BT lose out? No. It doesn’t have an incentive to add more, despite any pent-up demand.We got our broadband. Leon was of course far too optimistic. It’s achingly slow by modern standards; audio streaming is hit-and-miss. Don’t ask about iPlayer. And fibre? We’re already talking about clubbing together to lay our own to the exchange. That’s how you recognise market failure.• This article was amended on 15 September 2015. An earlier version said Openreach generated about 50p in operating profit for every £1 of revenue. That figure is for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, not for operating profit.
In the early days of Apple’s iPad, there was a gallon of hype around the potential for interactive book apps. When many of the early, expensive-to-develop examples flopped on the App Store, the hype ebbed away.Even so, a number of developers, publishers and authors have continued plugging away at the idea, with the results often standing proud as works of fiction or non-fiction, regardless of the way they’re delivered.Apps like Arcadia, 80 Days and Device 6 are playing with the form of interactive novels, while game-books like Blood &amp; Laurels and A Wise Use of Time are reinventing the Choose Your Own Adventure and Fighting Fantasy era of branching fiction for modern touchscreens.Here are 10 of the best examples from recent years, which notably have strong writing as well as digital innovation at their hearts.Arcadia by Iain Pears.Arcadia by Iain Pears(Free + IAP)iOSThis isn’t an app of a book: Pears’ novel was written specifically for app form, with its interweaving characters and stories. The idea is that you follow the characters through the narrative, choosing different perspectives as it suits you – complete with a map to help you get your bearings. But the most important thing here is that the interactive form doesn’t detract or distract from the story.80 Days.80 Days(£3.99)iOS / AndroidBased on Jules Verne’s Around the World in Eighty Days, this app gives the famous tale a steampunk twist, with you taking the role of valet Passepartout, on a global trip with Phileas Fogg. Midway between a Choose Your Own Adventure book and a text-adventure game, it suits longer sittings or shorter, mobile-friendly sessions. Meanwhile its branching route (and thus narrative) mean you’ll want to re-read/play it again and again. Not to mention checking out theother excellent book-apps by its developer Inkle.Device 6.Device 6(£2.99)iOSDevice 6 came out in 2013, but as another example of a book/game hybrid, it doesn’t feel dated at all. Its eerie story starts with a character called Anna waking up in an island tower with a memory of a “rather unpleasant doll”. The tale plays out through text that turns corners and flips upside down; audio clips; photographs and puzzles. The form is inventive, but it’s Anna’s story that grips you. It’s one of my favourite works of fiction in any format – print included – in recent years. And here too, it should spark your interest in exploringdeveloper Simogo’s other work.Blackbar.Blackbar(£2.29)iOS / AndroidBlackbar is a piece of interactive fiction that makes you work for your reading pleasure: in this case, by guessing the words that have been censored by familiar black bars (hence the title). The story is told through letters to your character “Vi”, which have been censored by the mysterious Department of Communication. Filling in the gaps gives you crossword-style satisfaction, but again, the writing itself is what really draws you in.Jack and the Beanstalk by Nosy Crow.Jack and the Beanstalk by Nosy Crow(£3.99)iOSNosy Crow publishes books and apps for children, with any of the latter coming thoroughly recommended. But it’s the company’s take on Jack and the Beanstalk thatexperimented most with its format, adding in mini-games as Jack explores the giant’s house, but being careful to make the rewards more story – text and dialogue – putting the game-like elements to work on encouraging its young audience to read. Other neat touches, like the use of children as voice narrators, are common to all the company’s apps.Blood &amp; Laurels.Blood &amp; Laurels(£2.29)iOSAs someone who grew up playing (and trying to write) text adventures, I can see a number of modern app developers whose work builds on those foundations. Blood &amp; Laurels, for example, is a political thriller set in ancient Rome, with all the scheming and betrayals you’d hope for. The interactivity is beautifully handled: you feel less like you’re simply choosing between forking paths, and more like you’re thinking as your character (a cowardly poet called Marcus) and responding in real-time.Ryan North’s To Be or Not To Be.Ryan North’s To Be or Not To Be(£4.49)iOS / AndroidThis app started off as aKickstarter crowdfunding campaign by creator Ryan North, who raised more than $580k to make “the greatest work IN English literature, now in the greatest format OF English literature: a chooseable-path adventure”. Published by Tin Man Games, the results are a ridiculous (in all the best ways) reimagining of Shakespeare’s Hamlet, with the ability to abandon the familiar narrative serving to make you think about how it was constructed in the first place.Tin Man’s wider catalogue of “gamebooks”is worth investigating too.A Wise Use of Time.A Wise Use of Time(£2.49)iOS / AndroidChoice of Games is another in the handful of companies exploring interactive fiction in app form, with A Wise Use of Time one of its most recent releases. This eschews multimedia bells and whistles in favour of pure text – 260,000 words of it – and multiple-choice decisions to steer the story. Here, again, it’s the quality of the writing that’s the real treat: a clever sci-fi plot device (your character can freeze time) that’s given plenty of room to breathe. Choice of Games’ quality barremains high for its other apps too.Timeline WW1 with Dan Snow.Timeline WW1 with Dan Snow(£9.99)iOSHistorian Dan Snow is best known for his TV shows and books, but he alsoco-founded apps company Ballista to experiment with history apps. This is a good example of its approach: an accessible take on the first world war with deep archives of images, video, audio and maps, as well as its central timeline to navigate through the conflict’s key moments. It’s an excellent way to dip in and out of the primary and secondary material.David Starkey’s Kings and Queensis another good example of a timeline-based app approach to historical events.Electricomics(Free)iOSComics fans are already spoiled for choice with ways to read digital editions on their tablets. Alan Moore’s Electricomics is the latest example, offering four stories (including Moore’s own Big Nemo) that make the most of being liberated from print by playing with the digital format. Leah Moore and John Reppion’s Sway, here, impressed most, with its use of the accelerometer for story-shifting purposes. The app is the start of something bigger, too:a platform for comics authors and illustrators to self-publish their digital work.Apps that just missed the cut includeBlinkist, which boils non-fiction books down into text or audio versions that can be finished in 15 minutes;Earth Primerand its hands-on approach to geology;Think Like Churchill, which gives Boris Johnson’s last book an interactive spin; andPersona, a playful graphic novel made for the tablet.What have you read / played / explored in this genre and enjoyed or hated though? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
In the first section of ourfuture of foodfeature, we look at some of the adjusted, alternative, and entirely new foods which could become the mainstays of tomorrow’s mealtimes.JELLYFISHRelated:Are jellyfish going to take over the oceans? | Karl MathiesenWith numbers booming in UK waters, jellyfish could become an attractive addition to our cuisine – edible species are already tucked into in other parts of the world, including China. “They are an under-used resource from the sea,” says food writer and TV presenter Stefan Gates. Low in calories and with an unusual texture, they certainly add a certain something to a dish. “It sounds a bit weird, but the texture is something between cartilage and rubber,” says Gates. “They don’t have a vast amount of flavour but they are a vehicle for flavour.”Indeed Gates believes we should abandon trepidation and embrace unusual foods. “Generally speaking we have to be more open minded about what we are eating because we tend to be mono-culinary, we always stick to the same foods all the time and it plays havoc with the world’s resources,” he says. “Also, it’s an adventure to go on.”NDALGAESpirulina powder has become a popular dietary supplement, but its flavour is less admired.Photograph: Marek Uliasz / Alamy/AlamyAlgae such as spirulina and chlorella, which are available as supplements or powders, are a favourite among health foodies and vegans, and are thought to be good sources of vitamins, protein and minerals such as iron.Related:Spirulina: a luxury health food and a panacea for malnutritionBut alga-based drinks may now be moving out of the obscure corners of healthfood shops and in to the mainstream. Companies like French start-up Algama want to break away from this narrow market and “feed humanity”. Their product,Springwave, which launches in France this month, uses spirulina extract in a flavoured-water drink that lacks the typical spirulina taste. Other algal offerings that may tempt shoppers include frozen spirulina by Spirulina Ice and chlorella-containing flavoured rice snacks by Allma.RDALLERGY-FREE PEANUTSIf there’s one commodity the food industry could be expected to shell out for, it’s hypoallergenic peanuts. An estimated1.4-3.0% of children in western countriesare allergic to them, putting the kibosh on the consumption of a host of comestibles. But if a small startup has its way, that could all change.University of Toronto graduates Chloe Gui and Terry Huang are hoping to create peanuts that are free from specific proteins that trigger potentially life-threatening reactions in humans.It’s a fledgling enterprise – after creating their company,Aranex Biotech, in April, Gui and Huang moved to Ireland to take part in Indie.bio’s three-month synthetic biology accelerator programme hosted at University College, Cork. Their plan – to use a genome editing technique called Crispr-Cas9 to essentially “turn off” the genes that code for main peanut allergens. It’s a technology thatgrabbed the headlinesthis year when the Crispr-Cas9 system was used by scientists to edit the genomes of human embryos.Peanuts could be modified to reduce their allergenic proteins.Photograph: Patrick Sison/APSo far Gui and Huang have taken cells from the leaves of peanut plants, removed the cell walls using an enzyme and then inserted the Crispr-Cas9 system by chemical means. Their results, says Gui, are promising – but there is a long way to go - to create whole plant the team must use a different method of inserting Crispr-Cas9 into plant cells and are currently planning to utilise a soil bacterium. “We are at the stage where we know Crispr works in peanut plants, now we want to regenerate a full plant,” says Gui, adding that the duo are now looking to establish themselves in Norwich, a hub for plant science.Related:Peanut allergy researchers say they may have found key to a cureIt’s not the first attempt to find a solution to the issue of peanut allergies. Scientists have explored several GM techniques, including interfering with cellular processes that generate the problem proteins, while non-GM approaches includesoaking peanuts in enzymesthat break down the allergens. But using Crispr-Cas9, Gui believes, could be an effective alternative. Others agree “Scientifically, yes it is feasible,” says Professor Peggy Ozias-Akins from the University of Georgia, who has conducted previous work on hypoallergenic peanuts. But, she adds, that there could be other complications. “As far as how a peanut deficient in these proteins would actually be utilised by industry is less well defined at this point.”According to Gui, heavyweight confectioners have already pricked up their ears, keen to see the work develop. But she says there will be hurdles to overcome, not least that it is unlikely to be possible to turn off all the genes for all known peanut allergens. “You have to balance how many genes you can knock out while maintaining the viability of the plant,” she says. And even if the team manages to produce hypoallergenic peanuts, the problem of perception remains — Gui and Huang are keen to avoid the GM label, meaning they are simultaneously looking to explore a range of routes to their proof of concept plant.It’s a project that will take time, but Gui is enthusiastic. “It’s never been a better time to do this sort of thing,” she says.NDLAB-GROWN MEATOvercome with the ills of animal production, Shir Friedman has a vision. She wants to grow chicken breasts in the lab. “It is very similar to what researchers are doing to culture organs for transplants,” says the co-founder of Israeli-based charity,Modern Agricultural Foundation. Except they would be for human consumption. In January it gave a grant to a Tel Aviv University biomedical engineer for a feasibility study of the proposition. Results expected at the end of this year will be used to plan the organisation’s next steps. If successful, it would be the most ambitious project yet on the new food frontier of cultured animal products, where animal cells will eventually be grown in vats to make meat. “Production will look like a brewery,” says Sarah Sclarsic, business director atModern Meadow, a US startup working to make meat products from cultured cow muscle cells.The Impossible burger, made from plant proteins.Photograph: Impossible FoodsBut getting costs down to a level competitive with the animal version is daunting. Mark Post, a researcher at Maastricht University in the Netherlands, unveiled the world’s first cultured beef burger made from cow stem cells in 2013. It cost £200,000 to make, but even if it were scaled up it would still be £15 per kilo for hamburger meat. There may also be regulatory hurdles. “We are hoping the process would be fairly straightforward but that remains to seen,” says Sclarsic.Related:Laboratory-grown beef: meat without the murder, but would you eat it?Meanwhile, technology is also rising to the challenge of producing realistic meat analogues from plants. San Francisco bay area startupImpossible Foodssays it has a new way to create a meat taste from plant proteins by concentrating a heme protein – which gives red meat its colour – that is naturally found in plants in small quantities. It plans to tempt meat lovers with its plant-based hamburger patties in the second half of next year. The product “looks, cooks, smells and tastes like ground beef”, says Patrick Brown, company co-founder and a professor of biochemistry at Stanford University. Competition in the meat stakes, it seems, is coming from everywhere.ZCVEGAN CHEESE“Kind of like mozzarella,” is how Patrik D’haeseleer describes his latest prototype. D’haeseleer is a key figure in theReal Vegan Cheeseproject, established in early 2014 with the aim of making cheese without cows. The project is a crowd-funded, not-for-profit, volunteer effort run out of two biohacking spaces in the San Francisco Bay area.A scientist at work in the Real Vegan Cheese lab.Photograph: PRReal Vegan Cheese isn’t the only one with big ambitions. StartupsMuufriandClara Foods, also both in the Bay area, are aiming to make milk and egg whites respectively without the use of animals. The technology behind all of them relies on genetically modifying cells of baker’s yeast to become microscopic factories that produce milk – or egg – protein. Those proteins, called caseins and albumins respectively, give milk and egg whites many of their physical properties.It is unclear, however, exactly when these new synthetic dairy products might debut. Speaking at an event on the future of food the end of May in San Francisco, Muufri co-founder Ryan Pandya said he was hoping to have a proof-of-concept product ready by the end of this year or early next, but don’t expect to see it at a grocery store any time soon.Related:Vegan mozzarella: is the holy grail of pizza toppings finally here?“According to our preliminary estimates this is going to be a several hundred dollar glass of milk,” he said. Clara Foods co-founder Arturo Elizondo added his company was aiming to have batches of egg whites ready by early next year for corporate partners to test.At the Real Vegan Cheese project, the milk- and cheese-like prototypes made so far have been tests of what can be done with caseins, fat and sugar, but they use animal-derived casein powder. Genetically engineering yeast to spit out caseins synthetically has proved difficult.“It should definitely be do-able,” says Benjamin Rupert, another of the project’s leaders. “The yeast cell is complicated and people usually have to try a few times.”Technical challenges aside, the products – despite the environmental benefits of less animal farming – are already raising the hackles of environmental groups.“Nobody I know wants to eat synthetically produced dairy made from genetically modified yeast in a lab,” says Dana Perls, a food and technology policy campaigner atFriends of the Earth. Both Muufri and Clara Foods still seem to be deciding how to frame where their products come from, and to what extent they will revel in them being derived from genetically modified organisms.“If it means coming up with a new sort of language to speak to the public then we have to do that,” said Pandya.ZCFERMENTED COFFEECamille Delebecque is founder and CEO ofAfineur, a Franco-American startup, whoraised more than $50,000 on Kickstarterto produce a coffee with a unique flavour created through controlled fermentation.Camille Delebecque, CEO of Afineur.Photograph: PRCoffee’s already quite popular – how are you improving it?We’re not rewriting coffee, we’re shining a new light on it. People are starting to look for coffee that’s not just bringing the morning buzz, but interesting in terms of flavour. At the moment, the coffee industry only has two tools to control the flavour: choosing the beans, and roasting. So fermentation is a really powerful third tool.How does it work?We do our fermentations directly on the processed green beans. We slightly humidify them, and sprinkle them with the bacterial strain, either as a fluid or a powder. After fermentation we do a roasting right away, which sterilises everything and removes the microbes, but the chemical changes remain.How do the bacteria affect the flavour?It’s not the bacteria themselves that confer the flavour; the bacteria produce enzymes that induce specific chemical reactions within the beans. We’re focusing on lowering bitterness and astringency, and we know specifically which molecules are responsible for which flavours. Trigonelline, for instance, causes bitterness.But isn’t coffee supposed to be bitter?If you look at market surveys, bitterness is the number one taste that people dislike the most in coffee. Also, bitterness tends to overpower the more subtle flavours, so by removing it you allow the more floral and fruity notes to shine.Related:Civet cat coffee: can world's most expensive brew be made sustainably?Did you get the idea from kopi luwak (the expensive and controversial Indonesian coffee made from cherries which have passed through the bowels of a civet)?Kopi luwak made me realise the potential of fermentation in coffee, but I thought there must be a better way to do it. We use a very controlled process, and we’re not just reducing bitterness, we’re bringing out new flavours, and removing some of the irritant chemicals as well. Caffeine, actually, is one of the irritants – we’re lowering the caffeine by about 15%.What’s next?With increased understanding of biology we can do things with microbes that we couldn’t before, so we’re looking at foods beyond just coffee. Fermentation could replace a lot of the artificial flavouring, a lot of the chemicals that have been used in the food industry for the last 40 years, and we can do it naturally and in a better way.Interview by KBTWO FUTURISTIC RECIPESFood writer, presenter and ‘gastronaut’ Stefan Gates has designed two exclusive recipes for the Observer, based around new ingredients. Bon appétit!Jellyfish salad timbaleTake a packet of salted jellyfish and soak in water for 3-4 hours to remove the salt. Then make a marinade/dressing from sesame oil, fish sauce, chilli, soy sauce, fresh lime juice and caster sugar. Cut the jellyfish into the shape of your timbale ring (a small cup will do just fine), and soak in the dressing while you prepare an assortment of sweet and savoury layers. Use your timbale ring/cup to make slices of roasted red peppers, mango slices, avocado slices, courgettes, roasted sweet potato and pineapple. Arrange them all into little towers, alternating between the different ingredients. Top with a sprig of coriander. Serve on bespoke 3D-printed tableware, such as this futuristic bowl and cutlery by Hobs Studio.Cricket noodle stir-fryHigh in protein, low in carbon emissions, insects are not only nutritious but get an environmental thumbs up, too. “It’s like the perfect storm of food in terms of ethical and health reasons,” says Stefan Gates, who believes insects will be mainstream rather than a novelty. “Freeze-dried ones, the ones we get in the UK, are not the culinary peak of the insect kingdom - they are a good fun, gimmicky start” he says, “we won’t be eating them like the lollipop [below], but there will be burgers.”A cricket, mealworm and chocolate lollipop, made by Stefan Gates. A more realistic recipe for cricket noodles is included below.Photograph: Rob White for the ObserverMake a sauce from grated ginger, chilli, soy sauce, sesame oil, garlic, lime juice and hoisin sauce. Cook noodles, drain, rinse and set aside. Stir-fry a large handful of crickets in hot oil until they brown. Set aside while you stir-fry chopped red peppers, courgettes, carrots, cashews and green beans. Add the noodles, sauce and crickets and toss to mix. Serve with coriander.SG
1How many social networks are you on?Three. Instagram, Pandora and Snapchat. The others are for old squares.Five. Twitter, Tumblr, Instagram, Facebook and Vine. Wait, is Tinder one too?Also five. LinkedIn, Pinterest, Twitter, Facebook and Google+. Definitely not Ashley Madison, honest.Just Facebook. Are there others? How ghastly.2When you share pictures, what do they tend be?Mirror selfies.Burgers, cocktails, holiday hotdog legs and smashed-avocado-on-toast brunches.Your kids or pets looking cute.Sunsets and gardens.3On which device do you most of your social networking?Your smartphone. It’s like an extra limb and you have a nervo if it’s out of reach or battery.Your laptop, which you whip out of your backpack any time you have a spare moment.Your tablet. Well, when you can wrestle it off your gaming kids.Your desktop computer, clearly. What else could you use?4What was the first social network you ever joined?Facebook. IKR? Maje cringeface.MySpace or Habbo Hotel.Faceparty or Bebo.Does the local Rotary Club count?5How many friends and followers do you have?HundredsThousandsYou’ve got no idea (or so you pretend).Mind your own business. Oh, you mean on social media? God knows. How do you find out?6Which celebrities do you keep up with on social media?Tay-Tay Swift, Justin Bieber and 1D.Kimye, Beyonce and the Beckhams.Nigella, Russell Brand and Barack Obama.Stephen Fry, Jeremy Clarkson and your local MP.7Do you use emojis?Duh, totes obv. Most of your social media posts are made up entirely of hearts, fistbumps and yellow cry-faces.You flirt and sext with aubergines and kisses, plus are partial to the nail-painting one and the smiley poo.The odd smiley face or dancing flamenco lady, but only ironically.Emojis... are they those Cuban cocktails?8What do you deem to be “oversharing” on social media?Nothing really.Sexy or icky health stuff. Anything else is fair game.Every meal, run or night out. Better to save it for the envy-inducing ones.Everything. You wish people would stop showing off.9What do LOL, bae and #onfleek mean?LOL srsly?Laugh out loud, babe and on point.Laugh out loud, which you try never to use. Either baby or babe, you’ve never been sure. You’ve made that third one up.Lots of love. No idea on the others. Speak properly, for pity’s sake.10What do you tend to share, forward and retweet?Hot pix of bare hench baes or clothes/shoes you’re lusting after.LOLZ, memes and ROFLs, plus the odd bit of self-promotion.Worthy political causes or broadsheet columns that chime with your worldview.Inspirational quotes on pretty backgrounds.
Twenty years ago this month, a French-born Iranian-American computer programmer named Pierre Omidyar added an experimental online auction section to his personal website, which at that time focused mainly on the Ebola virus. He called it AuctionWeb because it enabled people to bid to purchase items that other people were advertising for sale. One of the earliest, and most puzzling, sales on the site was of a broken laser pointer, which went for $14.83.The story goesthat Omidyar wrote to the buyer asking if he understood that the laser pointer was broken. The guy replied that he was a collector of broken laser pointers. At this point, Omidyar realised he might be on to something.He was: he called it eBay. The idea that one could use the web as a way of putting buyers and sellers in touch with one another was not new. But up to then that affordance of the technology had been seen mainly in the context of firms. It was the basis, for example, for the early and rapid growth of so-called B2B (business-to-business) sites. The critical twist that Omidyar added was that the same technology could work for ordinary people. And so he created what turned out to be the greatest car boot sale in the history of the world.Related:20 years of eBay and all I got was a sweetcorn-shaped tea setBut now, with the 20-20 vision of hindsight, we can see that he did much more than that. In the first place, eBay played a significant role in persuading millions of people who were ignorant of, or indifferent to, cyberspace that there might actually be something in this internet thing.I saw that happen in my own family. My elderly mother-in-law was a technophobe from central casting. She thought that mobile phones were weird and could not understand why I kept going on about “this internet thing”. In desperation one day, I thought of showing her eBay. I logged in, and knowing that she was passionately interested in pottery and porcelain, clicked on some auctions in that area of the site. In an instant she was transfixed: she might not have been interested in technology, but boy, was she interested in porcelain. Suddenly, for her, the internet made sense. It was transformed in her mind from an obsession of her geeky son-in-law into something that would be useful to normal human beings. And in that respect, she was simply treading the same path as hundreds of millions of other people.The second transformation brought about by eBay was that of enabling millions of small traders to sell online. Before eBay, getting into “e-commerce” was a pretty daunting and expensive business – way beyond the reach of sole traders and mom-and-pop businesses. But with eBay anyone could sell (almost) anything online, either via an auction or (later) via conventional “buy it now” arrangements. eBay provided the infrastructure and took much of the hassle out of online trading.Before eBay, getting into “e-commerce” was a pretty daunting and expensive businessIn order to succeed, eBay had to solve what many people thought would prove an insuperable obstacle to online auctions – namely how to introduce an element of trustworthiness into transactions between people who don’t know one another and lack any independent means of verifying whether a potential trading partner is reliable. The solution was to ask buyers and sellers to rate one another and to make those ratings public. As a solution it was not, of course, perfect – because people could, and did, try to game the system. But it has turned out to be good enough for most purposes and is now ubiquitous in online trading systems.But perhaps the most significant thing about eBay was that it was the prototype for what may turn out to be the most disruptive business model enabled by digital technology – that of the online “platform”. Most economic activity in the real world involves matching buyers with sellers, and before the internet this was mostly achieved by conventional markets in which prices determined the point at which the match was made. But as we know to our cost, and as theNobel prize-winningeconomist Alvin Roth points out in a fascinating book,Who Gets What and Why, markets can be imperfect or downright dysfunctional and are sometimes inappropriate ways of coordinating supply and demand (for example, in matching organ donors with transplant patients).Ebay showed how digital technology could supplant a functioning but small-scale and inadequate market mechanism (the car boot sale) with a more efficient and larger-scale way of matching people who had stuff to sell with those who might be interested in buying it. In that sense, it turned out to be a forerunner of platform-based enterprises such as Uber andAirbnbwhich exist to make similar kinds of matches. The only difference is that whereas eBay was disrupting a diffused and low-rent system, its imitators are taking on tougher opposition. But if you want to see their debt to eBay, just take a ride on Uber. You get to rate the driver; but s/he also gets to rateyou! And that’s pure eBay.
You’ve just published a book about robots. When did your love of them begin?I don’t remember not loving robots. During my childhood, there were so many amazing sci-fi stories on TV, fromBattlestar Galacticato Buck Rogers, plusStar Warsat the cinema. I was into robots aesthetically.Blade Runnermade me get into them sartorially too. Then in my teens, I studied [mythologist] Joseph Campbell’s theories about heroes and applied them toThe Bionic Woman(laughs). I turned that into a religion called Bionic Love and wrote a fanzine about it.And you became a trans-humanist?By the 90s, I was living in San Francisco at the height of the cyberpunk movement and through a friend, discovered the work of [feminist scientist] Donna Haraway, who wrote A Cyborg Manifesto. That was my introduction to trans-humanism and the idea that bionic people might not be such a far-off possibility. I’m excited by the opportunities that tech gives us to transform our capabilities. The ways AI can be applied to improve or extend human life. Nanotechnology, too. It’s all fascinating – and, of course, a little scary.How did you come to adopt your stage name [her real name is Ana Lynch]?For Halloween ’95, I was planning to dress as a robot, obviously, and was describing the movements I was going to make to my room-mate, Michael. I said: “I’ll be doing the robot and moving in a really animatronic way.” As soon as the word came out of my mouth, we looked at each other and said: “Oh my God, Ana Matronic!” It stuck and 20 years later it’s just my name. It’s who I am.Scissor Sisters: I Don’t Feel Like Dancin’Did you also get your robo-tattoo around then?My bionic arm, yes. From the right shoulder almost to my elbow, there’s circuitry, hydraulics, wires and gears. It started as a tribute toThe Bionic Womanbut has gradually incorporated aspects of many of my favourite robots, like C-3PO and Maria fromMetropolis.So would you like to own a robot or be one?Both! Well, I’d love to be a cyborg and have bionic legs – a little bit longer than my current ones (laughs). There are stunning advancements being made. Next year is theCybathlon, the first sporting event for athletes using exoskeletons and performance-enhancing prosthetics.What’s your favourite piece of music tech?Definitely the Roland TR-808 drum machine. Nowadays digital emulators allow you to get the 808 or 303 sound without the drift that happens with analogue sequencers, but the 808 is iconic.What’s your own favourite gadget?My Apple laptop. It has a solid state drive, HDMI capability and Ableton software, which all enables me to make music, run entire live shows and DJ. Ableton is idiot-proof, stays scrumptiously on-beat and makes playing disco even more fun.Do you use emojis?Yes, but sparingly. The one I use most is an emoji that I invented myself (laughs, feigns a curtsey), thank you very much. It’s a smiley face with a witch’s hat on it. There was no happy witch on the emoji keyboard so I made my own.Ana Matronic on stage with Jake Shears in a Scissor Sisters gig, in London in 2006.Photograph: Dave Hogan/GettyHave phones become a problem at gigs?Yeah, and I hate it. It’s insulting to the performer when people won’t get off their phone. On the last Scissor Sisters tour, we had one song where I’d ask everyone to put their devices away. People were really into it and I got lots of positive feedback. We get so caught up with preserving moments that we forget to be in them.What social media do you use?Twitter and Instagram pretty much daily. Facebook is too scary. I’m not into Zuckerberg and his privacy policies. The conspiracy theorist in me is like: “Who are you selling my information to? I will not be a statistic, dammit.” But it’s a great way stay in contact with friends, so I get FOMO [fear of missing out]. It’s a trade-off.What’s the most expensive gadget you own?Our Wolf range. It cooks everything perfectly. My husband [lighting designer Seth Kirby] and I also have a CNC router – a highly precise, computer-controlled cutting machine. That’s big and fancy. It comes with an air compressor as tall as I am.Have you tried Google Glass?You mean insta-douche? (Laughs) No, but I really enjoyed theDeep Dreamimage generator. So cool.What gadget would you like to see invented?A luggage droid. A suitcase that could carry itself, follow me upstairs and hand me clothes when I ask for them, all pressed and nice.If you could time travel, where would you go?Back to 1938, when Benny Goodman played Carnegie Hall. Or 1983 to seeSiouxsie &amp; the Bansheesplay the Royal Albert Hall on Halloween.Benny Goodman at Carnegie Hall, 1938.Robot Takeover by Ana Matronic is published by Cassell Illustrated, £14.99, www.octopusbooks.co.ukClick hereto buy a copy for £11.99
In the BMW museum at the company’s solidly futuristic headquarters, next to the old Olympic stadium site in Munich, you can view a century of evolving mechanical desire. BMW has long prided itself in creating “ultimate driving machines” and all that Bavarian engineering pride is dramatised in the decade-by-decade progression of engines that harness ever more efficient power in steel, and car bodies that have moved with the ergonomic times. Each sequence of cars on show leaves a gap at one end, ready to showcase the next generation of technical advancement. Over the past century, innovation has smoothly followed innovation; it is likely, however, that the next stage will be a paradigm shift rather than a marginal gain. The next empty space, or the one after, is likely to be filled by the ultimate driverless machine.The person leading BMW’s prototype efforts to make that car a reality, Michael Aeberhard, does not want to see it in those terms. As he takes me for a drive in what seems a regular 5 Series, he is at pains to suggest that the new model now in gestation is simply another improved iteration of what has gone before.Related:Vorsprung durch technik: US tech giants v Germany in the driverless car raceWhen we reach the autobahn on the way to the airport, however, and he presses a button near the gear stick, the change feels a little more revolutionary than that. Aeberhard takes his hands from the steering wheel, and, Herbie-like, the car takes on a sudden, apparently joyous, life of its own. It shifts lanes in dense traffic – a lorry slightly alarmingly close to my passenger window – and accelerates up to its optimum speed of 120kph.The interior of a BMW ‘highly automated’ research vehicle.Photograph: PRAeberhard lets it go through the gears, confident, after five years of refining this minor miracle through simulator and test track, that the car knows precisely what it is doing. And for the next half hour we sit back and enjoy the ride.Or at least I do. Aeberhard remains alert for the unexpected: roadworks, lane alterations, emergency vehicles, whatever. When any of these are on the horizon the car signals its approaching confusion and he returns his hands to the wheel and takes over. He does this seamlessly three or four times, in a spirit that suggests his close knowledge of the limitations of what he calls the “highly automated driving project” and in a way that seems to prefigure a new kind of relationship between driver and car – one of mutual co-operation rather than continuous control.Are you a better driver than a computer?In contrast to some other autonomous projects, the BMW car does not have conspicuous sensors and radar bolted on to its exterior. “The idea at the very beginning was that we wanted the car to look like a normal 5 Series,” Aeberhard says. “Unless you know where you are looking, it is difficult to spot the 12 sensors.” Most are repurposed versions of technology already available. The radar sensor in the front bumper is the same one that currently enables “active cruise control”. The camera system is similar to the lane departure cameras already in use (though the software allows it to recognise speed limit signs as well as lanes). Lasers are in the bodywork near road level; there are, as a result, also only four, as opposed to 64 in some versions of the roof-mounted technology, because they “see” more laterally than downward.The on-board computer systems in a semi-autonomous BMW.Photograph: PRBMW is limiting its driverless ambitions to the autobahn (except for a valet parking innovation it recently demonstrated that will allow you to leave a car at the entrance to a car park and happily allow it to find its own space). They have, for the moment, “no real interest in junctions and turning”, Aeberhard says. The key challenge in mostly straight-line driving is simply speed. “Getting from 130kph down to zero with a good amount of braking still takes 80 to 100 metres so you have to have detection with your sensor at least to that range very reliably,” he says. “That is near the limit of what the sensors can do at this speed. But still it is quite successful… ”I turn over that word “quite” in my head momentarily and scan the speeding traffic ahead. “How far can it ‘see’?” I wonder. “Between 150 to 200 metres to the front,” Eberhardt says, “And to the rear and the side 50 to 60 metres.” “How does that compare with human perception?”“Oh,” he says cheerfully, “human perception is way better. We have a plan to put a black wall at that distance on the simulator 150 metres away and see how that really feels. But if there is an incident ahead the braking distance is good enough…”“But only just?”Aeberhard looks ahead calmly.“Have they had any crashes?”“None at all,” he says.There is something appropriate in test driving this particular car on these particular roads because it was here that the idea of autonomous driving had its authentic Eureka moment. Almost 30 years ago a German engineer, Ernst Dickmanns, working out of Munich University in association with Daimler-Benz, piloted a project called the “Programme for a European Traffic of Highest Efficiency and Unprecedented Safety” (or “Prometheus”).Dickmanns and his team incorporated several dozen “transputers” into a car, pioneering the first man-made three-dimensional mobile vision system. By 1995 they were able to have their car drive autonomously 95% of a 1,700km trip from Munich to Odense in Denmark and back. On the autobahn, the system achieved speeds of 175kph. The car was, however, perhaps 20 years ahead of its time. The level of computing power required made the prototype too expensive and cumbersome for commercial production.It is 2040. Which company will sell more cars?Two decades and many technological advances later, and almost every large car manufacturer is pursuing a version of Dickmann’s idea. There is, Aeberhard suggests – as we bomb along the autobahn – not that much sharing of technology between manufacturers, beyond some limited European-wide initiatives. Each manufacturer is trying to find its own way of creating autonomy, while mindful of going too far too fast. Toyota, for example, has learned lessons from its experience in 2005, when it introduced the world’s first self-parking car; far from being greeted as a game-changing advance, it was mostly criticised for being over-engineered as well as expensive, and was not widely copied.Volvo has made many advances in incorporating automated safety systems, with its stated ambition of achieving “no accidents involving Volvo cars by 2020”. But so far this is mainly with an emphasis on keeping the driver alert. For example, if a car crosses a lane line without the driver using an indicator signal, the dashboard flashes the image of a steaming coffee cup and the words “time for a break”. If it is still drivers that cause accidents, we would like to believe it is also careful drivers that prevent them.The promotional video for Google’s ‘bubble car’.The concept of driverless vehicles is even more complicated for companies such as Mercedes and BMW which sell cars on the basis that people will love the experience of driving them. As Aeberhard suggests, BMW has put a great deal of its design effort into making hands-free feel like a natural driving experience. “The reality of the world is that a lot of driving we do is not fun driving. It is driving to work in traffic. Even so, we want it to feel as it should feel if they were driving it themselves. Or like maybe a chauffeur is driving. A very comfortable do-not-disturb type of driving.”This is the second time in a few months that I have experienced a version of this much advertised future. On the first occasion, near its Mountain View headquarters in California, I ventured out in one ofGoogle’s remodelled Lexus cars, and then around a test track in itshomegrown bubble carjust before it was allowed on the road. The experience could hardly have been more of a contrast. Google is attempting autonomy in city driving, a challenge, as Aeberhard acknowledges, at a different order of magnitude from what BMW and most of the rest are aiming for. Never shy of hubris, Google wants not only to reinvent the car but to replace the whole idea of driving. In some ways this is primarily a mapping challenge. The BMW mapping system is comparatively basic – a mix of GPS and sensory observation of lane markings and other vehicles; the map itself of the routes it follows in Munich hasn’t been updated in two years.“One thing we have noticed about maps,” Aeberhard says, “is that the more detailed they are, the more the world they describe is constantly changing. The sensors themselves are getting better. The better the sensors get, the less you need the map.”Would you consider buying a driverless car?Google, which of course loves its cartography skills, is trying something altogether more sophisticated. Its system, aiming at full autonomy, not only has to take account of traffic but of every eventuality on a city road.Dmitri Dolgov is the systems engineer responsible for imagining and interpreting this landscape: “We continuously get better at classifying things and predicting how they will behave,” he explained. “If you have a cyclist coming towards you the wrong way in a cycle lane for example. Or if a car in front is about to make a U-turn as opposed to a normal turn, the system can now recognise slight changes in behaviour. We don’t have to worry about birds, they will avoid us. We do have to worry about the likelihood of people opening doors from parked cars. We can predict when someone is going to run a red light. When cyclists do it. Then there is a long tail of very weird events…”Related:New self-driving Google car smaller and even less reliant on human assistanceGoogle has a dedicated group of employees, as part of the project, whose job is to put the bubble car into the most unusual situations it can conjure up to prove it does the right thing. They spend days tossing beach balls in front of the prototype, or letting scooters loose, and seeing what happens.Some intuitive behaviour is still well beyond it. At four-way junctions, which in American suburban streets rely on eye contact between drivers and a system of edging forward, the car can become paralysed.In general – in the somewhat jerky drive I enjoyed – it is exceedingly cautious, in a driving culture where excessive caution creates its own difficulties. Theaccidents the Google car has hadhave almost all been when it has been rear-ended by other vehicles when it was following the letter of highway law perhaps too closely, or stopping too abruptly. It behaves a little like a nervy learner driver. “The real problem is that the car is too safe,” Donald Norman, director of the design lab at the University of California, San Diego, who studies autonomous vehicles, has observed. “They have to learn to be aggressive in the right amount, and the right amount depends on the culture.”There is a kind of ambitious genius in what Google is aiming for – and of course the implications, positive and negative, are debatable – but the spirit of it seems to go against the grain of what people are ready for. I asked a couple of the biggest brains at Mountain View what would happen if kids realised that a fun game would be strolling out into the road in front of Google cars, which of course have no choice but to stop in their tracks. They hadn’t apparently considered the possibility.Related:Documents confirm Apple is building self-driving car“We want to fundamentally change the world with this,” Sergey Brin, the co-founder of Google, likes to say, with the authority of somebody who has already achieved that particular ambition at least once. It’s likely, however, that in this instance, the world is not quite ready for that change. Certainly that would seem to be the sceptical message of the attitude survey inTech Monthly. The wariness displayed about the new technology is the kind of understanding that the marketing people at BMW – and at Toyota and Mercedes and Volvo and the rest – know only too well. Too much revolution alienates their customers. Google’s blank sheet of paper approach betrays the advantages and disadvantages of not having made cars for 100 years already. It remains to be seen if Apple, which is reportedly also building a self-driving car and has been scouting for secure locations in the San Francisco Bay area to test it, will attempt something equally ambitious, but it would be a surprise if it did not. And as such there is a stark divergence between what the tech giants believe is possible with autonomy and what traditional car-makers think can be achieved.Much of this comes down to a schism over understanding how people adopt the new, new thing. Google has, as a core belief, the messianic attitude that human behaviour is redeemable by the universal application of its technology.In this sense, Chris Urmson, affable head of Google’s car project, believes that some choices are too important to be left to individuals. At Mountain View he reeled off statistics about fatalities on the roads – “worldwide 1.2 million people are killed each year. In the US alone 33,000 people are killed, the equivalent of a 737 falling out of the sky five days a week. We make incremental progress but we accept it as the status quo” – before going on to question the pitch of traditional car-makers: “Driving in adverts is made to took like fun, but really driving is actually mundane, or hoping to get to a meeting on time. Traffic is getting worse. Doing basic maths, the average commute is 50 minutes a day. That’s six billion collective minutes a day, 162 lifetimes wasted in America alone…”As a result, Google works on the basis that an all-or-nothing solution is the only solution. People and their errors need eventually to be removed from making bad choices behind steering wheels. Cars should be another element of our lives that rely on the data.Should there be age restrictions on autonomous cars?“We don’t think it will work incrementally,” Urmson says. His reasoning is that Google has taken a step that BMW, for example, has not yet attempted. They have put real people – that is to say, general Google employees rather than people intimately involved in the driverless project – behind the wheel of their cars. In 2013, they gave 100 people driver-assisted cars – with a capability similar to the BMW 5 Series prototype - to use in this way, let them go out on the public road and drive home.“They loved it,” Urmson says. “It was transformational. People weren’t using their energy in the car, so they had more for other activities. One woman said that when she got home, she ran every evening and unlike before – when she had been tired from the commute – she cooked every day. We had another guy who drives a Porsche normally. To begin with he thought the self-driving idea was stupid, he loves driving, but after a few days he came back and said: ‘I get it. Most of my driving sucks. It drives better than me and it certainly drives better than anyone else…’”A Google self-driving prototype negotiates the streets of Washinton DC in 2012.Photograph: Karen Bleier/AFP/Getty ImagesSo far so good. But then Google set up cameras and looked at what people were actually doing in the cars while they were being driven on the freeway. Urmson was frankly alarmed; far from approaching the experiment with trepidation and due vigilance, as I had watched Aeberhard doing on the autobahn, the human drivers were almost immediately putting their faith in the robotics of the car: “We saw that despite being told this was a prototype, despite moving at high speed on the freeway, they were over-trusting it. We had a guy who was sitting in the front seat, he pulls out his phone charger from the back seat, then turns back again for his laptop sets it up on the seat, and does all this without looking out the windshield. The whole time the thing has been moving fast down the freeway. He believed in the technology enough that he just trusted it. And as these things get more capable we think that faith will only grow. That really worries us. That is why it is extremely tough to get from incremental improvement to full self-driving.”As a result, Google does not believe the half-way house solutions of the European and Asian car manufacturers will be workable. It puts its faith in full scale revolution (which is the only way of avoiding the kinds of four-way junction paralysis that the current prototype experience; if there were only autonomous cars on the road there would be no need for a nod and a wink about right of way. The cars would “talk” to each other.) Will driving therefore become another aspect of life colonised by the ubiquitous data-collectors of Silicon Valley? For all Google’s (and Apple’s) resources, you guess, in the foreseeable future at least, it will not.Aeberhard and his colleagues at BMW think like car salesmen, not systems engineers; he believes that incremental solutions are the only solutions, and therefore, implicitly that driver behaviour will adapt to driverless parameters in the same way as previous generations of BMW owners have taken on new technology down the years. He knocks down some of the reservations that buyers might have, the kinds of reservations explicit in our survey, one by one. “Anxieties about how people will accept this are not new in the automobile industry,” he says.“We have always had new technology. Take the air bag, for example. They had to sell the idea that a potential explosion in front of the driver was a good thing. There are cases where an air bag can injure a driver, but such accidents are so infrequent and the safety benefits so clear that we have eventually accepted the research and the value of air bags. I think automated driving will go down a similar path. It is a step-by-step introduction. It is not going to be all of a sudden you buy an automated car.”In a driverless car, which issue would most concern you?How about the question of insurance liability. If the car is “driving” itself, how can the driver be at fault in an accident?“I don’t think it will be too long before we have a black box in the car like you have in planes so that if something does happen you will be able to find out from the data where the fault lay,” he says. “I think the law in Nevada already requires that data in partially automatic cars.”Related:Hackers can trick self-driving cars into taking evasive actionAnd what about the worries about hacking. Couldn’t an automated highway could also be a prime target for cyberterrorism? (At one technology conference a pair of hackers made headlines by showing how, by sending commands from their laptop, they’d been able to make a Toyota Prius sound its horn, and brake abruptly at eighty miles an hour.) “Hacking is a concern for any technology company,” Aeberhard says. “In BMWs, to get access to the systems that control the steering wheel and so on, you have to have physical access to the car. You need to be physically attached to the wires and then you need to know the protocols for the system to do anything, and still then it is very hard to get the car into a state where it is responsive. In automated cars there will be further layers of security.”Does that kind of imperative mean a culture change at the car manufacturer; are they thinking more of robotics and less of mechanics? “Yes, I suppose there is a change happening in our culture in that it is becoming more software oriented,” he says. “A lot of the people we are hiring, you are looking for a systems background rather than a mechanical engineering background.” As Aeberhard speaks – his eyes always on the road, though his hands are not on the steering wheel – the car that is driving us seems to go up a gear and finds a gap in the traffic up ahead. It feels like an instinctive move that a real driver would make. Is that actually what has happened?“It think that is more by chance that it looks that way,” he says. “The car just wanted to get up to its speed of 120kph. The odd thing is that the car is usually doing something much simpler than the thing you think it is doing. Complex human behavioural decision making is very hard to programme into the machine. We do that manoeuvre without thinking because our brains have an insane amount of experience and knowledge that they can convert into instinctive choices. A robot is not good at this. But it has other advantages. The sensors never get tired, they never get distracted, they always work at the same level.”How soon does he think those qualities will be available to buy from a BMW catalogue?“We think sometime after 2020 we will be ready for the first highly automated function, which means that the driver will be actually able to do something other than monitor the system – read emails, call somebody, check the news, whatever. But even in this mode, there are situations when the car knows it will reach its limit. Then it will tell the driver, with 15 or 20 second warning: sorry you need to take over.”At which point you can only hope that the driver is awake, and sober, and remembers exactly how to drive.
