As he stood up to boast of his latest creation, Palm founder Jeff Hawkins had no doubts about its bright future. "Foleo represents a whole new product direction both for Palm and for mobile computing," he enthused ahead of the device's launch in May. "In my opinion, the Foleo is going to be most successful and the most significant product that Palm has done."A month on, Ed Colligan, president and chief executive of Palm, was still keen to back up Hawkins's grand vision. Foleo represented "the dawning of another major design era of mobile computing", Colligan told analysts, even though he admitted that initial sales were likely to be slow. Worries about Foleo's future then set in. By the start of this month, instead of being shipped to stores, the Foleo project had been cancelled.To observers it was yet another example of Palm struggling, as it has for years, to regain the lead it once held as the world's premier maker of handheld (or "palmtop") computers.Shrinking sharePalm's problems are twofold. First, the handheld market is shrinking - IDC, the global market analyst, says sales of personal digital assistants (PDAs), defined as those without phone capabilities, shrank 40% in the first quarter of this year compared to 2006. Of all the 900,000 units sold, about a third were Palm machines. Furthermore, Palm has no coherent path for its operating system, which Colligan admits can't handle voice and data simultaneously.  The BlackBerry has become the byword for mobile email, while Palm has had to rely on Microsoft to buoy its sales, licensing the Windows Mobile operating system last year for some of its Treo range.So where did Palm lose its way? The Foleo was meant to be the start of a revival: Palm presented it as a companion for a smartphone, giving the user a device with a full-sized keyboard and larger display, primarily to make reading and typing emails easier."The size looked good," says Ian Fogg, research director at Jupiter Research. "But it was a little heavy and, at five hours, didn't have good enough battery life. It was not sufficiently ahead of a laptop."According to Colligan, who penned a letter to developers and potential customers onPalm's blog, it was not features or a lacklustre reception from analysts but a lack of resources that sunk the Foleo. To make the device, Palm had bought in Linux software and tools from specialist supplier Wind River -  even though Palm engineers were also working on an in-house Linux platform."The thing that stood out for me was they they were steering themselves down a completely different development track: Foleo, and their own smartphone software platform," said Tony Cripps, senior analyst at Ovum.The problem for Palm is that Palm OS5, the software behind its PDAs and many of its smartphones, is running out of steam. Colligan admitted to analysts in April: "It is not possible to do a simultaneous voice and data product on Palm. We need ... to modernise the underlying core of that platform."With PDA sales slowing, smartphone sales matter: they were 80% of revenue in the financial year ended in June, compared to 69% in 2005-06. But overall revenues fell 3%. If the smartphones don't work, Palm is in deep trouble.The bulk of Palm's software development spending is thus now aimed squarely at revamping Palm OS5 to work on a Linux core. But even that may be slipping: though earlier Colligan said that would appear in 2008, Palm this week told the Guardian "it will be 12 to 18 months" before a Linux Palm appears.Fogg argues that Palm has a lot on its plate: "[Putting Linux on its phones] is not just long, complex and expensive, it is also high risk." The Foleo foul-up will cost Palm about $10m, Colligan admitted; but Palm isn't short of money. This week it formally sold a 25% stake for $325m to the private equity company Elevation Partners.  It will gain Jon Rubenstein, formerly head of Apple's iPod division, as executive chairman, who will work with Hawkins on new designs.But will it be enough? Delays could be critical to the future of Palm OS in a market where larger handset suppliers such as Motorola already have Linux-based offerings. However Palm has an alternative to Palm OS that, from the company's perspective, is a runaway bestseller. Palm licensed Windows Mobile from Microsoft and put it into a range of phones that only started shipping early last year. Colligan told analysts recently that sales had risen so far and fast that almost half of Palm's smartphone shipments used Microsoft's product. Late last year Palm committed to buying 1m licences a year from Microsoft for 2007 and 2008; in the past year, Palm shipped close to 3m smartphone handsets. Absent Linux, Windows "remains a key part of our strategy", Palm says.Below market averageWindows Mobile may provide Palm with a way to expand in Europe the market for its phones with built-in Qwerty keypads.  "Even in Europe there is an opportunity for Qwerty designs," says Roberta Cozza, principal analyst for Gartner. As well as the BlackBerry, sales of phones using Windows Mobile with Qwerty keypads are growing, Cozza notes.But Palm is losing ground, and needs new designs to improve its position in a business which many handset suppliers now want to be in: "The market grew 45% but Palm, with Treo, quarter after quarter it has not increased share," added Cozza. "Palm is stuck at 3% and its growth is below the market average, whereas competitors like Rim [which makes the BlackBerry] and Nokia are increasing share."Palm's own plan may, like the Foleo, be more of a distraction from the path it should be taking, argues Neil Mawston, associate director at Strategy Analytics: "Personally, I think Palm would be better following the Microsoft route or perhaps adopting Symbian, and then concentrating on application software and services, which is where they are weak now."The risk for Palm is that the company might end up put all its focus into owning a shiny new software infrastructure for its handsets, but lack the resources and attention to build the services that customers want.A short history of Palm1992Incorporated as Palm Computing1994Palm licenses OS from Kadak for about $4,000 and no royalties.1995Bought by US Robotics1996Sells first handheld (left)1997USR bought by 3Com19993Com decides to sell Palm2000Palm IPO; 3Com later distributes remaining Palm shares to 3Com stockholders2001PalmSource formed; inAugustbuys assets of Be, creator of BeOS.2002OctoberPalm OS5 ships. PalmSource talks about Palm OS6, expected in mid-2003.2003 OctoberPalm buys Handspring, maker of the Treo (below). Palm buys source code licence to Palm OS from PalmSource for $6m.2004PalmSource buys China MobileSoft.2005Palm buys PalmSource's 55% share of Palm Trademark Holding Co for $30m over 3.5 years. InSeptemberPalmSource is bought by ACCESS Systems.2006Palm spends $44m on "perpetual, royalty-free" licence for Garnet from ACCESS, with rights to "innovate on Garnet code base", plus patent licence for all future Palm products.2007FebruaryACCESS releases Linux Platform PD.AprilEd Colligan reveals Linux plan.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The Australian government's National Filter Scheme, an A$84.8m (&pound;34.4m) initiative promoting the use of censorware in that country, recently suffered a collision with reality when a teenagerreportedlyimmediately cracked some offered PC software. Although some media reports made it sound as if the government itself had developed the censorware, those millions simply represented roughly a country-wide site licence for several commercial censorware products.There's a similarity here to the  difficulties concerning enforcing  digital restrictions on music or movies. If someone has access to a computer, they can try to disable whatever software is attempting to interfere with their ability to use the machine. And one person's discovery of a solution may then quickly be used by others.It's important to understand that the word "filtering" can lead people to misframe the issues. Talk of "filters" brings up mental images of getting rid of bad substances or toxic material, whereas what is really under discussion is control of people. Calling it "censorware" has the advantage of clarity.While it was an appealing David v Goliath storyline to have an underdog defeating the weight of government repression, the full situation is considerably more tawdry. Many weaknesses of censorware havelong been known. But governments end up giving money to these companies for the political benefits of being able to Do Something About The Problem (no matter the flaws). The censorware companies receive what are in effect subsidies, and the government gets a set of talking points in return. Neither wants to be burdened with living up to their promises.One danger is that such embarrassments affecting local PC programs will add impetus to factions within the Australian government who want to mandate that ISPs censor net connections nationwide.And we're certainly seeing how censorship can be a slippery slope. The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) blacklist of websites covers child pornography, bestiality, excessive violence or sexual violence, detailed instruction in crime, violence or drug use. As part of its overall NetAlert plan, Australia is having the ACMA and police investigate having this blacklist "include for example terrorism and cybercrime sites upon prescription by the Attorney-General" (minister.dcita.gov.au). Some politicians have even proposed adding pro-anorexia sites to the blacklist, due to their supposed deleterious promotion of eating disorders. Since such blacklists are secret, sites could be added without any public discussion, and attempts to expose the blacklist are often a dangerous legal risk.Inversely, any attempt at effectively keeping people from reading prohibited sites must perforce ban not only those sites themselves, but a whole range of useful third-party service sites that allow readers to obtain censored web pages through that other site. Such sites include those devoted to protecting privacy and anonymity, language translators, even testing various technical web page coding standards (sethf.com).Furthermore, software developed with the idea of helping citizens in dictatorships to get material about democracy and human rights works just as well, perhaps even better, in helping anyone who is seeking sexual material (and arguably the latter group is more motivated and certainly it's more numerous). In fact, the focus on social networks which is part of thePsiphon anti-censorship projectmakes it a perfect fit for a group of teens where even one member has an uncensored connection.We're seeing another experiment in finding out if the internet can indeed be censored. This will play out for many years with many governments. People cannot simply proclaim that information they favour will be freely available while that they disfavour can be forbidden. The technical methods of control are independent of the social values regarding which content is to be suppressed. This is a problem of public policy that will not go away.sethf.com/infothought/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
An obscure casualty of the change of prime ministers over the summer was a plan for improving public services with the help of electronic mapping. Under the government-wide programme to transform public services through IT, a geographic information strategy for the UK was due to be published by July. But it has not yet appeared - and no publication date has yet been set.Apart from the prime ministerial changeover, there is another reason for the delay: unhappiness that one organisation, Ordnance Survey, is both the government's official adviser on geographical information and the main beneficiary of contracts to supply it. It's roughly akin to Microsoft being appointed official adviser on government software purchasing.Conflicts over Ordnance Survey's role have featured regularly in Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, which argues that the agency's core geographical data should be made freely available to the knowledge economy. Such a proposal, however, is unlikely to feature in the Locations Strategy For The UK, a final draft of which is understood to be in the hands of Vanessa Lawrence, chair of the government's Geographic Information Panel - and also OS's director-general.Ironically, geographic information was originally seen as the least contentious element of Tony Blair's "transformational government" scheme. Nearly everyone agrees that electronic mapping is an important tool for public services. Local councils and NHS organisations have installed geographical information systems to plan future demand for services; police forces to identify crime hot spots. The strategy aims to guide new initiatives to make the most of the technology.A private consultancy completed work on the strategy last December. Since then, drafts have been circulating in an approvals process described as lengthy and opaque. Earlier this year, the Association for Geographic Information, an academic body, called for "more timely publication" of minutes of panel meetings. However, minutes of the panel's June meeting have yet to appear on itswebsite. Insiders say a final draft of the strategy will go to ministers at OS's parent body, the Communities and Local Government Department, in the next few weeks.The department may be losing patience. In parliament last week,Parmjit Dhanda, the junior local government minister, said his department is already pressing ahead with a contract to procure geographic information to be placed by April, as a replacement for a pan-government agreement which collapsed last year when 12 of the contract's 13 lots failed to attract a single compliant bid - including from OS. The potential for embarrassment is likely to move the topic of geographic information - once the preserve of a few bearded specialists - well up the political agenda.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You know what to expect with Tiger. He shows up, thumps the opposition and leaves, and the game doesn't change much either. 08 is a bit better than 07, there are more named pros to play with, extra tournaments and the return of the old three-click swing - which works as well as ever, but does feel a bit dated in this age of analogue controllers. It looks great too, with sweeping courses and 23 reasonable player likenesses. You could argue that with so many onscreen meters and displays that the old tranquillity of golf games has gone for good. However, as a feature-packed update of a rather soulless franchise, that's Tiger down to a tee, really.
We're under attack. Our civilisation is being colonised by an alien species intent on destroying our planet and, in the meantime, our sanity.Evidence of this invasion is almost certainly only a few feet away, at your nearest power socket. Odds-on it'll be occupied by a little black box, possibly feeding a trickle of current into some half-forgotten electronic gizmo, possibly doing nothing but gently heating the surrounding air.And driving you crackers. Because a law of the universe - presumably linkable by some undiscovered grand unification theory to Moore's law - holds that the number of transformers a modern home or office requires will exceed the number of mains sockets available.At home, the answer is either to daisy-chain plugboards until your living room looks like it was designed by Spinal Tap's roadie, or engage in a furtive power-snatching game with family or housemates. As this involves sneaking around in the small hours to make sure your phone and laptop get their juice, it is not a recipe for domestic bliss.On holiday, things spiral out of control. This summer, the Cross family borrowed a seaside apartment belonging to some modish friends. Every mains socket was infected with a black box, feeding lamps, telephones or mysterious gadgets we didn't dare disconnect. To this we added two mobile phones, two laptops, a DVD player and digital camera. Each with its own little black box. Then a near-teen nephew and niece dropped by with their digital essentials.Playing musical plugs during our stay was bad enough, but the real horror was packing to go home, matching chargers and USB cables to devices, with little apart from memory to help.Parent: "Well what did the charger look like?" Seven-year-old: "It was black, I think."Assuming that there are good electrotechnical (or, more likely, design) reasons for gizmos to have separate black-box transformers and rectifiers, here are a couple of suggestions for fighting the plague. How about vendor-neutral standards indicated by clear colour codes to show we may safely plug a gizmo into another manufacturer's charger?The lack of compatability is perverse - our holiday inventory included two Sony Vaios with non-matching power supplies. At the least, standards would cut the clutter we carry around. At best, they might eventually lead to fewer black boxes entering the ecosystem as responsible Guardian readers start telling sales assistants: "Don't bother with the transformer or the carrier bag, thanks."Perhaps that's asking for the moon, with chocolate sauce. In the meantime, is it too much to ask manufacturers to identify their own transformers, preferably in lurid colours? Or has the black box plague infected their collective brain?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The race to capture the richest piece of real estate on the planet - the screen on your mobile phone - is about to start in earnest. Apple has fired the latest shot to claim this space from manufacturers and operators with its iPhone. Soon it will be joined by Google, which will launch if not a phone, then customised specifications for a range of mobiles. Yahoo! and Microsoft are preparing their plans to prevent Google from using the leverage of its search pre-eminence to gain pole position in the potentially lucrative mobile market.Everything is to play for. Wireless is a European fiefdom where America's divine right to dominate new technology has been challenged. Europe boasts the biggest manufacturer (Nokia), the most successful smartphone operating system (Symbian) the biggest Bluetooth companies, the biggest mobile browser (Opera), the biggest operator, Vodafone (at least until recently) and the biggest web telephony company, Skype (now owned by eBay).The mobile space seems tailor-made for Google's offerings. They include Gmail, YouTube, news, documents, search, maps and above all, location-based services where Google Earth will link up with the satellite positioning chips starting to be included in mobile phones. Google will be able to push ads to you based not only on who you are - which it knows more about than MI5 -  but exactly where you are, including local news, services, jobs etc, all based on its intimate knowledge of you.This is a truly mass market. Do the arithmetic. Google makes $11bn (&pound;5.4bn) in advertising from computers, of which there are only about 260m shipped each year. More than 1bn mobiles will be sold this year and the market is growing fast. It is an advertiser's dream come true. Targeting personalised ads to users of mobiles has a laser-like efficiency - as long as there is no consumer resistance to commercialisation as in the early days of the web. Google, unlike Apple, is unlikely to give exclusive rights to one operator since that would create a trigger for rival mobile operators such as Microsoft and Yahoo! (which is ahead of Google in mobile usability) a chance to gang up with rival providers. Google wants to be universal.It must, however, navigate carefully in a world where mobile operators are still trying to protect their own walled gardens of revenue. But the way the mobile web is going, that model is unsustainable. Imagine if your broadband provider fixed everything to ensure that you only used its own walled garden of services. It would soon go out of business. Consumers want an open web where they can get access to anything they want.If Google does deals with operators, leaving them to charge exorbitantly for data that Google provides, then the mobile web will be strangled in its infancy. Google is commendably committed to net neutrality but has to play it carefully with operators - at least until wireless networks such as Wi-Fi or WiMax start to bypass the operators entirely.When this happens then it is not impossible that Google, which has been investing in Wi-Fi networks in the US and which has its own little-used Google Talk facility (a free wireless telephone service waiting for a network), could become a huge telecoms company in its own right.Google is developing its own operating system (as Apple has done), but with Symbian, Microsoft and Linux also in the field there will be an embarrassment of choice - and potential problems for inter-operability. Google is likely to make its operating system open to outside applications, but an interesting question is whether Google will allow you to switch easily to, say, Yahoo!'s search engine, or whether you will be locked into a monopolistic provider. How would that square with the company's motto: "Don't be evil"?vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Substance over styleA point not raised in Guy Clapperton's article is the look of many of these aids and adaptations (Elderly get to grips with gadgets, September 6). Baths, showers, rails, raised toilet seats, handrails: what is provided for disabled people is clunky. Stylish adaptations seem to be an oxymoron. Please ask some designers to come up with some new attractive examples: put yourself into the shoes of those you are prescribing for and ask yourself "would I like this?".Jane Nation,LondonSwitch on for nothingA box set of DVDs doesn't set the price of a single downloaded episode (How much should we pay to download a TV episode? September 6) because it isn't available while the show is running, and so can't be used to fill a missed episode. The price for a single episode of a series, without any limit on replays, is defined by the cost of recording it on a VCR and is essentially zero.Adrian Godwin,BedfordUnobtainable gadgetI'm no technophobe, but I am lazy and the Polaroid Media gadget that automatically backs up photos sounded worth a look (Gadgets, September 6). First off, though, your link was hopeless (if Boots sells it, it couldn't sell it to me). A wider search revealed that it doesn't actually work on computers that aren't running Windows. Now what sort of review is that? Hopeless.Peter Cox,CardiffAxis of evilIt is OK to suppress the origin, and it is OK to use a logarithmic scale (so long as clearly so marked) but is not OK to just leave bits out, as in the y-axis of your graph of Marks &amp; Spencer web shoppers. (Siteseeing, September 6).Don Simpson,RochdaleApologies; the (linear) y-axis should have read 0.0, 0.2, 0.4 ... Tech. EdWhose jewels are they?The problem is whether and how the crown chooses to assert its copyright (Take the jewels from the crown, September 6). What you are campaigning for is not inherently a copyright issue. The issue is really the terms under which the government chooses to make data it has collected available. Your argument is that the public has paid for its collection, therefore it is public property and the public should have free access to it. It's an attractive argument. The counter-argument is that it's a commercially exploitable resource, so why shouldn't it be exploited for the benefit of the government and the taxpayer? That, too, is an attractive argument.Robert Ward,LeedsRetune your thinkingGetting a TV known to be stolen is not entirely analogous to downloading music illegally (Dave Stewart, Letters, August 30). Lumping the two together used to be a common argument by the Federation Against Copyright Theft. However, digital music costs nothing to reproduce so the seller loses no stock, only hypothetical sales.Darrell Whitehead,WirralToo complexForcing ever more complex security measures on to consumers is a strategy to prevent financial companies having to take responsibility for fraud (Technobile, August 30). Banks have consistently refused to accept that their security can be breached and routinely blame customers even if their equipment malfunctions. The more hoops customers have to jump through to get access to their own money, the easier it is for banks and card issuers to blame them if something goes wrong.Don Keller,London&middot;Surely the plan was to make online banking more secure without making it more difficult? Providing millions of customers with additional hardware strikes me as counter-productive.Jonathan Craymer,Peterborough
As a naturally paranoid person, I should not sign up for something that involves stalking and assassinating. I have trouble enough playing survival horror games in the dark. Really, I shouldn't be involved in a three-week campaign that pits citizen against citizen in a Battle Royale-style fight to the death. Others who are more stable than I am, however, might enjoy Street Wars, the 24/7 city-wide watergun fight that's already taken place in New York, Los Angeles, London, Vienna and Paris.Unfortunately, I appear to have accidentally signed up in the name of journalistic curiosity and now I live in mortal terror, afraid to leave my house without checking through the letterbox for any potential assassins on my doorstep. I've invested in a small water-based arsenal. I've become the master of disguise.Seriously, if you thought Nasty Nick had lost the plot by the time he was booted off the first series of Big Brother, I'm halfway to Bedlam now. The moral of the story is that computer games do not prepare you for the real-life equivalent of a first-person shooter and I am most definitely not James Bond.That the bullets are drops of water and my killer is one of 100 people in the Brighton and Hove network on Facebook doesn't soothe my sense of abject fear. Sure, I can stalk my prey with impunity; a virtual envelope was pushed through my inbox on September 1 with my target's name, address and mugshot. I'm currently working on a cunning plan to infiltrate his local corner shop and attack him with a well-timed squirt to the head when he comes to pay for his king-sized Rizlas.But that's no comfort - my killer has the same information about me. He or she could turn up on my doorstep with a bunch of flowers, pretending to be the Interflora delivery guy and aim a Super Soaker between my eyes. And who's that nice little old lady trying to cross the street? That's no lady! Those aren't saddle bags! They're water bombs! Oh dear, oh dear.My only defence is to trust no one: my partner, my mother, the guy in the corner shop who sells me milk. He's shifty, I tell you. I can see the gleam of water in his eyes. So I've taken to walking around with a fully-loaded pair of high-end water guns in my joke-shop holsters, just in case I'm targeted during a moment when I've thrown caution to the wind and have left my house to get provisions. I'll get them before they get me. Oh yes I will. And when they're all gone, I'll be safe. Until then, I will remain ever-vigilant with my trusty six-shooter and a two-litre water bottle by my side.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Heavenly Sword may look like a basic hack 'n' slash title, but give it a chance and you'll find yourself immersed in a world reminiscent of Ico's beauty. Playing as the red-haired Nariko, you begin a quest of vengeance against King Bohan, who has destroyed your clan in an attempt to capture the Heavenly Sword - a weapon of immense power. With amazingly detailed cutscenes that highlight emotion through impressive facial animations and motion capture, you're guided through an engaging story, controlling the action by button-bashing or through skilled use of stances and fighting combos. Taking advantage of the PS3's abilities, it offers quirky levels such as guiding arrows in flight. Put together, these features lead to a satisfying but short gameplay experience. It could have more depth by testing the brain as well as the fingers, but these minor shortfalls are forgivable. Sony hopes Heavenly Sword will be the PS3's killer title, and rightly so.
Disco-dancing Rolly showSony's Rolly is a sort of cross between an egg-shaped robot and a mini-boom box. The SEP-10BT Sound Entertainment Player is available only in Japan.rolly-show.comOne per UK child?PC World has launched a range of Advent notebook PCs "specifically designed for - and by - kids".pcworld.co.ukEcologically PCFujitsu Siemens has announced a Green Edition Scaleo PC aimed at consumers. Available next month from &pound;350.fujitsu-siemens.co.ukNews: innovations wantedThe Knight Foundation has launched a global $5m Digital Journalism challenge. There's a Young Creators category worth $500,000 for under 25s.newschallenge.orgyoungcreatorsaward.comWong addressesMister Wong, which reckons it is Europe's biggest social bookmarking site, is now available in English.mister-wong.comBalls of Fury!Zoo Digital says it is "unleashing" a Nintendo Wii and DS game about a "secret underground ping-pong society" on October 26. It's based on a movie.zoodigitalpublishing.comSony A700 comingSony says it will ship its new 12 megapixel A-700 digital SLR camera in mid October.sony.co.ukShopfronts from a fiver1&amp;1 Internet is offering an eShop e-commerce package with eBay integration. Prices start at &pound;4.99 plus VAT per month.order.1and1.co.uk
You can't move for driving games on the Xbox 360, but Stuntman Ignition is worth the diversion. This is a frenetic and moreishly addictive romp that lands just the right side of challenging. As a budding stuntman, players need to drive their way through an increasingly clever number of scenes before completing the shoot. Typically this will involve driving through fire, going over ramps, speeding between two oncoming vehicles, drifting round corners or pulling handbrake turns. Mess up five times and the scene is over. Crucially, you can restart instantly, allowing players easily to get back and work on those scores. And the replay value is key. Aiming for a five-star rating by pulling off an improved stunt on a previously completed shoot is hugely entertaining. The stop-start nature of the game - you'll constantly be restarting to get that perfect score - will be offputting for some. While the graphics are solid rather than spectacular, Stuntman Ignition is an unexpectedly enjoyable treat.
The Financial Timesreports(subscription required) that Nintendo's Wii has now outsold Microsoft's Xbox 360 - racking up more than 9 million sales against 8.9m for the Xbox 360. (Sony's PlayStation 3? 3.7m, it's claimed.)The report is based on sales figures from Enterbrain in Japan, NPD Group in the US and GfK of Germany, which tracks European sales. Sales figures from each console's launch date through the end of July (and the end of August in Japan) were added up, with the Wii just barely edging out the 360: 9 million for the Wii, 8.9 million for the 360, and 3.7 million for the PlayStation 3.What's remarkable is that (a) the Wii hasn't been out for a year yet (b) it's still not reached equity on the supply-demand side.Of course, it does depend on who you listen to.Nexgenwarssays that the Wii is still behind, at 10.7m vs 11.4m for the Xbox360 (and 4.5m for the PS3).On the other hand,VGChartz.computs the Wii well ahead - 11.45m vs 10.89m (PS3 4.57m). Thehardware comparison page, showing the growth of sales, is very impressive - even if it's overstating the sales of the Wii, the takeoff is incredible, at about twice the rate of the other two. On that basis, had all three launched at the same time, the Wii would have 50% of the market.Wepredicted that this was on the way in July, saying it would happen "within a few months". This is ahead of that schedule, though.All of which is intriguing, but - what does it mean for games?
Microsoft is offering students a copy of Office 2007 Ultimate Edition for $60 athttp://theultimatesteal.com/, according to Nathan Weinberg on theInside Microsoftblog. This is less than the price Microsoft charges its own staff, who can buy Ultimate for $75 from the company store.The blog says: "This special offer for students only represents a $620 discount off the retail price of $680, a 91% savings."However, it's not such a big discount compared to many US university prices. Weinberg points out that campus prices can range from $66 (Office Standard at the City University of New York) to $109 (Office Enterprise at Northern Illinois University), or thereabouts.UK home users and students can, of course, get Office 2007 for less than £30, as long as there are three of you. The Microsoft Office 2007 Home and Student Edition costs£89.98 at Amazon.co.uk, and that's for a 3 User Licence. The lowest price on Amazon is £77.95.Australiahas done a similar cheap "student special", but has anyone seen one in the UK?Update: Ahem, at the really-hard-to-findwww.ultimatesteal.co.uk
Very deeply, because it's only by guarding it jealously and parcelling it up and then selling it to someone else that they can make any money. Why, did you think that hosting websites with millions of users was something they did for fun? Not at all - there are hefty hosting bills to pay but, more importantly, big profits potentially to be made.Thus this season's poster child for social networking, Facebook,announced on its blogthat in a few weeks, it will make parts of its 40 million users' details, such as their names and pictures, available to the major search engines - Google, Yahoo! and MSN Live - and so visible to anyone online.Why? Simple: money. Facebook can sell you, and the rest of the 60 million users it anticipates it will have by the end of this year to the companies that buy advertising space. "We honestly believe if we make advertising more compelling and more socially relevant, we can have significantly less but have it being more valuable,"said Chamath Palihapitiya, vice-president of product marketing and operations in London this week. "We have an incredible number of page views and could become the most high-traffic sites in the world. The thing is not to have as many ads as possible but to make them as essential and necessary as possible. And then it is not viewed as advertising, but as content."Quite how many people will tweak their Facebook profiles to keep them hidden from the search engines' eyes remains to be seen - but its founder Mark Zuckerberg has done well so far on people being prepared to be found by would-be (or real) friends. Now, all the advertisers in the world will want to be your best friends forever too.But a raw example of quite how much - or little - your data matters to some sites came last week when people began getting emails, apparently from friends, inviting them to join Quechup, a rapidly growing social networking site.The reason for its growth soon became clear: when people signed up it would grab their emails and send out invites in their names, but without their explicit permission. Nine of the top 10 Google searches for "quechup" now include people complaining of this. The company has not posted any retraction, but does seem to have stopped the practice.Meanwhile, itsprivacy policystates that during online registration it "gathers email, gender, date of birth, country, post code/zip code and marital status. This information is used to allow us to provide services and features that most likely meet your needs ..."Perhaps it should have mentioned that the feature it thought you'd find most useful was your friends, encouraged to join via spam. Well, how else do you build a network?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
My holiday reading was Claire Tomalin's excellent biography of Thomas Hardy, bought on impulse during a recent visit to Hardy's ancestral home in Bockhampton, about three miles out of Dorchester. My reasons for reading it were a mixture of idle interest in Hardy's "Wessex", a love of his novels, and a definite curiosity about his marriages - especially his first, to Emma, which began with such ardour and delight, was carried on despite the opposition of their families, but which ended in bitterness and alienation.I give my reasons lest you think I am so one-dimensional as to scan the indexes of books for references to cycling before I will read them. Believe me, it was entirely a surprise to learn that Emma and Thomas took to bicycles with a will in 1895 and 1896 respectively, when they were both in their mid-50s. "I have almost forgotten that there is such a pursuit as literature in the arduous study of - bicycling! - which my wife is making me learn to keep her company, she doing it rather well," Hardy wrote to a friend. He soon acquired "the loveliest 'Byke'", a Rover Cobb, and would easily manage 40 or 50 miles a day - once riding, in 1899, from Dorchester to Southampton to watch troops embarking for South Africa to fight in the Boer war.Hardy made that trip alone, for that was the year Emma withdrew from the main bedroom in their Dorchester home, Max Gate, and set up her boudoir in the attic; it was the definitive event in their estrangement, which lasted until her death in 1912. Cycling, it seems, was one of the last things the couple succeeded in doing together. At least, that is Tomalin's cheerful assessment of their "camaraderie and shared enjoyment [in bicycling], because it is difficult to keep up a quarrel or a sulk as you pedal along country roads".I wish I could agree, but my impression - experience, sometimes - is that sulks and quarrels between couples and family members in general can be kept up for miles. To be able to go at the same speed, in harmony and with mutual pleasure, is a rare gift. Often, one person can be seen irritably stamping forward on the pedals while a resentful other dawdles behind, going deliberately slower than necessary either to avoid the company of the first, or in an attempt to manipulate the other into having to stop and wait. Camaraderie if you're lucky, but marital and familial cycling expeditions are as likely to be fraught with strife as fun.What worked for the Hardys may have been that, for a while, it was something that Emma, who had by then lost even her limited role as Thomas's literary amanuensis, could teach him. Cycling with your beloved is a challenge more emotional than physical, one that mirrors the fundamental dilemma for all partnerships: how to be in tandem but distinct, self-determining yet travelling as one. Figure out how to ride together and my guess is that you will also know how to be happy together. Sadly, Thomas and Emma went their separate ways.
A view of Sun's strategy fromArs TechnicaA great many years of my life in computer journalism were spent listening to Sun's long-time chief executive Scott McNealy launchingverbal attackson Microsoft while his business was beingeaten aliveby Linux and Intel. McNealy finally didsign a 10-year deal with Microsoftin 2004, as he was on the way out of the door. However, it still comes as a bit of a shock that his successor, Jonathan Schwartz, has now signed up tosell Windows.The Microsoftpress releasebills the deal as an expansion of their strategic alliance. Other parts of the agreement include:Sun and Microsoft will work together to ensure that Solaris runs well as a guest on Microsoft virtualization technologies and that Windows Server runs well as a guest in Sun's virtualization technologies.Sun and Microsoft will continue to collaborate to advance the worldwide deployment of the Microsoft Mediaroom IPTV and multimedia platform on Sun server and storage systems.Microsoft and Sun will build an Interoperability Center on Microsoft's Redmond campus. The center will include a demonstration area for Sun x64 systems, act as a working lab for Windows on Sun benchmarks and sales tools, and support customers running proofs of concept for projects focused on Windows on Sun x64 systems, including joint Sun/Microsoft solutions in areas such as databases, e-mail and messaging, virtualization, and Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) support in Sun Ray thin clients.Clearly the deal means much more to Sun than it does to Microsoft. "One hundred percent of Sun's customers use both Solaris and Windows," says Sun Executive Vice-President John Fowler inBusiness Week. Sunneedsinteroperability, though it comes with some risk. "For example, it could make it easier for customers to migrate jobs now done on Sun gear to cheaper Windows alternatives," says BusinessWeek.Sun selling Windows Server could also give Microsoft a small boost in the server market, where, contrary to the Linux hype, it is not doing too badly. Bear in mind that Windows started with exactly 0% of the server market, and onthe latest Gartner numbers, Windows has just gained another two percentage points to 67.1%.Update: Fake Steve Jobs has revealed"the truth", which is that the Sun deal with the new Borg (Microsoft) is part of a plan to get Sun taken over by the Original Borg (IBM). MLP aka My Little Pony (Schwartz) writes:"So how do we bring them back to the table? This is where the Borg comes in. There is only one thing that IBM cares about and that's the Borg. They've spent the past fifteen years serving as a private patron for any initiative that could cause grief to the Borg. Java, ODF, Open Office, Linux. They're a bit, shall we say, myopic about this. Like, obsessed.... We make it clear to IBM that we don't want to do this, that it's very distasteful to us but we have no choice, and that if they were to buy us we would, of course, shut down the Windows server program."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
This is quite funny. The European version of massively successful Korean MMORPGMapleStoryis holding its own online version of the famed Oktoberfest event where players will be faced by over-refreshed monsters, possibly wearing Lederhosen. As the press release explains:To take part in the event - which is open to everyone and can be participated in once a day for the duration of the promotion - players must deliver a hidden sample of 'malt' to MapleStory Europe's ever present event-NPC Charles. Doing so rewards them with entry to an exciting new beer tent map, where they can enjoy a traditional, hearty German atmosphere of ale, sausages and lederhosen. By completing special objectives within the beer tent, such as fighting off a horde of red-faced, staggering monsters, players can win themselves special Oktoberfest themed items such a German sausage-shaped hat and power boosting mugs of (non-alcoholic!) beer. Players are also encouraged to collect empty beer glasses dropped by monsters, which in turn can be exchanged for special stat-enhancing food items.This is apparently only the latest in a series of Euro-cultural tie-ins which have also featured Bastille day and, judging by references in the press release to 'giant Spanish tomato' monsters, La Tomatina festival in Buñol. It's certainly a neat way to localise and culturally contextualise the RPG content. But why the rather disingenuous stress on 'non-alcoholic beer' in the Ockotberfest release? Come on, you can't reference the biggest piss-up on the European calendar and then get all politically correct on the fine details.But then, drunkness is quite rare in videogames. Of course several beat-'em-ups feature characters that employ Zui Quan - or drunken fist - techniques, notably Shun Di from Virtua Fighter and Brad Wong from DoA 3 and 4. Then there's Conker's Bad Fur Day from Rare in which the lead character's alcohol intake is a key element of the action. Monkey Island, too, is awash with grog abuse and drunken animals. Oh and in both GUN and Dead Rising you can drink wine to restore health.Any others? What are your favourite examples of videogame intoxication?
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday September 19 2007The standfirst above said IvanAnywhere was devised by Ivan Bowman. Although Mr Bowman uses the robot, it was constructed by his colleague Ian McHardy, as the article made clear.Ivan Bowman spends his days as a programmer at iAnywhere Solutions in Waterloo, Ontario, in much the same way his colleagues do. He writes code, exchanges notes in other developers' offices, attends meetings and hangs out in the kitchen over coffee. About the only thing he can't do is drink the coffee - or touch anything, for that matter. It's not that Bowman doesn't have hands or a mouth; they're just in Halifax, Nova Scotia, along with the rest of his body, about 840 miles (1,350km) away. In fact, it's not really Bowman in the Waterloo office at all. It's IvanAnywhere, a robot Bowman uses to interact with his colleagues in Waterloo from his home office."Robot" is a bit of a stretch, actually. IvanAnywhere is basically a coat rack on wheels with attached speakers, camera and touchscreen computer which displays a live shot of Bowman's face from his living room in Nova Scotia.DoppelgangerBut in the three months since IvanAnywhere went online, he has become such a normal part of the third floor at iAnywhere that co-workers barely even notice they're talking to a machine. "We are all so used to Ivan, they don't even give it a second thought," says Glenn Paulley, Bowman's boss and the originator of the IvanAnywhere idea.When Bowman has a question for a colleague, he doesn't pick up the phone; he uses his joystick to drive his doppelganger to the team member's office. If Paulley needs Bowman's time on a software issue, he calls IvanAnywhere to his office, just as he would with any other employee.For his part, Bowman uses IvanAnywhere to take part in meetings, even giving presentations with the help of a projector. Every once in a while, he'll motor to the floor's lounge area to look out the window and chat with passersby, much as he would if he were in Waterloo.Bowman has worked for the Canadian database software company since 1993. Five years ago, when his wife got a job in Halifax, his employers allowed him to follow her east and telecommute. But although Bowman could type out code as well there as he could in Waterloo, he was missing out on the personal give-and-take essential to the flow of ideas. "We were, and we still operate really as, a small software development team where a lot of the collaboration happens face-to-face," Paulley says. "When it comes to coming up with an idea, we're almost always in each other's offices."IvanAnywhere emerged through a sort of digital evolution. At first, Bowman tried participating in meetings via speakerphone, but suffered from the inability to see his colleagues or what they were scribbling on the whiteboard. Colleagues set up a webcam with a speaker, which they kept in a corner of the office most of the day; it proved to be just as frustrating for Bowman."I could hear people in the kitchen talking about something, and occasionally I would have something I wanted to add to that, and not being there in person, I couldn't do anything. I had to wait for them to come over to the desk." The solution to the restraints of telecommuting - and Ivan's genesis - began as a whimsical conversation Paulley had with programmer Ian McHardy two years ago after seeing a television ad for a remote-control toy blimp."My first thought to Ian was, 'Wouldn't it be cool if we could string a webcam to the bottom of a blimp, and Ivan would be able to float wherever he wanted,' " Paulley says. Everyone had a good laugh. And then McHardy pointed out that while a blimp would leak and crash into things, a robot might suit the task.Over the following months, the programmers would bring up the robot idea again when Bowman's absence was causing difficulties. Eventually, Paulley and McHardy began seriously considering whether it would work. Finally, McHardy, who toys with radio-controlled vehicles as a hobby, mounted a webcam, screen and speakers on a radio-controlled truck last winter, creating the first IvanAnywhere prototype.The model racer didn't turn out to be an appropriate base: it was too short and accelerated too quickly. "The thing would, like, take off like a bat out of hell," Paulley says. But the prototype proved that a robot could be controlled remotely via the internet with an ordinary webcam for vision.McHardy spent some time over the next few months researching "telepresence", the academic term for systems that allow people to feel as if they are in a remote location. He read about other telepresence projects, such as robots designed at the University of Toronto for hospitalised schoolchildren to  attend classes virtually (ryerson.ca/pebbles) and a French-made touchscreen on wheels that serves as a robot tour guide (laas.fr, PDF).Battery-poweredMcHardy found a mobile base with wheels and 24-volt motors sold by SuperDroid Robots, a US-based company. He placed a cardboard box on top containing enough batteries to power the robot for the working day (they need daily recharging), and the wires and gadgetry needed to convert digital instructions to analogue controls. Infrared proximity sensors are meant to prevent the machine from hitting the walls - although Ivan does still crash into a door frame now and then.A simple aluminum bar almost two metres high sticks up from the base, with the webcam, screen and speakers wrapped on below. McHardy's only concession to aesthetics is a grey foam ball stuck on the robot's top. Paulley's screen, voice and controls all work via Wi-Fi connectivity to the internet.And in the "flesh"? Being charitable, IvanAnywhere is far more impressive technically than visually. With his exposed wires, masking tape and plastic ties IvanAnywhere makes Robby, the robot from Forbidden Planet, look like Optimus Prime. But Paulley points out that IvanAnywhere is a strictly utilitarian creation: "The goal is not to make Ivan look like the haunted robot that walks and talks," he says. "The idea is to give Ivan a physical presence in the building."The robot's coming-out party came at a co-worker's anniversary celebration in late May. Some iAnywhere employees who had not been privy to IvanAnywhere's development were shocked to find a computer-on-a-stick hobnobbing with the guests."There were a few people who thought this was just freaky," Paulley says. "They were a little taken aback and didn't quite believe themselves that this was actually Ivan, and he was actually there." But as more people heard about the robot on Paulley's team, the third floor became a stop on building tours. The city mayor, university president and local MP have all visited to chat with Bowman.Overlooked chargesLike the other employees on the floor, IvanAnywhere has his own office of sorts, a notch behind a cubicle with some batteries and a sign reminding the last person in the office to plug the robot in to recharge it before leaving - which they have forgotten at least once. "I was wandering the halls at night looking for somebody to plug me in," Bowman says.IvanAnywhere has never left the building, but there's no reason why he can't travel; the robot can work anywhere with wireless internet access. Bowman says he would like to attend the next barbecue at Paulley's house, although the team has yet to devise a way for him to be able to eat hot dogs remotely.Meanwhile, other telecommuting employees at iAnywhere, a subsidiary of Sybase, have expressed interest in getting their own robots, Paulley says. In the future, iAnywhere may look less like a software company and more like an episode of Futurama.&#183;This article first appeared in The Record newspaper, Waterloo&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"In the annals of perks enjoyed by America's corporate executives, the founders of Google may have set a new standard: an uncrowded, federally managed runway for theirprivate jetthat is only a few minutes' drive from their offices," reportsThe New York Times.For $1.3 million a year, Larry Page and Sergey Brin get to park their customized wide-body Boeing 767-200, as well as two other jets used by top Google executives, on Moffett Field, an airport run by NASA that is generally closed to private aircraft.Take-offs and landings may well upset the local community. Most personal jets tend to be a bit smaller than awide-body Boeing 767-200.
This morning an invitation toanotherApple press conference has plopped into my inbox - but this time it looks like it's the one we've been waiting for.Tuesday, we are led to believe, is iPhone day (the invite, somewhat bizarrely, says "Mum's no longer the word").Some of the details have been widely circulated already - the operator in the UK is expected to be O2, for example. But we're still not entirely sure of some crucial factors such as price. Given the £199 cost of theiPod touchand last week's iPhone USprice cut, it will be interesting to see where Apple and O2 pitch the handset for the UK and Europe (especially considering that the iPhone has now, officially,unlocked).Our sources say the launch was expected to be this week - hence the arrival of news from Vodafone about itsown rival service- but that instead of a launch by O2 at the former Millennium Dome (nowthe O2, of course), Apple decided to take control of the launch itself.More details as we uncover them...Update:A source has mailed me to say that the operator announcements (already not exactly secret) aren't likely to happen on Tuesday. "There may well be an Apple thing next Tuesday but that is to announce its Euro stuff... The UK operator is slated to be announced on the 24th". That might indicate that we're just going to get some sort of launch date confirmed.
Having been used to Nokia, I am fed up with the convoluted text writing software on my new Motorola V360 mobile phone.Pinky LondonYou could try installing a text editor that runs under Java. One example isTextEditor. However, read the comments before you install it: there are complaints about it taking minutes to load and crashing some phones. Another isJPE, written for the Nokia Communicator. Perhaps a reader has a better idea ...
When I tried to print an automatic receipt from a website, it would only save on my desktop as an XPS file (I am running Windows Vista). When I was using Firefox, tabs began to open automatically, and it got to 245 tabs open before I could close Firefox. With Internet Explorer, it simply printed as usual.Frank DownsXPS is Microsoft's XML Paper Specification, which is part of Windows Vista and can be downloaded for XP. It replaces the Enhanced Metafile Format (EMF), which has its roots in Windows 3 (1990). XPS is royalty-free, and the published specification has been submitted to ECMA (TC46) as an open standard, so I expect it to be widely supported in printers and other software. An open source version is being developed athttp://www.ndesk.org/XpsDouble-clicking an XPS file should open it in Internet Explorer using Vista's Viewer, but Firefox doesn't understand XPS yet. Aworkaroundis to install the IETab extension in Firefox and open it that way.
Recently when using several external drives, they renamed themselves. Drive F: became Drive I: and so on. Since I keep some of my software on these external drives, the programs became inaccessible without reinstalling.M A HarronYou could try using the Disk Management snap-in, which you might be able to find in the Windows XP control panel under Performance and Maintenance. If not, go to Start, select Run and type (or paste in)diskmgmt.mscto run the utility. See the Microsoft Knowledge Base article307844for further instructions.You could also consider buying aMicrosoft Home Server, when the software becomes available. This takes a random collection of external drives and converts them into a single storage pool without drive letters.
I have a lovely Samsung full HD TV plus a Sony home theatre/DVD system. The problem is that the Sony doesn't have an optical audio-in connection, only a DMPort digital media port. Frankly, I think that's a bit rubbish, but persevere I must. Can I connect an Xbox 360 to the DMPort so I can get 5.1 sound?Ian BellThe DMPort is Sony's new proprietary connector, and Sony offers a number of optional accessories to connect other items. There seem to be at least four, including TDM-NW1 (£35 to connect a Sony Walkman MP3 player), and TDM-iP1 (£70 for an iPod dock). This is a horrible lock-in strategy, and I reckon your chances of getting an Xbox 360 connector are close to zero. However, Sony home cinema products generally have a back crammed with connection ports, so there may be another way. Can any readers who have managed it please let us know how it's done?
A colleague forwarded an email that says: "There is a Search Engine called Blackle that saves thousands of watts of energy. It offers the same service as Google but has a black background instead of a white one -- hence the saving of energy." That can't be correct??Terry RichterGoogle says: "We applaud the spirit of the idea, but our own analysis as well as that of others shows that making the Google homepage black will not reduce energy consumption. To the contrary, on flat-panel monitors (already estimated to be 75% of the market), displaying black may actually increase energy usage." Seegoogleblog.blogspot.com.Incidentally, Blackle is not owned by or otherwise related to Google. As it says on its home page (blackle.com), it just uses Google Custom Search.
What is tinyurl.com?John LodgeTinyURLis a free look-up and redirection service. If you paste in a very long internet address, TinyURL stores it and provides you with a much shorter link that you can email to someone else, or post on a blog, or whatever. We use them to save space.
In the past 4 weeks, 10 of my friends have announced that they're pregnant. It's an epidemic. Something's in the water. It must be that age.Hearty congratulations is, of course, due. Three cheers to all you springtime bunnies! You've done the easy bit - now you've got a few decisions to make. First, names. Next, colour schemes. Then (arguably the most important) which will be the little ankle biter's first game.In this modern era of media panic, you may feel as if this should be the last thing on your mind. In comes the little nipper, out goes the Xbox. But we all know that games are brilliant, that they providequality entertainmentandpositive learning experiencesto people at all ages, within the boundaries of Age Ratings etc. etc. And so, how do you make the crucial transition from Gamer to Gaming Parent? Greg hada few things to sayabout his own gaming time when he had his first, and Keith'smentioned itone or two times since the arrive of his own first bundle of joy. Clearly, the onus has been on the expectations of the parents, and the over-use of the pause button.Yet over onGame Girl Advance, bowler's thinking about how to introduce his daughter to her new favourite pastime. A new twist on an old story. So here is a selection of links for those with one in the proverbial oven. Let's hope they make the most important decision of you're forthcoming child's life a little bit easier.GamerDadoffers loads of information and advice on gaming with kids and gaming for parents. theParent Gaming wiki is a user-generated review site for games on every console. It's sparse, sure, but offers a good, comprehensive list of platforms and their titles For a first-person perspective of being the odd-gamer out in the hyper-concerned parent tribe, check out this editorial fromthe EscapistHere'sa guide to RPGsfor parents, anXbox Live guide, a parent's guide toonline games, the ESRB ratings (viaPBS),PEGI'sratings,ELSPA's age ratings examples2Old2Playhas a great piece (also linkedhere) on the impact of being a gaming parentSeveralexamplesofbaby gaming fashion
Wii may be outselling the PS3 but Playstation is still seen as a "cooler" brand than Nintendo. Or so says the latest CoolBrands survey. Chosen by 2000 members of the public and the slightly sinister sounding CoolBrands council, the survey chose Aston Martin as the coolest brand in the UK. Playstation was number at six and Nintendo nine along with the likes of iPod (2) and Bang and Olufsen (4). Microsoft was not in the top 20. So, is Playstation "cooler" than Nintendo? Does it matter? The full top 20 is:1. Aston Martin 2. iPod 3. YouTube 4. Bang and Olufsen 5. Google 6. Playstation 7. Apple 8. Agent Provocateur 9. Nintendo 10. Virgin Atlantic 11. Ferrari 12. Ducati 13. eBay 14. Rolex 15. Tate Modern 16. Prada 17. Lamborghini 18. Green &amp; Blacks 19. iTunes 20. Amazon
For old folk like me, the downloadable games services offered by Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony have proved a heartening source of 2D shoot-'em-up action, both in terms of unearthed oldies and newcomers like the uniquitous Mutant Storm and Geometry Wars. The PlayStation Network version of Super Stardust brought back loads of memories of hardcore 16bit European shooters (let's have some more Housemarque classics, starting with The Reap), while Wii's Virtual Console is a who's who of classic brands sporting the likes of Xevious, R-Type and Gradius.Anyway, here's another in the newcomer category.HudsonandNatsumehave joined forces to produce Omega Five a 2D side-scroller, which looks to blend in elements of Defender, Contra et al. Launching on Xbox Live in November, here's some data from the press release:Set in a futuristic world, Omega Five is a shooter that pushes the visuals to the limit for a digital download game. The game feature 3D environments, dazzling special effects, and massive battles, all in high definition. Omega Five is unique in that players can choose from multiple humanoid characters, each with their own unique special attacks and upgradeable weapons, which they can shoot in 360 degrees. Omega Five also includes a local co-op function in which a friend can join in on the aerial mayhem.The screens look rather lovely with some flashy lighting effects and great use of 3D backgrounds. It'll do until someone finally gets a Uridium or Mega Turrican update on Live or PSN.Any 2D shooter favesyou'dlike to see updated for the download generation?
The party's over at Netscape, and this once-mighty AOL property is preparing to dump the Digg-clone front page introduced by Jason Calacanislast June. A Social News Update on theNetscape blogsays:The Netscape social news experience that you are currently using today will be migrated and revealed soon athttp://www.propeller.com/. We're working hard behind the scenes to ensure a smooth transition before we officially launch at this new destination.I'm sure you are gasping with excitement to hear about yourexperiencebeingmigratedwith a smoothtransitionto a newdestination(the author doesn't sound like he's after a job writing gags for Saturday Night Live), but Propeller still seems to be dead. Was it just too much trouble to put up a welcome page saying "Watch this space, Propeller heads" or whatever?Whatever. I don't think I'll be taking this one for a spin....
While the US and Europe have succumbed to the 360's many charms the Japanese market has resisted the delights of rock-solid online gaming, space marine shooters and glossy sports titles. A few sales spikes here and there yes, but the 360 is consistently outsold every week by pretty much every other console, past and present, in Japan. So maybe Microsoft'sannouncementsahead of this week's Tokyo Game Show represent the last throw of an increasingly desperate die.Ninja Gaiden 2's exclusivity is probably the headline news. Lost Odyssey - the RPG from the team behind the oddly addictive Blue Dragon - was confirmed for a December release in Japan (2008 elsewhere). While Square Enix showed off two new titles - Infinite Undiscovery and The Last Remnant - both which sound like they were named after 70s prog rock LPs. And for those six Japanese 360 owners who don't like RPGs the October release of Beautiful Katamari will be good news.But perhaps the most interesting announcements were for Xbox Live Arcade, with Rez andIkarugacoming to the system.Rezis shooter/music thing inspired by abstract painter Kandinsky and often referenced in the hoary old "games as art" argument. Ikaruga is an old-school shoot-em-up that is likely to make anyone over 25 mourn their lost reflexes. Both should look fantastic in HD and along with Sensible Soccer - sadly seemingly delayed till the end of the year - and Speedball 2 will give a welcome boost to Live Arcade. But can they, and the RPG big hitters turn round the 360's fortunes in Japan? I doubt it.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Technology investors and entrepreneurs, long obsessed with connecting to teenagers and 20-somethings, are starting a host of new social networking sites aimed at baby boomers and graying computer users," saysThe New York Times.The sites have names like Eons, Rezoom, Multiply, Maya's Mom, Boomj, and Boomertown. They look like Facebook -- with wrinkles.In one way, it's just the same old demographics playing out: "there are 78 million boomers -- roughly three times the number of teenagers -- and most of them are Internet users who learned computer skills in the workplace."The now-aging baby boomers may also have lots more time, more disposable income, and are less impatient with their Web sites: they tend to stick around. What's not to love?
One of the serious historical pitfalls in the mobile games industry has been the lack of a standardised gaming environment across the spectrum of mobile phone technology. One solution - promoted transparently by Nokia - is to create a catch-all gaming platform that also happens to make phone calls. We all know how that turned out.Sony are also on the case, with a recently announced Sony Ericsson phone which will offer gaming and motion sensitive options. But notably, none of the mobile phone manufacturers have managed to grab the dominant position in the technology race. So another solution is to introduce gaming technologies onto an item which has already saturated the mainstream which isn't (yet) well-known for its mobile phone applications. And indeed, that is exactly what Apple hasrecently announcedit will do.Its new iPod Classic has a screen designed to display games. Egads - that enormous consumer base! The possibilities! Unsurprisingly, big name publishers like EA have already signed up to provide interactive entertainment for the device. Even more exciting, third parties will soon also be able to list their own software for sale on the proprietary, (oops) DRM'd iTunes.Could this be the revolution small-format gaming needs to push into the sights the traditional gamer base? Or will the non-traditional controls inhibit any kind of meaningful gaming experience? And what's more, will the presence of DRM cause the same problem mobile games witness now?
After listening to excited Future Publishing staff rave about this all day, I downloaded the CoD 4 multiplayer beta this evening and managed to get in a good hour of blasting. It's a perfectly tuned multiplayer FPS experience. Nothing massively unusual yet - the classes (sniper, infantry, heavy weapons, spec-ops etc) are familiar - but I've not evenbegunto explore the RPG-esque character customisation system that allows you to unlock new weapons and skills as you rank up.Game options are familiar too - the usual team and every-man-for-himself options abound. The lobby service is cut down to the basics - select your game type and the hunt for servers begins (you can also set up a private match). I was on and playing within a few seconds.Everywhere, in every element, the implementation is so slick. The maps I've seen take in burned out villages and battered industrial complexes, all riddled with passageways, sniper points and blind alleys. Apparently, you can shoot through walls (depending on the bullet-type and integral strength of the barrier), making those long camping sessions behind paper-thin plasterboard a thing of the past.Action is incredibly fast and frenetic - one or two shots and you're dead (then you're treated to a quick sequence showing the kill from the shooter's perspective). It feels like the tactics and severity of GRAW mixed in with the twitchy immediacy of Counter-Strike. Several sites have been eulogising the C4 system - basically plant it and doubletap 'fire', rather than having to use a separate remote control mechanism. There are nice little features, too, like the ability to earn radar time for airstrikes by getting three kills in a row without being fragged yourself.Just an exhilarating, super-smooth online experience.UPDATE:Just to make things a bit clearer, the beta is running on Xbox 360. In the UK, Gamespot is offering codes, but I suspect they're going to be over-subscribed. Check theofficial sitefor more info.
Compete has just published somestatisticscomparing Facebook with MySpace, saying: "Facebook has grown not only in member base, but also in member engagement, while MySpace has fallen dramatically on these same measures."That's true, of course: the red numbers show MySpace is not doing as well as it was.However, it's also true that MySpace is still miles ahead in terms of visitors, page views, and average stay. MySpace's lead in terms of "attention" is almost embarrassing: it scores 10.79% against Facebook's 1.67%.How long that will last is another matter. Social networking sites tend to rise and fall at some speed....
If you've ever been in a videogame shop - and if you're reading this I'll hazard a bet you have - you'll be familiar with the cliches. Cramped, intimidating, loaded with confusing advertising and proffering a unique lingering smell that combines notes of yesterday's burger wrappings with the arresting twang of adolescent body odour. Although you occasionally see elderly relatives rushing in and grabbing FIFA off the front shelf for little Johnny's birthday, the occupants are predominantly young and male.Well not anymore. At least not in America. And not in retail chain, Gamestop. The New York Times hasposted an interviewwith Daniel A. DeMatteo, the store's vice chairman and chief operating officer who claims that casual games are now so important to sales that the company is having to do some radical retail re-thinking:There is a real breadth of properties now appealing to a much broader audience than we've seen before. Honestly, we are having to retool the way we think of things in our stores in terms of merchandising, layout and also customer service because it is no longer only the hardcore gamer walking in who knows exactly what he wants.Daniel claims that, in the run up to Christmas, Gamestop will be featuring two new store sections specifically aimed at casual gamers. One will focus on music titles like Guitar Hero and Rock Band, the other on family games, a broad remit that apparently takes in cute stuff like Lego Star Wars and Nintendogs as well as familiar kiddie-friendly licenses like Hanna Montana and Cars.But what else can stores do to entice a wider range of visitors? And by a wider range, I sort of meananyoneoutside of the male 12-24 demographic? Here are a few ideas...The obvious cafe optionIf building societies can get away with it, so can game stores. Simply open a coffee shop area complete with tasteful music (perhaps drawn from Japanese RPG soundtracks), relaxing leather chairs and a subtly videogame related menu. "Yeah, can I get a Mario muffin and two Half-Life lattes?". "Certainly. Would sir like small, regular or high-definition?". Free WiFi access, a selection of game mags and a couple of PSPs to play with would be great too.Or at least a nice waiting areaMen get comfortable waiting areas in womens' clothes shops these days - why don't games stores (let's face is, predominantly visited by men) return the favour? If a visit to the local games emporiumdoesn'tfeel like a circumnavigation of the seventh circle of hell for your partner, you may get to browse longer, and therefore spend more. Heck, they may even want to come back.Private demo areasSomewhere you can discreetly try out the game of your choice without having to deal with smirking 12-year-olds laughing at your unhoned skills. Testing games is like trying on clothes - it's personal. And the 'your choice' bit is important. Demo pods tend to show-off what the store or paying publishers are pushing.Any more suggestions?
ISPS AT PLAYAs it costs ISPs so much to get new customers, the best way to make money surely is the oldest - keep the ones you have got long term. Not by extended handcuff contracts but by providing good service at a reasonable, not necessarily lowest price. I almost left my ISP, Eclipse, when its service plummeted coincidentally after being taken over by Kingston Communications. But recently Eclipse has gone back to giving me the service I need and I have added their telephony as well and so my three years with them will continue hopefully into the future. Contrast with BT who even charge me for paying my bill and are overpriced on most products especially international calls coupled with a customer service organisation apparently paid by the email rather than any form of customer satisfaction and so I take the minimum I have to from BT, the exchange line, and will look elsewhere as soon as BT's monopoly in this village is broken. A happy customer is a profitable long-term customer. John Loader, ElyTECHNOBILE (BANK SYSTEMS)With UK banks losing £33.5m each year to online fraud, you can understand why they are taking preventative measures. Issuing customers with cumbersome hardware however is not necessarily the answer. Far better is technology that uses behavioural analysis to weed out the fraudsters, leaving the rest of us to continue to bank unhindered. These systems are proven and widely used in many banks abroad. Maybe we should follow suit? Andrew Moloney, director, RSA, BerkshireHaving taken part in testing card readers for a large UK bank, I can say that everything Anne Wollenberg says about them is wrong. She could at least have read the literature accompanying her card before commenting and showing her ignorance. The graphic accompanying her article is misleading too, as it shows a cable attached to the card reader: the reader does not connect to the PC. Your online banking service displays a code on screen to tap into the reader (which needs to be activated by inserting your card and entering your PIN), which then displays a response code to key back into the PC. Simple; and only needed to set up new payees. Jerry Tracey, West Calder [The illustration was for illustration only; it wasn't intended to be realistic - Tech. Ed]ITUNES AND DRM As an addendum to your piece (I work in music and advise artists/labels on how to make the most out of their content online) can I add a few points that maybe relevant: (a) Apple's iTunes DRM doesn't really protect music - it could be argued that it just protects the iPod. In other words, it stops music bought on iTunes playing back on any MP3 player device that isn't an iPod. Steve Jobs has written essays on the perils of DRM, yet he still refuses to drop the Apple iTunes DRM - despite it being declared illegal in Europe (Norwegian courts, with the backing of Sweden, Germany and France) and despite major record labels insisting on DRM Free music with their licensing agreements with Amazon and many other music shops. Apple also refuses to license the Apple DRM to MP3 Player manufacturers, so iTunes purchases will work on *any* MP3 device. In essence: The major labels don't really want it. Consumers hate it. DRM doesn't work - there's always a relatively simple workaround (as you pointed out in your article) and only Apple appears keen to keep it. A cynic might speculate that Apple's refusal to drop or especially license their iTunes DRM suggests that it's more to protect the iPod rather than the music and it is really just part of the Apple's philosophy, which appears to be geared towards locking consumers into the 'Apple ecosphere'. (b) The RIAA/BPI hasn't helped matters by creating the perception that 128kbps MP3 is *exactly* the same as what consumers get on CD. Thanks to the actions of the RIAA/BPI, who carpet-bombed kids with legal letters because their IP address showed up on an uploader/downloader hunt, the general perception is that what you buy on iTunes for $9.99 or download in MP3 format is *exactly* the same as what you buy in a shop on a CD. They even equated what kids were doing with 'shoplifting'! The reality is that a downloaded album is not necessarily a sale lost and a 128kbps mp3 files is *not* the same as what you would get on CD. The reality is, when you look at the known P2P statistics, consumers would have to spend 20 or 30 times the normal amount of money they spend on music each month and for many in the industry, the BPI/RIAA trotting out press releases spouting piracy statistics is simply a scapegoat to gloss over their shortcomings. Some pirated music does obviously hamper sales, but, no where near the level the BPI/RIAA claim and I would argue that competition on the wallet is having a bigger effect. The competition on consumer wallets is very different now than it was in 1997. Kids for example, when they get their weekly allowance now, will top up their mobile phone credit (or maybe pay their dealer) first, buy a new game for their Wii/PlayStation, buy some clothes and maybe think about buying music, later. On top of that, music is what kids listen to now, when they are doing something else. Whether it's updating their Bebo page, blogging, networking, txting, playing with their PlayStation or whatever. It's the audio equivalent of wallpaper and its value has dipped significantly - not because of piracy, but, because there is more competition in the entertainment sector. (c) On the subject of quality. It's worth noting that allofmp3.com was just behind iTunes this time last year as the leading UK music download sales shop. The allofmp3.com model was based on quality: they charged on file size, not by track. In other words, the higher the quality, the larger the file size and therefore more expensive the download. The downloads were DRM FREE and despite the handbags over royalties, it was an incredibly clever idea. It was also a jaw-dropping idea for the music industry who realised that consumers were actually willing to give their credit card details and personal details to a known-to-be-operating-on-the-edge-of-the-law Russian website to download a low quality version of an album...instead of downloading the full quality version for free on an illegal P2P site. So my two cents on the subject is that consumers *do* understand the quality thing. They *will* buy low (128kbps) quality versions of an album, at a discount, just to give it a listen, and they will also buy music by their favourite artists in high quality. As an aside, a colleague and pal who passed away a few weeks ago in Manchester, Anthony Wilson, was spot on a few years ago with his prediction way back in the early Noughties that 33 pence would be a fair and acceptable price for a downloaded song. He started music33.com back then, but, because of a lack of support from the major labels, it faded away. The point is, it's quite possible for a record label to sell songs, now, at these price/quality points, without befuddling the consumer: Low (itunes) quality: 33p Medium (320kbps) quality: 79p High (WAV/AIFF) quality, the same as you get on a CD: 99p Fergus Geraghty, ManchesterCRACKING FILTERS&gt;&gt; Tom Wood, unlike some of his peers, did not post the instructions on the internet for others to follow but has used his knowledge and skill to ask some rather pertinent questions of the Government: Why did they spend $84 million on a solution which was ineffectual and - more importantly - where is the current Australian research data that recommends this solution?http://www.abc.net.au/&gt;&gt; Surely the secret to the best parental control is called parenting.thehermesproject.blogspot.com/MEDIA MOVEMENT Dave Stewart is both wrong and unfair in his stolen TV analogy (Letters and Blogs 30/8/2007). His argument exposes serious misunderstandings which afflict the discussion of piracy issues and I think it is worth dissecting the matter in some detail to understand them. Before considering downloads, let us consider the purchase of music on LP, tape or CD and ask what is being paid for. Clearly there is a physical product being purchased; however the price charged is far greater than the manufacturing and retailing cost of the physical product. The extra cost is for the licence from the copyright owner to use the music stored on the physical product, subject to restrictions on copying and public performance. This licence is what separates genuine music products from pirate ones. Downloads are the same except that they lack a physical product (and that the licensing element is made explicit). Instead supplying physical media the data is supplied and the user has to store it on media he provides himself. Data differs from physical products in that it can be infinitely duplicated without additional cost. A strong moral argument can be made that James Mackenzie is still the owner of the original licences to his records even though though his original media has been stolen or damaged. After all, if your TV is stolen or damaged you still have your TV licence. It doesn't follow the burglar home or vaporise in the smoke of a blown up TV. Would this justify him in going to a shop and stealing another physical copy of his records? Of course not. That really would be like stealing a new TV. The physical record has a manufacturing cost and it would be unjust to the manufacturer and retailer to take it without paying. On the other hand, obtaining a copy of the non-physical music data, which he already has a licence to, is unjust to nobody. The data is duplicated at no cost. Any media he stores the data on is provided at his own expense. Nobody has been deprived of anything and he has only recovered what was his in the first place. Of course, I am not suggesting that this sort of argument would stand up in court. Quite apart from anything else, it would be hard to prove which LPs and tapes one used to own and the terms their content was licensed under. It is probably safer to seek to replace old records through second hand record shops. None the less, it is offensive and wrong to suggest that downloading, under these circumstances, is morally equivalent to theft. It is worrying that many of us lack the concepts required to think clearly about licensing and piracy issues. The entertainment industry is exploiting our confusion to make the rules up as they go along, mostly to our disadvantage. Their plan is that we will continue to pay high prices that reflect perpetual licences but that the media and data formats will become restrictive and obsolete so regularly that we feel compelled to periodically repurchase licences that we already own at full price. That is a nice gravy train for the entertainment industry but hardly a fair way to treat paying customers. Meanwhile the real pirates will carry on mass producing pirate products regardless. Daniel Rigal, Guildford.MONSTER BACKUPS Backing up is so easy but, no matter how much preaching, no one does it until it's too late. Ask any of my then unimpressed ex-students. After a crash and rebuild I had a spare 120 Gig IDE hard drive. . I bought a £17+ USB ICY box and inserted the HDD for external use; saving a lot of money over a dedicated external drive. I'll get a much bigger HDD and cooled Sata ICY box when needed I now backup end user files to this HDD and later, to CD or DVD twice (one copy near at hand, the other in a safe place), to release space for more back ups. But, do check that you're not overwriting a good file with garbage. Powering down the external drive isolates it from criminal encryption. I don't back up OS or Apps. They can be re-installed. Further, I have the C:\ drive OExpress email folders on another partition which I can also easily copy for back up. If on-line the OE folders could be "alive" to create problems when backing up directly to CD/DVD. Graham Davies, BoltonClearly someone's playing a very dangerous game, but there is hardly anything new about this: 1. Straight forward blackmail (as there is no option but to pay up, hoping their decryption still works on your trashed system) 2. The means (i.e. High-tech methods including advanced cryptography) 3. The target (i.e. innocent unsuspecting people with a few hundred dollars at their disposal) What is surprising is the apparent lack of meaningful targeting coupled with the desire NOT to gather conspicuous wealth. For example, such infiltration methods may well hold to ransom an entire corporation (criminal or legitimate) or indeed, a government department if the right data were stumbled upon (and the security methods were deployed sufficiently poorly). How much would the ransom be in these instances? This aspect of the scam (having a tiger by the tail) is especially flaky and may be even more dangerous than being caught receiving the money. Thankfully, the antidote to this scam is the same as any other threat to data; have a good backup strategy and a recovery methodology, noting that you can't ever do anything about the publishing of private data or related threats therein. If this occurs, then like any blackmail/extortion case, the weakness is always the location of the drop! The banks combined transaction audit will just facilitate following the money, unless we're talking cash (which has its own problems!) Finally however, will their trojan work in a UNIX environment? I suspect not, as the simplistic communications style and basic English usage in their ransom note is too poor and wouldn't indicate a sufficiently developed intellect to have have mastered any operating system, let alone a complex one. Dave Strudwick, FelixstoweRENTIER ECONOMY (VIC KEEGAN)&gt;&gt; How can you call one the most exciting technological innovations of recent times as mere indexing. Google's founders spent years to develop its algorithm. Search engines in pre-Google era were pathetic. I have read about an incident when someone performed a search on a widely-used search engine of that era, Altavista, by the keywords Altavista itself, and it wasn't able to come up with its own url. It was unable to search for itself. Such was the pathetic condition of search engines at that time. Google's revenue model is also unique. So if they are coming up with the ideas then they deserve the dividend.rpriyedarshi.blogspot.com/&gt;&gt; by and large the web's development as a resource for the average user can be largely ascribed to altruistic behaviour by participants - Victor Keegan at The Guardian thinks the gift economy of the web actually promotes overall economic welfare. I'm inclined to agree, but I can think of a few counter-examples - how about you?futurismic.com/POST OFFICE BROWSING Paul Godier is concerned, understandably, that the Post Office only supports internet explorer for its online banking. I assume their reason for doing this is that it is easier to maintain the level of security necessary for internet banking by restricting the code to one browser specification. If Paul is using Firefox then there is an easy answer, download IETab from Firefox add-ins (https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/1419) and then he will be able to open IE specific pages - I haven't yet found one this doesn't work with. Mike Cushman, LondonWINDOWS UPDATES The article "Skype's nightmare weekend" said: "Automatic restart is now the default for Windows Update, although it is only used when necessary and can be switched off in the Control Panel. " I am afraid it is not as easy as this - if you ever subsequently install an update, (even without knowing it) then the default becomes auto-reboot again and you have to go back into the control panel and switch it off - it's a real PITA... switching it off once does not work! Professor Peter Ivey, CalverMBS REDUX Just wanted to voice my opinion to a well known source and see if everyone agrees here with me. I have just spent the last two months on my computer with the well-known MBS billing systems holding my computer to ransom. Now, I don't normally use my computer knowledge to "unlawfully" remove "legitimate" software from my computer. Luckily I have got rid of it with a certain technique. I am only 20 years old and since I have got rid of this, I have been researching into how many of these cases have been going on. My god, was I overwhelmed, its even attracted media attention.. So how the hell is this company still running. Now I'm sorry, but that is the most uncouth way of making money I have ever seen. Absolutely disgusting ! From what I have seen their are many people suffering from the same problem me and my family have suffered as this is a family computer. Now, our government and the public wonder why the Office of Fair Trading, Trading Standards etc don't work as well as they should. How does anyone let these things stand.. After research, I realise they do have a terms and conditions and clearly state their pledge... But after actually visiting the website it's about as clear as a blizzard in Greenland. It's like putting terms and conditions up in Japanese language and saying there's the T&amp;C to cover our arses and make us legit. If I was an authority figure or head of Trading Standards, I would not only shut the company down, I would throw them in jail for 50 life sentences too. My honest opinion of what I'd like to do would be unlawful and too strong to say. They have caused not only unusable computer situations to families all over but some people who work from laptops and computers at home to lose their work due to being unable to use them which has cost loss of earnings and in one case I saw, someone's job. Please could you publish this somewhere whether its on the net or actually in the paper because I would just absolutely love to see the replies and responses to see how many people feel the same.. Michael Prince (no post town given)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Web video series are gaining more momentum in the mainstream on a daily basis. Thanks to being distributed alongside traditional television shows on cross-platform devices such as Apple TV, as well as being made available via on-demand services, internet-based serials are developing audiences equal to – if not greater than – that of some television channels.This year, even America's National Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences moved to embrace the new media and started awarding Emmys to original works made for "broadband".But with many web producers converting to high definition before a lot of broadcast television shows, they're wondering why there aren't more web series listed on IMDb.com, the go-to information site for the entertainment industry.Kent Nichols, co-creator ofAsk a Ninja, says the submission process onIMDb"is a closed system operated by a private company: you have to play by their rules".  Since there is no web video-specific option on the site, Ask a Ninja was listed as a TV series. This is certainly a great step in the recognition of web series as a valid form of filmmaking, but it also proves that there needs to be more appropriate categories created for submitting a web series.When going through the submission requirements, the instructions can be ambiguous. The only reference to web videos is a note saying that an entry is not eligible "just because a work has been digitised and put on some internet page for downloading", which might put some producers off. However, since there are a few web series listed at the site, there must be a loophole somewhere."The key point is general public interest," says IMDb founder and managing director Col Needham. "The contents of IMDb naturally reflect the interests of the users of the site because all of the names and titles included in the database are submitted by users themselves."This means that if a work qualifies on some other level – shown on non-local TV, screened at a festival, stars a well-known celebrity – the web series can, in fact, be submitted.The people behind the web series already listed on IMDb all have a couple of things in common; representation and prior work listed on the site. They are mostly from a professional film or TV background, which explains a lot since a large majority of the users on IMDb are in the entertainment industry.Unfortunately, at the moment there aren't many listings. But where IMDB falls short, Wikipedia is blasting forward. With categories for video blogs, video podcasts, and internet television, Wikipedia users are generating their own IMDb-like pages with information on notable web series. A logical explanation for this difference in growth is that Wikipedia users can edit the site for free, while IMDb Pro users pay $12.95/month for an account."If you feel that more internet-based titles should be included, the answer is to encourage more people to submit such titles," says NeedhamBut when given the option to contribute to a site for free or to pay, which would you choose?· Casey McKinnon is co-producer of the video podcastsGalacticastandA Comicbook Orange.
Engadget has posted the whole of a successful iPhone unlock on video,here.According toDaily Tech, "the iPhoneSimfree software is now available for purchase. Currently, four online retailers in the world hold licenses for the unlocking software: Wireless Imports in the US, iPhoneWorldwideUnlock in Australia, 1digitalphone in Germany, and iPhone4arab in Saudi Arabia. Current prices for a single unlocking process range from $50 to $100."Update: Engadget has now confirmed thatiUnlock, the first free, open source iPhone SIM unlock app, works. It also has thebackground story.
Brian Briggs has a funny post atBB Spot, taking off Steve Jobs's "Whoops, sorry you feel screwed, have a $100 voucher". The story says:People interested in the refund will need to bring in an original receipt showing they bought the Lisa in 1983 and proof of purchase from the Apple Lisa box. Sales figures from that year show that if all people who bought the computer claim the refund, Apple could be liable for almost $70,000.
We've spoken on this blog in the past about the possibilities for game technologies to be relevant for all kinds of non-gaming enterprises: governance, health, education, television, film, radio, public participation, military strategy. When I was working on theUnlimited Learningdocument for the DfES and ELSPA in 2006, exploring the usefulness of games for schools and lifelong learning, one genre in particular held the most promise for the future: virtual worlds. These online, multiplayer, pervasive environments offer educators and others unique opportunities to play around with traditional models of learning, simulation and entertainment in order to make relevant the issues which the various stakeholders wish to promote.There's been quite a buzz in virtual world communities about this. At last month'sState of Playconference, where the great and the many descended upon Singapore, there was a panel dedicated to the various uses of virtual world technologies for the greater good (in addition to the entertainment functions). This week there'sa whole conferencedevoted to the subject, just up the road in Coventry: Serious Virtual Worlds. I had the chance to ask David Wortley, the Director of theSerious Games Instituteat Coventry University and the man behind the Serious Virtual Worlds Conference, a few questions of my own.Why all the fuss about virtual worlds?Virtual worlds are getting increasing attention because they herald the 3D web. The converging technologies of broadband, wireless, computing, video and sound have matured to the point where multiplayer immersive environments are available in a practical and usable way to a mass audience and an increasing number of people are exploring the potential of virtual worlds for a variety of applications, most notably social networking.What do virtual worlds offer the serious games community that traditional gaming does not?Virtual worlds offer opportunities for developing and tailoring your own environments and applications in a more accessible way than traditional gaming. Environments like Second Life provide the ability to create your own space and explore new applications in a highly creative way. Virtual worlds are to traditional games what Web 2.0 is to the traditional web.What do you feel is a particularly good example of a serious use of a virtual world?One of my favourites is the Wheelies site in Second Life. The reason for this is not the site per se, but the empowering effect the development of this site has had on its owner, Simon Stevens. Simon suffers from cerebral palsy and is a very intelligent young man who has endured discrimination and hardship from birth because of his speech impairment. Developing the Wheelies site (where his avatar is in a wheelchair) has had a marvellous transforming effect on his life.They're not a global panacea - what are some of the criticisms for using virtual worlds for serious ends?The main criticism is lack of security and control in environments like Second Life. Just as in real life, the human imagination knows no bounds for good or evil and the insecurity and unpredictability of some environments limited their use for business purposes. In a social context, they can also have a negative effect if they become a substitute for human contact.The health, education and corporate communities have been interested in virtual environments in the past. What makes now different from the gold-rush days of LambdaMOO and other mid-90s virtual environments?The most important difference is the way all the technologies have now matured to the point where the virtual environments are more realistic, more usable and more immersive. Just as in games and the theatre, it is the suspension of disbelief that helps to engage people. The technologies to do this are now much more widely accessible and the media and young people increasingly raise awareness in a way which wasn't there in the 90'sCommercial virtual worlds also present another obstacle: that of corporate ownership. How can serious games stakeholders ensure that their messages aren't diluted by a virtual world brand and its interests?This is a hot issue and I guess it will only be resolved when there is a wider choice of platforms and solutions.Second Life has been grabbing most of the headlines lately, but which future platforms do you see with great promise on the horizon?At the Serious Games Institute in Coventry, as well as working with Second Life, we are developing a relationship with the Forterra Olive platform which has the attraction of a more open interface to industry standard tools like 3D Studio Max. We also like the drag and drop capabilities of Visual 3D which should provide some very interesting applications and we are working with Giunti Labs in Italy and Cisco to explore augmented reality applications.Closer to home, Blitz Games and PixeLearning have developed their own platforms and companies such as Caspian Learning in Sunderland and Immersive Education in Oxford have provided good platforms for the education sector.Farther from home, I expect to see some challenges from the Far East.
The much-celebrated Make Love Not Warcraft South Park episode has done it - it's walked away withthe Emmy award for outstanding animated program(less than one hour). The show, created with the support of World of Warcraft developers Blizzard, represents a milestone inmachinimamaking.Which reminds me, you can nowgetMachinima for Dummies, co-written by Hugh Hancock ofStrange Company- whose groundbreaking feature filmBlood Spellwas made using the technology of Neverwinter Nights - and Johnnie Ingram ofMachinima.com.
In case you missed this yesterday, Nintendo revealed that its Zapper peripheral - a plastic gun-shaped object designed to securely house the Wiimote and Nunchuk, opening up new gameplay possibilities - would be shipped in the US on November the 19th, bundled with one game, Link's Crossbow Training. It's a Point Blank/Duck Shoot-style marksmanship title, pitting the player against a series of targets, starting out with stationary objects and eventually moving on to enemies from the Zelda titles. Other games with confirmed Zapper functionality are Resident Evil: Umbrellas Chronicles, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 and Sega's Ghost Squad.Of course, this is not the only example of focused peripheral design for the Wii - it's become something of a cottage industry, with accessory manufacturers bringing out their own gun controllers, classic controllers, sports accessories and steering wheels. By bundling games with the official (more expensive) kit, Nintendo is ensuring that your spare Wii cash goes into its own coffers. Conversely, Mari Kart Wii will apparently be bundling with a free Wii Wheel when it arrives next year - adding extra value to the software package. Considering this piece of plastic probably costs pennies to produce it's an obvious move.Now we just need a glowing plastic rod to convert the Wiimote into a proper lightsabre for the release of Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga.
Shooting, driving, sports - not problem for the Xbox 360. But RPG's? Not really. Other than, the admittedly masterful,Oblivion, there has been precious little opportunity for 360 owners to level up, explore and solve quests. Odd really, especially when you consider the 360 male "hardcore" gaming audience which would normally lap these kinds of games up. Things are beginning to change though. Mass Effect, the sci-fi RPG, is due out in November andearly impressionsare very positive. And the last fortnight has seen the release of Blue Dragon andTwo Worlds, the first 360 RPGs since Oblivion. Are they worth the wait?Erm, not really. Actually Blue Dragon is a bit of grower. Created by original Final Fantasy guruHironobu Sakaguchiamongst others, Blue Dragon is a very traditional Japanese RPG. The anime styling, children-against-the-world storyline and initially pedestrian turn-based action are off-putting but the pace - and story - pick up. The retro action may not tickle nostalgia buds for too many Western gamers but there is something oddly therapeutic about the action and I can see myself playing more.And then there is Two Worlds. Possibly the most unintentionally hilarious game I've ever played. Where to start? Ok, how about dialogue so ye olde worlde - forsooth! - that you can feel the desperation of the voice actors. Or a "tutorial" that tells you how to move and attack and then leaves you to fiddle with indistinct icons and poorly designed menus. This is bad enough but the text and icons are incomprehensible and practically unreadable on an HD TV, never mind a standard def. And then there is a difficulty level set so high you wonder what sadist actually playtested it. Oh, and there are numerous loading pauses too.You don't get any truly bad games any more, especially on consoles. Yes, you get tedious and ugly, but not disasters like Two Worlds. Quite how this slipped though the Microsoft quality control is a mystery. On the upside the environments are pretty enough in places and you can't knock the ambition of the thing. But Two Worlds, like David Hasselhof and Michael Ballack, is best left to the Germans. Anyone else experienced Two Worlds or Blue Dragon?
Vodafone is going head to head with this year's most hotly anticipated gadget, Apple's iPhone, with the launch of a competing mobile music service. The service, to be launched in time for Christmas, will give its UK customers unlimited access to more than 1m tracks.But  MusicStation, created by a group of British dotcom millionaires, has a catch. When customers stop paying the &pound;1.99-a-week subscription, their music collection becomes unplayable.Vodafone is believed to have backed away from a deal with Apple over the iPhone because of the large share of ongoing voice, text and data revenues that the American hardware company was demanding. Instead, Apple is understood to have signed up with O2 for the UK market, T-Mobile in Germany and Orange in France.Details of the cost of the iPhone and the length of contract  customers will have to sign up to are expected shortly as Apple gears up for a European launch in time for Christmas.Vodafone UK's head of mobile internet and content services, Al Russell, denied its exclusive deal with MusicStation was a consolation prize for not getting the iPhone. "This is a completely new movement within mobile music," he said. "People are obviously drawing conclusions about the iPhone but that is not our driver here."Analysts believe the iPhone will be a powerful, but niche, product, and the full potential of mobile music lies in making it easier to buy and play tracks on a mobile phone. This year alone, more than 1.13bn mobile phones will be sold worldwide, according to estimates from the industry expert Gartner, while 110m iPods have been sold since 2001.Many of Vodafone's 17.4 million UK customers may be able to use their existing handset to access MusicStation, which will go live in November and be available to contract and pre-pay customers. They will also be able to pick from the range of new phones that Vodafone announced yesterday as its Christmas line-up.Rob Lewis, chief executive of Omnifone, which developed MusicStation, believes the service will help operators exploit the full potential of their networks and the relationship they have with customers in a way that the iPhone does not."A device like iPhone, at the end of the day, ties a consumer to an Apple strategy forever. It does not utilise the 3G data network; it is not even 3G compatible. It does not allow over-the-air downloads; it only allows downloads from iTunes using a credit card, and it certainly does not allow unlimited downloads wherever you are," he said."We hope to do for mobile music what BlackBerry did for email."The MusicStation launch comes after news last month that Nokia is launching its own music service, selling tracks at 79p each - the same as iTunes. But it has yet to sign up with any network operators and, unless it can clinch such a deal, customers could pay heavily to download their music.Vodafone has its own full-track download service, which charges 99p a track or &pound;5 a month for seven songs, which it will retain.
Social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace do not help you make more genuine close friends, according to a survey by researchers who studied how the websites are changing the nature of friendship networks. Although social networking on the internet helps people to collect hundreds or even thousands of acquaintances, the researchers believe that face to face contact is nearly always necessary to form truly close friendships."Although the numbers of friends people have on these sites can be massive, the actual number of close friends is approximately the same in the face to face real world," said psychologist Will Reader, from Sheffield Hallam University.Social networking websites such as Facebook, Bebo and MySpace have taken off rapidly in recent years. Facebook was launched initially in 2004 for Harvard University members but has since expanded to more than 34 million users worldwide. MySpace, which was set up in 2003, has more than 200 million users and was bought by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation in 2005 for $580m (&pound;285m).Previous research has suggested that a person's conventional friendship group consists of around 150 people, with five very close friends but larger numbers of people whom we keep in touch with less regularly.This figure is so consistent that scientists have suggested it is determined by the cognitive constraints of keeping up with large numbers of people.But Dr Reader and his team have found that social networking sites do allow people to stretch this figure.The team asked more than 200 people to fill in questionnaires about their online networking, asking for example how many online friends they had, how many of these were close friends and how many they had met face to face. The team found that although the sites allowed contact with hundreds of acquaintances, as with conventional friendship networks, people tend to have around five close friends.Ninety per cent of contacts whom the subjects regarded as close friends were people they had met face to face."People see face to face contact as being absolutely imperative in forming close friendships," added Dr Reader. He told the British Association Festival of Science in York that social networking sites allow people to broaden their list of nodding acquaintances because staying in touch online is easy. "What social network sites can do is decrease the cost of maintaining and forming these social networks because we can post information to multiple people," he said.But to develop a real friendship we need to see that the other person is trustworthy,  said Dr Reader. "What we need is to be absolutely sure that a person is really going to invest in us, is really going to be there for us when we need them ... It's very easy to be deceptive on the internet."
Lots of sites are reporting on Microsoft's talks with the BBC about providing downloadable TV content for Xbox Live. The two are apparently working out a deal to make programmes like Planet Earth available on-demand in Europe. Microsoft already runs a video-on-demand service for Xbox 360 owners in the US, signing content deals with the likes of Warner Bros, MTV, CBS and Paramount, but the complications of having to draw up different deals for different territories has kept the concept from expanding.There's no news yet on whether gamers would be charged for the service although, asGamasutra points out, BBC content is usually transmitted free in this country due to licensing fee funding. However, would VoD content be classed as a transmission? If not, there's no reason why the BBC couldn't charge for it - the corporation does, after all, sell a range of DVDs based on its shows. In the US, Xbox Live users pay in Microsoft Points - 320 for a movie (480 for an HD movie) or 160 for a single TV programme. Users get to keep the TV stuff, but films are 'rented' for a two-week period.Of course, Microsoft is not the only console manufacturer with VoD ambitions. Sony has repeatedly talked of plans to launch a similar service. At Leipzig, the company announced a deal with Sky to make some of its content available via PSP. Andreports from the USsuggest the company is looking to replace its failed Connect service with some kind of video download option for PS3.So would you buy UK TV content via a games console? Or are you more interested in dedicated offerings likeBT VisionoriPlayer? I'm really not sure its the killer app that the console bigwigs seem to think it is. You only have to look at the success of Wii - which wittily appropriates the language of the broadcast media with its channel system,withoutgoing through the expense and rigmarole of actually providing a download service - to see that neat, innovative game ideas are more valuable than media hub solutions. However, Microsoftdidannounce earlier this year that Xbox Live downloads in the US had increased by 400 percent since the video service went live the previous November (morehere).TV or not TV, that is the question. Sorry.
