It seems like the charms of LittleBigPlanet and the online mayhem of Resistance 2 have not been enough for the PS3 in the US. Analyst Michael Pachter has – amazingly, what with it being a recession and all –discoveredthat people are buying the cheaper Xbox 360.There was likely some substitution of Xbox 360 for PS3 purchases, due to recent price reductions for the Xbox 360 and the bundling of the console with two free games. In addition, we believe that PS3 sales are being impacted by lower demand for HD televisions as a result of the recession.So far, so obvious then, but we won't know the real impact until the Christmas sales figures leak out in Jan. Although obviously, price – or at least perception of price – will play a big part this Christmas.  But let's be honest here, once you've added on the wifi adapter, larger hard drive etc is the 360 actually *that* much cheaper than the PS3?So is price everything when it comes to buying a new console this Christmas? Or are game exclusivity, what console your friends have and quality of hardware itself still the most important buying factors?
Following on from Keith'sgames of the yearruminations below, Time magazine has gone overboard in its "top 10 of 2008" lists in its latest dead-tree issue - but itstop 10 video games listdoes correctly identify one of 2008's stunners. Among the otherwise humdrum list (GTA IV at number one ... fancy that), down at number eight is the fabulasticHunted Forever, which turnedSaul Bass-style movie titles (I'm thinking here ofNorth By Northwest, in particular) into a cute free Flash game to fill those otherwise empty hours spent at work. And it makes a change from clogging up these "best of" lists with the likes of Dead Space or Spore (numbers six and 10 respectively).
Another tumultuous gaming year is rumbling to a close, so this week Aleks, Greg and I will be taking it in turns to reveal our games of 2008. We're selecting five favourite titles and one big disappointment each, and I'm kicking things off with my virtually shock-free selection...5.Peggle Mobile(PopCap, mobile)It's been a strong year for mobile games, the likes of Tetris Pop, Boom Blox and Disney's surprisingly brilliant Castle of Magic, all helping me to kill many hours on the Frome to London train. But the one I've kept coming back to, and am still playing, is this masterly, utterly addictive port of the PC casual gaming legend. Great level design, simple interface, perfect balance between luck and skill and loads of stages to get through. Videogame snacking at its best.4.Braid(Jonathan Blow, Xbox Live Arcade)That a self-funded platformer with a teeny dev team can find its way onto a mainstream console is impressive enough. But the fact that this lovingly crafted masterpiece bests the efforts of many, many orthodox retail releases is something of a minor miracle. Braid is the poster boy of the new indie revolution, a game that - like the similarly awesome World of Goo on WiiWare - refuses to compromise on individuality and soul, but still provides a gaming experience that'll please everyone from the console hardcore to thrifty casuals cruising XBLA for cheap puzzle treats. Just... heartwarming.3.Grand Theft Auto IV(Rockstar, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Well,Ididn't have any less fun with this one than Vice City or San Andreas - something many have claimed since the game's launch in April. The set-up is ostensibly darker, the action more self-conscious, but this breathtakingly ambitious opus is still packed with absurd details, crude asides and the sort of belly laughs that can only result from a three-way interface between your speeding vehicle, an incoming police car and a street filled with pedestrians. Nothing will ever be Vice City again; GTA IV doesn't want to be. Whatever it is, I saw things I'm not sure anyone else did, and if that's not the mark of a profoundly well-designed videogame universe, I don't know what is.2.LittleBigPlanet(Media Molecule, PS3)Cast all the pre-release hype aside if you can - I think the magic of LBP is more effectively communicated in your first five minutes with the game than by anything else. Wonderfully homemade cut 'n' paste visuals introduce the development team, then the soothing tones of Stephen Fry float in to accompany your inceptive moments with Sackboy and his/her world. Then... oh you know all this: 50 great platforming levels that you can re-visit time and time again; a unique co-operative creative experience; gorgeous graphical style. I've got a video clip of my son playing this for the first time: his utter delight at simply controlling the character - making it look up and down, moving its arms, changing its expressions - is what gaming should be about. Sort of, in a small way, life-changing.1.Gears of War 2(Epic, Xbox 360)Possibly unfashionable, certainly unreconstructed, Gears of War 2 is an absolute blast. It's not perfect, there are a couple of dodgy stages, but it is so confident in itself, so breathlessly eager to thrill and entertain, that your reservations are brushed away like spent cartridges. Unlike Call of Duty 4, which keeps you perfectly abreast of the action and allows you to think you're in control, GoW2 drags you by your armour-plated lapels - "what, you didn't get that plot point? You don't know what's going on? Who gives a f**k? Shoot that thing! Kill them over there! Watch out behind you! You see that? Kill it! Kill it some more!" And in the midst of it all Epic has the chutzpah to maintain a love subplot. It's like reading Mills and Boon on the express train to hell. Add in the fab multiplayer and you've got months of muscle-bound, muscle-brained entertainment. Lovely.Biggest disappointment: PES 2009 (Konami, PS3, Xbox 360)To paraphrase LCD Sound System, PES I love you, but you're bringing me down. I have nothing else to write on the matter.
BuzzFeedaims to bring you, as it says in its subtitle, "the viral web in realtime". But it's not a bit like Digg. BuzzFeed looks like a cross between a blog and a commercial news site, and it's much easier to read.Nor is it geeky: it's for what Jonah Peretti, one of the founders, calls "theBored at Work Network (BWN)– a huge people-powered network with even greater reach than traditional networks like CNN, ABC, or the BBC".Like most news aggregators, BuzzFeed has separate pages for different topics, and the headings tell you a lot: culture, movies, music, TV, celebrity, style, food, politics, business, sports, science, tech.The Culture section offers a mixture of stories, images and videos, including things such as Pussy Pop ("The soft drink made with your cat in mind"), Black Canary Barbie, and the RoboCop Rap. Some posts have circular badges that label them Big on Twitter, Trashy!, Geek!, Cute! or whatever. Stories often feature kittens and puppies.Even the technology section takes a very light view of the topic. Current or recent stories include Make Your Own Ugly Holiday Sweater, Pac-Man Mailboxes, and Typeracer -- Race Against Other Typists!If you're looking for political or religious insight, computer help or a fight, BuzzFeed is the wrong place. However, if you're in the BWN, you'll certainly find something more amusing than Solitaire.If you're in a hurry, you can simply hit BuzzFeed's Top20 link for the "most viral" and "most shared" items. If you have lots of time, you can click on Raw for the "raw feed", which shows all the items being picked up and/or submitted. This has stories found minutes or hours ago: it's much fresher than the stuff that has built up a buzz.BuzzFeed gets material in several ways. Some is picked up by crawling the web, and some is posted by visitors who sign up for accounts. Anybody can paste in a link. BuzzFeed also uses Google, Digg, Reddit, Twitter and many other sites as sources.And you don't have to go to BuzzFeed to read stories online. As the name suggests, you can sign up for an RSS feed of the home page (which has the main stories) or the raw feed. You can read the feed via an RSS reader, a mail program (such as Windows Live Mail), a desktop widget (Apple Dashboard, Yahoo Desktop etc) or a personal page such as iGoogle.You can also get BuzzFeed via Twitter (twitter.com/BuzzFeedFeed), on your mobile phone (m.buzzfeed.com) or as a daily email newsletter.Anyone with a website can add a BuzzFeed widget that will deliver a few top stories to their pages. One option is: "Only show tame buzz – some of my readers are prudes." That would skip stories such as Barbie Porn, a rude but feeble YouTube video made with Ken and Barbie dolls. (Trashy!)But a site for the BWN (Bored at Work Network) obviously can't do much that's NSFW (Not Safe For Work).
"Blog maverick" Mark Cuban has told Yahoo what it should do next, which is buy lots of companies now, while they are cheaper than cheap.He says:Yahoo should be the most aggressive acquirer on the planet right now.  In case you haven't noticed, everything and anything owned by private equity firms in the media and technology spaces are on sale at a huge discount.  VC's are freaking out that their companies not only have no exit strategies, but might also have to close down. No PE or VC in the world wants to make a capital call. Which has created an amazing opportunity. The same on the public company front. Any company that has any level of dependency on advertising has seen their stock tank.  The opportunities for a company with a strong balance sheet won't ever be any better than they are today.Yahoo should be on the warpath, vetting each and every media (yes media) and technology company it can sit down with looking for bargains.Cash-rich companies such as Google, Microsoft, Oracle, Cisco and perhaps Apple will no doubt be looking at their options. However, there's not much point in buying companies at knock-down prices unless you need their technology or can run them more profitably than their founders. Cisco is brilliant at this. Yahoo isn't.As noted here in 2005, Yahoo has already bought a lot of companies. These include GeoCities, eGroups, Broadcast.com, RocketMail, Four11, WebCal, ViaWeb, Log-Me-On.com, Yoyodyne Entertainment, Overture, 3721 Network Software, Kelkoo, Oddpost, Musicmatch, Stata Labs, WUF Networks, Ludicorp (for Flickr), TeRespondo, Dialpad, blo.gs, Pixoria (for Konfabulator), Alibaba, Upcoming.org, WhereOnEarth Unlimited and Del.icio.us.No one would claim that Yahoo has done well out of high-priced takeovers such as GeoCities, eGroups, and Broadcast.com, and it's not clear that it is doing much better with Flickr, Upcoming.org and Delicious.And if Yahoo can't effectively monetize the companies it has bought, does it make sense to buy lots more?Mark Cuban, of course, must know this better than most. Yahoo bought his company, Broadcast.com, in 1999 for $5.7 billion in stock, making him immensely rich. But it turned out to be a waste of money for Yahoo.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Pity the poor worker bees atLast.fm- not only did they suffer the terror of20 layoffs last week, but another one of their dotcom dreams was crushed too: they got rid of the ball pit.Almost precisely one year after the team decided tofill one of their offices with playpen balls, the powers that be decided it was time to get rid. It's not clear whether was the result of cutbacks inflicted by the suits at CBS, or whether there was another reason for the plastic castration... but Dopplr's Matt Jonescapturedthe terrifying moment when staff swooped in to reclaim the balls and shut down the pit.It seems it's now consigned to history; the bubble 2.0 version of the ubiquitous boardroom foosball table, or hyper-expensive Aeron office chairs for every new developer circa 1999.(Image courtesy ofMatt Jones, used under CC license. Pictures of happier timeshere)UPDATE:Last.fm's got in touch to explain why this tragic event had to take place: apparently the ball pit needed a clean ("It was pretty gross in there", I'm told) and they wanted to have the room for meetings.
Microsoft's Live Labs has released its Seadragon application -- which enables users to "deep zoom" into gigapixel-size images -- for Apple's iPhone.Live Labs says:Seadragon Mobile brings the same smooth image browsing you get on the PC to the mobile platform.  Get super-close in on a map or photo, with just a few pinches or taps of your finger.  Browse an entire collection of photos from a single screen. You can browse Deep Zoom Images that you can create from your own pictures or your Photosynth collection (or anybody else's).It also has a video of developer Ben Vanik talking about it.Why the iPhone? Alex Daley, group product manager for Microsoft Live Labs, toldTodd Bishop's Microsoft Blog:"The iPhone is the most widely distributed phone with a (graphics processing unit)," Daley explained. "Most phones out today don't have accelerated graphics in them.  The iPhone does and so it enabled us to do something that has been previously difficult to do. I couldn't just pick up a Blackberry or a Nokia off the shelf and build Seadragon for it without GPU support."He forgot to mention that he couldn't just pick up a Windows Mobile phone either….Seadragon is used in Silverlight and in Microsoft'sPhotosynth, which allows users to take a group of photographs and stitch them together.I blogged about its release in August.Photosynth only runs on Windows XP (SP2 or SP3) and Windows Vista at the moment.
The next decade will see the world become increasingly reliant on robotic labour, according to researchers, who warn that there could also be some unintended social consequences."Just as we depend on mobile phones and cars in our daily lives today, the next 15 years will see mass hybridisation between humans and robots," says Antonio Lopez Pelaez, a professor of sociology at Spain's National Distance Learning University.He is co-author of a study predicting an evolution of the so-called "digital divide" - the gap between those who have access to advanced technology and communications such as the internet, and those who do not.The paper, published in the journal Technological Forecasting and Social Change, suggests 40% of the world's armies will become automated by 2020, as well as a possibility of robotic body implants being commonplace.Japan leads the world in robot density, with 295 per 10,000 workers, but Asia as a whole lags behind Europe and the US. According to Spectrum magazine, Europe has the world's biggest number of robots, an average of 50 per 10,000 workers, primarily in the car industry, and in foundries and chemical plants. Britain has an average of 40, behind Germany, Sweden and Italy.The International Federation of Robotics predicts the next three years will see significant growth in robot use, particularly in the home and for personal use.A fourfold increase in robots for entertainment and leisure technology is foreseen for 2011, through a convergence of robotics, computers and home entertainment. The Spanish study concurs, even suggesting many people could become reliant on robotic companions over time."A robot might be a more effective partner and a better person than the humans we actually have in our immediate lives," said Pelaez. "Just as you can see dog owners talking to their pets today, soon we will be talking to robots."The potential for an emotional connection with a talking machine has been the subject of many studies. A book by the British futurist David Levy, Love and Sex with Robots, predicted that by 2050 humans would routinely enjoy both romance and sex with a robot partner."There are millions of people out there in the world who for one reason or another can't establish normal relationships with humans," he said. "This is not science fiction."
Facebook users are coming to the aid of children who need life-saving transplants as the networking website presents its users with more serious dilemmas than they usually have to contend with as they stay in touch with friends.Campaigns launched on the site have inspired thousands of people to join groups urging them to become members of tissue transplant registers. Joining the registers helps widen the pool of bone marrow and blood donors available and increases the chance of a match being found for patients.The parents of 23-month-old Iona Stratton, who fell ill with leukaemia when she was 13 weeks old, launched a Facebook appeal in October to find a bone marrow donor. The appeal attracted almost 7,000 members and they found a match in Australia within weeks. Sadly, Iona died this month due to complications after her transplant, but her case shows the precariousness of the lives of people relying on donors to give them a second chance.Finding a donor was especially difficult for Iona because of her mixed Chinese and English heritage. There is a lack of people from ethnic minority backgrounds on registers worldwide, according to the Anthony Nolan Trust leukaemia charity.Claire Stratton, Iona's aunt, said it was hard to tell whether a donor had been found directly because of the Facebook appeal because of donor anonymity, but the appeal had led to people joining registers or giving blood at private clinics to help Iona and others.Ms Stratton said: "Facebook has raised awareness. People don't realise individuals from mixed ethnic backgrounds don't make up a huge number on donor registers. People have been in touch with us and gone on to join registers."Others have not found it as easy to find a match. Dean Sheikh, eight, who lives with his mother in Notting Hill, west London, has a rare bone marrow failure syndrome, dyskeratosis congenita. He needs a bone marrow donor to improve the quality of his life, even though he is not expected to live beyond his 12th birthday.His mother, Farah Ikbal, said more than 1,300 people had joined the Facebook group supporting her son and this has given her campaigning an edge over conventional methods such as the press.Ravi Jariwala, a banker from Willesden, north-west London, planned a donor recruitment clinic in his area last month. Clinics target healthy, well-informed and committed potential donors. Mr Jariwala said: "People are likely to look at Facebook more often than their emails. There's a lot of scope to use the features to put up photos and videos to promote something."A spokesman for the Anthony Nolan Trust said: "Facebook has been very powerful because it puts out information about individual cases, but also allows the message to spread."Over the past four or five months it has been one of the most powerful influences that has brought people to the Anthony Nolan Trust."
From our better late than never department, Le Trung has demonstrated Aiko, his fembot, at the Ontario Science Centre, picking up a fair bit of news coverage. He says the demo is important to show that the system isn't just computer graphics.Le Trung has worked on commercial AI-based projects, but it's not clear how "real" Aiko is. While there are plenty ofvideo clips on YouTube, I can't see any that show Aiko interacting at a high level with anybody except Le Trung, and her responses to him are suspiciously good. There should be a market for something that works as well as this.Before you ask: on hisProject Aikosite, Le Trung says:Yes, Aiko has sensors in her body including her private parts, and yes even down there.AND yes Aiko is still a virgin, AND NO I do not sleep with her.Aiko also has aMySpace page.UK coverage includes stories in The Sun (Inventor builds She-3PO robot) and the Daily Mail (Love machine: Computer geek too busy for romance builds himself the perfect girlfriend).Note, if you get Unavailable from the web site, hit refresh. It does work.
"Google's new web browser may be fast and slim, but the password management features it offers are full of bugs. Chapin Information Services (CIS) reported critical vulnerabilities in this software during its beta period, all of which were unfixed at release time,"says Chapin.CIS identifies three problems and says these "combined with seventeen others so far identified in Chrome's password manager, form a toxic soup of potential vulnerabilities that can coalesce into broad insecurity."Opera 9.62 did best, passing seven of the 21 tests, as did Firefox 3.0.4. Internet Explorer trailed with five passes, while Chrome and Safari 3.2 for Windows passed two each.You can test your browserhere.
TWITTERING MUMBAII note with interest the front page article on today's Technology Guardian.In the description of the Government's intentions and plans to close down communications in the event of a major terrorist incident, two things comes over load and clear: the total distrust of the people by the government; and the total determination to keep them ignorant of events as they unfold.I do not believe that this is a healthy attitude in a democracy.Mark Austin, Morden&gt;&gt; I'd hope that this has no basis in fact, as to do what is suggested would (a) probably not work (b) cause more problems than it solves and (c) almost certainly be illegal.randomreality.blogware.com&gt;&gt; Woahjustinpickard.net&gt;&gt; In case of terrorists, abandon Twitter!lifeonplanetme.blogspot.comSKY HASSLES&gt;&gt; Whatever you may be thinking, I believe that I am entitled to record these episodes for a number of reasons. Firstly, I don't have time to watch them live - I have a day job, a wife and a kid, time is in short supply. Secondly, the Sky+ hard drive is woefully small at 160GB, of which we get 80GB of personal space, whoopee (yes, I will be doing something about that later). Thirdly, I am simply recording what I would have watched anyway, I'm not recording it to keep per se. I'm happy to buy the DVD boxed set for that. And to be honest, Star Trek is *all* that I watch via Sky; all other programmes I could get via Freeview (if we had a decent signal where I live, moot point)...I will of course be testing the COPY feature again this month. However in the meantime, I have some 20+ episodes of Deep Space Nine to catch up on…and I can't dump them to DVD as I have been doing most nights for the last 8-9 months. Yes, I do have 100+ DVDs chock full of Star Trek to catch up on!craigmurphy.com&gt;&gt; Even in a world where people are permitted to make copies/backups of their content, we are reminded that he that giveth can frequently taketh away. Or at least screw up the week in a big way.medialoper.com&gt;&gt; DRM stops backups, Sky+ no longer a PVR after all...delicious.comOFCOM REPLIESVictor Keegan's criticisms of Ofcom's assessment of the market impact of the BBC's local video service (November 27) miss our central concern, which was the impact that the BBC service would have on innovation and investment by commercial operators developing new online local news and sports services.The 4% loss of revenues that we estimated was the maximum impact on commercial local news services as they are currently provided; not as they are might develop.The article recognises, as does our assessment, that the standards of commercial local online news services currently vary across the country. But commercial operators - newspaper, radio and others – have significant ambitions to develop these areas of their businesses.The BBC proposal comes at a time when the commercial viability of these services is uncertain, although a number of well-developed local news websites are now available. These commercial uncertainties are obviously even greater in the current economic conditions.In these circumstances, even a small loss in revenue can have a very significant effect on the ability of commercial operators to launch new enhanced services that will ultimately benefit consumers of local news.Daniel Gordon, Competition Policy Director, OfcomLETTERS AND OFFERS&gt;&gt; In the Guardian's Letters and Blogs section this week, Paul Laxton wrote: "The Guardian gadget offer fills the whole back page of today's Technology Guardian (November 27). We're offered a USB turntable to digitise our vinyl. Minimum system requirements PCs only. So why is it connected to a MacBook Pro?"Was it really a MacBook Pro? I don't know. There is actually a fairly good chance it was connected to a laptop I've seen a lot in the papers recently. It's completely aluminium, just like the old MacBook Pro, but there isn't a trackpad. There doesn't appear to be any way to move the mouse at all.I guess there is no way to know unless someone has a copy of the ad somewhere.systematicabstraction.comLOTUS VS NOTESMy company uses Lotus Notes exclusively for a wide variety of collaborative activity. I use it ONLY for email. While I have access to broadband, I only have dialup in my office, so many of my complaints are associated with dialup speed.Here are the complaints:I get an audible alert that I have new email, but depending on the size of the email and attachment(s) [I assume] it can take an extended period of time for the email to appear in my inbox.Once an email appears in the inbox, clicking on it will download and display the message, but only after the appropriate download time. If there is an attachment, you won't see the message until [ I assume ] the attachment has been downloaded (sometimes I can shorten the process by clicking the "STOP" button and responding the ridiculous confirmation dialog that asks me if I really wanted to stop. Once you see the message with the icon for the attachment (whether you "stopped" or not), you still have to open the attachment and [I assume] the attachment has to be downloaded again?I think there is a huge amount of unneccessary network activity going on that makes Lotus Notes such a burden on the users. I easily waste 90% of my time waiting for Lotus Notes to do whatever the hell it is doing. This is especially bad for a Windows machine because the multi-gigahertz processor is completely crippled by having to maintain a a 56K dialup connection while running Lotus Notes.Lotus Notes may be great for administrators, but it's the USERS that have to do the real work of their businesses and anything that gets in the way of that is a serious detriment.C. Thomas Wilson, The Aerospace Corporation, by emailPOSSIBLY CORRECTI've seen this advert a number of times, where all manner of people wander around saying: I'm a PC.I don't want to rain on anyone's parade but I'm a bit of a stickler for syntax and it's not: I'm a PC. It should be: I'm PC.I mean that is Politically Correct. Right?Other than that it's a great ad for social progression. Maybe Jerry Seinfeld could make a cameo but that's a mote point best left to those that dream these ad campaigns up.Steve Hooker, GoldthorpeASK NOTWouldn't it be more honest to call it "Ask Jack What To Buy From Microsoft?"David Robinson, by email
Virgin Media will today launch the UK's fastest ever broadband service — at 50Mb per second, twice the speed possible on a conventional phone line — as pressure builds on regulator Ofcom to open up Virgin's network to competition as part of its plans for the future of internet access.The launch comes at a crucial time: recently appointed communications minister Stephen Carter, now Lord Carter, a former cable industry executive, will next month outline his thoughts on how to create a "digital Britain".The government believes that investing in the next generation of broadband access is crucial to the development of the UK economy, but has not earmarked any funding; it will be up to industry to create the super-fast networks needed.Virgin Media's network, however, passes only half the UK's homes, and the company lacks the billions of pounds needed to install its fibre-optic cable across the rest of the country. As a result, many householders will have to rely on BT to provide them with super-fast broadband.BT has been upgrading its existing copper-wire network and, by April next year, 40% of the UK population will be connected to technology called ADSL2+, which allows speeds up to 24Mb.Earlier this year, chief executive Ian Livingston announced that his company plans to spend £1.5bn over the next four years building its own fibre network to connect 10m homes.Homes in new building projects, such as Ebbsfleet in Kent, are already being connected directly to fibre, but laying fibre into all existing properties would cost billions. BT's stop-gap measure is to run fibre into the familiar green roadside cabinets that typically link together about 300 telephone lines, rather than into each individual property. In July next year, BT will start a commercial trial of so-called "fibre to the cabinet" in the London suburb of Muswell Hill and in Whitchurch, South Glamorgan, before full roll-out from the start of 2010.BT reckons it is getting speeds of up to 95Mb in Ebbsfleet, while "fibre to the cabinet" comes in at about 40Mb. Crucially, BT will be able to guarantee the speed of these connections, something that Virgin Media will struggle to match because of the way its network is constructed.BT will make this network available to its rivals — such as TalkTalk and BSkyB —on a wholesale basis so that they can run their own services over it, and several companies have already signed up for next summer's trials. The price they will be charged is still being thrashed out, but is likely to be no more than £5 to £10 more per month than they currently have to pay BT for existing broadband lines, plus a connection fee.Even Virgin Media is understood to be interested in using BT's network to extend its service footprint nationwide and is expected to take part in the "fibre to the cabinet" trials next year.But BT insiders are becoming increasingly annoyed that while they have to share their next-generation network with all comers, Virgin Media is not deemed to have "significant market power" to have to do so.This means that in many parts of the country BT will have to build a next-generation network where Virgin Media already has one that could be opened up for the good of broadband Britain.Several BT shareholders, meanwhile, have already made it plain to Livingston that they would rather the company held on to its cash in the current recession than spend £1.5bn on a new network.BT is understood to have made numerous appeals to the regulator for an opening-up of Virgin Media's network as part of the regulator's long-running review of next-generation network access. While they have been in vain, there is hope that Carter will take a more proactive approach when he unveils his plan for digital Britain in January.
VW Passat CC&pound;21,870Miles per gallon: 48.7CO2 Per KM: 153 gramsGood for: hot headsBad for: hot rodsThere was a time when you could get in the car and have a good old-fashioned domestic. Raised voices, finger pointing and maybe a few bad-tempered stamps on the brake pedal to make your point. But these days, front-seat arguments have been complicated by an intrusive third party - technology. There's the MP3 connection that doesn't work, the super-heated seats with a mind of their own and the useless satnav that always seems to take you down the wrong road. All unnecessary irritants in the fast lane of life. But before you book yourself into Relate, Volkswagen has decided to enter the fray, and, in a laudable move, is trying to spread a little domestic harmony with its latest gadget - the self-parking car.As anyone who has ever driven or been driven knows, parking is fraught with difficulty. From the panicked search for a suitable spot to the awkward backwards slalom which leaves your heart in your mouth and your paintwork all over another car's bumper, parallel parking is a gender battlefield. So any help in this quarter has got to be a good thing - for marriage at least.VW's Park Assist is a three-part parking system. First up, there are the proximity sensors which beep wildly when the car nudges towards any unseen foreign bodies (that abandoned wheelie bin, for instance). Secondly, there is the rear-view screen on the central console which flickers into life when you put the car into reverse (giving you an excellent view of that bin). Thirdly, and triumphantly, the system will then, hey presto, actually park the vehicle for you.As you crawl along a street of parked cars, ultrasonic sensors in the wings search for suitable spaces. When you pull alongside one that's big enough, a sombre 'space located' sign flashes on the dashboard (in London a burst of the Hallelujah chorus would be more appropriate). You then put the car into reverse, take your hands off the steering wheel and let the PA do the work. No neck craning, no nasty scraping noises, no shouting at the children to get their heads down, just a perfectly parked car - and a happy couple.A gimmick? Yes, of course. But in these sub-prime times, manufacturers are happy to exploit any perceived benefit. Earlier this year, VW set itself the ambitious target of selling 6.6m cars in the next decade. What a difference a few months makes... Still, if you have the funds, this elegant new coupe will not only park itself, but chase away some of that gloom. It's a Passat CC - which stands for Comfort Coupe, just a letter short of 'Comfort Couple' - and it looks like a Mercedes crossed with a BMW. Volkswagen has been determined to give their baby every advantage in the ferocious battle for sales, so its long lines and slinky curves are backed up by top-notch interior finishing, superb handling and a fuel-sipping engine which could pass for a Baptist. In the back, there are just two rear seats: the central space taken by a large useful console - which had the added benefit of separating the warring kids?martin.love@observer.co.uk
'Scorpions', says Wikipedia, 'are eight-legged venomous arachnids. They have a long body with an extended tail with a sting.' Staff of the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), the self-appointed monitor of 'child sexual abuse content hosted worldwide' and of 'criminally obscene and incitement to racial hatred content hosted in the UK', may well find themselves in rueful agreement about the sting. Except that what they've discovered is that Wikipedia also has one.Pause for a review of recent events. Among the subjects of interest to contributors to Wikipedia, the online, user-generated encyclopaedia, is the German heavy metal band Scorpions. A learned Wikipedia page (http://bit.ly/MgzH) covers their early history, rise to popularity, commercial success and 'later days' .The page mentions the band's 1976 album, Virgin Killer, the cover of which consisted of a striking photograph of a nude, pre-pubescent girl covered by broken glass. Someone reported this image to the IWF, which then implemented its well-oiled procedures for reviewing potentially illegal content.The IWF concluded the image did indeed constitute illegal content and put the page on the blacklist it maintains for implementation by UK internet service providers. The ISPs, in turn, speedily blocked the page.At which point all hell broke loose and the IWF, accustomed to dealing mainly with publicity-shy purveyors of filth, found itself under siege from Wikipedians and online libertarians. UK users (who account for 25 per cent of editing activity on Wikipedia) found themselves unable to edit. The story escalated in the media and even reached the dizzying heights of the Today programme. It was pointed out the offending album had been on sale for over two decades; had appeared over the years in print  and on websites; and that it was ludicrous to penalise Wikipedia simply on the basis of a complaint.In the end, sanity prevailed. The IWF rescinded its blacklisting and the page is back. But the IWF's statement insisted  that the image in question 'is potentially in breach of the Protection of Children Act 1978'. It has changed its mind after considering 'the contextual issues'.The Wikimedia Foundation statement was similarly conciliatory. 'We are grateful to the IWF for making this swift decision, and to thousands of internet users from around the world for their outpouring of support', said Sue Gardner, the foundation's executive director. 'Millions of Britons now have access to all of Wikipedia, and volunteers can resume their important editing work.'Any outbreak of sweetness and light is welcome in these gloomy times, but the episode highlights an issue most of us would prefer not to have to think about: who actually controls the net? And who - if anyone - should control it?In the early days of the network, a kind of libertarian euphoria led people to suppose that it was beyond control. The internet, we were told in a celebrated aphorism, 'interprets censorship as damage and routes around it'. Experience over the past decade has made us wiser (and perhaps sadder) on that score. It turns out that the internet is rather easy to control if you're a sovereign state (cf. Australia, China, Burma, Zimbabwe) or have access to high-priced lawyers (cf. the music industry, innumerable large corporations, the 'church' of Scientology, etc.) The ease with which the IWF was able to turn off Wikipedia access in the UK was just the latest illustration of the controllability of the network.Although the IWF may be subject to criticism over the lack of transparency of its decision-making, there's no doubt that it's a serious, well-intentioned, non-statutory body that is doing important work. And it's a not-for-profit enterprise - so it's not in it for the money.But there is an aggressively for-profit outfit out there which exercises far more control over the internet than the IWF could ever dream of. It's called Google. It owns YouTube, fast becoming the world's main TV channel. In a recent New York Times article on 'Google's Gatekeepers' (http://bit.ly/lg8h), Professor Jeffrey Rosen described how Google's staff try to balance freedom of speech and thought on YouTube versus the demands of corporations, states and ideologies to restrict that freedom. What's striking is the revelation that the Google folks don't like what they have to do - but that at the moment there's nobody else who can do it. How long, one wonders, will that uneasy state of affairs continue? Power, like nature, always abhors a vacuum.
Kara Swisher at All Things D has provided a quick run-through of somecandidates for the top spot at Yahoo. They are divided into categories, according to what sort of company Yahoo is, or might become. There are four viable sections: The Media Mogul, The Insider, The Microsoftie or Googler, and The Fixer.Swisher also throws inThe Holy Grail-Steve Jobs Option, or Apple buys Yahoo. That's presumably attractive because of the stunning success of MobileMe.Of course, Yahoo already tried theMedia Mogulroute with Terry Semel, and look what happened.The Insiderhas also been tried, with Jerry Yang and Sue Decker, with even worse results.The Fixerwould be a "turnaround CEO" like, for example,Gil Amelio, who was brought in to turn a failing Apple computer around. Enough said.So, the most likely option is someone who already knows the Web portal business from having worked at Microsoft, Google or … Yahoo. Former chief operating officer Dan Rosensweig, for example, wouldn't strictly be The Insider candidate, because he left. Swisher says:Other execs mentioned are former Yahoos Jeff Weiner and Jeff Mallett.But several also pointed to board member John Chapple, who is the one most insiders say they are guessing will be the next CEO, especially since he has been reaching out to Yahoos on many levels and asking questions.Silicon Alley Insider has been on the case for a while. SeeHelp Yahoo Find Its New CEO: Post Nominations Here, from November 17, for more ideas.Swisher's last category,Raise the Yangtanic, asks whether "there was a need for Co-Founder Jerry Yang to stay around in a significant way":"Jerry has been a really bad CEO," said one former employee. "But he could still be an important leader at Yahoo and give the company the kind of inspiration it so desperately needs."But there is a problem with Jerry: it looks as though he really hates Microsoft. But everybody can see that, on the net, Microsoft is failing even worse than Yahoo. Yahoo's users and advertisers are not defecting to Microsoft, so Microsoft isn't killing Yahoo. Google is killing Yahoo.Yahoo's staff know that, so why doesn't Yahoo's management?Look at what happened: Jerry Yang screwed up the Microsoft takeover deal and turned to Google for help, effectively diminishing his own search business in the process. A smarter cookie would have been looking for ways to use Microsoft's money to undermine Google. That might already have been a hopeless cause, but a fight to the death and heroic failure would have looked better in the final movie.As it is, whoever gets to play Jerry inPortal Combat: Pirates of Silicon Valley 2won't be around for the last few scenes.After you've picked a CEO for Yahoo's Last Stand, you can start picking a cast….
It's silly, of course, to judge a car by its name. But perhaps not quite as silly as the name Twingo, which is supposedly a combination of Twist, Swing and Tango. Though fine for confectionery  - "I'll have a Twingo, please, two Mars bars and some liquorice allsorts" - it's not a word many of us would feel comfortable placing at the end of the sentence "I drive a ... "In aid of a little brand research, I spent a week telling people I met that "I came in a Twingo". Suffice to say the response was not encouraging. A couple pretended they hadn't heard me, a few flashed me indulgent expressions, and one asked me if everything was OK at work.All this focus on what is, after all, just a name may seem beside the point, but there is a culture and history to motor cars that we'd be ill-advised to ignore. There is the romance of the road, and then there are the contents of the tuck shop: and the two don't really mix. Can anyone, for example, imagine Bruce Springsteen penning a lyric in which he takes his Twingo for a ride?That said, there is more to the Twingo than just sounding like a sweet. For a start, it also looks like a sweet: a squashed wine gum, possibly, or a half-consumed lozenge. Chunky but compact, there is something suspiciously reduced about the car, as if it started out as a people carrier and then had the people bit cut off.This odd sense of identity crisis is hardly allayed by the discrepant relationship between the large sloping windscreen, which suggests a safe, family-friendly experience, and low-slung sporty seats, which bespeak something rougher and more raunchy. I felt either that the screen needed to be six inches lower, or the seat six inches higher (and maybe both). As it was, I felt a bit like one of those underage joyriders, without quite driving into any trees or jewellery shops.The Twingo is what's known as a "hot hatch" - that's marketing speak for a small car with big ideas. The big idea with the Twingo Sport is that it's secretly a sports car. Hence it has its rev counter positioned on top of the dashboard behind the steering wheel, just like in a formula one cockpit. Not since Public Enemy's Flavor Flav wore an alarm clock around his neck has a measuring instrument seemed more conspicuously out of place.Arguably the sportiest thing about the Twingo is the clutch pedal. If you want to work on developing your left-leg muscles, then just spend a few hours in a Twingo changing gear and Arnold Schwarzenegger will be looking at your calf with drooling envy.A lot of expense has been spared by not bothering overly about comfort or ease. It makes for a stripped-down, almost old-fashioned drive - in twisting, swinging and tango terms, it's John Sergeant rather than Rachel Stevens - which is in keeping with the new temper of the times. It's practical, too. The back seats fold down to make generous boot space for a car of this size.The Twingo is not for everyone. But if you're looking just to zip around town, well, suck it and see.Renault Twingo Sport 133Price£11,550Top speed125mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.7 secondsAverage consumption40.4mpgC02 emissions165g/kmEco rating7/10At the wheelViolet BeauregardeBound forSalsa classIn a wordSweet
The Prince is back, this time as a wisecracking American in the latest outing of Ubisoft's tale, that's about as Middle Eastern as mom's apple pie and Starbucks. With a renewed emphasis on exploration, stringing together moves as you scuttle across walls and ceilings in search of your next handhold proves so easy it's second nature. Princess Elika accompanies you - effectively rendering you death proof - catching you when you're about to fall and popping up to revive you if you get carved up by an enemy. While this and your ease of movement conspire to keep things flowing magnificently, when combined with a lack of nuance or particular difficulty about getting where you're going, over time it lets the game slide into an unrewarding repetitiveness. As an instantly gripping experience that avoids blockages, the Prince rocks, but his long game is very seriously questionable.nick gillettUbisoft, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
The Nintendo DS, with its quirky control set-up and small screens, is perfect for puzzle games, a genre into which Exit fits very neatly. In it you control professional escape artist Mr Esc and any people or dogs he manages to rescue from burning or crumbling buildings, a sinking cruise ship, a tidal wave inundation and various other scenes of lighthearted peril. Using the stylus to guide Mr Esc and his charges around the screen as you try to get everyone to safety, the secret to solving its progressively more complicated puzzles is discovering the right sequence in which to open doors, extinguish fires and slide down ropes. Hindered by agonising moments when the sheer flakiness of the control scheme causes unintended casualties - all too regularly forcing restarts right at the end of a level - as well as the infuriatingly pitched cries for help of your rescuees, Exit is as compelling as it was when originally released on PSP and Xbox Live.• Square Enix, &pound;35
Over the years Midway has time and again shown itself to be a brand you can trust to churn out any old rubbish. Although its output of late has smacked of the kind of innovation you can comfortably condense into half a dozen bullet points on a press release, the resulting games have done little to change the publisher's image. Mortal Kombat Vs DC Universe won't either. With its usual selection of magical martial artists joined by a lineup that includes Batman, Superman, The Joker and Wonder Woman, the slightly stiff-looking fist-flailing that is the series' trademark looks rather primitive next to the multilayered subtlety of Soul Calibur or Virtua Fighter. Even its famous fatalities have been tamed, removing most of its earlier spinal cord-ripping excess and leaving behind a declawed and strangely old-fashioned husk of a fighting game that also features comic characters.• Midway, &pound;39.99-&pound;44.99
Just in case you haven't seen these, several sites are currently running lists of recommended freebie games - they might come in useful if you're having a frugal festive season. Games Rader hasthe biggest selectionincludingBonesawandNanaca Crashwhich I love. Pocket Gamer's list offree iPhone titlesis also worth checking out, especially for those of you who've spent every penny they have buying the handset and now have nothing left for App Store goodies. Finally, US news channel KOAA has teamed up withJayisgamesto providea quick list of indie winners.Any of your current favourites not covered? Link to them in the comments section and share your parsimonious pleasure!
Almost all of us use search engines, but most Britons "either have no idea or an inaccurate view of how online search results are determined," according to the Online Search Matters Survey produced forFastHosts, the Web hosting company. The main findings are:Nearly 1 in 4 Britons (24%) believe that the order of the search listings they use cannot be influenced by the publishers of websites listed, whilst a similar proportion (22%) suspect that results are ordered entirely according to how much has been paid by the websites listed. 1 in 5 consumers (19%) have no idea at all how results are compiled, and 5% believe that search listings are arranged completely at random like a lottery.To be clear: the major search engines do not charge for listings, but their results are influenced by Web site publishers, partly through the use of SEO (search engine optimisation) techniques.Men (33%) understand how search engines work a little better than women (26%).Britons also trust organic results more than the "sponsored listings" that often appear above or alongside them. Fasthosts says:1 in 3 (33%) believe these listings to be 'less worthy' and 'less useful' than main search results. Two thirds of web users (66%) report that they always pay attention first to main results, and some 40% of women and 34% of men will consciously ignore sponsored links whenever they appear.The survey is based on 1,636 UK adults interviewed byTickbox.netin November 2008 via electronic feedback forms.Of course, if you started compiling a list of things that lots of Brits don't understand, you'd be busy for some time. It's also not clear that understanding how search engines work has much practical value if you just want to find sites, rather than promote them. However, if I ran a search engine, I'd be looking for ways to make it clearer that organic results, unlike sponsored links, are not paid for.
When both Steve Jobs and Bill Gates announce something separately but simultaneously, you know it ought to be important. And so it was with the "digital home" and especially the idea that computers would be the "digital hub" of the home, which – weirdly, because I don't think they rang each other up to coordinate it – bothJobsandGatesdid in January 2001 at their respective speeches at Macworld in San Francisco and the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.And around about now, that vision is coming true. Except that it's not the computer they thought which is at the hub. It's a rather different one that hadn't even been considered at the time, using a technology that had only just begun to get traction. That would be the iPod Touch, and Wi-Fi.Here's Chris Espinosa(an Apple employee) as an example. Here's what he was doing last night: "Enforcing kids' bedtime by VNCing into their Mac from my iPhone and closing their windows. Modern tough Dad." (VNCis a remote access program: you tell it the IP address of the machine you want to go to, and if it's set up to allow you in, you can control it right there.)OK, so to many that's a method that's beyond geeky – is it so much trouble to talk? – but it's indicative. I think Wi-Fi-enabled devices, plus Wi-Fi, are the real home hubs that Gates and Jobs had begun to imagine. But they couldn't really describe them then without sounding too futuristic.Take another product: earlier this week I was stunned by the quality and ease of theiPhone/iPod Touch controller for the Sonos multi-room music system. A free software download can transform your iPhone or Touch into a controller for the wireless system, which can play different tracks (or internet radio, or stuff from a line in, such as your TV set) all around your house. Very impressive when you consider that the stand-alone controller costs £279. (The software to control the system is also a free download for your computer, but who wants to be jumping up and down twiddling their computer rather than listening to music?)And another: thelatest release of Keyboard Maestro, a key-capture-macro-launcher program for the Mac: it "adds to the macro utility a Keyboard Maestro Control app for the iPhone and iPod touch that enables users to execute any macro from your iPhone or iPod touch, just as though you were sitting at your Mac. Possible uses include launching or quitting applications, restarting or shutting down the Mac... iTunes song rating capabilities for the current track, iTunes volume controls, and a variety of interface refinements." To me, that sounds worth the price of the upgrade (I've got an ancient version) on its own.Together these technologies are creating an environment where you can control all sorts of devices around the house from that small handheld device. A growing number of homes use Wi-Fi – it's the only connection the Wii comes with, and wireless routers are being pushed for all they're worth by BT and other broadband providers. (About time; those USB broadband modems are beneath useless.)To be honest, I've been expecting something like this for ages. When the rumours began flying in October 2001 of some "revolutionary" product Apple was going to introduce, I thought that the obvious thing was a Wi-Fi tablet that would connect to your computer and network and do things. (I'd already discovered the joys of Wi-Fi in January 2001.) So when Jobs announced a digital music player - the same sort of thing Rio had been doing for years – I was, to say the least, disappointed. Which is why Ikept expecting the iPod to be turned into a platform. Which now, of course, it is.And Wi-Fi is really making inroads at home. Almost 30% of homes have it, according to research by Forrester, against only 12% with a wired home network. Even in 2003,nearly a third of US broadband users at homeused Wi-Fi. (Feel free to be amused by the phrase in that story which talks of "lean economic times", by the way.) Even a drive-by test by Peter Cochrane, plus a bit of figure-wrangling, suggestsat least 7% of homesusing it in early 2007. These things cascade.The mistake that other companies have made is in thinking that you want to havetheirremote control to do these things. You don't, any more than you want a remote control for every single gadget in your house (even though that's how it ends up). Universal Remote Controls tend to sell well (even though Stephen Fry swears he's never found a good one).None of this precludes other companies from making their own machine that you can use to control your network-aware devices. The problem is, they won't have the penetration. The iPod has driven all before it, and the iPhone shows signs of doing precisely the same in the smartphone market. I'd advise companies like Microsoft (with Windows Mobile) and Google (with Android) to start cosying up to companies like Sonos pronto. Not, of course, that they need much encouragement from me.But now, the universal remote is on the way. Network-connected devices just need to listen for their orders over the network, and with Wi-Fi you've got a way in. (So if you update your favourite radio stations or playlists for the Sonos gear on your iPod Touch, that's transmitted to the related devices, including the dedicated controller, if you have one.)But this is only the first step. Think bigger. Do you know what the temperature is in all the rooms of your house? Is the hot water on? As it gets easier to make sensors that can talk to the network as well, it becomes easier to control your home via a real home hub. Turn the radiators down in rooms you aren't in. Turn off the hot water. Let your home tell you how it is. (An example: Andy Stafford-Clark of IBM has ahome with a Twitter feed. How's his hot water doing? And you can read more atthis page.)And if that weren't enough to convince you that this is all coming down the rails like a train without brakes, there's Bill Thompson, whodescribes his connected home to the BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones:We watched as Bill and his 16-year-old son Max put the system through its paces – selecting iPlayer programmes to stream onto the wall, watching YouTube videos, and using the Xbox 360 – not just to play games, but to store and play video previously downloaded to Bill's desktop computer.Yup, it's all coming. Hell, it's about time that we could see some gleams of light amidst all this depressing talk. Let's build ourselves out of the recession. Technology seems as good a way as any.
Jim Sterling at Destructoid has writtena truly heartfelt piececlaiming that the survival horror genre has evolved itself into distinction. His argument is that the very elements that made games like Resident Evil and Silent Hill so scary - fixed camera angles, restrictive movement controls, lack of weaponry - are today viewed as poor design mechanisms and would not be tolerated by modern gamers. He also asserts that modern takes on the genre, such as Resi 4 and Dead Space, don't really qualify as 'survival horror' experiences - they are action games with a few shocks lobbed in.I agree with Jim to a certain extent - modern horror titlesaremuch less restrictive than the likes of Resident Evil 1 and 2. While these days we expect a camera to work almost seamlessly to always give the player the best view of the action, Capcom's original Resi titles employed the tricks of schlock horror movies, using expressionist camera angles to disorientate the player, and to conceal key elements; such as a zombie lurking in the other corner of the room. Now, that directorial baton has been past to the gamer, or simply erased altogether via camera systems that leap and swoop all over the place like paparazzi snappers at a Britney PA.I don't believe though, that true survival horror is dead...I think Dead Space did uphold some of the true conventions of the genre, and I'm interested to see if Ubisoft's forthcomingI Am Alivetakes us back to the low - or even no - ammo era. Set in the aftermath of a mysterious natural disaster, it's unlikely the game's everyman hero will be arming himself with an M16 and unlimited ammo.Also, it could be that traditional survival horror is revived in the indie gaming sector, where graphical restrictions are embraced thanks to smaller teams, lower budgets and a willingness to buck trends. The RTS, for example, which has similarly fallen foul of the contemporary industry's obsession with epic 3D visuals, has flourished in the indie sector via the Tower Defense sub-genre.And indie gaming needn't mean smallscale flash and browser titles anymore. Xbox Live Arcade, PSN, WiiWare, Android and iPhone have all created a demand for both innovative and retrospective gaming experiences. Witness the success of Sony'sSiren: Blood Cursewhich was much better received as an episodic download as it perhaps would have been as a straightforward retail release (though it did get one in the end). And if you're looking forreallyminimal horror thrills, there'sIn The Pit, an Xbox Live Community game which uses only sounds to convey the action.So I think reports of the death of the survival horror genre have been somewhat exaggerated. As all genres must, it has evolved for the mainstream, and it has lost some beloved things along the way. But game designers will eventually realise that people like to be scared, and will accept limitations in order to get that hit. Look at the Blair Witch Project. Look at Wolf Creek. Look at Donkey Punch. Horror is cheap. Someone in the industry will figure that out again before long.
Yahoo is "getting fit", which must be the 21st century incarnation of the 1980s euphemism of 'right-sizing', thought up by the late 20th century masters of managerial spin to replace the senselessly negative term downsizing. In a somewhat unsuccessful marriage ofe.e. cummingsandFrederick Winslow Taylor, outgoing Yahoo CEO Jerry Yangbroke the bad news to employees:but as you all know, we must take actions to better perform in today's turbulent global economy. while we've found efficiencies in many parts of our business, laying off employees is unfortunately unavoidable. our difficult decision to let colleagues go reflects the changes we're having to make to better align costs with revenues - something businesses in virtually every sector are also having to do.Yahoo isn't the only company making employees redundant as the economy sours around the world, and if any managers need advice on how to let your employees down gently, Yahoo has a handy template for you.Yahoo has some tips on how to set up the meeting andhow to respond formulaicly to employee upset. Remember, first and foremost Yahoo management advises:Be a LEADER. Be available and visible throughout the day. No war stories, no gossip. Show respect and dignity for impacted employees.As with Yang's statement, I'll imply a 'sic'. Grammar pedants begone. It's Yahoo's grammar not mine.The further list of 'Dont's' includes:• Engage in small talk about personal matters, DO get directly to the point.• Attempt to answer the "why me?"• Own the employee's feelings• Say that you disagree with the decisionI find number two in the list particularly existential. If I were a manager, I'd immediately suggest reading Jean Paul-Sartre's Nausea, or if the employee was particularly bitter, suggest that they see No Exit. I'm sure that they would feel that Hell is other people after being sacked.Unfortunately, Yahoo managers better keep the script handy. This might not bethe last round of redundancies. But this might be thebest covered round of redundancies everwith plenty of first-person stories on Twitter,FriendFeedandphotos on Flickr.
RadioShackclaims to be "the first major US retailer to offer an ultra-lightweight, mobile netbook Internet device with integrated 3G wireless technology," with a version of the Acer Aspire One going on sale for only $99.99 at 4,400 company stores. But there's a catch: at that price, you have to sign up for two years of AT&amp;T's DataConnect mobile broadband service, which costs at least $60 a month.In other words, your $500 netbook comes in at $1,540, including connection charges.It's an idea that has already been tried in the UK, of course, and some other countries. This is reflected in thepress release:"Many people internationally are already enjoying the portability, on-the-go connectivity and affordability of this emerging new technology," said Peter Whitsett, RadioShack's executive vice president - merchandising. "We are proud to introduce this concept in the US by offering a netbook with integrated 3G functionality in addition to full Wi-Fi capability."The official announcement is not a surprise. Engadget was leaked the story on December 8:Contract-laden 3G Acer Aspire One hitting US at just $99?It's an obvious marketing ploy given that netbooks are now cheaper than many smartphones. However, one of the attractions of a netbook is that you can use Wi-Fi hotspots and Skype or a similar service to avoid paying the high charges imposed by mobile phone networks. Buying a 3G bundle reduces that advantage.So, are bundled netbook deals a good idea or not? Why would you buy one?
The Free Software Foundation has sued Cisco (PDF) over the open source code used by its Linksys division. It's essentially a copyright violation case.The FSF says:Most of these programs are licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL), and the rest are under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL). Both these licenses encourage everyone, including companies like Cisco, to modify the software as they see fit and then share it with others, under certain conditions. One of those conditions says that anyone who redistributes the software must also provide their recipients with the source code to that program. The FSF has documented many instances where Cisco has distributed licensed software but failed to provide its customers with the corresponding source code.The FSF says it has been working with Cisco since 2003, when it bought Linksys, and that this is the first time it has had to go to court in 15 years.In a statement, Cisco says:Cisco is a strong supporter of open source software. Cisco takes its open source software obligations and responsibilities seriously and is disappointed that a suit has been filed by the Free Software Foundation related to our work with them in our Linksys Division. We are currently reviewing the issues raised in the suit, but believe we are substantially in compliance. We have always worked very closely with the FSF and hope to reach a resolution agreeable to the company and the foundation.TheFSFwas founded by Richard Stallman, who also created the GPL and started the development of the GNU operating system (from Gnu's Not Unix).
I don't know about you, but that was a fast week. Not content withWiki censorshipand Facebookviruses, we also managed to score an unholy trinity ofHitler,FranceandDad's Army. And now I'm trying to catch my breath.Still, it's now less than a fortnight until we all load ourselves up with immense amounts of food, roll around in full bloat and sit listening quizzically while an extremely posh woman talks in an accent I find impenetrable. I for one can't wait.And what's the only thing more traditional than that? Well, I can think of one thing: the holiday lists and end-of-year roundups put together by lazy journalists in the few moments they aren't skipping out of the office to go Christmas shopping?Never ones to shy away from convention, I therefore bring you today's Friday Afternoon Question: a plaintive request to help your fellow readers by sharing your tips and suggestions gathered from the past 12 months.What's the best website or service you've discovered this year?I've been racking my brains for my own suggestions. Moving to the US has rekindled my love affair withPandora, and I loveHype Machinefor finding music. But I think I'm going to put forwardEtsy, a sort of eBay for handmade goods, which I actually discovered in 2007 but has come into its own this year.
The Guardian's home-grown computer game,Spaceship!, made its first public outing at Brighton's £5 App event on Wednesday.Barry Tucker(coder extraordinaire) and I presented it to the crowd, describing the why, the how and the who. It was quite an event, with Spaceship! posters of many flavours (get yours atBarry's Spaceship! site, along with other Spaceship! goodies!) and people clambering to get their own copies on USB to take home.Check out our slide deck here.You can play the game by headinghere, and so let us know what you think. We'll be continuing work on it for another couple of months in response to comments and transcripts from testers before we release it to indie conferences around the world.Also at the games-themed evening, where presenters demonstrated games and playthings they made for less than a fiver, I had the opportunity to see the coolest phone app I've ever seen:Lastminute.com Labs' multiplayer sword/lightsaber fighting game, with sound effects, which involves physically swinging and parrying and blocking. Like the Wii, but without the need for the Wiimote. As the boys said, the aim was to create a console game without the console.PhoneFight was originally developed at July's HackDay, but was demonstrated, with all new graphical effects and sounds, at £5 app.Check it out at github. Only available for the Nokia N95 at the moment, the boys from the Lab hope it will break free soon. As do I.Once again, congratulations to theSpaceship!team, whose names are listed below:DennisChowPhillip WaltersPerrin AshcroftMichael Brunton-SpallBarry TuckerStatusJonesBambino TostareBridget DackLimniCavalcadeCtmillerDave ChapeskieEdible VisionsCunningStuntFantomexHambargarzHiddenAwayMeepMeepNDGTin RobotNybbleWeefzCamaxAlobsterApocalyspse CowAndyHillAndy BorleyAdamCroweColonelKilgoreCheddarFrenzyCharlesUllmanDafElsaIlluminantRobkunRolfNick PlainFearofFoursJim PooleyJumbleJumbleJetamoKerry TurnerMachineisboredThe Mighty JagTrev ver TSonofSaitoMitotoSalubriousoneSenor MonkfishThe Selfish GiantUnPremeditatedYorkiebarZoozoobabaEd SluddenGeo AshtonAleks' MumOur Anonymous ContributorsEmily ShortGraham NelsonThe Guardian Gamesbloggers
What's your favourite piece of technology?Both:The iPhoneHow has it improved your life?Will:I'm by nature a little scattered and disorganised, and never have a camera or organiser/address book that I carry around. The iPhone makes it all consolidated. It combines all of my other devices. And then it's just sort of cute.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Julie:About 3 weeks ago at a bar in New York to take a picture, and then I never found it again – it got stolen!What additional features would you add if you could?Will:The practical stuff you can find at the app store. I don't know, teleportation? The ability to read people's minds? But the ability to search email – that would be a massive thing.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Julie:Yes, I do. They'll probably have the iPhone 36G by then.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?Will:They should, get an iPhone. I have a very PC/BlackBerry family, so that's what I tell them. It's a little bit sad.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Julie:I'm totally a luddite. I fumble around technology.Will:Both of us are inclined to use technology only if there's no other way around it.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Julie:My Macbook Pro.Will:I remember there was a thing my dad gave me as a Christmas gift that I thought was really cool, about eight or nine years ago – the Mac Talk.  It could translate speech into text, and it would transcribe it into text. But it was unable to translate anything it said – it was just gibberish.Mac or PC?Will:our whole Onion organisation is very fervently pro Mac, despite doing jokes about them. For creative people there is no comparison.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most-played list?Will:I'm slightly embarrassed to say that our entire office is addicted to the Rhianna song Umbrella. To the point we all went to a friend's wedding a couple of months ago and tried to learn it in perfect three-part harmony.Will robots rule the world?Will:They already do.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Julie:I guess a robot. Or another iPhoneJulie Smith is general manager of theOnion News Network;Will Graham is executive producer/director
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Links we've liked over the past week.• TheGamesList &gt;&gt;thegameslist.com• Online Gaming Software Developers &gt;&gt;cyberarts.com• Gamesindustry.biz's Developer director &gt;&gt;gamesindustry.biz• £5 App Xmas Special &gt;&gt;ianozsvald.com• D&amp;D as a racist tract &gt;&gt;raphkoster.com• Eidos 'in takeover talks' &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Marketing in games vs web &gt;&gt;raphkoster.com• Virtual Worlds Interactive Timeline &gt;&gt;raphkoster.com• DRAWMINOS &gt;&gt;drawminos.comfromdelicious.
Phew. Spore and Force Unleashed hit in September and since then every Friday has seen a host of good games released. October and November, in particular, were ridiculous with simply far too many decent, or at least interesting, games released. FIFA 2009, Fable 2, Fallout 3, LittleBigPlanet, Call of Duty: World at War, Resistance 2, Dead Space, Mirror's Edge, Prince of Persia – the list goes on. Who frankly has the time and money to give all these games the attention they deserve?EA boss John Riccitiello'srecent commentsabout slow sales for Mirror's Edge, for example, highlight the dangers of the crowded release schedule.  But finally, today, the games have dried up. At last. Unless you are a PC owning Prince of Persia fan there is little of interest released today. Hurrah. Finally we have a chance to take a breath and start properly playing the pile of games that will – ultimately – keep us going until things pick up again in February.So this weekend then, what are your gaming plans? Planning to pick up a recent release? Or happy working on your gaming to-do pile?
Stephen Fry, who is fast becoming the patron saint of British geeks, is at it again. He maywaved adios to his column in the Guardian, but that doesn't mean we can't point to his sterling work over at StephenFry.com.His latest opus? A10,000 word overview of 2008's smartphones- something of a follow-up to hisfirstblog entry.Fry knows his stuff, but I think the real insight here is into the life of a gadget addict: a world filled with endless piles of hi-tech baubles that only serve to entertain us until the next bit of shiny kit comes along. Obviously, he's an extreme case - but I think plenty of geeks can understand the picture he paints: a life swathed in cables, screens and expensive gizmos.Yes, there are probably worse things to waste your time on. As he puts it:A strange obsession, mine. But better to be addicted to smartphones and gismos than cocaine or sex, I suppose. Well, I don't know, the result is the same after all, very little sleep, great expense and horrific mess everywhere.True. And yet I am not entirely happy to recognise myself in his description of a n existence where too much time and too much money is invested in little bits of plastic and metal. All this, and for what?The promise that technology can make lifebetterhas, by and large, been replaced by the offer of a fleeting moment of satisfaction - the smirky smile in the corner of your mouth, or a raised eyebrow when your latest gadget does something you didn't expect. Is this what we wanted? Have we lowered our expectations? Or am I just being struck by the moment of shame that every addict feels before they head off for the next hit?
Thought the Yahoo layoffs were over? Not quite... today it seems thatGeorge Oates, a high-profile member of theFlickrteam and one of the site's early employees, was told that she was being given the chop too. She's recently been in Australia, so the fact that her bad news has arrived a day late could just be a quirk of travelling - but I'm trying to find out if other members of the Flickr team are also being laid off as well. (Update:I'm told two other members of the Flickr team also got laid off.)Oates - who designed Flickr's interface - is highly-regarded, confirming that this round of job cuts isbasically arbitrary- but it also marks a bit of a watershed for Yahoo.Since its acquisition early in 2005, Flickr has been considered the golden child of the organisation; a cool web application that they bought in and thought was so good they evendumped the more-popular Yahoo photos in favour of it.But clearly Flickr's no longer untouchable. Despite its reputation (or perhaps because of it) I was told that the site was among the assets Yahoo was prepared to sell to Microsoft. Clearly nothing is untouchable these days, even the success stories.(More bad news for startups acquired by bigco: Last.fm ismaking 20 people redundantthe day after its Christmas party).
You probably missed LeWeb in Paris -- which might not be a bad thing, considering Paul Carr's report:Freezing cold, no internet, boring: it's a French web 2.0 conference!)-- but you can watch22 minutes of videoshowing Michael Arrington (TechCrunch) and Loic Le Meur (LeWeb) interviewing Google's vice president of search product and user experience (sic) Marissa Mayer on Wednesday afternoon.Arrington notes that: "Mayer announced that their Chrome browser would shortly beleaving betaand thatGoogle Search Wikiwould soon have a toggle button to allow people to turn it off." The former will be interesting, since its security might be tested. (It might still be beta code, but PC makers don't like bundling beta software.) The latter is a Very Good Thing since Google Search Wiki looks like another of Google's crappy half-baked experiments. No one actually uses it, do they?OurPDA bloghas more on Chrome.
Dick Hardt, an open source security expert who blogs atBlame Canada, has announced that "I am leaving Vancouver and moving to the Seattle area to take a job with Microsoft." He has a Q&amp;A about the move atIdentity 2.0.Hardt is founder, chairman and bartender atSxip, which provides Sxipper for Firefox. And he's a Mac fan. But he's also had "a few unsophisticated investors that have been … making my life miserable for the last 10 months," and presumably got an offer he couldn't refuse.I presume he's already been working with Microsoft's identity 2.0 expert, Kim Cameron.As I noted earlier, after Google'sBen Laurieshot holes in OpenID, there was:ajoint announcementfrom Dick Hardt of Sxip Identity, Michael Graves from VeriSign, JanRain's Scott Kveton and Kim Cameron. This said that OpenID (JanRain and Sxip) will support InfoCards, Microsoft will support Open- ID, and Kim Cameron "will work with the OpenID community on authentication and anti-phishing."Still, I wouldn't have bothered with this, except for the chance to recommend you watch Dick Hardt's famouspresentation on Identity 2.0 at OSCON2005. You won't regret it.SeeNetwork Worldfor more.
I missed this yesterday, but Sega has unveiled a new free-to-play casual gaming portal, unambiguously titled,PlaySEGA. There's a large range of basic arcade and puzzle-style titles, including simplified versions of well-known console franchise like Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games (in the mini-version, Mario is conspicuously absent). Visitors can earn PlaySEGA rings as they go along which can be used to customise their profile and avatar.According to Casualgaming.bizthere are also plans to introduce a VIP area where it'll be possible to access 'proper' Sega titles like Chu Chu Rocket (hurray!) and Columns.Of course, Sega isn't the first mainstream publisher to flirt with the casual massive. EA has itsPogocasual gaming site, and a whole division dedicated to creating casual/lifestyle titles. Ubisoft, too, has made major strides into this sector with its rapidly increasingImaginerange.The one publisher you can't quite imagine entering this space is Rockstar. Hmm, but if itdid, how do you think the creator of Grand Theft Auto and Manhunt would adapt its franchises for the online browser gaming market? Perhaps a GTA-themed colour-matching puzzler in which you line up three or more similar firearms? Or a drug-dealing version of Paperboy?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
The industry calendar may currently be dominated by private Christmas parties, but come the new year, the rabble are welcomed back in. In our Gamesblog Google Calendar, we've updated the latest dates for games events around the world. Quarter 1 highlights include:BETT(14-18 January, London, UK): the leading show for educational software in the world.Mobile World Congress(16-19 February, Barcelona, Spain): come get (and peddle) your mobile apps here!South by Southwest Interactive(13-17 March, Austin, TX): games + web with a music dessert.Theinteractive event of the year.Game Developers Conference(23-27 March, San Francisco, USA): This US-based event took centre stage after its more southern cousin, E3, decided to shut its doors. Also includes the Independent Game Festival.ICE(26-28 March, Toronto, Canada): Canada's biggest games magnet showMIPTV(30 March - 2 April, Cannes, France): The biggest TV buying and selling event, with an impressive games and digital presenceAre you an indie festival director? Do you have an event you'd like us to promote? We'd love to hear from you. Send yours into gamesblog +at+ gmail.comFollow ushere!
While trying - unsuccessfully - to install themoviedownloads.com software, I installed µTorrent, and got an AOL alert saying it was a security risk. I have twice told the website that I have uninstalled µTorrent and have asked for a refund. So far it has merely responded with further step-by-step instructions.Ralph BlumenauThe Movie Downloads is one of the many sites that "sells" free peer-to-peer software so that you can download movies from other peer-to-peer software users, in violation of any copyrights. Some people would say this was a scam, but TMD's FAQ says: "The software is completely free of charge. What you pay goes towards supporting our technical team and paying for the creation of more user guides." It sounds as though you're getting the support you paid for. Either way, I'd definitely recommend against using sites like this for movies or music.µTorrent is a very small open source BitTorrent client program, and not a security risk if you downloaded it fromutorrent.com. I'd recommend against downloading filesharing software from sites where you can't know if they've changed it or bundled their own malware or Trojans with the installation files.
Can you suggest a suitable notebook PC so I can collect emails and search for accommodation while travelling? Light weight is the driving factor. I use Microsoft Windows, Excel and Word.Brian HartlesUltraportable notebook PCs such as the Toshiba Protégé and ThinkPad X series tend to cost over £1,000, so I'd suggest a netbook such as the Samsung NC10 or Acer Aspire One instead. Both have 1.6GHz Intel Atom processors and run Windows XP in 1GB of memory. The Samsung has a bigger screen (10.2in versus 8.9in), a bigger hard drive (160GB against 120GB) and weighs slightly more (1.33kg against 1.26kg). Both were launched at £300 but the Acer usually costs less while the Samsung sometimes costs more. The Acer is older, in higher volume production and more widely available; the Samsung is a bit better.
I used LocoScript to record my collection of natural history slides. I am now unable to open them, though I can produce a list of them on my PC screen. I have gained advice from LocoScript staff in the past but the telephone lines I used to use are no longer available.John FairbankLocoScript was the word processor used in the Amstrad PCW, and the company still has a website atlocoscript.com. This gives a PO box address and a phone number, or email sales@locoscript.com. LocoScript offers disk and file conversion services, with prices starting at £11.75 per disk.John King, last mentioned in this column in 2002, offers a cheaper service, which costs £3.50 for the first disk. Anyone who still has valuable data on PCW disks should really get it converted sooner rather than later. PCW addicts unable to let go can getJoyce, a free emulator for Unix, Windows and Mac OS X. The PCW was codenamed Joyce, after Alan Sugar's secretary.
I inadvertently opened some personal files from my USB memory stick on my company laptop, to which I do not have admin rights.AWFAs far as I know, opening files from a memory stick does not leave traces on the hard drive. However, the file names will usually be listed under Documents in the Windows Start menu, and in the list of recently accessed files in some applications such as Microsoft Word. These can be cleared usingCCleaner, which is best run with admin rights, but works without -- it might not be able to delete some files. Also, anything that has been in the PC's memory can be written to the swap file,pagefile.sys. However, this changes on a continuous basis, so I assume it would be difficult to extract anything from that.
Do you know of any NAS devices that can stream the media (pictures, music and videos) to the Xbox 360? I'm currently using a portable USB hard drive, but would really prefer a NAS solution that can be accessed from the two PCs in the house as well.Scott MartinThe Xbox is designed so that you can stream video from a Windows Media Center PC, so the Microsoft solution would be aWindows Home Serversuch as the HP MediaSmart. An alternative network attached storage (NAS) device is theQNAP TS-109 Turbo Station, which mentions streaming to the Xbox 360 and Sony PlayStation 3 as one of its features. The TS-109 usesTwonkyMedia's UPnP/DLNA(Universal Plug and Play/Digital Living Network Alliance) software, which you can obtain separately and use with many NAS servers.Plutinosoft's blogdescribes how the author built his own NAS using TwonkyVision for Xbox streaming. There's also theGeeXboX uShareopen-source project, which is developing free UPnP/DLNA Media Server software for Linux (ushare.geexbox.org), which might be worth a look.
USB Flash drives are being touted as the newest way of storing vital personal medical information, such as allergies. Phil Campion, an ex-SAS soldier, dreamed up the idea - which he has dubbed the UTag - while serving in Afghanistan, where he'd sewn a Flash drive containing his ID into his clothes, just in case anything happened to him. TheUTagis a memory stick disguised as a dog tag that can be worn as jewellery or attached to a key fob. The robust aluminium casing is stamped with the recognised emergency symbols of a snake on a staff and ICE (standing for "in case of emergency"), enabling emergency services to know instantly what it is.With both the price and size of Flash drives shrinking dramatically in the past few years, such storage seems like an obvious way to carry important data - such as an allergy to penicillin - around.Medical "jewellery" at present tends towards 1970s-style frumpiness, and has other limitations. One type opens to yield a minuscule sliver of paper that requires a magnifying glass to read the information on it. The other is engraved with a phone number for a central database which stores your medical data - which costs from &pound;30 for the bracelet, and then &pound;25 or more annuallly for the subscription.Paramedics have already moved with the times in seeking help. If you've been in an accident, one of the first places paramedics will check for a next-of-kin ICE contact is your mobile phone. But what if the phone's been locked?A USB Flash drive to store medical data seems like a logical next step - but it's important to ensure paramedics will find it, while making sure the data and the owner are protected.The UTag's password-protected software interface is designed to work on all versions of Windows from ME upwards and is compatible with NHS systems. The single-view screen that launches needs no scrolling or clicking on additional tabs and holds a surprising amount of information. You can enter basic ID (but nothing that could be used for identity theft), plus details for two ICE contacts, your GP, your health insurance policy and of course information on any medical conditions, disabilities and allergies, including what medication you take. Only the holder can update their details, but emergency services staff can view them on a PC.For travellers, a bonus is that stored information can be translated into six main European languages simply by clicking on a flag. There's even a hidden, encryptable folder accessible only to the user to store scanned copies of a passport, travel insurance or driving licence.UTag offers a number of advantages. It is far more flexible than existing options, is relatively cheap at &pound;25 (there's a slimline credit-card version for &pound;20) and can be easily updated. At just 10g, it's lightweight, but is as obvious to paramedics as traditional jewellery - while holding more information than the ICE number on your phone.
As we plummet toward Christmas, the temptation to jump online and grab videogame hardware from any source possible gets more overwhelming - especially if it's a desperate last-minute gift. Last week, however, HM Revenue &amp; Customs warned that thousands of fake Nintendo DS consoles - complete with potentially dangerous power adaptors - had been seized at UK freight depots. And for every dodgy handheld that does show up, there will be hundreds of games and consoles that just never arrive. So here are five tips on online purchases - all learned through my own encounter with a fraudulent seller earlier this year.&middot; Use your credit cardPurchases made with a credit card are protected under the Consumer Credit Act of 1974, which makes your card issuer liable if anything goes wrong. Debit cards aren't covered. Checkbecardsmart.org.ukandcardwatch.org.ukfor advice.&middot; Check the website is safeThe best way is to shop from big sites, but that's not always possible. At least make sure the transaction is secure - look for the padlock symbol and https in the address window. Check that the site is a member of an online accreditation scheme likeInternet Shopping is Safe. Signing up with Mastercard SecureCode or Verified By Visa provides extra protection.&middot; Research the sellerEnsure it has a UK address and telephone number - ring it and talk to someone. Check that they're registered atCompanies House. Keep all the emails connected to the transaction - if things do go pear-shaped you'll need these to back up any court claims.&middot; Be careful on eBayIt's safer to buy from a shop or business seller rather than an individual. Also, if you're paying via PayPal, your purchase is protected via an online resolution process. Check the seller's user rating properly - click on the number and read a few.Safefromscams.co.uk/EBayFeedbackScam.htmland theGuides sectionare worth reading as they have information on the latest swindles.Read the product description carefully. Is it in full working order? Does it come with a warranty? If it's used, is it still within the warranty period? Look at postage and payment options, too. If anyone offers to get the item to you faster if you pay via bank or money transfer, forget it.&middot; Know your rightsBe ready to quote from The Sale of Goods Act of 1979, the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 and the Distance Selling Regulations 2000. And remember the golden rule: if it seems to good to be true, it'll probably explode when you plug it in.
Missing the pointVictor Keegan's criticisms of Ofcom's assessment of the market impact of the BBC's local video service (BBC has a right to be in the local arena, November 27) miss our central concern, which was the impact that the BBC service would have on innovation and investment by commercial operators developing new online local news and sports services.The 4% loss of revenues that we estimated was the maximum impact on commercial local news services as they are currently provided; not as they might develop. The article recognises, as does our assessment, that the standards of commercial local online news services vary. But commercial operators - newspaper, radio and others - have significant ambitions to develop these areas of their businesses. The BBC proposal comes at a time when the commercial viability of these services is uncertain, although a number of well-developed local news websites are now available.In these circumstances, even a small loss in revenue can have a very significant effect on the ability of commercial operators to launch new enhanced services that will ultimately benefit consumers of local news.Daniel GordonCompetition policy director, OfcomUnhealthy attitudeIn the description of the government's intentions and plans to close down communications in the event of a terrorist incident, two things come over loud and clear: the total distrust of the people by the government and the total determination to keep them ignorant of events as they unfold (Putting Armageddon on hold, December 4). I do not believe that this is a healthy attitude in a democracy.Mark AustinMorden• I'd hope that this has no basis in fact, as to do what is suggested would (a) probably not work (b) cause more problems than it solves and (c) almost certainly be illegal.randomreality.blogware.com• In case of terrorists, abandon Twitter!lifeonplanetme.blogspot.comCloudy Sky+Even in a world where people are permitted to make copies/backups of their content, we are reminded that he that giveth can frequently taketh away. Or at least screw up the week (Sky+ glitch sparks fears over TV archiving, December 4).medialoper.comLotus is bad for usersMy company uses Lotus Notes exclusively for a wide variety of collaborative activity. I use it only for email. I think there is a huge amount of unneccessary network activity going on that makes Lotus Notes such a burden on the users. I easily waste 90% of my time waiting for Lotus Notes to do whatever the hell it is doing. Lotus Notes may be great for administrators, but it's the USERS that have to do the real work of their businesses and anything that gets in the way of that is a serious detriment.C Thomas Wilson,The Aerospace Corporation, by emailPossibly correctI've seen this advert a number of times, where all manner of people wander around saying: I'm a PC. I don't want to rain on anyone's parade but I'm a bit of a stickler for syntax and it's not: I'm a PC. It should be: I'm PC. I mean that is Politically Correct. Right? Other than that it's a great ad for social progression. Maybe Jerry Seinfeld could make a cameo, but that's a moot point best left to those that dream these ad campaigns up.Steve Hooker,GoldthorpeQuestionable queryWouldn't it be more honest to call it "Ask Jack What To Buy From Microsoft?"David Robinson,by email• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
People have been saying for years that it was about time that computer games grew up. All that awesome technology being wasted on escapist fantasies - why couldn't it be used to generate interest in learning maths or something? Well, whisper it quietly, it might be starting to happen. It is, of course, a bit of a libel on the still-booming videogames market to say it isn't educational. You can't play Entropia Universe or Eve Online without learning skills that are useful in a capitalistic world, nor Football Manager without acquiring organisational skills. But they were unintended consequences rather than the game plan.Last year the Harvard Business Review linked online game-playing to leadership ability, pointing out that multiplayer games such as World of Warcraft and EverQuest are good at developing skills such as "risk-taking, speed and fluidity" that businesses need in a globalised digital workplace. IBM and other corporations use virtual spaces to hone management skills in a world where events such as the financial crash would have been regarded as far-fetched had they appeared in a computer game a year or two ago.Last week I saw two small examples of what might be the future. At a seminar organised by Digital Public, a consultancy, I met the young people behind Dead Ends, a videogame commissioned by Channel 4, which enabled kids from at-risk London areas to work withrollingsound.co.uk, a small multimedia company, to create a game about knife life on the city's streets with a serious underlying message. For 17-year-old Ollie Edgington, one of several kids to get their first full-time employment on the game, it was a chance to use his experiences on the streets.In Plymouth I visited TwoFour, an interesting company embracing everything from TV production to virtual worlds, which has linked with Stoke Damerel Community College to conduct entire lessons in Second Life for 13- to-17-year-old kids lacking motivation, with surprisingly encouraging results. Meanwhile, Sony Computer Entertainment has released to critical acclaim the UK-developed Little Big Planet, a PlayStation 3 game where players can learn elements of physics or other disciplines.TruSim, a division of Blitz Games Studios in the UK, has developed Interactive Triage Trainer, a 3D virtual representation of a real-world situation designed to train professionals how to prioritise their treatment of casualties after a catastrophe.These are a few examples of what could become a mass market under the watchful eye of the recently established &pound;3m Serious Games Institute at Coventry University. David Wortley, director of the institute, is hopeful that their work will dispel some of the social stigma around videogames to highlight positive applications that can deliver genuine solutions to real social and economic issues.The point of all this is that Britain has special skills in serious games which need to be harnessed if they are to fulfil their potential and reach a global audience. The videogames industry is already lobbying to get the government to reverse the worrying migration of the UK's skills base to Canada, where government subsidies have established one of the strongest gaming sectors in the world (A case of arrested development, October 23). While it is pouring vast amounts of money into a failed banking sector, the UK government ought to nurture what could become a huge growth industry for Britain.As Ray Maguire, head of Sony Computer Entertainment UK, told last week's seminar, Britain has the infrastructure, the devices and, increasingly, the content to generate success in serious games - but something is lacking. We have got the airplane and the runway, but lacked a control tower, he said. Sounds like a hint for the new business secretary, Lord Mandelson, to do a bit of his magic.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
