Very arty phonesNokia has launched the 8800 Arte mobile phone"to excite style-conscious consumers". The 8800 Sapphire Arte will follow next year.Marvels onlineMarvel Comicsis putting very early issues of comics such as The X-Men and Fantastic Four online, for in-browser viewing only.Stop housemate fraudSo Protect Me Limited has releasedPayment Blocker 2008 softwarethat stops the use of credit cards on a PC running Windows XP SP2 or Vista.Lonely creaturesAvideo-based matchmaking sitehas been launched for "young UK-based creative arts professionals" including film, graphics and marketing types.Find it, hear itSongzais a music search engine that lets you play songs, like an internet jukebox. But mainly it's a user-interface demo for Humanized software.Now in mid-sizeFollowing the success of its Small Business Server, Microsoft has launched an integrated Windows Essential Business Server formid-sized businesses.Spiritual networkingBeliefnetis beta-testing a social networking service for spiritual people.Scrobbled radioTheLast.fmmusic site has started "scrobbling" some BBC radio stations.
The Simpsons GameXbox 360/PS3/Wii/PS2/DS/PSP, &pound;39.99, cert 12+, Electronic Arts, 3/5Fear not: even though the DVD release of the feature-length Simpsons is imminent, this is no dreaded game-of-the-film. EA went to great lengths to create something with its own identity, including a bizarre storyline in which the Simpsons learn they are characters in a videogame, and acquire commensurate powers - Bart can become Bartman and Robo-Bart; Homer can turn into a huge, heavy blob; Lisa can transform terrain by  operating the Hand of Buddha; and Marge has a megaphone with which she can rabble-rouse. The story is spot-on, and often very funny. But the gameplay - each chapter requires you to operate two members of the Simpson family - sorely disappoints, thanks mainly to a dreadful in-game camera and frequent fiddliness. And while you can nominally explore Springfield, there's precious little to do once  you enter places like Moe's Tavern.  Considering The Simpsons Game has  benefited from EA's full resources, it ought to be a lot better.Steve BoxerCall of Duty 4: Modern WarfareXbox 360/PS3/PC, &pound;49.99, cert 16+, Infinity Ward/Activision, 5/5Any fears over Call of Duty's move from WW2 to the modern day are expunged within moments of starting the game. Escaping from a sinking ship while avoiding gunfire and crashing waves is a perfect introduction to one of the best first-person shooters around. This is frantic stuff, with interweaving plotlines, varied locales and visceral combat. There is more focus on squad play - a real sense of camaraderie is engendered - but this remains a war that only you can win. The single player game is fairly short, but so packed with standout moments that at least one additional playthrough is worthwhile. But longevity is ultimately supplied by a masterful multiplayer mode that allows you to build up your character over time.  Powerful stuff.Greg HowsonLego Star Wars: The Complete SagaDS/PS3/Wii/Xbox 360, &pound;29.99-&pound;39.99, cert 3+, LucasArts, 4/5The Complete Saga is exactly that. An amalgamation of the original and  prequel trilogy Lego Star Wars games, it has the same jokes and comedic cut-scenes, but with extra features and challenges. New and revamped levels, plus abilities like on and offline co-op, mean this isn't just a rehash, but rather a game that encompasses the entire six-movie storyline. Fighting Darth Maul, bringing down AT-ATs and exploring Jabba's  Palace are just a few of the moments that will liberate your inner child.  Gameplay variety also adds to its appeal, with exploration, puzzles, challenges, races and battles putting  paid to boredom. Though  the simplicity might deter hardcore gamers, the  size of the game and all the challenges and unlockables set before you are more than enough to make you pick up a pad.Keri Allan
A Google scientist seems to hope so but, unfortunately, the answer is probably no. Dr Hartmut Neven, Google's expert on image searching, was involved in a demonstration of quantum computing on Monday - even though most scientists are extremely doubtful that any real quantum computing took place.Google is experimenting with image searches that use the image itself, not just keywords (try adding "&amp;imgtype=face" to the URL of any image search), but it's hit-and-miss and makes huge demands on conventional computers, because it involves trying  a vast number of possible matches  and solutions.In theory quantum computers could help, by applying a basic principle of quantum mechanics - that a system isolated from interaction with the rest  of the world exists in every possible state at the same time. If we could keep a computer in this "coherent" quantum state for long enough, it could process every possible input at the same time,  as if we had millions of computers in parallel universes. Then all you need do is make the quantum state "collapse" in a way that produces an answer you can recognise as the result of your  computation.Researchers are struggling to build big enough quantum computers (with enough quantum bits or "qubits") and keep them isolated in a coherent state long enough to do real work. Any photon of interaction will destroy the coherence - and the more qubits you have, the greater the chances of interaction. The academic world has only achieved  systems with handfuls of qubits that  can stay coherent for a few microseconds.Monday's demo, at the SC07 supercomputing show in Reno, Nevada, used an algorithm from Dr Neven, whose company Neven Vision was bought by Google last year, running on a system that D-Wave Systems of Canada claims has 28 qubits. D-Wave uses "adiabatic" quantum computing, a method that it says can solve specific problems without the need for long decoherence times. It showed an apparent 16-qubit system in February (Computers are about to take a quantum leap into the future, February 8,tinyurl.com/28z4xp).However, other scientists are  dubious because D-Wave won't publish the results or discuss them in depth, and that's anathema in a world that prefers to progress by peer review and independent replication rather than press conferences: "Rather than answering scientists' questions about what, if anything, they've actually done that's novel, they seem to have descended ever further into the lowest kind of hucksterism," says Scott Aaronson, assistant professor of electrical engineering and computer science at MIT."The interest of D-Wave for me is mainly one of psychology, business  and the margins of science," says professor Andrew Steane of the centre for quantum computation at the University of Oxford. "My conclusion is that I suspect they are misleading themselves."
Kitchen computerHaving extended my laptop's screen to the new Toshiba LCD in the kitchen, I was impressed with the results. Is there a small, stylish/pretty computer suitable for the kitchen?Ieuan DaviesJS:Building small PCs to connect to HDTVs is a fairly common geek project, helped by the availability of low-power Mini-ITX (17 x 17cm) boards and barebones cases. These typically run a version of Windows with Media Center features (including Vista Home Premium) or the Linux-based MythTV (tinyurl.com/235t99). Articles such as Build Your Own Media PC at Trusted Reviews (tinyurl.com/27jpme) will give you an idea what's involved. Many small British suppliers will assemble systems to order. The Apple Mac mini could be an alternative, and is certainly more stylish. A few companies have tried producing commercial kitchen computers, such as Seattle-based Beyond (tinyurl.com/25hoc). It offered Icebox computers in both countertop and flipscreen versions, which could be mounted under a kitchen cabinet. It announced UK distribution in 2003. Did anybody ever see or buy one?Media Player alternativeCan you recommend a free alternative to Windows Media Player for playing videos, particularly .avi? I am after a less bloated player.Tony JonesJS:I think the best answer for Windows users is Media Player Classic. This can also play many QuickTime and RealVideo files, with the "alternatives" installed so you can avoid three lots of bloatware. If you download the K-Lite Codec Pack, this includes the Media Player, so you don't need to download it separately (tinyurl.com/2sxvy). The main free alternative is VLC, which is cross-platform. There are versions for Windows, Mac OS X, BeOS, and numerous versions of Linux and Unix (videolan.org/vlc).Palm not upgradedMy wife has an elderly Palm Tungsten - I think it's the E2 - and she needs to upgrade. I suspect she would not want to move too far away.Brian MoranJS:Palm handhelds have not moved on much and the Tungsten E2 is still current. The two-year-old Tungsten TX has the same Palm 5.4 operating system, but more memory, a faster processor and Wi-Fi, so that would be an upgrade. It also costs 50% more. Palm did launch a new smartphone, the Treo 500v, in the UK last month. However, it runs Windows Mobile 6, not the Palm OS 5.4.9 used in the US version, and I suspect she already has a decent phone.Old fogey phone?Have you any information about a DoCoMo mobile phone for old people?David LewisJS:The Foma F883iES phone, also known as RakuRaku (roughly, easy-peasy), has been covered at sites such as Pocketpicks.co.uk (tinyurl.com/2d3x25) and there are some good close-ups at Doplaza.jp (tinyurl.com/2mgnse). However, there is no guarantee it will ever be sold in the UK. An alternative is the Emporia Life, sold for &pound;170 by the RNIB (tinyurl.com/3xkqev).A firewall for Vista?I have been trying to find a free firewall for Windows Vista basic. Zone Alarm caused massive problems and I had to do a system restore. The Vista version of Sunbelt Kerio is not out yet.Dan StothartJS:That's an awkward question. Vista has a good two-way firewall: click the Advanced Security tab to see the features the XP SP2 firewall lacks (seetinyurl.com/2zsuea). The problem is that it allows all outgoing traffic by default, which is tantamount to assuming that your PC is malware-free. Setting up outgoing controls can be tricky work, so most people won't do it. Still, if you are a careful user and also run other anti-malware software, then the Vista firewall should be fine until a "best free firewall" emerges. If you are careless, accident-prone or under attack, try the free PC Tools Firewall Plus 3 (tinyurl.com/yv6vhu) or go for a commercial product.Backchat&middot; Richard Carden wanted a mobile with built-in DAB radio, and I pointed to a Virgin Mobile page offering the Lobster 700TV. On the Ask Jack blog, Briantist - who has one - says: "Sorry to disappoint, but you can no longer get a Lobster from Virgin Mobile." Daryl Kayes says the shortage of DAB phones "may be partly due to the heavy battery drain of DAB technology. For example, the Freeplay wind-up DAB radio should give you 10 hours of FM reception for 10 minutes of winding, but only half an hour of DAB radio." However, more power-efficient DAB chips are on the way.&middot; JW Tarrant wanted to digitise some large old black and white negatives and I suggested an Epson Perfection 4990 Photo scanner. On the Ask Jack blog, photographer David Hoffman says: "It might be worth considering getting a macro or duping lens and photographing the negs on a lightbox as an alternative method. If you have a lot to do then, despite the more complex initial setup, the throughput can be a lot quicker."&middot;blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack. Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, onjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
First Rubik's Cube, and then ...What's amazing is that the child doesn't even flinch at this evil twin of C-3PO which manifestly intends, once it has solved every Rubik's Cube, to enslave us all. Bet it can't climb stairs, though.tinyurl.com/2zaaopWhat you need is a Wii, ErnieThe evergreen Morecambe and Wise show how comedians used to get down with the yoof in this ancient advert for Atari's games console. The graphics! The games! The sounds! Oh, the humanity!tinyurl.com/2jf2luThe Facebook News NetworkOne day, news will be like this - in fact celebrity news already is. (Note: starts with an unrelated advert).tinyurl.com/2vxfer&middot; Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Want to get some money? Develop an application for Google's new "Android" mobile phone platform: the giant search company announced this week that it has $10m (&pound;4.8m) to be awarded to people who develop programs for it. "No strings attached - for great mobile apps built for the Android platform," the company says at the web page for the Android Developer Challenge (tinyurl.com/27mqwx).Among the suggestions are social networking, media (such as photos) management, gaming, instant messaging, news, mashups and "whatever you're excited about". But while some may be excited about being paid to code, many more are intrigued by the role that Google will play in the newly announced Open Handset Alliance, a group of more than 30 technology and mobile companies, including handset makers such as HTC and mobile networks including T-Mobile and Sprint.Google also released some videos suggesting how the phone might work, with mockups and video demonstrations suggesting that it has Apple's iPhone in its sights: among the key features would be a touchscreen, fast-scrolling maps and email - as well, of course, as making telephone calls.The browser is based on WebKit, the open source product on which Apple builds its own Safari browser, used in the iPhone.Android also means that the phone will be built on the Linux operating system. That isn't a first, but with Google and big handset makers such as HTC as well as networks with the heft of T-Mobile behind it, Android has the potential to create a new handset that could be low-cost and very adaptable: Google talks about being able to change the main interface as you like.But to Google, the main value lies in extending its potential reach for serving adverts."There are at least 3 billion mobile users in the world today, and there are more mobile phones worldwide than there are internet users or landline phones," says Eric Schmidt, its chairman and chief executive. "Getting people access to info is Google's core mission and mobile phones have to be part of that."Android-based phones are planned to go on sale in the second half of 2008.
I am looking at the screen of my computer. About two thirds of the right-hand side is taken up with advertisements which carry on as you scroll down. Across the top is a single horizontal advertisement taking up another third of the available screen. Welcome back to MySpace, the web phenomenon of our times that continues to defy its critics. They wondered why Rupert Murdoch paid as much $580m (&pound;280m) for it in the first place. Now they are wondering how he managed to get away with paying such a snip. They predicted he would alienate its culture when he put adverts on and then that its success would be eroded by the new kid on the block, Facebook. Instead, despite the undoubted success of its upstart rivals, MySpace is still putting on 300,000 new registrations a day (according to Murdoch) and now counting 25% of Americans on its membership base, even if they are not all regular users.That is a lot of people, and a potentially huge power base for Murdoch. Peaceful co-existence is the name of the game at the moment as nearly three-quarters of Facebook users are also MySpacers, according to Nielsen. A few months ago MySpace introduced hyper-targeting, enabling it to place adverts on our screens targeted to our individual preferences as identified by all the personal data we just can't stop putting up. Facebook is doing something similar. But make no mistake - this is only the beginning.Murdoch is now pushing MySpace in a new direction. The new web-only television (if that's still the right word to use) soap that started on MySpace at the weekend, Quarterlife, could prove to be a Trojan horse that will change the media landscape. We all know internet television is coming but we don't yet know which conduit (PC, websites, PDAs, mobile phones or even the traditional television set) will be the winner. Instead of trying to lure the increasingly switched-off younger generation to watch television, Murdoch is bringing television to where they hang out. Instead of watching shows in the living room with their parents, they can watch on the privacy of their own screens while continuing to multitask with their peers on MySpace, including chatting about the show (which, anyway, is about people like themselves chattering away). He has to tread carefully in case there is a backlash, but this is unlikely as MySpace is already a mass, if not mess, of videos.If it works, then think about the consequences. It could one day become a prime channel for much of the global output of the Murdoch empire, especially when high-definition screens are commonplace. There may even be a channel customised to what MySpace knows are our personal preferences gleaned from all the personal data we unload on the site without thinking, or even worrying, about what might happen to it.Quarterlife is a cultural change in another important way. Instead of user-generated content - the DNA of social networks - this is Murdoch-generated content, even though MySpace didn't actually make the programme. This points to a fresh bifurcation in the direction these spaces are heading. So far MySpace has been making pots of money from our content. Yet MySpace wouldn't exist without all the videos, songs, blogs and other content that users put up for their peers to enjoy. If this has to coexist with paid-for content from commercial providers (which YouTube is also starting to do) will this provoke a backlash with users demanding to be paid?The answer is probably not, since sites that are similar to Google's YouTube but give users a percentage of the advertising revenues (such asrevver.com) haven't taken off in the same way. One of the problems is that it is difficult to galvanise more than 100 million individuals all over the world into collective action. To do that you would need something like, well, MySpace.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Police in the Netherlands have arrested a teenager suspected of stealing virtual objects inside a popular social networking site, it has emerged.The 17-year-old, who has not been named, is alleged to have tricked players of 3D cartoon world Habbo Hotel before removing a number of virtual items they had bought. It is believed to be the first time European officers have arrested someone for stealing virtual property."The accused lured victims into handing over their Habbo passwords by creating fake Habbo websites," said a spokesman for Sulake, the Finnish company that runs Habbo. "As in many other virtual worlds, scamming for other people's personal information such as user names has been problematic for quite a while."The website, which has around 6 million users each month, is popular among teenagers and younger web surfers around the world. Users of the site are able to create and dress characters, or decorate their virtual hotel rooms with items and furniture bought using real money.Police in Amsterdam confirmed that five other teenagers were being questioned over the theft, which is believed to have netted items worth around &euro;4,000 (&pound;2,800).The sale of virtual goods for internet games and online worlds is a boom industry, with the market currently valued at around &pound;750m a year. Despite the popularity of virtual environments such as World of Warcraft and Second Life, virtual property laws remain untested in most parts of the world.Police in China have been tackling cases of virtual theft for years, including instances of organised gangs engaging in online robbery. Last year officers in the southern city of Shenzhen arrested more than 40 suspects who were accused of stealing up to 700,000 yuan (&pound;45,500) worth of virtual items from users of one popular website, QQ.
With oil prices nudging all-time highs, oil companies are considering how to extract the very last drops from wells, having been unable to increase production for the past 10 years.The oil majors are being helped in their deliberations by detailed simulations run on high-performance computer grids.  "There is a huge effort in getting more from the reservoirs," says John Hybertsen, principal engineer at Norwegian oil giant StatoilHydro."In some reservoirs they started out by saying that current production technology would get only about 45% of the oil. But we have aims of 55% or up to 60%, and you don't do that without controlling the production and knowing what is happening in the reservoirs."Understanding how oil flowsFor most reservoirs, it's not as simple as drilling a hole and fitting a large tap. Oil must be coaxed from the ground - pumped, pushed and pulled using complex techniques - and only an accurate map of the reservoir's rock structure and a dynamic model, or simulation, of how oil is released can prevent drilling in the wrong place.Before reservoir simulation, oil companies put wells in the ground and started draining, says Hybertsen. "They had no idea what happened down there, but sooner or later they pulled up water. Water flows easier than oil. Once you have water, only water will flow from the well. That's it; then it's done with that well."But understanding how oil flows through miles of rock before finally emerging through a 10-inch bore hole is complicated by the enormity of the problem.Neil Pickard, consultant geologist at Cambridge Carbonates Ltd, spends much of his time building models that form the basis of reservoir simulations. He says there is "often an astounding amount of data. We try to build a very detailed static image of the reservoir with surfaces and layers, and with those layers divided into three-dimensional cells. A typical cell may be a couple of metres thick, by 50 to several hundred metres across. We may end up with ten of millions of cells."Each cell gets a porosity, a permeability and an oil saturation value. Then there's the composition of the oil. Information is gathered from core samples, seismic data, and from evaluation tools measuring radioactivity, density and porosity."Even with this ocean of data, the picture is completed slowly. Each new seismic survey, borehole or production record adds more data to the model, and each day the engineers extend their knowledge of the reservoir.Predictions are compared with actual results and the model refined continuously, but, as Hybersten explains, knowledge is never perfect. "The engineers know the most about the reservoir on the day production ends."Accurate simulations predicting oil production over many years can take days to run, and for statistical evaluations many hundreds of simulations may be required, each testing a range of possibilities. And yet each morning StatoilHydro expects to take production decisions based on the very latest simulations.So a year ago the company embarked on a project to link five of its Linux clusters - four in Norway and one in Houston, Texas - into a multi-cluster grid using Platform Computing's LSF workload management software. The result was an 850-CPU grid capable of running thousands of simulations each day, and many different simulations, each with subtly different properties, can execute at once. The grid manages the capacity, moving the workload to wherever there is spare processing power so that reservoir engineers do not have to be aware on which processors or machines their simulations run.Crunch pointDeadlines are the crunch point, says Pickard. "Anything that helps run these things faster means you can do more sensitivity studies and more development scenarios, and therefore really understand the impact if you put 200 horizontal wells in, as opposed to 100 vertical wells."Speed and accuracy helps maximise the profitability of a reservoir over its lifetime. "We have thousands of simulations every day. They are run to forecast, control, to get statistics and simulate different scenarios. It costs about $100m (&pound;48.4m) to drill a well, so we have to get it right,"  Hybertsen says."Grid computing is making this impact on oil companies because we've reached the point where the technology simply works," says Ian Osborne, project manager for the government-funded Grid Computing Now! Knowledge Transfer Network, IECnet."Grid computing has given them orders of magnitude more accuracy in their modelling. There is a trend that people want to model their business more and more for many reasons; sometimes to help mitigate risk, sometimes to make sure of compliance with regulation. It comes down to knowing more about your business as it runs, and therefore making better decisions."Many of the 39 operating oil and gas fields operated by StatoilHydro, which produces 1.7m barrels of oil equivalent per day, are past their peak and have entered tail production. Accurate simulations can help a company manage this phase of an oil field's life.Oil companies may no longer be making giant finds, but computer simulation is helping extend the life of existing fields and, combined with record oil prices, making the exploitation of marginal reservoirs commercial. Simulation can increase the lifetime of a field "maybe as long as five to 10 years," says Hybertsen. "If you get 5% extra out of a reservoir, that will mean billions of dollars. They produce less, they pull up more water, they pull up more sand, but they make huge efforts to get the oil out."Each day the world demands more oil - but technology is pushing back the hour when the petrol stations run dry forever.
Last month's Pop!Tech think-in, held in the New England town of Camden, took some of the world's most intractable issues and applied social theory and thinking to them. Interspersed between musical  performances, films and demonstrations, all staged in a restored 19th-century opera house on the coast, were a range of contributions from some 500 thinkers from industry, business, technology, academia, journalism and the blogosphere.The ethos of the think-in is one of collaboration and the power of individuals and small groups to effect change. So on the agenda at the three-day conference, which looks at progress through popular technology, were issues including climate change, environmental damage and  cultural disharmony.If there is an overarching theme, it is that we understand humans as social animals. Says PopTech! curator Andew Zolli, making social theory more understandable will be a huge step forward in getting people to think about these issues. "If you want to think about galvanising people, you have to start with a structure, a map. So when we talk about the human impact it starts by charting what is," says Zolli.At this year's conference, which was founded 11 years ago by Bob Metcalf, inventor of Ethernet technology, and John Sculley, a former chief executive of Apple, were two people who believe that graphic representations of the world's problems provide a good starting point for social engagement. Seattle-based photographer Chris Jordan uses digital photography and publicly available statistics to depict starkly the amount of rubbish produced by US consumers, from the number of mobile phones "retired" each day (426,000) to the number of plastic bottles thrown out every five minutes (2m).Sensory cartographerThe resulting pictures (chrisjordan.com) are huge (170,000 batteries depicted at their real size requires a print measuring 26x43 feet), weirdly beautiful and frightening: they render statistics and raw data into something that we can relate  to emotionally.Meanwhile, British demographer Christian Nold creates "sensory maps" that aim to help people understand how they are interacting with their environment and with each other so that deeper conversations and interactions can take place. Nold uses devices hooked up to GPS transmitters to measure the physiological reactions of the people wearing them, namely changes in their adrenaline levels. He has become a sort of sensory cartographer. He reckons that his "biomaps" raise awareness of the increasingly urban nature of human life: 50% of the world's population was expected to be living in cities by this year, according to the UN. In 1950, that figure was just 30%. He explains: "I'm trying to bring prejudicial and personal ideas into my maps, not just neat colour-coding of a subjective view of poverty levels."London-based Nold's work has included what he calls emotional maps, often  carried out with local authorities. The idea of these is that volunteers wear a device that measures their emotional response to their environment. Volunteers walk around their neighbourhood and on their return a map is generated from the data collected by the device, which records the high and low points of their arousal by measuring their galvanic skin response. Nold's website (biomapping.net) explains: "By interpreting and annotating this data, communal emotion maps are constructed that are packed full of personal observations which show the areas that people feel strongly about." Nold has already worked on maps of Stockport, Greenwich and San Francisco. "I am trying to get them to recognise their sociality," Nold says.Another approach to dealing with the fast-paced world came from author Carl Honore, author of In Praise of Slowness. He told the conference that we should slow down and wise up to the consequences of our actions. This particularly applies to technology, he remarked, pointing to the advertising campaign by mobile operator Orange, which includes a tagline that talks about "good things happening" when the phone is turned off.Another speaker at the conference was Dan Pink, author of A Whole New Mind. He suggests that people in the technologically developed world are increasingly embracing things to add depth to their fast-paced lives such as yoga, meditation and organic food. He told the conference that our lives have been altered by the way in which we work and the tools we use to work, largely as a result of technology. "In an industrial economy the tools are large and cumbersome, but now the means of production are computer chips and they are cheap enough for one person to buy as well as carry around," he said.Pink is concerned about the effect of outsourcing. He explains that the long-term impact of offshoring has been underestimated: "In the US we have lost 400,000 jobs in total to offshoring in the last three years and this is equivalent to less than one month's worth of job turnover, which is nothing."But longer-term, if in a country like India a small proportion of its population becomes competitive, say 10% of 1.2 billion people, that is 120 million people [to compete against], or about the population of the UK."Pink says that the jobs that are under threat in advanced economies are ones that he describes as "left-brained", which emphasise linear, analytical and sequential thinking. These skills still  matter, but they matter less because they are easily replicable offshore, whereas more "right-brain" skills that include a level of "artistry, empathy and inventiveness" are less easy to offshore."The key word here is 'routine'," he goes on. "Work that has a script, a spec sheet or a series of steps with a right answer - like certain types of accounting and law - is disappearing from advanced economies," he says. According to Pink, "spreadsheet work" is becoming a commodity that is forcing developed economies such as the US, the UK and Japan to refocus on jobs that are harder to automate and outsource. These jobs, he says, are the ones that have more to do with design, creativity and "big-picture thinking".Multiple choicesThis shift in emphasis is affecting how engineering schools recruit new students so that, for example, two-thirds of engineering school Georgia Tech's incoming freshman class play a musical instrument, something the school is using as a proxy for nimble-mindedness, says Pink. "Employers are saying they don't want graduates who can fill out multiple choice tests," he goes on. "Staggering prosperity in  the advanced economies has changed business in profound ways. Procter &amp; Gamble are hiring in the art and design schools, saying 'we're in the design business, not the manufacturing products business', because that is the only way to differentiate in crowded markets."Other speakers pointed to the problems of wealth and consumption and their effect on the environment. One project highlighted at Pop!Tech was the Global Crop Diversity Trust's work to preserve the diversity of the world's crops by collecting seeds and putting them in an $8m (&pound;3.8m) vault being built in Svalbard in the Norwegian Arctic (croptrust.org).The trust, which was founded by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, hopes that the "doomsday vault" will eventually house 1.2m different seeds that could be used to form new varieties or to re-seed arable land. Cary Fowler of the trust explained: "Plant diversity is unique among the problems of global warming in that we can solve it by ending the mass extinction of crop diversity, by collecting and preserving seeds."Another speaker suggested the biggest hurdle to turning technology and innovation to our advantage against threats such as global warming is the difficulty the human brain has in reacting to threats that are not immediate and personal.Dan Gilbert, a Harvard professor of psychology, told the conference that the problem with galvanising people to tackle global warming is that it seems so removed from us, both in terms of its impact on us and what it is affecting - such as the polar bears under threat as the ice melts and shrinks their hunting grounds.He explained to the conference: "The brain is sensitive to relative changes and immediate physical threats, but global warming has been creeping up on us." He went on to explain that slow threats don't hit our "threat buttons" hard enough. "If climate change had the velocity of a baseball heading for our face or was caused by something that affected our moral sensibilities, like eating puppies, we would be massing in the streets against it."It was an eclectic range of topics from an eclectic range of thinkers, and a conference that, according to one, provided powerful "optics on the future".
A broader viewWhile agreeing that broadband and the internet can play a role in economic and social advantage, the many people I know with no interest in computers and the internet live extremely contented and fulfilled lives without them (Why has the growth in broadband adoption slowed?, November 8).Rather than being disadvantaged, they are the opposite end of the spectrum to those who live their whole lives in cyberland, in that they live in and enjoy all that the reality of the big world bestows on them.Sean O'Donoghue,Hay-on-Wye&middot; I am a dialup user with Orange as my ISP and last month the evening and weekend rates for dialup users were doubled - to 4p and 2p per minute respectively. The daytime rate increased from 4p to 5p per minute. Websites comparing ISPs are largely for broadband users and I can find no up-to-date comparison surveys for dialup ISP rates. Can anyone suggest a better value and reliable dialup ISP?Rod Bloor,Hemel Hempstead&middot; The slowing in broadband adoption would not be anything to do with cost, would it? My BT Broadband Option 1, not including calls, costs more than my gas bill and more than my electricity. This is for a three-bedroom mid-terrace property with central heating. Perhaps I should apply for Option None.Richard Matta,Budleigh SaltertonSlow route to the webFurther to the letters about ISP speed (What's my line, November 1), Alan Paterson asked: "Does any other business routinely deliver around 10% to 15% of what it promises ...?". BT customers should think themselves lucky. I have Virgin Media's 20Mbps service. The most I have seen is 15Mbps while I have seen it as low as 600Kbps. The explanation I had from a Virgin Media engineer was that living in an inner-city area with a very high student population, mostly with Virgin Media as their ISP, the infrastructure could not scale.Mike Vaughan,CardiffFree 192.com's data192.com allows some searches for free, other information requires you to buy search credits (Free our Data, November 8). If you have bought credits, they then get used up even if you then do a "free" search, unless you take care to log out, and they don't tell you this. 192.com should put its own house in order before telling others to free their data.Mike Whittaker,StapletonI'm baffled tooI have also read Seth Finkelstein's articles and, like your previous correspondent, have mostly failed to understand him (Letters, November 1).John Creek,TwickenhamThere's the rubThe message is the massage? Those spiritualists always rub me up the wrong way (Letters, November 8).John Dalton,FrizingtonRamming the point homeCharles Arthur has done a great service to those new to the Mac platform by pointing out the outrageous prices Apple charges for upgrading Ram (Apple goes Ram raiding, November 9). Apple's official explanation some years ago was that it is protecting itself from fluctuations in the Ram markets. While this might have once been a valid point, the trend for the past five years has been towards cheaper Ram, with hardly any uptick, and certainly not anything that would justify Apple's Ram prices.Furthermore, since the switch to Intel CPUs, Apple is using bog-standard components. Apple really has no excuse,  other than that it seems to be able to get away with it. Upgrading Ram couldn't be easier and third-party Ram couldn't be cheaper. I add my voice to Arthur's in urging new Mac users to forego Apple's upgrade and do it themselves. I love my Mac Powerbook and lust for the MacBooks and MacBook Pros. But Ram prices have always been a sore spot for me.Marcos El Malo,via email&middot; Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Just what we needed: another online music store. After all we only have iTunes, eMusic, Napster, even Oxfam. Now here's handset-maker Nokia, with its Nokia Music Store, launched earlier this month - in the UK only, in a strange reversal of the usual US-centric order.That may be because the store is the outcome of Nokia's &pound;30m purchase of Loudeye/OD2, the British online music distribution company, in August 2006. OD2 is behind sites such as Oxfam and many other of the music download sites that got walloped by the arrival of iTunes in 2003.Much like any download store, Nokia claims to have a couple of million tracks that can "easily" be downloaded to a mobile device or PC. Most of the music comes from the big labels - though oddly Warner Music is absent. The tracks come wrapped in Windows DRM; no signs yet of its death here, anyway.You get the service via a browser - Windows only; Mac users get turned away here (unless they sneakily spoof their browser identity) - and a small player inside the web page when you subscribe. Downloaded tracks play in Windows Media Player.The only significant difference from iTunes is Nokia's streaming service, which lets you listen to any track at any time for &pound;8 per month - nice if you want to treat the service like one big jukebox accessible from your PC. (Then again, you could always use Last.FM, which is free.) Most people, however, are more likely to use the service to download tracks to their PC or their phone (over the air using Wi-Fi) for 80p a track or &pound;8 per album - 1p more than iTunes. Downloads over the air and to a PC were simple and easy; a download to a phone took about 20 seconds, to either the Nokia N81 8GB and the N95 8GB. Which, one must mention, are the only compatible phones to date.Though not quite CD-quality, streaming is worthwhile. I spent a couple of evenings listening to hundreds of tracks I haven't heard in ages, as well as some totally new to me; it's the aural equivalent of being left alone in a sweet shop.But despite there being 2m tracks, most are obscure and not worth buying. Plus you will constantly stumble upon omissions on any such service - Led Zeppelin, Radiohead, the Smiths, the Kinks, the Grateful Dead, the Jesus and Mary Chain ... the list goes on. I felt like I was in a restaurant where some choice selections on the menu were off-limits. Is this really what we want from another music store?music.nokia.comPros:Ideal for Nokia fans seeking a steady diet of top 40 musicCons:only two phones; tied to Windows Media Player and IE
My wife is about to give birth to our second child and I'm doing the most sensitive and supportive thing possible: planning which game I'll be playing throughout the coming months of sleep deprivation. Orange Box is out of the running - the critically lauded collection of Half-Life 2 instalments promises a rollercoaster ride of multidimensional alien invaders and government conspiracies - and frankly that's asking a lot of someone who can barely finish a sentence without slipping into unconsciousness. The same goes for Assassin's Creed and Mass Effect - waaaay too demanding.The latest edition of Football Manager might work. This intricate simulation of a manager's life with its petty spats, brattish players and uncompromisingly foreign chairmen can be enjoyed in fits and starts - the odd match here, the occasional dalliance in the transfer market there - and I can install it on my laptop, to be pulled out from under the bed at any point in the night.It looks like the Nintendo DS is the best solution: it sits unobtrusively next to the bed and the games are perfect quick, furtive diversions. Sega's incredibly weird dating sim, Rub Rabbits, got me through the first few months with my first son. It's a vast collection of almost momentary mini-games, which flow over you like a tide of benign hallucinatory flashbacks. This year's choice could be Nintendo's forthcoming Sight Training, a set of challenges designed to improve your vision. If I combine this with Brain Training 2 I might even come out of fatherhood with a better brain than I went in with.Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is another candidate. This action RPG is divided into bite-sized chunks of cutesy puzzle-solving and gentle combat, plus you can make your own notes on the game's map screen to remind you of stuff you've got to do. Mine will probably be filled with disorientated references to Calpol.Apart from the titles I'm paid to play, this is my gaming life from now on. Snatched moments of electronic pleasure late at night, watching the clock and knowing I'll regret it in the morning. In your teens and 20s, you wring the very life out of epic 50-hour experiences like Final Fantasy, Castlevania and Grand Theft Auto, but when you're older and wiser, those hours start to look like a wasted chance to put those shelves up.The good news is that my two-year-old is showing an interest in my job. The idea that in a few years time, I'll get to spend hours with him and with games is beguiling. In the meantime, though, I have to grit my teeth, grow up and face my responsibilities like a man. So, Zelda it is then.
A US Congressional hearing concerning Yahoo's involvement with the government of China's jailing of a Chinese journalist has set off another round of examination regarding the dangers of corporate collaboration with governments. Yahoo had identified journalist Shi Tao to the authorities as the owner of an email account, prompting Tom Lantos, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs committee hearing, to tell Yahoo: "While technologically and financially you are giants, morally you are pygmies."In a different incident, Google was alleged to have helped the Indian government build a case against a user who had "posted insulting images of Chhatrapati Shiva" on its social networking site, Orkut, by supplying an IP address. The story first became newsworthy not solely for Google's involvement, but because the address was later mapped to the wrong person, leading to the arrest of an innocent man (tinyurl.com/yu53b7).What these situations have in common is that a corporation was a ready source of data. And as search engines and social networks collect more and more user data for business purposes, governments will find that data more and more useful for their investigatory purposes.Further, as a person's stored data profile grows to include items such as group memberships, purchases and a list of friends, it forms a very tempting target for governments to try to mine for suspected criminal contacts. This concept is of course not new, with traffic analysis (of phone calls or data) being an ancient intelligence technique. But corporations are now essentially volunteering to collect all the information, put it in a readily searchable package and then perform all the analytical work. This is done because it's useful for advertising and marketing applications. Unfortunately, all of this social network material can easily be repurposed for malignant uses.Search engine companies are understandably reluctant to confront these issues. They make predictable statements about needing to obey local laws and the benefits of their products. And the one-way broadcast aspects of blogs provides an ideal vehicle for corporations to disseminate public relations snow jobs while pretending to have a concerned human face. It is only when there is a scandal prompting media coverage, or even hearings focused on human rights, that the inevitable evasive statements might be examined sceptically.Privacy advocates will need to keep unearthing incidents, perhaps from police reports or government files. For activists in countries where there is a freedom of information act, requests directed at police investigations might turn up examples of various stored data being used to identify crime suspects. Countries which have strong privacy laws and data protection safeguards could attempt to force an accounting of problematic uses of personal data, under the theory that data about their own citizens would be at risk of being revealed to repressive governments.Note that while it's a common recommendation to use technical means to protect one's privacy (such as the "Tor" anonymity system, attorproject.org), such measures are frequently not workable for any but the most knowledgeable and dedicated people. They are often inconvenient and shift a burden on to citizens to be constantly on guard, as opposed to not requiring such guarding in the first place. Using privacy/anonymity programs is good advice, but in overall terms, a bad solution.Yahoo and Google's troubles are probably just the start of what will be another long battle in the war over corporations as agents of control. Left to their own devices, such companies are driven to store as much data as possible for as long as is practical.We cannot expect that having large warehouses of data on individuals will be free from unintended consequences, especially when there are incentives to try to build highly detailed models of everyone's lives. The price of total personalisation is total surveillance.&middot;sethf.com/infothought/blog
Facebookis a game. A very social one. Sure, there's no real endgame - unless you consider bringing all of your contacts together into one giant database the ultimate win - but the goals are to win friends and influence people. The techniques you use to do this are to manipulate and to project your identity via role playing (profile development, reputation building, zombies) and minigames (the plethora apps, from Where Have You Been? to Am I Green? which really are just loosely veiled personality tests).There are more than a couple of things that make Facebook different from the commercial games on the market, but here are three of particular interest: first, it's got an awfully large user-base, larger than any computer game has ever seen. Second, the gender demographics for the age of users is astoundingly even (those 50/50 stats bandied around by gamers really only apply to the younger age groups, I'm afraid). Third, and perhaps most importantly, it is a platform through which other people can make and distribute Facebook games, some of which integrate existing gaming platforms into the technology. This last is a realistic step games could make to solve the above two differences.But. Ain't nothing out there (yet) in the commercial gaming sphere that does it, although products like Home and Little Big Planet on the PS3 will attempt to bring this model to a mainstream market (with substantial restrictions) when they're released next year.But back to Facebook. The social network site's commercial gaming apps aren't nearly as integrated as they could be. Most of them are the offshoot of game cultures, the ludic spray that fans bring to a different location than the game world. Today, the location of these playful activities happens to be Facebook. A few years ago it was an enormous library of self-published websites.So what's out there that's attempted to be more than just another fan community?WowKon, a Facebook app that displays the latest World of Warcraft gaming news on your profile, is an example.Second Life Link app, which shows off your SL avatar to your Facebook mates. There are others, but asRaphexplains, not very many people are using 'em. Sure, they support social interaction, but they do nothing to support the activities back in the game world. They are, simply, fan solutions. That's nowhere near as interesting as what was possible with the Dreamcast's interactive memory card (the dearly missedVMU).Yet there is one app which is causing ripples in the virtual worlds news.ActiveWorlds, a legacy social environment that pre-dated There and Second Life, is making a comeback using the power of the social network.Virtual Worlds Newsexplains,Active Worldsannounced [on 31 October] that they had launched the "Active Worlds 3D Avatar and World Explorer" application, allowing companies and developers to build virtual worlds on the Facebook platform. The company says the application is based on Internet Explorer and ActiveX from Microsoft to build on existing standards and to allow certain elements of the virtual worlds to interact with more traditional websites and Web 2.0 applications.Holy cow -build and visit 3D worlds through Facebook. This is proper integration. And there are already loads on there. Will this be the bridge between social networks and the 3D web? It is a pretty prescient move. As one ofRaphs' commentatorssays, "Platforms for development seems to be the buzzmeme du jour." I'm very curious to see how Google's recently announcedOpenSocialsocial network platform could also fit into the virtual worlds space.Facebook's move to open up their codebooks for clever programmers to mess around with was extraordinarily clever. Sure, there's been a silly number of totally irrelevant apps, but rather than theend of virtual worlds, playing games on Facebook could herald the beginning.
A curious game of cat and mouse is being played out on the internet, as high-tech hunters close in on a group of cybercriminals known as the Russian Business Network, or RBN. The chase started a week ago when the RBN - a Russian ISP alleged to be behind much of today's web crime - slipped its internet moorings in the Baltic coastal city of St Petersburg and made for servers in China.But the RBN's attempts nine days ago to hide there behind a hastily formed Italian front company failed. Only a day after setting up in its new home, the sites run by the RBN - which specialises in identity theft, denial of service, phishing, computer extortion and child pornography - vanished from the web. Since then sightings have been few. But does that mean the RBN has gone? And does it matter?According to experts from Team Cymru, a research group specialising in internet crime, the Russian firm is linked to around 60% of all cybercrime. But recently the RBN started to attract some unwelcome attention from bloggers and the US media, forcing it to try to vanish from view."The RBN's notorious IP blocks [of web addresses] in Russia are still gone, but we see other things popping up elsewhere around the world which we believe may be related to their efforts to relocate their 'services'," says Paul Ferguson of computer security company Trend Micro."It is still too early to make any determinations with any certainty - we believe they are diversifying their operations to better hide. I don't expect them to suddenly reappear and be easily tracked."Russian underworldBut there is almost a side industry tracking RBN - such as the blog at rbnexploit.blogspot.com, which details sites used by the RBN and its exploits.On the face of it the Russian Business Network, launched by young computer science graduates, sounds like any other high-tech company offering web hosting and other services. In the US, young entrepreneurs from similar backgrounds launched Google and eBay. But the RBN is a little darker.Go onto Russian underworld servers and you enter an emporium of crime, with lists of looted documents, stolen identities and hijacked computers already assembled into botnets (see Rise of the botnets, below), with almost all of it linked in some way to RBN. "We scanned its entire netblock [of internet addresses registered to the company] and we did not find one legitimate business," says one researcher. Yet RBN was founded and is run by techies, not career criminals."For a lot of the Russian techies [crime] became very lucrative," says Dr Mark Galeotti, director of the Organised Russian and Eurasian Crime Research Unit at Keele University. "They began to recruit top graduates from universities who could earn 10 times what they would get in Russia and twice what they would get in the west."According to internet security company Verisign, which in June published an extensive investigation into the Russian outfit (tinyurl.com/ywvgpg), RBN was registered as an internet site in 2006.Initially, much of its activity was legitimate. But appparently the founders soon discovered that it was more profitable to host illegitimate activities and started  hiring its services to criminals. Verisign says simply that it is now "entirely  illegal". Since then its activities have been monitored by a number of organisations, including the London-based anti-spam group Spamhaus."RBN is among the world's worst spammer, child-pornography, malware, phishing and cybercrime hosting networks," says a spokesman. "It provides 'bulletproof' hosting, but is probably involved in the crime too."Infected PCs for hireBulletproof hosting is hosting that cannot be taken down, but it comes at a cost - "around &pound;300 a month, 10 times the normal market price, which makes them unattractive to normal businesses," says Bradley Anstis of the computer security company Marshal Ltd.There's a whole economy within. Want to buy 1,000 software uploads for a UK website that will infect the computers of those visiting? They will cost around $380 (&pound;160) -  38 cents each. But then you can rent those infected computers - known as bots - to third parties for 13 cents a day.Frequently, the spam emails sent out for the fake bank and financial services sites involved in phishing point back to RBN servers. And data culled from phishing attacks and IDs stolen from compromised computers are sent to RBN drop sites, as are stolen documents, which are stored ready for sale.The RBN also offers a safe haven for the intellectual property of cybercriminals - the spyware, trojans and botnet command and control systems. For a fee, allegedly, it will also launder money.Indeed, what is striking is its sheer professionalism. "You now see people stressing that for $200 an hour you will get a good, reliably hosted botnet," says Maksym Schipka of Messagelabs, which monitors spam traffic. "When they are renting you bots they advertise the fact that they are checked every five minutes and that the network is 99% reliable."The RBN allows cybercriminals time to work on their products without having to worry about getting their doors kicked down. But in Russia, that almost certainly needs some sort of political protection.Political linksIt is thought that the RBN's leader and  creator, a 24-year-old known as Flyman, is the nephew of a powerful and well-connected Russian politician. Flyman  is alleged to have turned the RBN towards its criminal users.But the recent publicity could threaten their position; clients whose past activities have attracted attention have been made to pay for it in increased fees.The RBN has also sought to mask its activities behind a web of other companies, and has been trying to play down its Russian links, but is hampered by its own brand name. "They're probably now kicking themselves for calling themselves 'Russian'," Galeotti says.A spokesman for the Russian Embassy at first denied any knowledge of the RBN, then suggested that it was based in England. "There is not much concern among the Russian police about RBN," says a researcher from Verisign. "Hackers are bad-arse freedom fighters who are putting it to fat westerners with too much money, and that's not seen as a bad thing."As the Verisign report concludes wearily: "Undoubtedly, barring some major international law enforcement effort, this trend [to illegal activity] is likely to continue indefinitely." But whatever made RBN vanish, it wasn't a legal crackdown.Rise of the botnetsBotnet evolution is intrinsically linked to Internet Relay Chat (IRC). The first bots were developed from a messaging facility within IRC with a view to controlling PCs remotely.Late 1999SANS Institute researchers find remotely executable code on thousands of Windows machines. The infected computers are named "robots", shortened to "bot".February 2000Bot programs are encrypted, so their purpose only becomes clear when they are used to launch a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack, bringing down sites such as Amazon and eBay.October 22 2002Nine of the internet's 13 "root DNS" servers are disabled in a massive attack by a bot herder advertising his services.2002-04Bots get more sophisticated and begin to handle tasks such as sending spam, hosting phishing sites, and other illegal activity.2005Code-changing techniques are developed to hide bots from security products. Professionals design, program, and support bot "packages" for criminals2006Peer-to-peer communication protocols pass command of the botnet between compromised PCs to evade bot hunters. Automated retaliatory attacks start on anything trying to find or interfere with a botnet.February 6 2007Second attack on internet's root DNS servers.May 18 2007Two-week attack on Estonia's computers takes the country offline following its government's moving of a statue of a Russian second world war soldier.&middot;The article above was amended on Friday November 16 2007. In the article above we quoted Bradley Ansti - that should have been Bradley Anstis. Also it should be Marshal Ltd and not Marshall software. These errors have been corrected.
I went up to Bletchley Park yesterday, and felt the white heat of the technological revolution -- specifically, the heat given off by roughly 2,500 valves (vacuum tubes), some of them dating back to the war. The Colossus Mark II code-breaking machine has been rebuilt thanks to the efforts of Tony Sale, and it was working fine.Today, the machine is officially in action. In fact, it's being used to crack German codes in the way it did during World War II. In this case, however, they are friendly messages that have been encrypted using a Lorenz SZ42 machine and transmitted by radio hams in the Heinz Nixdorf MuseumForum, Paderborn, Germany. Amusingly, Bletchley had to lend the Germans their Lorenz SZ42.Could you do better than an old valve-based computer? This is the basis of theCypher Challenge. If you fancy a go, here is thePlanned Transmission Timetableand someTechnical Details.The Bletchley Park site has more details ofThe Colossus Rebuild Project. Tony Sale also helped with the code-breaking aspects ofEnigma, a film based on a Robert Harris thriller.My photo shows thebackof Colossus Mark II, which you wouldn't usually see. It's not somethng you'd want to reconstruct from scratch, is it?Update: A German amateur, Joachim Schuth, was first to read the message yesterday. Due to radio reception problems, the Colossus team "did not get a full copy of the enciphered message until after 1700 GMT," reports Mark Ward atBBC News. They did decode the message between 08.55 and 13.15 GMT today.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Dell has a teaser video not showing the XPS One all-in-one system athttp://www.dell.com/welcomebeautiful.It all seems more than a bit pointless when the system has already been "outed" byEngadgetvia the FCC site.Michael Dell showed the system yesterday at Oracle OpenWorld in San Francisco, asCNetpoints out, along with theLatitude XTTablet we heard about in May via avideoon the Direct2Dell blog.
If you don't want the convenience of reading on paper (where your reading speed is about 50% greater than on screen - hadn't you heard?) then the full text of this week's Technology section, out today, is online. Click through for the list of stories, or justvisit the pagesdirectly.This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Hunt for Russia's web criminalsThe Russian Business Network - which some blame for 60% of all internet crime - appears to have gone to ground. But, asks Peter Warren, has it really disappeared?A meeting of minds tackles the big global issuesKate Bulkley: A mixed bag of thinkers raised awareness and discussed projects at last month's Pop!Tech conference in MaineGoogle launches mobile platform to extend its advertising reachWant to get some money? Develop an application for Google's new "Android" mobile phone platform. By Charles ArthurPublic sector information 'worth billions'Michael Cross: Revaluation of data 'should be cue for fresh thinking' including making the archive largely freeLinux helps to squeeze the last drop out of oilfieldsWilliam Knight: Grid computing makes modelling of energy sources very accurate and helps manage them as efficiently as possibleHow to combine fatherhood and gamingKeith Stuart: My wife is about to give birth and I'm doing the most supportive thing possible: planning which game to play through the coming months of sleep lossDo you have any idea who last looked at your data?Seth Finkelstein: As search engines and social networks collect more and more user data, governments will find that data more and more usefulDAB radio leaves us with the worst of all worldsJack Schofield: After I attacked DAB, I have been trying out a DAB digital radio at homeMySpace: your new web TV stationVictor Keegan: The new web-only TV soap that has started on MySpace could prove to be a Trojan horse that will change the media landscapeNewly Asked QuestionsHave commercial quantum computers finally arrived?A Google scientist seems to hope so but, unfortunately, the answer is probably noTechnophileNokia's answer to iTunes is OK if you want to pay to listen to the Top 40. Otherwise it's just me-tooAsk JackKitchen computer | Media Player alternative | Palm not upgraded | Old fogey phone? | A firewall for Vista? | BackchatNewsbytesVery arty phones | Marvels online | Stop housemate fraud | Lonely creatures | Find it, hear it | Now in mid-size | Spiritual networking | Scrobbled radioLetters and blogsA broader view | Slow route to the web | Free 192.com's data | I'm baffled too | There's the rub | Ramming the point homeGamesCall of Duty 4: Modern Warfare | The Simpsons Game | Lego Star Wars: The Complete SagaYouChooseFirst Rubik's Cube, and then | What you need is a Wii, Ernie | The Facebook News Network
If you suddenly learned that your collection of books and CDs were worth 100 times what you'd previously suspected, you'd probably be delighted. You'd probably also look after your assets a bit differently in future.This, roughly, is the situation the government finds itself in with its vast archive of public sector information - everything from historic documents to routine statistics and measurements gathered by 100,000 public bodies. The government's chief adviser on the subject has told ministers that the archive could be worth hundreds of billions of pounds to the national economy, rather than hundreds of millions previously estimated.Richard Susskind, a law professor and IT enthusiast who chairs the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information, says the new valuation should be the cue for fresh thinking. "If you're the prime minister or the chancellor, half a billion pounds looks like comparatively small potatoes. But if we're talking about hundreds of billions, you start to take notice and ask if we're making the most of the resource."The panel, which represents producers and users of information as well as independent experts, has published a call for the government to make the most of the archive - including the case for making it available for free. Without a clear strategy, it warns that one its most valuable assets "will remain unjustifiably untapped or, worse, be unnecessarily squandered".Susskind says that the under-count arises from the government's habit of valuing data mainly by the income it earns from it. The Office of Fair Trading last year estimated that public sector information is worth about &pound;550m a year - &pound;400m in commercial receipts (nearly half of which comes from within the government) plus &pound;150m in "wider benefits for businesses and consumers".Value underestimatedThis figure is a serious underestimate, Susskind says. It contrasts with studies suggesting that Ordnance Survey (OS) data alone is worth more than &pound;79bn to the UK economy and that the British Geological Survey is worth at least &pound;34bn. "If that figure is half right, we must be thinking in terms of hundreds of billions of pounds," he says. One example is the electronic navigation market, based on information from OS and the US GPS satellite system.Although disputing the Office of Fair Trading's estimates, the panel agrees with the thrust of the report - which is that practices by many information holders are "significantly impeding" the re-use of government information. Yet by under-estimating the value of the market, Susskind says, the government may be masking the damage done."We are concerned that the study considerably understates the actual and potential value of public sector information to the UK economy and, in so doing, could discourage the government and public sector bodies from exploiting this rich resource to the full."Part of the trouble is that government policy on the knowledge economy is based on thinking in the late 1990s - "the dawn of time", Susskind says, before the era of user-generated content. "All our policy and practice and law is based on thinking that's a decade old. Maybe it's time to revisit some of the assumptions."One such assumption is that the best way to exploit government information is for public bodies to become self-sufficient by charging for access to it. For the past 18 months, Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign has opposed this philosophy, arguing that the wider economy - as well as democracy - would be better served by making nearly all government data available for free.Susskind this week praised the campaign: "As an awareness-raising exercise, it's been invaluable." However he is not - yet - nailing the panel's colours to the free-data mast. Rather, he is calling on the government to study how "UK plc" can get the maximum value from its public sector data. This will include revisiting the policy of charging, especially by self-supporting trading funds.Reluctant to meddleSignificantly, the panel last week published a memo by its expert economist, Professor Avinash Persaud, which says that in a decade's time, public sector information may be government's most valuable asset, but that trying to fund it through user charges may lead to "under provision". Persaud draws an analogy from profit-driven City investment banks, which spend &pound;1bn a year on analyst research, most of which they give away for free.Susskind says he is encouraged by signs that the government is starting to take information issues seriously - notably by the interest shown by the responsible minister, Michael Wills at the Ministry of Justice.However, the government signalled this week that it would be reluctant to meddle with the existing charging regime. Answering an adjournment motion proposed by Labour MP Mark Todd on Monday (tinyurl.com/3yl5cf), Gareth Thomas, minister for business, enterprise and regulatory reform, said it would be "premature to abandon what has been a high-quality data production model". Commending the work of organisations such as OS, the Meteorological Office and the UK Hydrographic Office, Thomas said: "We should be careful to avoid destabilising those excellent agencies."Susskind, however, criticises the "if it isn't broke, don't fix it" argument as lacking ambition. In nurturing the knowledge economy, the government faces a fundamental choice. It can either try to reduce competitive disadvantage, or it can go full-out for competitive advantage. The ability to take the latter course distinguishes great companies from the good, Susskind says, and the same applies to nation states. "It's exciting times."&middot; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blogSetting the agendaIn the note for ministers released on the Appsi website (appsi.gov.uk) Richard Susskind sets out an agenda for action by ministers.Having written it for the now-departed Lord Falconer, he notes that there is no minister with the single responsibility for public sector information (PSI), that there are conflicting policies and that the net may render those policies outdated. He then sets out a short-term (one year) agenda for action, and a "medium term" agenda.The government should first: nominate a PSI minister; assess the value of PSI; assess the effect of the net on PSI; "revisit" charging policies, particularly by trading funds.For the medium term, he says, there needs to be a clear policy for PSI across the sector, recognition by politicians and officials of the value of PSI, fully integrated management of PSI to create joined-up use, and "progress" towards more "recycling" of PSI.
First this Rubik's Cube, and then...What's amazing is that the child doesn't even flinch at this evil twin of C-3PO which manifestly intends, once it has solved every Rubik's Cube, to enslave us all. Bet it can't climb stairs, though.(Read more about the solving algorithm atmakezine.)What you need is a Wii, ErnieThe evergreen Morecambe and Wise show how comedians used to get down with the yoof in this ancient advert for Atari's games console. The graphics! The games! The sounds! Oh, the humanity!The Facebook News NetworkOne day, real news will be like this - in fact, news about celebrities already is, except that they're not our Facebook friends.
Thereviews are inthis week and chances are you have already played at least one of them. Call of Duty 4 needs no introduction. Easily the first-person-shooter of the year, COD4 mixes a short, but very very sweet, single player mode with a deep and engrossing multiplayer. If it wasn't for the sheer amount of gaming goodness arriving every day - Mario on Tuesday, Assassin's Creed and, best of all, Mass Effect yesterday - I'd be spending more time on it.The other reviews cover games likely to turn up under numerous Christmas trees. The Simpsons Game has received fairly average reviews generally - it gets a 3/5 here too - but I've got a soft sport for it. Sure the camera is awful and the action generic but the familiar characters and setting do make a difference. Plus you have to admire the way the game gently mocks age-old videogame clichs - crates, invisible walls etc - and then unashamedly adheres to them throughout the game. Last up is Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga - basically Lego Star Wars 1&amp;2 with online. In theory this sounds great - especially the original trilogy levels - but with all the great stuff out at the moment none of my friends have bought this yet. And, quite frankly, there are far more important games to be playing at the moment. Like Mass Effect - I've only played for 3 hours and this is already looking very special indeed. More impressions soon.
Having extended my laptop's screen to the new Toshiba LCD in the kitchen, I was impressed with the results. Is there a small, stylish/pretty computer suitable for the kitchen?Ieuan DaviesBuilding small PCs to connect to HDTVs is a fairly common geek project, helped by the availability of low-power Mini-ITX (17 x 17cm) boards and barebones cases. These typically run a version of Windows with Media Center features (including Vista Home Premium) or the Linux-basedMythTV. Articles such asBuild Your Own Media PCat Trusted Reviews will give you an idea what's involved. Many small British suppliers will assemble systems to order. The Apple Mac mini could be an alternative, and is certainly more stylish.A few companies have tried producing commercial kitchen computers, such as Seattle-basedBeyond. It offered Icebox computers in both countertop and flipscreen versions, which could be mounted under a kitchen cabinet. It announced UK distribution in 2003. Did anybody ever see or buy one?
Can you recommend a free alternative to Windows Media Player for playing videos, particularly .avi? I am after a less bloated player.Tony JonesI think the best answer for Windows users is Media Player Classic. This can also play many QuickTime and RealVideo files, with the "alternatives" installed so you can avoid three lots of bloatware. If you download theK-Lite Codec Pack, this includes the Media Player, so you don't need to download it separately. The main free alternative isVLC, which is cross-platform. There are versions for Windows, Mac OS X, BeOS, and numerous versions of Linux and Unix.
My wife has an elderly Palm Tungsten -- I think it's the E2 -- and she needs to upgrade. I suspect she would not want to move too far away.Brian MoranPalm handhelds have not moved on much and the Tungsten E2 is still current. The two-year-old Tungsten TX has the same Palm 5.4 operating system, but more memory, a faster processor and Wi-Fi, so that would be an upgrade. It also costs 50% more. Palm did launch a new smartphone, the Treo 500v, in the UK last month. However, it runs Windows Mobile 6, not the Palm OS 5.4.9 used in the US version, and I suspect she already has a decent phone.
Have you any information about a DoCoMo mobile phone for old people?David LewisThe Foma F883iES phone, also known as RakuRaku (roughly, easy-peasy), has been covered at sites such asPocketpicks.co.ukand there are some good close-ups atDoplaza.jp. However, there is no guarantee it will ever be sold in the UK. An alternative is theEmporia Life, sold for 170 by the RNIB.
I have been trying to find a free firewall for Windows Vista basic. Zone Alarm caused massive problems and I had to do a system restore. The Vista version of Sunbelt Kerio is not out yet.Dan StothartThat's an awkward question. Vista has a good two-way firewall: click the Advanced Security tab to see the features the XP SP2 firewall lacks (or see theSANS white paper). The problem is that it allows all outgoing traffic by default, which is tantamount to assuming that your PC is malware-free. Setting up outgoing controls can be tricky work, so most people won't do it. Still, if you are a careful user and also run other anti-malware software, then the Vista firewall should be fine until a "best free firewall" emerges. If you are careless, accident-prone or under attack, try the freePC Tools Firewall Plus 3or go for a commercial product.
The European Union has become the venue of choice for complainers, and it seems it could just derail Google's takeover of DoubleClick. According toThe New York Times:European regulators refused Tuesday to approve Google's $3.1 billion purchase of the Internet advertising company DoubleClick. They ordered a review of the deal amid opposition from rivals, publishers and consumer groups.The European Commission, the administrative arm of the European Union, which rules on antitrust issues for the 27 member nations, said the merger raised concerns about competition and required a more thorough review of its effects on the Internet advertising business.We don't yet know the American view -- from the Federal Trade Commission -- but the EC investigation is expected to lead to a decision on April 2, so the merger is probably off until then.Even if the EC gives the deal a green light, the delay should benefit rivals such as Microsoft, Yahoo, and AOL, though probably not much.Whether it's possible to operate a global industry in a rational economic way if every major move has to be approved by regulators in the US, Europe, Japan, Korea, Brazil, Australia, Norway (add countries to taste) is open to conjecture.However, since some American companies started resorting to the EC as a way of damaging other American companies -- thus making the views of the US Justice Department and the US Federal Trade Commission more or less superfluous -- it's a bit late to start complaining. It's just another result of the American preference for short-term tactics over long-term strategies.
Blu-ray has taken a bit of a beating recently, partly because of the high price of players compared to HD DVD. In December, however, PC users should be able to install a Philips Lite-On DH-4O1S drive for an estimated UK price of 125, or $199.99 in the US. This is about $100 less than the Pioneer BDC-2202.The Lite-On internal drive has a SATA interface and can play back Blu-ray discs, as well as DVDs and CDs. It cannot, of course, write BDs.Update: Apparently it will play protected movies. I'm told: "the key to decrypt the copy protection is generated by the playback software that comes with the drive."The drive could appeal to Windows Media Center owners (with XP SP2 or Vista) since they may have their PC connected to a TV set, and can watch movies played from the PC. But that's still a long way from being a mass market.I'm not sure how many internal HD DVD drives are actually floating around in the real world but I noticeOverclockers UKis offering the Toshiba SD-H802A 2.4x internal HD DVD for 72.84 inc VAT (this week only). However, I suspect the tendency has been to pick up or borrow an Xbox 360 add-on HD DVD andplug it into the PCvia USB.
Did McLuhan say the medium is the message or the massage? That and other questions exercised you in your letters and blog pingbacks in last week's letters. We don't have room toprintthem all, but here it is online.. click through for the full text.VIRTUAL CHINA (VIC KEEGAN)&gt;&gt; In some quarters, virtual worlds are still perceived as something for grown men who live with their mothers. That's a view that is not only about two years out of date, but it also masks some of the very real uses and applications that they hold. For example, major corporations like Cisco and IBM use it for business meetings in place of the sometimes sterile video conference. And Universities increasingly turn to virtual worlds as a new form of distance learning. There is the often quoted Gartner stat that in five years 80% of regular internet users will have a virtual world presence, and it may well be ventures such as Dotman, as opposed to Second Life that turn that figure into reality.http://www.thisisherd.com/GIBIBYTES?Why should the entire computer industry change its ancient definitions to compensate for drive manufacturers" perennial dishonesty? (Backchat, 1/11/07). Kibibytes? It sounds like a childrens breakfast cereal... Instead, the IEC should recommend manufacturers use a small "d" in front of their quoted drive capacities, viz: 320 dGB. They could pretend it stands for "decimal', we would know it really means "deceptive'. Chris Rigby, UffculmeMCLUHANMcLuhan's understanding "that as media become more interactive, they also become more potent tools for manipulation and control" was rather more subtly encapsulated by his actual phrase (and book title) "The medium is the mAssage" than by the misquoted phrase Nick Carr (amongst thousands) wrote in his article. Malcolm Shifrin, Leatherhead ["The medium is the message" was McLuhan's message, and was the intended title for the book: seehttp://www.marshallmcluhan.com/faqs.html Tech.Ed]&gt;&gt; You want to know why so few Americans are engaged in public life or a genuine public dialog? It's because most Americans are too angry over bullshit issues that have little to do with what may or may not be happening. Who knows what is actually happening in the world? Current events has become infotainment. Obviously, knowledge of all the bad things that happen to rich white women helps ordinary Americans tackle problems like health care, the military industrial complex, increasing wealth disparities... Wait, where was I? Oh yeah, Britney's been kidnapped by Scott Peterson. It's taking our jobs, corrupting our children, and selling secrets to the terrorists, y'all. Turns out McLuhan was wrong. It doesn't matter what the medium is  any message can be successful. You just need to find an audience to embrace the message unquestioningly.http://athenasmom.typepad.com/TECHNOPHILE: BLUETOOTHI laughed so much reading Charles Arthur's winge about Bluetooth earpieces my spectacles nearly fell off. Oh, what problems these gadget kids have to face up to! Congratulations to those drivers who "seem to have mastered the art of wearing these things for long periods of time" and shame on those who haven't! Have you thought about those of us who have to wear "things" in our ear all the time? Surely to solve your problems , the Bluetooth manufactures ought to consult with hearing aid manufacturers whose earpieces have to stay put, fit snugly to cut out external noise and carry a significant load, maybe about 20 hours a day and without driving the wearer mad. On the whole they do a good job! Maybe it doesn't create the right image to have links between boy's toys and disability, but us "One in Seven" would surely benefit from any technological spinoff! Andy Lane, SunderlandSUGGESTED SEARCHYour newsbyte article on Google and Yahoo providing search suggestions after typing one or three characters reminds me of Clawsoft's TOSS system, previewed by Mike Cook in theApril 1987 edition of The Micro User. Sadly it never caught on, and Acorn failed to drive all other computer manufacturers out of the market. Tim Matthews, BollingtonTECHNOBILE (REDUX..)Hazel Davis" article about her HSBC branch (25.10.07) resonated with me. The branch at Huddersfield introduced a wonderful new scheme. A paying-in machine produced a copy of the cheque so that you were then carrying around the payer's bank details and signature instead of a piece of paper doing no more than recording the amount and the date of the transaction. The loss of the former was an open sesame to significant fraud. I never paid in a cheque at that branch again, preferring to seach out the really old-fashioned type where a record was made in your paying-in book and it was date-stamped. Maureen Panton, MalvernMANUAL LABOUR REDUXThanks for printing my letter, but did you have to cut it so much that the sense was altered? Since the comments that were blue-pencilled were about engineers, and since the hyphen was dropped from "carefully-crafted" (a typical engineer's "correction"), may I hazard a guess that the editing was done by someone with an engineering background? Of course, it may just be that you are trying to use less paper to reduce your carbon footprint. That would explain why the front-page article on solar-power satellites did not mention Gerard O'Neill, who virtually invented the concept back in the Seventies, and who campaigned tirelessly to get SSP developed and used. Dick Bentley, South Ferriby
The internet giant Yahoo settled a lawsuit yesterday in relation to allegations that it helped China in a crackdown on two journalists.Yahoo's decision to settle came a week after the company was criticised in Congress, with one congressman accusing the company of being moral pygmies.The terms of the settlement were not disclosed and Yahoo did not admit fault but the company agreed to pay legal costs and apologise to the journalists' families.Yahoo had earlier denied cooperating with the Chinese government in the prosecution of dissidents by helping to identify them. The company claimed it had no choice other than to comply with a request from Beijing to share information about the online activities of the journalists. Yahoo handed their email records to the Chinese government.The journalists, Wang Xiaoning and Shi Tao, are serving 10-year jail sentences. Wang was accused of "incitement to subvert state power" after he emailed electronic journals advocating democratic reform and establishment of a multiparty system to replace the present authoritarian state. Shi was charged with passing on information that was designated a state secret. They both sued Yahoo in April.Wang's wife Yu Ling claimed Yahoo had turned over information that helped identify her husband and that he and others were "subjected to torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, including arbitrary, prolonged and indefinite detention, for expressing their free speech rights and for using the internet to communicate about democracy and human rights matters".In Congress last week Tom Lantos, chairman of the House foreign affairs committee, told Yahoo: "While technologically and financially you are giants, morally you are pygmies."After being informed of the settlement Lantos said yesterday: "It took a tongue-lashing from Congress before these  hi-tech titans did the right thing," he said. "What a disgrace."The case on behalf of the journalists and  other dissidents arrested was brought by the Washington-based World Organisation for Human Rights USA.After the congressional hearing, Jerry Yang, the chief executive of Yahoo, met members of the journalists' families, and apologised to Shi's mother.Yang said yesterday: "After meeting with the families, it was clear to me what we had to do to make this right for them, for Yahoo and for the future. We are committed to making sure our actions match our values around the world." Yang, who was joint founder of the California-based company in 1994, said it was establishing a "human rights fund to provide humanitarian and legal aid to [online] dissidents".The journalists' lawyer Morton Sklar, said Yahoo's will to fight the lawsuit evaporated after the congressional hearing.Sklar said: "There was a dramatic change in their position and that was strong incentive to settle. They did not want to be on the wrong side of this issue."The World Organisation for Human Rights said after the settlement the journalists are "serving 10-year prison sentences as a direct result of the information Yahoo provided to Chinese authorities" and that while the identities of only a few of those arrested have been made public, "it is suspected that hundreds more have been similarly affected".Alibaba.com, China's biggest online commerce firm, has run Yahoo's mainland China operations since Yahoo bought a 40% stake in Alibaba in 2005. Yahoo says its stake doesn't give it control of the firm. Shi, a former writer for the financial publication Contemporary Business News, was jailed under state secrecy laws for allegedly providing an email which  contained notes about a government memo on media restrictions to foreigners.
TheOne Laptop Per Childexperiment is a campaign which challenges technologically, culturally and ideologically. Its hotly-debated successes and failures - proclaimed even before the product has been launched - have often overwhelmed the ownership of the future content of the machine which probably will have the most profound effect on its ultimate users. After all, as the gamesblog hasdiscussedpreviously, no piece of software is developed without a philosophical bent. What kinds of dogmas, then, are being foisted upon the populations who'll be using the computer eventually?The reason I bring this up on the gamesblog is because EA has announced that it will be donatingSimCityto the cause; One Laptops will be loaded with the (capitalist) town planning simulation. Some have argued that this game is archaic, that a more modern piece of gaming software should find its way onto the deck. To be fair, I don't really think entertainment is the point. But I would argue more debate should go into considering the ideologies beneath the objectives of the game.FromGamasutra:Steve Seabolt, vice president of global brand development for The Sims Label, commented, "SimCity is entertainment that's unintentionally educational. Players learn to use limited resources to build and customize their cities. There are choices and consequences, but in the end, it's a creativity tool that's only limited by the player's imagination."He continued: "The game should prove to be an incredibly effective way of making the laptop relevant, engaging, and fun, particularly for first time players. We are thrilled to be making this contribution to OLPC to help meet their goal of educating the children of the world."First up, note that there's nofunin that statement at all. It's all about educating. And about what?According toShawn MiklaucicviaGame Research,...its fundamental function is the cost-benefit equation it representsso much money to build a park, so much money to maintain it, balanced against the quantifiable increase in aura and productivity it provides.Productivity, balancing budgets, preserving resources. Arguably part of the contemporary human condition. In urban environments, in particular.Ted FriedmanviaFirst Mondaysuggests that the game is based upon Marx'sKapitaland warns,...however much "freedom" computer game designers grant players, any simulation will be rooted in a set of baseline assumptions. SimCity has been criticized from both the left and right for its economic model. It assumes that low taxes will encourage growth while high taxes will hasten recessions. It discourages nuclear power, while rewarding investment in mass transit. And most fundamentally, it rests on the empiricist, technophilic fantasy that the complex dynamics of city development can be abstracted, quantified, simulated, and micromanaged.These are not flaws in the game - they are its founding principles.While many may dismiss this debate as irrelevant for the entertainment sphere in which games reside, when the software is integrated into a charitable platform, intended to be used as an educational experience for kids in completely different cultures from that in which it was developed, it suddenly develops meaning.The most powerful and enduring statement made by including SimCity is not whether the machine should offer newer games than this classic, but what including it actually means.
A security breach that affected thousands of online applications for British visas was the result of the government's failure to adhere to data protection laws, a privacy watchdog ruled yesterday.The Information Commissioner's Office said the government had broken the terms of the Data Protection Act by failing to properly protect visa applications made over the internet using its UKvisas website.The breach was detected in May, when it emerged that applications made through the site - run jointly by the Foreign Office and the Home Office and outsourced to an Indian company called VFS - were not secure from intruders.VFS had been alerted to the problems in December 2005 by a member of the public who was concerned that he could access the details of other visa applicants. But it was not until an investigation by Channel 4 News earlier this year that VFS and the Foreign Office admitted the security breach.The investigation revealed that at least 50,000 applications to the British High Commission in India had been affected."Piecemeal" approach to privacyA full inquiry by the Information Commissioner found that the Foreign Office had showed "inadequate central control of the moves to outsourcing" and that officials had a "piecemeal" approach to privacy."Sound security needs to be woven into the business and cannot be simply bolted on as an extra," said the report. "The earlier contracts paid insufficient attention to the requirements of the Data Protection Act and to basic IT security."As well as its head offices in Mumbai, VFS also administered the UKvisas website through operations in Russia and Nigeria - two of the world's worst hotspots for internet crime.As a result of the ruling, the Foreign Office has agreed to a full review of its operations and will end its contract with VFS."Organisations have a duty to keep our personal information secure," said Mick Gorrill, assistant commissioner at the Information Commissioner's Office. "If they fail to take this responsibility seriously, they not only leave individuals vulnerable to identity theft, but risk losing confidence and trust."
The superheroes are heading into the future. Marvel Comics, the force behind Spider-Man and the X-Men, is putting its comics online in a belated attempt to draw young readers to the venerable tradition of reading about men in tights rather than merely watching them.While the company's stable of superheroes has drawn an unprecedented audience in recent years, fuelled by the success of the Spider-Man film franchise, that interest does not translate into sales of the humble comic book."You don't have that spinner rack of comic books sitting in the local five-and-dime any more," Dan Buckley, president of Marvel Publishing, told the Associated Press. "We don't have our product intersecting kids in their lifestyle space as much as we used to."For a $10 (&pound;5) monthly fee children can introduce Marvel's 5,000 characters to their lifestyle space by logging on toMarvel.com, where the original runs of several of the most iconic of superheroes are available. Dominant among them is Spider-Man, the superhero who saved the company. The site features the first 100 issues of the Amazing Spider-Man, starting with Peter Parker's solo debut in 1963. The front page of the original Spider-Man comic features Spider-Man swinging on his web before onlookers and the words: "Freak! Public Menace!"That episode, as well as 250 others, is being offered free as part of an introductory promotion. Other free features include the first 100 issues of the Fantastic Four, the first run of the Uncanny X-Men and the first 50 issues of the Avengers.The first offering of the digital service includes 2,500 comic books, with 20 titles added each week. They include the first appearances of lesser and better-known comic creations, including the recently deceased Captain America, big-screen flop the Silver Surfer, villains such as Dr Octopus and Sandman, and the unheralded Franklin Richards: Son of a Genius.But while the company is expanding its online adventures, it still aims to keep traditional publishing as its core business, with titles appearing first in bookshops. The website includes multiple prompts encouraging users to seek out the real thing in a comic store.Marvel is behind its competitors. DC Comics, the market leader and publisher of Superman, Wonder Woman and Batman, already has issues on MySpace. The two companies dominate the sector, accounting for around 70% of the 64m comics sold each year in the US, worth an estimated $318m.Marvel started selling 10 cent weekly comics during the Depression. It grew in the comic book heyday of the 1930s and 1940s but suffered in the 1950s as the sector slumped. New characters revitalised the company in the 1960s, but by the 1990s the company over-expanded as it searched for new markets.In 1994 it was declared bankrupt, but was reborn with the success of the first Spider-Man movie in 2002.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Four years in the making, a huge next-gen franchise but isAssassin's Creedany good? The first reviews have come in and opinions are mixed.Gamespotgives it a 9 - "here is one of the most unique gameworlds ever created" - but the normally reliable Eurogamergo for a 7. IGN, not usually shy of scoring big,have gone for a 7.7, criticizing, "a bad story, repetitive gameplay elements, and poor AI". So how good is Assassin's Creed?My copy is arriving today and I'm still optimistic, especially after a recent play at a demo day. But with Mass Effect - my most wanted of 2007 - due next week, and Super Mario Galaxy, which arrived yesterday, this a seriously crowded gaming schedule. Ah yes, Mario Galaxy. I played for a couple of hours last night and was, well, slightly underwhelmed. Oh and slightly queasy too - steering Mario around on rotating planets is not advisable after a post work drink. If the reviews are anything to go by it should get better as, unlike Assassin's Creed, Mario has received top scores across the board. More thoughts on Assassin's and Mario tomorrow.
Cable &amp; Wireless ousted the head of its international business, Harris Jones, yesterday, handing him a &pound;5m payoff despite saying it wanted to increase the business faster than he had so far managed.The chairman, Richard Lapthorne, denied talk of a management split but Jones is understood to have been unhappy at the decision of C&amp;W's UK boss, John Pluthero, to rename his bit of the business "C&amp;W Europe, Asia and US".Pluthero, who joined C&amp;W when it merged with Energis in 2005, will become executive chairman of C&amp;W's international unit, which runs mobile and fixed-line operations in countries  from the West Indies and Falkland Islands to Tunisia and Macau. He will carry out a strategic review, due to be completed by Christmas, and pick a new chief executive.Pluthero will also claim half of the remaining share awards due to Jones under the company's controversial four-year executive incentive plan. Should C&amp;W's share price double, he will collect &pound;7.5m from Jones's share of the scheme, on top of the &pound;20m he will be due from his own share of the payout pot. The rest of Jones's take will be given to the new head of the international business.C&amp;W's long-term incentive plan was put together in 2006 as Lapthorne split the business into two units, with Jones and Pluthero set to receive &pound;20m each if the C&amp;W share price doubled.This year and despite protests from corporate governance groups, C&amp;W dumped the &pound;20m cap so if the share price rises beyond the target, the scheme pays out even more. C&amp;W has set aside &pound;54m related to the incentive plan, which includes other top managers.Jones will collect &pound;4.3m from the incentive scheme for the increase in the value of the business over the past 18 months, plus a year's salary, worth &pound;600,000. It is likely to further ignite the debate over executive rewards for failure.While the international business has grown - revenues were up 7% at $1.2bn (&pound;580m)  in the six months to September - the company yesterday reduced its full-year guidance for the division's profits before financial charges by $20m to between $820m and $840m because of poor performance in Jamaica.C&amp;W also made it plain yesterday that Jones had gone because he was not growing the business fast enough. Lapthorne, who is understood to have masterminded Jones's departure, said: "We are now at the stage where we need to accelerate the transformation of service and brand reputation, fuelling further growth in the value of international."News of the departure of Jones came as C&amp;W announced a near-30% increase in profits before financial charges to &pound;284m and forecast a full-year result of between &pound;585m and &pound;610m.Pluthero's turnaround plan for the core UK business, which involves jettisoning unprofitable business, saw overall group revenues decline to &pound;1.56bn from &pound;1.72bn last year, but margins increase.C&amp;W's UK business, which at one point threatened to push the whole company over the edge,  generated cash - before the cost of its local network business formerly known as Bulldog - in the first half, for the first time in years.The ousting of Jones is the second major management U-turn for Lapthorne since he took over four years ago. His initial choice of Francesco Caio as chief executive  was also let go.
The Google video introducing the Android (Gphone) software platform has a long demo showing the user interface and some early apps.....There's also anIntroducing Androidvideo showing the team behind it.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Cars are big. TV shows like Top Gear are hugely popular, with viewers cooing and trouser-rubbing over the latest new cars on the block. Let no sandal-wearing cyclepath tell you otherwise: people love their four wheeled wonders.And, as you can see from ourlatest trip into the Guardian's technology archives, motor moonies have been around for a long time.The report - from an auto industry show at Olympia in London - was published exactly one century ago, 13th November 1907. Above you can see the article as it appeared, ddredged up through our newdigital archive, (which - unfortunately - you have to pay for). It's intriguing, and hugely detailed:The whole of the huge hall is insufficient to accommodate the demands for space which were made, and the annexe was also unable to cope with the overflow, notwithstanding that the entries are, for the first time, restricted to pleasure cars.Whilst the show is thoroughly representative both of English and Continental makes, it may be said that there seems no very revolutionary trend in design observable anywhere. The car of to-day seems to be settling down on more or less conventional lines, as one would expect as the outcome of ten years of trial and experience.Improvements will come and are coming slowly and surely, but they are being introduced along sound and safe lines.I thought it was a fascinating read; not least because while some of the car manufacturers remain solvent today (Fiat, Rolls Royce and Daimler), most of the companies mentioned - Napier, Darracq, Berliet, Clement Talbot - have disappeared.
Mobile phone company O2 claims to have sold "tens of thousands" of iPhones over the weekend after its launch in Britain.Its chief executive, Peter Erskine, predicted that the UK pre-pay mobile phone market will decline this year for the first time in the history of the industry as the mobile phone companies focus on users willing to sign a contract.Customers buying an iPhone, for instance, have to sign up for 18 months. He said iPhone sales through O2 stores are outstripping those from Carphone Warehouse and Apple's own stores, with "tens of thousands" sold through the O2 store network. There have been reports over the weekend that O2 and Carphone stores have seen lacklustre sales but Erskine said "the initial feedback is we are in-line with our expectations".Erskine stressed it is "early days" and refused to give an exact sales figure, adding that reports of sales of more than 100,000 were exaggerated.Asked about speculation that people were put off by the price, he added "that's certainly not what we are finding".The number of customers who have gone into an O2 store since the iPhone went on sale on Friday night is three times higher than the same period last year.While many of these new visitors had come to play with the gadget, Erskine said he hoped overall sales would increase as staff tried to sell this wave of shoppers additional items. "It's the old story in retail: if you can get them in you can sell them something," he said. "What I don't know yet ... is how much extra we are selling ." UK chief executive Matthew Key expects to sell more than 200,000 iPhones in the Christmas and new year period.
Youth social networking site Bebo will offer free content from major broadcasters - including the BBC - and record labels when it launches a series of media channels today.The Open Media platform will also feature programmes from the BBC, ITN, Channel 4, BSkyB and Endemol in the UK, and CBS, Turner, MTV and ESPN in the US.Programmes will Include Robin Hood and The Mighty Boosh.Companies can embed their own media player on their Bebo channel, including their own advertising, and customise the page for their brand.Following the launch at noon today in London and New York, additional media companies will be able to add their content through a "self-service" system.Content will be free for Bebo's 40 million users to access, and content companies will receive 100% of revenues from in-video advertising - something that Bebo hopes will be a major incentive over similar offerings from rivals MySpace and Facebook.Open Media also includes content from web-based services including music recommendation site Last.fm. user-content channel SumoTV and comedy site Crackle.Evan Cohen, the Bebo director of strategy and operations, said the platform was not just an distribution tool, but an opportunity for media companies to exploit Bebo to cultivate the community around their brand.Media content spreads virally, finding those "hard to reach" younger audiences who spend the majority of their time online.Although media companies might prefer to build this community on their own site, said Cohen, "the reality is that they are not able to"."There's a shift from that very possessive model of building up your own site to the super distributed mode - 'let's go where the audience is'," he added."This is a natural fit with younger audiences who see entertainment as a form of engagement and self-expression. Their life is about expression and defining who they are."The foundation of the site is communication but we want to build on top of that a compatible and powerful service of professional video and music that users can watch and put on their profiles."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A couple of treats for the technologically-minded in the latest episode ofScience Weekly, our regular sci-tech podcast.Theoretical physicistMichio Kaku- who has a newBBC TV seriesin which he explores the cutting edge science of today, tomorrow, and beyond - says we are living in a time of great possibility.We also catch up with the inventors of the world's most efficientrobot car, and hear from the scientist who's trying to makecomputers sound more human.Listen to it now, or visit the Science blog togive us feedback.
AppleInsider is reporting - well,rumouring- that Apple will in January at its MacWorld expo introduce a lightweight portable MacBook. Actually, no, sorry, it'll be "a chic and ultra-compact notebook design long under development". Because there's no point in having things that are only recently developed, is there?While this "ultraportable" has been a recurring theme on the wishlist of many Apple rumour websites (I've been hearing them predict it for, ooh, about six years now, ever since Apple demonstrated with the first G4 Powerbook that it could make attractive stuff you'd be happy to show in that Important Corporate Meeting), some of what's being forecast here might come to pass. (AppleInsider has been rumouring it since February. Persistence pays dividends, you might say.)The most interesting thing though is the suggestion that it will be "ultra-slim" (and chic, don't forget chic) by dispensing with an optical drive, which always demands motors and has to be a certain height, thus determining how low (or high) your portable is. Get rid of the optical drive - rather like the iMac got rid of the floppy - and you're only limited by how much stuff you decide to put in there.And when you do need an optical drive? No doubt you'd do what all theotherultraportables out there do - attach it via USB or Firewire (the latter would be a better choice for Apple, since it owns the technology; but USB optical drives are more common).This would however mean that if you were travelling any serious distance with your new (and let's not forget, chic) ultraportable, you'd have to take an optical drive with you so you could, if disaster struck, boot it up.Then again... can we be far off the time when you'll be able to boot the whole machine off a USB stick? With 2GB Flash memory sticks now costing about 20, you'd perhaps just be able to take along a minimal boot disk on a memory stick, boot from that if needs be, and repair the hard disk. Because it will surely be a hard drive in there - Flash memory prices are falling generally, but they haven't fallen quite far enough that it would be worth making an ultraportable with a Flash drive.Right, so that's the rough feel. Of course the screen will be smaller - probably 13" (AppleInsider says). Now, wouldya buy one? If not, why not? What's the matter, don't you like chic?
The excellent programme for Pop Art Portraits, the current exhibition at London's National Portrait Gallery, has a lot to say about the pictures hanging on the walls and the diverse source material the artists used to produce their provocative works.Apparently they cut up magazines, copied comic books, drew trademarked cartoon characters like Minnie Mouse, reproduced covers from Time magazine, made ironic use of a cartoon Charles Atlas, painted over iconic photos of James Dean and Elvis Presley - and that's just in the first of seven rooms.The programme describes the aesthetic experience conjured up by these transmogrified icons of high and low culture. Celebrated pop artists including Larry Poons, Robert Rauschenberg and Andy Warhol created these images by nicking the work of others, without permission, and transforming it to make statements and evoke emotions never countenanced by the original creators.Despite this, the programme does not say a word about copyright. Can you blame the authors? A treatise on the way that copyright and trademarks were - had to be - trammelled to make these works could fill volumes.Reading the programme, you can only assume that the curators' message about copyright is that where free expression is concerned, the rights of the creators of the original source material must take a back seat to those of the pop artists.There is, however, another message about copyright in the National Portrait Gallery: it is implicit in the "No Photography" signs prominently displayed throughout its rooms, including one by the entrance to the Pop Art Portraits exhibition.These signs are not intended to protect the works from the depredations of camera flashes (otherwise they would read "No Flash Photography"). No, the ban on pictures is meant to safeguard the copyright of the works hung on the walls - a fact that every member of staff I asked instantly confirmed.Indeed, it seems every square centimetre of the National Portrait Gallery is under some form of copyright. I wasn't even allowed to photograph the "No Photographs" sign. A member of staff explained that the typography and layout of the signs was itself copyrighted.If true, presumably the same rules would prevent anyone from taking any pictures in any public place - unless you could somehow contrive to get a shot of Leicester Square without any writing, logos, architectural facades or images in it. Otherwise I doubt even Warhol could have got away with it.So what's the message of the show? Is it a celebration of remix culture, revelling in the endless possibilities opened up by appropriating and reusing images without permission?Or is it the epitaph on the tombstone of the sweet days before the UN set up the World Intellectual Property Organization and the ensuing mania for turning everything that can be sensed and recorded into someone's property?Does this show - paid for with public money, with some works that are themselves owned by public institutions - seek to inspire us to become 21st century pop artists, armed with cameraphones, websites and mixers, or is it supposed to inform us that our chance has passed and we'd best settle for a life as information serfs who can't even make free use of what our eyes see and our ears hear?Perhaps, just perhaps, this is actually a Dadaist show masquerading as a pop art show. Perhaps the point is to titillate us with the delicious irony of celebrating copyright infringement while simultaneously taking the view that even the "No Photography" sign is a form of property not to be reproduced without the permission that can never be had.&middot;Cory Doctorow is a digital activist, science fiction author and co-editor of the popular blogBoing Boing.
This one's filed under "Doh!".MCVreports that Rockstar's PSP version of Manhunt2 has beenremoved from the shelvesof one of the US' leading retailers after hidden content, buried in the code, was unearthed. This smells like stale coffee to me.The offending code had been removed by the developers when it was submitted to the ratings authority, but it appears that version had only been buried and not struck from the record. According to the official Take Two statement viaGameSpot,Multiple edits were made to revise Manhunt 2 for its M-rated version.Hackers apparently have altered one of those edits to produce an illegally modified version of the game that can only be played on an unauthorized, modified PlayStation Portable handheld system.All of the game material, and especially these specific edits, was submitted to and reviewed by the ESRB in accordance with requirements regarding disclosure that were enacted two years ago and any contrary suggestion is inaccurate and irresponsible.They were, indeed, following the rules. However, Target (the retail chain) is playing it safe, but the damage (and the ensuing publicity) is done.
Last week I advised culture loving gamers to head to Norwich for the excellentAurora animation festival, where art collective Igloo was showing off its ballet/videogame mash-up SwanQuake. This week, I suggest you put aside a day between December 15 and February 23 to visit Exeter's trailblazingSpacexgallery. Here you'll find an exhibition by New York-based artist Cory Arcangel, a self-confessed 'computer geek' who hacks old office applications and videogames to create new works.One of the pieces on show is I Shot Andy Warhol, a hacked version of the 1984 lightgun game,Hogan's Alley. Players take on the role of feminist activist Valerie Solanas who once attempted to assassinate the pop art genius - your job is to shoot him whenever he appears on screen, carefully avoiding other figures such as the pope, Colonel Sanders and Flavor Flav. I'm not sure what the message is, I just know it's delivered with retro visuals and a bizarre mix of pop culture icons and, in the end, that's what matters.You can find out more about Coryhereandhere.
In the weird world of mobile games, ironic brands are king. Sure, you get plenty of movie tie-ins and console conversions, but there's still plenty of room for bizarre nostalgia-based tie-ins.Few companies appreciate this more than UK publisherPlayer X. The London-based outfit has made quite a nice living over the last few years overseeing the conversion of 'classic' quiz shows like Bullseye, Sale of the Century and Strike It Lucky to mobile. There is an understanding here of the essentially transitory, impulse nature of current mobile gaming. In a marketplace where consumers make their buying decisions based on a screenshot and a title, you may as well hit them with something daft and funny.The latest example is a conversion of Etch A Sketch, the limited drawing tool we all recall from our pre-PlayStation childhoods.Inside, there's a free-drawing mode which mimics the style of the original toy - it even lets you save your drawings and email them to friends. Some high-end handsets also boast a mode that takes any photo from your gallery and turns it into an Etch A Sketch drawing. You'll also find two mini-games - a version of Breakout, where the bat is an Etch A Sketch line that decreases to nothing when you stop moving and a take on Qix, where you divide off areas of the screen without touching the floating enemy creatures. I can't work out whether it's exploitative or clever the way the developer has ransacked history to find puzzle games that sort of resemble the Etch A Sketch experience.Of course, what the game lacks is a motion sensing element, allowing you to shake the screen clear. Motion sensing is set to be a key element in the mobile sector. The next-gen N-Gage titleHooked On: Creatures of the Deep, allows you to use your phone as a fishing rod, while Taito has justannouncedIntuition Band, an air guitar sim which uses motion control so that you can wield your cellphone like a really small Gibson Les Paul.
Microsoft isabout to launchsome new Zune portable music players that will be available in customised form viahttps://zuneoriginals.net/. Microsoft says:Consumers no longer need to settle for the same portable media player as everybody else. The new Zune Originals online store will let people make a unique statement by customizing their Zune with laser-engraved art or personal text. Zune worked with 18 accomplished artists from all over the world to create a collection of 27 different designs, called the Artist Series, which will be available exclusively through Zune Originals. In addition to the Artist Series, a separate Tattoo Series will feature 20 graphics that consumers can have laser-engraved on their Zune with up to three lines of text. Alternatively, people can choose to engrave up to five lines of text in place of a design. On the Zune Originals Web site, customers can choose their Zune (Zune 80GB, Zune 8GB or Zune 4GB), pick a color and then select a design and their desired text.TheCool Huntingsite has an interview with Microsoft's general manager of global marketing, Chris Stephenson, on the background, plus "all 27 of the illustrations and the artist bios".Update: Here's around-upof some early reviews....
