Yes, in case you missed the announcement today, Sports Interactive is developing a new massively multplayer online version of Football Manager, which strips the series down to its bare essentials and allows hundreds of players to compete against each other in Fantasy Football-style leagues.Football Manager Liveis apparently the brainchild of Oliver Collyer, one of the two Everton-mad brothers who created the original Championship Manager. The idea is to create your own team, then join a league or cup tournament, bidding with your online competitors for real-life players drawn from SI's enormous database. Apparently, matches will take place in real-time using the 2D overhead view introduced in Champ Man 4. I'm not sure if that means 90mins of action every time, but surely not. Maybe managers will get to agree on a shorter game length.Whatever, it's a fascinating concept - especially to addicts like me. Interestingly, the developer seems to be pitching the game at lapsed CM-oholics - the people (that should probably be 'men') who allowed Champ Man to dominate their lives during the late-nineties, before settling down and discovering that obsessing over the relative merits of a 4-4-2 or 4-5-1 set-up for your passing-minded Cheltenham side was not entirely conducive to a successful married life.What the game will lack, as an MMO, is the sort of wayfaring feel of WoW - the sense of traveling a virtual domain, meeting new allies and enemies. It will, in short, lack an avatar, a physical representation that virtual worlds have usually relied upon - though I suppose there have been many space combat MMOs without avatar systems.SI seems keen to avoid many of the pitfalls of the MMO. League points will be awarded through a complex system that takes into consideration other factors as well as mere score - this is so that players who only come online once or twice a month won't be worse off than those who are on there all day.Anyway, the game is due out next Spring, but a beta is starting up soon. I'm about to email SI's director Miles Jacobson to see if I can get on the list... Miles, if you're reading, how about it?
Via has finally unveiled a reference design for its Pico-ITX motherboard, which reaches a new low of 100mm x 72mm for an off-the-shelf product. It's not much bigger than a playing card.According toTG Daily, "In addition to the low-power processors the board will have one SO-DIMM DDR2 slot that supports up to 1 GB of RAM. One SATA and one IDE connector is on the motherboard and the graphics is powered by a VIA Unichrome chip. Four USB 2.0 and 2 PS/2 ports for keyboard and mouse are also on the board."Via Tech's pagesays:Helping to fulfill VIA's vision to drive the x86 platform more widely and empower more people to enjoy the digital lifestyle, the Pico-ITX mainboard form factor is designed to enable system developers and OEMs to create smaller, lighter, quieter and even more mobile devices than ever before, and open up a new world of possibilities across multiple embedded PC, system and appliance segments.But how much of a boost it might give the UMPC (ultra-mobile PC) depends a lot on the price, which isn't mentioned on the page. PC manufacturers always want a premium for small devices, while mass market buyers want them to cost less than larger systems.
In the light of the increasing push for us to work at home, here's an interesting statistic from the author of Bowling Alone (which looked at how social 'glue' such as bowling clubs, which were so prevalent in 1950s America, have almost disappeared). It comes from aNew Yorker article about commuting:"I was shocked to find how robust a predictor of social isolation commuting is," Robert Putnam, a Harvard political scientist, told me. (Putnam wrote the best-seller 'Bowling Alone,' about the disintegration of American civic life.) "There's a simple rule of thumb: Every ten minutes of commuting results in ten per cent fewer social connections. Commuting is connected to social isolation, which causes unhappiness."This I came across in the'goodbye Apple' post by Buzz Andersen, who noted howAs the stress and hours increased at work, my 45 minute commute down 280, which I had initially thought of as a reasonable (even pleasant and scenic) drive, became a soul crushing daily slog.(In which by the way he confirms what I noted earlier aboutApple's software teams being stretched between the iPhone and Leopard development:In Apple's case (or at least the part of Apple I worked in), that business is shipping amazing software on impossible schedules with astonishingly small teams.Allow for hype, obviously, but the teams really are small - as in phone box, not phone book, small.)Which raises an interesting question: if more of us work from home, with zero commutes, will that lead to more social connections and less unhappiness? Has anyone begun a study on it?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Tempted by a PSP? Best wait till May 4th when the price will be cut to £129.99. Yes, it's easy to be cynical about this - last throw of the dice? - especially when the DS is outselling the PSP across the globe. But this is a good time to make the cut. PSP games are finally starting to get interesting - Pirates is a recent highlight - while the connectivity with PS3 has huge potential. Is the price cut tempting enough or are you sticking with your DS?
James Kendrick at jkOnTheRun has posted rumours of aDell Tablet PCthat could appear late this year. Or not. Dell is a mass market supplier and it's not Dell's modus operandi to pioneer new areas -- that's a risky and expensive business. You could, perhaps, claim that the Tablet PC is now a standard mass market form factor and therefore suitable for Dell's cost-reduction treatment, but I rather doubt it.If a Dell Tablet does appear, it will be around five years after the launch of the Microsoft Tablet PC system. (Of course, tablets go back much further, to things like the DOS-based GridPad in 1989.) I was just looking up my pre-launch story in what was then Guardian Online:Keep taking the tablets. It includes this paragraph:It's an idea that is dear to the heart of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has hyped the Tablet PC in his last two Comdex computer show speeches in Las Vegas in 2000 and 2001. "I'm already using a Tablet PC as my everyday computer," he said last year. "It's a PC that is virtually without limits, and within five years, I predict that it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."Well, five years later, it's clearly not.
If the words "World", "War", "2" and "FPS" make you weep tears of boredom then I feel your pain. As far as I'm concerned the original Medal of Honor and Call of Duty pretty much nailed the visceral action while Company of Heroes and Brothers in Arms worked well if you wanted to use your brain a bit. But they are the cream of a huge pile of mediocre games set in WW2, most of which add nothing to the basic Nazi-blasting formula. So I was genuinely interested to hear about a new game set 30 years before - yes, finally we are getting aWorld War 1 first person shooter."To End All Wars" - working title, though I quite like - is set in the trenches of WW1 and will use the Unreal Engine 3 technology, famously used in Gears of War. That's about it for details but I can't wait to see what they come up with. The static nature of WW1 is a trickier design proposition than the more fluid WW2, and you can imagine the developers - Kuju Sheffield - having to be more than a little creative with the truth. How will they capture the boredom/terror of life in the trenches without resorting to fantasy? And what about the unreliable and basic weaponry? Medal of Honor brilliantly captured the horror of D-Day but will To End All Wars do the same as it sends you over the top?There's probably a longer blog here about the morality of using WW1 - or any combat - as a basis for a game, but that's for another day. For now I'm just looking forward to spending my next bout of world war gaming in Flanders rather than Nazi-occupied Europe.
In the Roseland Ballroom in New York yesterday, 13-year-old Morgan Pozgar became the US Texting Champion, winning $25,000. There were 250 contestants at the finals. According to anAFP story:Pozgar said she trained by sending on average 8,000 text messages a month to her friends -- an astonishing rate of one every five and a half minutes. She pays 10 dollars a month for an unlimited text package on her cell phone.In a tense championship final, Tirosh [the west coast champion] seemed to have won after putting down her phone first, only for judges to rule she had made a 15,000-dollar typo in the lyrics to Mary Poppins song "Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious."
British Airways has just generated a huge amount of free publicity for Richard Branson and Virgin -- and made itself look petty and stupid -- by cutting them out of the in-flight version of the James Bond movie, Casino Royale.The BBC reportsthat "Sir Richard was seen briefly in the original film, passing through an airport security scanner, but can only be seen from behind in the new edit." (Branson got a cameo role after providing a plane for the film.) Further: "The British Airways edit also obscures the tail fin of a Virgin plane that was seen in the original."The BBC did get a response from BA:"We do reserve the right to edit films, and many films are edited in some way on board," said a spokesman.In other words, a BA spokesman fluffed the chance to redeem the airline by saying something like: "This was a dumb thing to do, and we don't have a clue how it happened, but we're really not that petty. We'll send Branson a crate of his favourite wine, restore the original movie and reprimand whoever did it." Unless, of course, BA really is that petty....
For the past week's posts on one page, clickhere. Highlights include:Mac v fat adMicrosoft launches SilverlightGoogle buys Tonic for online PowerPoint capabilitiesA man with a pencil (and a calculator) is very annoyed about Adobe's European prices
The Circus Of Disembowelled Plush ToysMichael Hanttula has previously been responsible for MoFa, the museum of food abnormalities, and some photos of marshmallow rabbits being burnt to a crisp in a toy house fire. His latest gallery is described as "the most hideous collection of plush-toy tragedies" that will "shock &amp; horrify". There is something dark about seeing teddy bears with their cotton wool guts spilling out, cuddly monkeys sawn in half and covered in acupuncture pins or a microwaved Barney the Dinosaur. Well, maybe Barney deserves it.Johnny Deewww.hanttula.com/exhibits/plushtoysNeil GaimanThe book world is slowly catching on to internet marketing, but still the vast majority of author websites exist around the publication of a new work before stagnating shortly afterwards. Neil Gaiman's wonderful site is one of the few exceptions. What's great about it is that it's generous: while most writers are curmudgeonly about giving away their work, this has a regularly updated journal as well as a collection of fine short stories, essays and whole chapter excerpts from his back catalogue. For those who've read American Gods, there's the bonus of sheets from his working notebook and a list of websites he used for research. Dedicated followers can help out with a Gaiman wiki.Johnny Deewww.neilgaiman.comMogGary Lightbody of Snow Patrol, the supremely bonkers Deerhoof (pictured) and Pink are just some of the stars who have signed up to this lovely music recommendation site. In theory, you can see the latest music played on their iPods, view lists of recent records they've bought and hear what songs they recommend, while they can stream favourite tracks (or their own) and chat about them on the blog. The site breaks down the whole fan/musician barrier, but also succeeds in being a more accessible MySpace for people fanatical about new music. For the less obsessed, it's a nice place to leech new tunes.Johnny Deemog.com419 Is A Joke: The fine art of scamming the scammersEveryone has received an email from a person who claims to be a businessman in desperate need to transfer millions of dollars or maybe from an African lottery company who has selected you as a random winner (seeurgentmessage.orgfor hundreds of examples). Most of us delete them immediately, but there are some poor souls out there who believe these advance fee frauds and end up losing money - this makes the increasingly popular sport of scam baiting acceptable. The idea is to reply to the emails from specially set up accounts and then turn the tables on the fraudsters by scamming them. Atstringalongafraudster.bravehost.comthis takes the form of having them correspond with an eccentric Englishman not dissimilar to Jimmy Savile, whilescamorama.comincludes bizarre correspondences that go on for years. Rather more hardcore is the trick pulled by Football 419 (storm.prohosting.com/f419), which turns the tables by promising email fraudsters a grant if they pledge their allegiance to Arse Clown Football Club (one brick-balancing trialist pictured). Meanwhile, the counter scamming 419 Eater (youtube.com/419eater) includes a prank where a scammer is persuaded he's a talented music producer and ends up performing the Village People's YMCA. You'd think he might have suspected something, seeing as the emails came from His Excellency George W Bush.Johnny DeeWhat we learned on the web this weekWhat Homer Simpsonwould be like as areal personThe story of Tiddlesthegiant catwho lived in the ladies' lav at Paddington StationWhat happened whenJustin TVtook off his camera hat10,000 reasons whycivilisation is doomedThe art ofavoiding anasshole bossThe seven stagesofowning an iPodBodybuilders arerubbish atapplying fake tanThe most ambitiousprank in historyThe best parts ofmost films are those withSteve Buscemi in themThe 10 greatestmovie potheadsfeature Angelie Jolie's current mateHow to write- by the late, greatKurt VonnegutBig on MySpace: We Smoke FagsURLmyspace.com/thebelmontfantasticsProfile views58691Friends7715Random comment"you guys are purty amazing musiic makuurrs"Billing themselves as "The future sound of London" and claiming they sound like "sex through the wall", this arch electro punk trio mix sordid lyrics with fearsome synth headbanging and, on Lust Puppet, sample the deep throated elderly perv who did the Denim For Men adverts in the 1980s. They also wear vests. No less frightening are their friends, who include hundreds of porn models and Right Said Fred. Allegedly they've run into difficulties with some Americans who think their name is homophobic. As if. Meanwhile, they've been discovered by Radio 1, are gigging with Soulwax and have launched a cunning side project entitled We Smoke Cigars.Blog roll: Music newsGuardianblogs.guardian.co.uk/musicOpinion, heated debate and unnecessary cruelty directed at Natasha Bedingfield.DJ Martiandjmartian.blogspot.comAn all-seeing eye over the planet of sound and links galore.Rock Snobtherocksnob.blogspot.comEasily digestible news morsels with 33% extra Keith Allen's daughter.Stereogumstereogum.comA pleasing mix of videos, MP3s and bands to watch.idolatoridolator.comWinning outbreak of sarky rock bulletins. Plus album leak news.No Rock And Roll Funxrrf.blogspot.comHourly updates on the Girls Aloud split and other ongoing pop doom.Music Thingmusicthing.blogspot.comFor lovers of actual musical instruments (like the Ztar guitars) rather than berks who play them in bands.
In its brief lifetime, theGuitar Herofranchise, with its carefully chosen rawk cover versions and small plastic Gibson, has supplied the fleeting feeling of rock god-status to millions and in the process made itself something of a geek institution. The recent launch of Guitar Hero II on Xbox 360 (accompanied by howls of derision at the cost of downloading extra songs) prompted a Gene Simmons-fronted Times Square PR stunt for its US release, with the rocker accompanying Guitar Hero II gamers on classic KISS track Strutter. The activity has made miniature fake guitars once again the distinctive flavour of the week. As well as their more conventional use, one fan has modified his toy axe to control the classic first person shooter, Halo. Search YouTube for Guitar Halo and derive much amusement from the sight of a man gently strumming a half-sized model guitar in order to take out enemies with a rocket launcher.&#183;Guitar Hero II, Xbox 360, Activision, &pound;70
300: March To GloryPSPThe coolest-looking revisionist history un-lesson ever comes to the very small screen in the form of 300: March To Glory, in which you lead the Spartan army to eventual Pyrrhic victory, earning Kleos (that's Greek honour) to upgrade King Leonidas by carving everything in sight into meaty chunks. Hobbled from the start by limiting Frank Miller's superb original artwork to the cut scenes, this isn't so much a dull videogame as it is an awe-inspiring cathedral to tedium. Continually hit the stab and big-stab buttons, occasionally hold down L and R to prevent impalement by volleys of Persian arrows, then get back to the humdrum business of dicing an entire extremely boring army of thousands - inevitably it's hard not think that it's for times like this that weapons of mass destruction were invented. You don't admire the Spartans' bravery in battle so much as their unendurably high boredom threshold.&#183;Eidos, &pound;30HeatseekerPS2 (reviewed), PSP, WiiYet another Top Gun game that puts you at the joystick of an extensible range of fighters in skies which are increasingly crowded with other planes and ordnance entities. Heatseeker's points of difference, such as they are, include a strong emphasis on ease of use rather than realism and the instantly annoying slow motion close-ups of your enemies as they vanish in lo-res conflagrations. When your options are limited to shooting stuff, missions unsurprisingly become just the tiniest bit samey. You are alternately tasked to destroy things or protect other things (by blowing up everyone else), all of which is introduced by hilariously low budget voice acting that's reminiscent of early black and white Saturday morning programmes in its utterly unselfconscious ludicrousness. Easy, flimsy and endlessly shallow, Heatseeker is a pallid imitation of the Ace Combat series, episodes of which you can buy for the same price or less.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;30-&pound;40
MondayWomen in Games Conference 2007Go figureEA and EndemolTuesdayWhat's the point?Looking for inspiration in all the same placesSony threatens job lossesDS plays guitarWednesdayVirginia Tech: videogames already to blameOf tails and gamesLost?ThursdayWhy Web 2.0?Artifically intelligentJack Thompson continues media onslaughtFridayQuesting for perfectionCourting controversy
It's been awomen in gameskind of day today. Along withEmma Westecott, researcher andWomen in Games Conferenceorganiser, I spoke toWoman's Hourabout what keeps women from gaming. Then we rushed back to the University of Newport to grab the tail end of "woman gamer"Alice Taylor'sconference talk, Games and Public Service.Here are her notesfrom yesterday's keynote. I also ate some delicious gingerbread biscuits made bythe woman Catmoo, one in the shape of objects from the games Loco Roco and Legend of Zelda.The best thing of the day thus far wasAnnie Spencer's slide show of many of the most contentious and controversial games available. See? We don't just complain about Lara Croft's assets.Most are not safe for work. All are worth knowing about:911 Survivor (Jeff Cole, Mike Caloud, John Brennon) Anti-Bush game (Starving Eyes) Kaboom: The Suicide Bombing game (fabulous999+at+yahoo.ca) Nene Suicide Girl (Tom Fulp) Border Patrol (Tom Metzger) Super Columbine Massacre RPG (Danny Ledonne) Eyewitness (Hong Kong Polytecjhnic Student Project) Global Conflicts: Palestine (serious games) Pax Warrior (223 YYZee Studios) Darfur is Dying (Cazaux, Jackson, Keating, Ruiz, Satiago, Stein, Treung, York) McDonald's I'm Playin' It (Molliendustria) Subservient Chicken (Burger King) Sextris Queer Power (Mollieindustria) Left Behind: Eternal Forces (Left Behind Games) Second Life (Linden Lab) Dashwood Dungeon (Ms. Cheri Horton) Shangai Gallery (Annie Spencer, Faustine Faubery, CFC media lab)
Google has launchedWeb History, which enables users to search pages they've already visited . The main drawbacks are that you need a Google Account and the Google Toolbar with PageRank enabled, so Google can track the Web pages you visit.Web History is an enhanced version of what used to be called Search History.Over at Search Engine Land,Danny Sullivan has an in-depth reviewof how it works. It's definitely worth reading the last section about privacy:Should You Worry.
One: I notice that Google has changed the name of its pretty awful shopping service from the punny Froogle -- the twee type of thing you'd expect from non-commercial grad students -- toGoogle Product Search. This is the sort of thing that suits a giant megacorporation and comes straight out of the Microsoft Guide To Product Names, eg Word, Small Business Server etc.Two: Google is devouring other companies at a prodigious rate. it has just boughtMarratech. I've already forgotten who else it bought this week. Oh yes, Tonic. DoubleClick must have been last week. Adscape was February. YouTube was last year -- as were dMarc, Neven, JotSpot, Measure Map, Upstatle and several more. Who do you want to buy today?Three:Google's first quarter profits jumped 69%and for the first time it trousered a whole $1 billion. Revenues jumped 63% to $3.66 billion, which is more than $1 billion a month. That's the kind of growth Microsoft used to enjoy. Bloomberg says:Profit margins held up in the quarter, expanding to 63.5% from 62.1% in the fourth quarter, Credit Suisse analyst Heath Terry said in a note to clients.For comparison, in the same quarter, Yahoo! made only $142 million on revenues that grew by 9% to $1.18 billion. Google is making 7x the profits on 3x the sales, with radio and TV advertising sales to come.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
World of Warcraft is a bloody marvel. Two years on I'm still playing the thing and still enjoying it. The designers must love people like me, those who dip in for a couple of hours a week, maybe more if the mood takes, enjoy some gnome-slaying and don't get too obsessed. I've peeked over the edge - ie theofficial forums- and seen how bad it can get, with players accusing each other of being "noobs" for "only" playing 6 hours a day. How do you design a game for people like this? So it was interesting to read thisnew interviewwith WoW's Vice President of Game Design - aka God to around 8 million WoW players - Rob Pardo. When asked about future plans he explained the difficulty in simply churning out new content.As a creative person, how long can you make WoW content when you're ready for something else? So not only do we have to find a lot of people who are really talented and who are willing to do this, we have to take some time to think about the team so that they're always challenged.This makes sense. Blizzard have built their reputation on ready-when-it's-ready quality control so you can understand Pardo's reluctance to force a jaded team to deliver substandard content. But he was less convincing when talking about quests - ie the main way to advance in the game.We have a team of quest designers and we all sit in a room everyday and jam up ideas. I'll follow up with each individual quest designer. I'll play their quests and iterate through it.Erm, ok. Now I love this game like a hairy, slightly overweight brother, but what exactly do they do in these daily quest meetings? Sit around and decide how many hydra scales or murloc eyes today's quest will require? By "jam up ideas" does he just mean new ways of wildlife culling and courier delivery or will we finally see more innovative quests in WoW? Here's hoping.
How high is Scotland? Given that it varies between sea level and 1344 metres at the top of Ben Nevis, Britain's highest mountain, it might sound odd just to say 200m. But that was the height that had to be used in 2001 for the Met Office's Hadley Centre modelling of the Earth's atmosphere with its HadCM3 Global Climate Model, using the fastest supercomputers then available. The 3D world divided the Earth's atmosphere into boxes roughly 300km by 300km, and 40 "layers" (from 5km below the sea to 30km above it); the entire British Isles were covered by just five grid cells.Rising airIn Scotland, "the result was not much rain," says David Hassell, who runs the Hadley Centre's regional modelling department. "When we analysed it using a regional model with a cell resolution of 25km, we could see rain." The more detailed simulation could reflect the natural cooling as ocean air hit the land in the west and then rose over the mountains.The latest Global Climate Models (GCMs) such as Hadley's HadGEM 1 have cell resolutions of around 150km, so still need a Regional Climate Model (RegCM) "nested" in them to examine finer details. The Integrated Forecast System based in Reading is the highest resolution RegCM in Europe, with grid cells just 10km square, but can currently only run simulations on seasonal timescales.Many potentially sensitive regions of the world have not even been modelled yet. Projects began only last year in Indonesia and the Congo River Basin. The Hadley Centre provided officials there with their own RegCM software and tutorials for free under a scheme called PRECIS. "As concern grows we will see more and more regional modelling done," says Hassell.Last month the Australian Treasurer, Peter Costello, claimed that all the modelling of the economic effects of climate change have been global, and none had been done for individual countries; this has been used to criticise the work of the Stern Review, which looked at economic consequences of global warming.Dimitri Zenghelis, senior economist at the Stern Review, says: "The reason is that the regional climate model results are not aggregated. You have to pick and choose studies. Densely populated areas care more, so they will put more resources in."Henry Jacoby, director of MIT's program integrating the natural and social science aspects of climate change, says: "There is a lot of work done on modelling the local impacts of climate change and their economic effects. The problem is the ability to forecast regional climate is poor. Different models give different answers."Hassell says that experiments comparing the results of different RegCMs over the same area gave diverse results. Other studies confirm the wide range of possible outcomes, due to differences in the way natural dynamics are simulated.Some models will produce heavy rain over a region while in others the same location will be bone dry. Says Hassell: "There are now an increasing number of regional model simulations to compare." Recent projects such as ENSEMBLE combine a number of RegCM's of Europe and apply the Monte Carlo technique to refine their probability distributions, with the stated goal of producing "a probabilistic estimate of uncertainty in future climate".Another problem lies with the observations. The latest IPCC report says that although there are an increasing number of regional observations of the effects of climate change, "the available analyses are limited in the number of systems and locations considered". The report continues: "Natural temperature variability is [also] larger at the regional than the global scale, thus affecting identification of changes due to external forcing."Bottom-up perspectiveRoger Pielke Sr, of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences at Colorado University in the US, thinks the problem lies not only in imprecise measurements, but also in how the science is presented.He resigned from the IPCC in 1995 because of a disagreement over what should constitute a First Order Climate Forcing. He says: "The leadership of the IPCC has decided to focus on a global average surface temperature perspective and CO2 Forcing as the most important issues. This is an inappropriately narrow view of the human role in the climate system."Pielke thinks the governing bodies should take a bottom-up perspective, giving more prominence to local events such as deforestation. "As with an El Ni&ntilde;o, which alters rainfall patterns thousands of kilometres away, land use change can alter rainfall and other aspects of the climate system across long distances, even in the absence of a global average surface temperature change."Carbon Tracker is a tool that provides an insight into the local causes of global warming. A map of the US shows red patches signifying high CO2 emissions and blue areas where carbon is taken up by plants or the oceans.Another problem has been trying to get observations from the rest of the world to use as inputs. Pieter Tans of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, who produced the tool, explains sardonically: "The scientists put a lot of effort into gathering their data and they don't want to part with it." At a global scale, as with many of the other technologies used for climate prediction, theirs currently runs only at low resolution."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Rupert Murdoch, watch your step. I am coming to get you. I have just launched my own global TV station from my mobile phone and laptop. So far the total audience at any one moment hasn't risen above eight, but everyone has to start somewhere now that the creative revolution is offering everyone the opportunity to be a producer as well as a consumer.My experience was courtesy of Kyte.tv, the latest of a series of start-ups (with high-octane financial backing) trying to claim this new space as their own. I was very impressed with the ease with which it can be done and the cost (nothing so far, at least not until my mobile phone bill comes in). I started by taking a video of a fairground carousel at the South Bank in London at the weekend. At home, after sending it to my desktop using the Bluetooth wireless function, I opened up the Kyte.tv homepage, pressed My Channels and Produce. I then dragged a "video player" icon to the middle of the screen and then clicked to upload my video.At a stroke it was out on Kyte's network for anyone who happened to be tuned in to watch, and make comments in the Chat window. By the end of the day it had been seen over 60 times - not bad for a service that is still on a limited audience test run. It is being launched next Monday but readers can taste it now using the invite code kyte4guardian as a login onKyte.tv's website.Later in the day I linked up with a friend in California to upload photos of paintings, which we were able to discuss live, and two or three other people from goodness knows where joined in the conversation. Each picture can have a polling function, inviting viewers to vote on what they think about it. At present you can upload photographs and videos on multiple channels but eventually there will be live streaming - and revenue shares - so you could run a real TV station from your living room - with everything archived so people who missed it can catch up.And that's only part of it. This whole process can be done from your mobile phone once you have put your mobile number on Kyte's website (which then sends you a text message with the necessary software, which worked first time for me). I switched my mobile on while we were discussing the paintings and it was quite eerie how the phone replicated everything that was happening on my laptop without any noticeable lag. I could chat from either the mobile or the laptop without any bother. I then copied a provided link, pasted it into my MySpace site and found the whole operation could be hosted from there, or other blogs, rather than from Kyte.I don't know whether this or one of the other competitors - such as Zannel.com, Brightcove, YouTube or SeeMeTV - will win this race. It will depend on which users can generate interesting programmes, but it is quite amazing that anyone can now operate a global TV station from a mobile phone for no extra cost - as long as they are on an "all you can eat" data tariff as provided by enlightened operators such as 3 and T-Mobile.This is definitely not for people whose service providers charge open endedly for data. At the moment it only works on a number of smart phones including the admirable Nokia N73 (but less well on the N80's smaller screen) plus some others. There isn't actually much new in it. It just packages existing technologies in a way that is simple to use.Predictions about the future of internet television have concentrated on those likely to be watching it (around 1.5m households by 2011, according to the Centre for Telecoms Research) but it will be more interesting to see how many will be creating it. It could be very large numbers as long as the mobile operators don't smother it at birth with open-ended pricing policies for data. I wouldn't put it past them.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Aged still dividedThere is still a digital divide, according to an Ipsos Mori poll. Almost 80% of people aged 65 and over never use the internet, 44% never use mobile phones and 84% don't do text messaging.PIN moneyBarclays is sending out more than half a million PINsentries - handheld chip and PIN card readers - to its online banking customers.Safer surfingFinjan SecureBrowsing is a free browser plug-in that scans the code of web pages before you visit them, and rates them for safety.securebrowsing.finjan.comAttacking Adobe's pricesDanielle Libine has launched an online petition against Adobe over the European pricing of its Creative Suite 3.gopetition.comMake me a rainbowGizoo is selling a sunlight powered indoor Rainbow Maker (&pound;18.95) based on a rotating Swarovski Crystal. Rain not required; sunlight not included.gizoo.co.ukMySpace trailer parkMySpace and Lionsgate have opened a Trailer Park where film studios can post trailers for forthcoming movies.myspace.comXbox TVThe New York Television Festival is holding a worldwide Microsoft-sponsored competition for a pilot for a comedy TV series, which will then be produced and shown on Xbox Live.newyorktelevisionfestival.comFlushed with ingenuityThe toilet of the future is being hand-built in north London and sold on eBay.youtube.com
Power to the people&middot;Ron West's ignorance in suggesting that low energy light bulbs are incompatible with dimmer switches is simply untrue (Stand by for some home truths about power consumption, April 12). Ryness supplies them to order.Peter Cuming, London&middot;Ron West has missed the point. What is an appliance on standby doing? Nothing. It's just a very lazy way of turning an appliance temporarily off and on.Chris Miles, Daventry&middot;The article only considers consumption in relation to one person or one family - multiply it by the 50 million population of the British Isles.Professor Tony Bradshaw, Liverpool&middot;Yes, his mobile charger uses just 0.009 kWh per day. But since there are 50 million mobile phones in the UK, if even half of those chargers are left plugged in that's 225,000 kWh being wasted every day!Rick Webber, Brighton&middot;Surely the answer is to address all unnecessary energy sources. Unlike your power shower, the standbys are wasting energy for no benefit. If we all manage all our microcosms well the eco-system as a whole will benefit.Peter Smart, My Microcosm&middot;The problem seems to stem from eco warriors' belief that all human activity is inherently unnatural and bad. I can't help wondering if these people would, were it legal, euthanase themselves to avoid the waste their lives will inevitably produce.Richard Deeson, Birmingham&middot;From my work on electricity usage 40 years ago I seem to remember that 70+% of home energy usage is for heating of space, water and cooking, which is where the really big savings are to be made.Graham Brown, Harrow&middot;Assuming his list of appliances is representative of a typical household, the average household could save up to 0.87kWh per day, or about 9%, by avoiding leaving items on standby.Harry Walton, Bristol&middot;Ron West has some good points in his article, but "if you've got an open chimney that you don't use, stick an old cushion up it" is not one of them. When a new occupant tries to start a fire, the forgotten cushion will provide excitement for all.David J Jones, KnutsfordDrive for new formatHave you guys ever heard of Ogg? (Finding music formats of the future, April 12)John Wesley,Romsey,Hampshire [SeeJack Schofield's columnfor the response - Tech Ed.]Age-old questionI find Andrew Brown's stereotyping, by using "granny", offensive (Why Linux is perfect ... April 12). May I reply in kind? It's expected that geeks who use PCs all the time won't understand people.Dave Stretch, Grange over Sands&#183;Although a Xubuntu based basic PC would be a good idea, our poor 'Granny' would still have to grapple with the telecoms people to get a broadband connection / router / password etc.rayallenoxford.blogspot.comLoad of old bloggers&#183;I've met more people online who now seem closer to me and more understanding of me than old college friends (Blogs aren't cutting it, April 12). Blogging isn't over - it's just evolving.greengathering.blogspot.comMedical Apple-icationsIf I were a user of a piece of life-critical medical equipment (Should Apple manufacture insulin pumps, April 12) I would be much more concerned with the quality of the software inside it than whether it had been styled in a fancy iPod-influenced way.Peter Amey, Bradford-on-Sea&#183;Send your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number
Nokia N95These days, Nokia doesn't call its high-end N series products phones - instead, it bills them as multimedia terminals. With the highly anticipated N95 you can see why. It is so well-specified it is hard to imagine what other gadgets Nokia could have added to the device. There's the usual slew of goodies including 3G, music player, Wi-Fi, video capture and playback and blogging compatibility, plus a couple of breakthrough applications, all delivered in a small-ish handset. The first innovation is a 5 megapixel camera which takes images that are more detailed and more colourful than other phone on sale in the UK. The other neat touch is the addition of a GPS satellite navigation system. You get really good quality maps and there is a large number of applications you can download to accompany it. The device is also smartly designed in that it slides both up and down. Push it up and it reveals the numeric keypad, while flipping it down unveils controls for the music player. The big question for Nokia is whether potential buyers still have that lust for gadgets on their mobiles.nokia.comFujifilm Finepix Z5Cameras on board mobile phones might be reaching 5 megapixels now, but the demand for compact cameras continues unabated. Fujifilm's latest low-end snapper is the Z5, a 6 megapixel model aimed ostensibly at first-time buyers. It is small, light and a little unusual in that it features a sliding mechanism which flips open to uncover the lens. This is a little unfashionable now but, given that the camera has no pop out external zoom, makes perfect sense. The camera is fairly easy to use, although I often found my fingers straying over the lens. Also the trigger button is close to the face detection switch, which meant I didn't always get the image I wanted. The face detection system actually works very well and unlike some of its rivals wasn't too foxed by the addition of hats, scarves, etc. Overall the images the Z5, priced at &pound;190, takes are good quality for a low-end model. Colours are strong and vibrant and the level of distortion is minimal. Its only real weak spot is that battery life isn't as generous as it could have been.fujifilm.co.ukSony NW-A805There was a brief period a couple of years back when it appeared that Sony was gaining ground on Apple in the MP3 player market. It seems to have lost momentum and now has a fight on its hands for second place with Samsung, SanDisk and Creative. Sony hopes to change that with a new series of Flash based players of which the 2GB NW-A805 is the cheapest at &pound;140. The new model has several things going for it, most notably its size - it is slimmer than the iPod nano - and high-quality 2in screen. Sony has included video playback and although you wouldn't watch a movie on it, the quality of the moving images really is superb. Similar to other Sony players, battery life is excellent, delivering 30 hours of music playback. The sticking point is, inevitably, the player's accompanying Sony Connect software, which is a lot trickier to use than it needs to be. So a good attempt by Sony to play catch up in the Flash memory music player market, but not the last word in Flash MP3 players.sony.co.uk
Gaming has a lot in common with everyone's favourite heiress, at least in the public consciousness: it's pretty, but dumb. And now that Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony have released their latest games consoles, that statement becomes all the more pertinent - next-gen games look great, but they play like something that could have been made a decade ago. While visual fidelity has advanced exponentially over time, the technology that governs how games play, react and adapt - the artificial intelligence, or AI - remains relatively rudimentary.A handful of developers are striving to change this. The British designer Peter Molyneux, recently awarded an OBE, has spent his career trying to inject sentience and reactivity into games - and with his upcoming title, Fable 2, he thinks he's made significant progress. "AI is certainly the undiscovered country of games design," he says. "Any game genre - from hardcore shooters to the most story-driven adventure game - would be truly revolutionised by AI driving plot, characters and scenarios."Gaming evolutionThis is because presently, every action a player makes in a game has to be anticipated by the developers; the software will break down or simply remain stagnant if asked to do something that hasn't been pre-scheduled. More sophisticated AI would allow games to come up with solutions to player decisions on the fly."That's where the great wins are, when you start improving AI," Molyneux says. "If I as a player can do stuff in the world that is outside what the designer expects, and the game or game characters react appropriately, that's incredibly powerful. Suddenly, you think, 'Well, this isn't something that's just waiting for me to press the B-button; it's evolving around what I'm doing.' That is very emotionally compelling and, if you get it right, it can often be quite spooky."That said, Molyneux doesn't believe AI can be solely responsible for intense, dynamic emotional experiences; they need to be married with what he calls "smoke and mirrors"."You have to define what games developers call AI," he says, "as opposed to academic AI. There's actually very little true, academic AI in games. If I go along to universities and talk to professors of AI, they sort of laugh at us and our crude attempts at real-world AI. But my promise has always been, 'Well, good AI is what you see, not how it works.' Whether that's a mixture of true AI and an illusion is neither here nor there, because it's really about what it brings to the game."Steve Grand - creator of the Creatures AI experiment, AI researcher, android hobbyist and also a recipient of an OBE - is probably the only person in the world with the distinction of creating a successful game driven by true AI. Which is why he's not particularly enthused by the progress his field has made in the games industry."AI isn't so much unappreciated as nonexistent," he says. "Most of what counts as AI in the games industry is actually a bunch of 'IF/THEN' statements. If a computer character doesn't learn something for itself then the programmer must have told it what to do, and anything that does exactly what it's told and nothing else is not intelligent. This is changing, and neural networks and other learning systems are beginning to creep in. But games programmers tend to devalue the phrase 'artificial intelligence'."This is mostly because the importance of AI in computer games is now widely recognised, and hence any attempt to implement it - including Creatures - gets hyped up pretty quickly. As graphics have improved, the behaviour of characters has got more and more embarrassing. When characters looked cartoon-like, any vaguely lifelike behaviour was impressive, but now that characters have fluid movements, realistic textures and complex facial expressions, they tend to engage different circuits in the players' brains. The better the graphics become, the worse the behaviour looks. So the need for good AI is well-appreciated. The snag is that none of us knows how to make it work yet."Learning curvesWhich isn't to say that Grand hasn't tried. In fact, Creatures is arguably the only AI-driven simulation that could still be classified as a compelling game in its own right. Basically a facade of evolution, the game allows players to teach their Norns (the creatures) to eat, talk, and defend themselves; they would learn and develop dynamically, and would pass on certain genetic traits to their offspring.Grand tries to explain its technology: "It consists of a very simplified set of the building blocks of life - nerve cells, enzymes, genes and receptors. The hard part is explaining how all these virtual objects are assembled together to make something that lives, acts, breeds and evolves. But if you understood school biology - I mean, if you really understood it, not just learned it - then you already almost understand Norns."I think the basic approach - biological and bottom-up - is the only way we'll ever achieve truly intelligent artificial systems. But for the time being, it's not the best way to approach the problem for most games. If you want to reach for the moon you have to go to the trouble to build yourself a space rocket, but if you only want to lift yourself three feet off the ground you might as well jump. There are easier ways to make the kind of intelligence most present-day games require, even though these techniques will never lead anywhere."Molyneux agrees. He's a fan of Creatures and the technology behind it, but he doesn't see it as particularly relevant to most mainstream games. "I have tried prototyping using neural networks," he concedes, "but you usually never quite get the results you want. And I think the system we use is a hybrid, really - I wouldn't want to put a title on the AI we've developed, but the theory of neural networks does influence it. I think the whole Creatures approach was incredibly interesting and impressive, but the real problem was that it was a bit of a strange beast. I didn't quite understand its motivations. It was a great, interesting attempt, though."Even if Molyneux is sceptical about Creatures' mass-market relevance, his latest project, Fable 2, at the now Microsoft-owned Lionhead Studios appears to be heavily influenced by Grand's games. This is most obvious in the player's constant companion, his dog. According to Molyneux, each player's dog will be unique thanks to their actions. "We're really pushing the idea of a learning creature with this game," he enthuses.But whether Molyneux will be answering that question with AI or "smoke and mirrors" is hard to say at this point; Fable 2 won't be released until 2008. Still, projects like this are an opportunity to advance our understanding of how AI can revolutionise increasingly stale gameplay.Grand, who's now focused on robotics, remains confident that games can benefit AI research: "I think it's probably the best environment for AI that exists, at least until we've cracked some of the huge problems that are holding back robotics. When you write a game, your only responsibility is to be entertaining. It's not a mission-critical environment, so this gives you plenty of scope for new ideas."With luck, more developers like Molyneux will begin taking his words to heart. It's unlikely entertainment software will ever employ - or need to employ - the sophisticated AI that Grand works with on a daily basis, but his work should serve as an inspiration to designers and programmers everywhere. After all, no matter how pretty games become, they're always going to be dumb if the brains aren't paid some serious attention.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have a couple of conspiracy theories. You too? OK, but mine first. One is that EastEnders is actually a government sponsored attempt to make people believe they're happier than they are. Because however bad it gets, at least you're having more fun that the people in 'Enders, right?The other is that there's a secret government edict which says that every conceivable consumer object must - on pain of some obscure penalty - come in a version with a docking station that an iPod can plug into. It began with hi-fis. Then it was those sort of boombox speakers you could carry on the beach to annoy people with. Then skiing jackets. Then cars. Then Nike trainers. Even airlines are doing it.But now the happy, device-loving parent-to-be can up the ante and get one for their tiny bundle of joy. For this week sees the launch of the Icoo Pico iPod. It's a pram - much like any other - but with an iPod docking station and built-in speakers.At first I thought this ingenious piece of kit was so you didn't have to listen to the little nipper's screams; just turn the Arctic Monkeys up. But no, the speakers are on the inside. So you can play tunes or nursery rhymes to your little darling.Awwww! No, wait a minute! I hate this idea for several reasons. First, the name. You haven't even had the child and you already sound like you've regressed to baby speak. Second, it claims it will make a walk in the park a "multisensory experience" for the child. Flipping heck! Isn't a walk in the park multisensory enough? We're talking about a baby here. You might be bored of seeing the trees and swings and birds and clouds, but it's all new to them. And what about the other park users who were minding their own business before you came along and blasted them with The Wheels on the Bus?But mostly I hate it because it's just so unnecessary. Can't you just sing to the baby? Or talk to it? Why do you need a gadget to do it for you? Where is it all going to end? Apple has already sold a kajillion of the things. Isn't that enough? I mean, what else should we attach an iPod to? The dog? Your bread maker? Your patio set?Actually, I rather like the idea of that. You see? I can't even think of an item where the quality of my life wouldn't be improved by pairing it with an iPod. They're so bloody crafty. It's definitely a conspiracy.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nearly three months after the launch of Windows Vista, thousands of people are still waiting for their promised upgrade to the new version of Microsoft's operating system.Vista finally launched on January 30, missing the vital Christmas sales period. In order to boost sales of PCs over the festive season, Microsoft and OEMs - computer manufacturers who sell PCs with Windows pre-installled - agreed to offer a scheme under which people who bought PCs with the XP operating system between October 26 last year and March 15 this year could upgrade to Vista for a nominal administrative charge.However, fulfilment of this huge "Express Upgrade" scheme has left many people still waiting for their upgrade. Internet forums are abuzz with complaints about the delays. Larry Wallis' story is typical."I sent the request for the upgrade disc on December 29 - knowing that Vista was due out in late January, I didn't rush! They first asked me for proof of purchase, which I emailed to them, but that was it: I didn't get anything to say they had accepted it. Following the threads [on internet forums], I realised there was a huge delay but thought I'd send a chasing email with another copy of my proof of purchase on March 4. No reply."On March 15 I got an automated email saying that validation was complete and that I'd have to wait another four to six weeks. The upgrade finally arrived on April 5."Wallis's three-month wait is a long way from the four-week period that Microsoft says getting these upgrades to customers should take. "It's getting a lot better now," says Robert Epstein, Microsoft UK's Group OEM Manager. "We're getting them out of the door now - they should be shipping within four weeks."So where does the blame lie? ModusLink, the fulfilment company handling the scheme for Microsoft and the OEMs, is pretty clear that it's not with them. Christine Pothier of ModusLink is at pains to point out that it is just the facilitator of the scheme."The PC manufacturers set the time frame of four to six weeks, but we did not receive the product from them to ship until early March - and some were later than that."In other words, it's not ModusLink's fault, it's the OEMs'. Even if you ordered back in January, chances are the company you bought your PC from didn't get the upgrade DVDs out to ModusLink until last month. "The minute we get them, we're shipping them," says Pothier.And this is a huge scheme. Everyone is coy about the actual numbers involved, but ModusLink says it's handling the upgrades for more than 50 OEMS in 23 languages in 142 countries and territories.However, the process of ordering through ModusLink has been painful for many. TacomaSailor, posting on hardforum.com, describes how the US website denied his American Express payment. He says: "I entered the correct AmEx card info - the site then told me 'credit card authorisation failed'. I just talked with AmEx customer support and they told me that they did approve the $12.50 payment to ModusLink. I tried two other cards and the site said those authorisations failed."His story is echoed by that of Ian Hobkirk, who posts on the UK-based PC Advisor forum (pcadvisor.co.uk). ModusLink told him that it had not been able to get authorisation from his bank and gave him account details so that he could transfer the funds via internet banking - but "the sort code they gave me has too many digits. So I emailed them hoping I could just give them another credit card number. Twice. No reply. So I ended up phoning them, to be advised that they couldn't take another credit card number and that the bank details were indeed wrong." He is still waiting for his upgrade to arrive.ModusLink is defensive, saying: "We don't own the communication with the customer - we do not set costs, we just post the numbers the OEMs tell us."So have Microsoft, the OEMs and ModusLink been caught on the hop? "The uptake was higher than we had anticipated," says Epstein. In the meantime, if you're still waiting, take heart: ModusLink says it's doing its best to get your upgrade to you.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A little light readerI'm a Project Gutenberg fan and I do a lot of reading on trains, and waiting for trains. Do you know of any portable reading devices that aren't too heavy? I'm reluctant to cart my laptop about.Patricia ClarkJack Schofield replies:Companies have been showing off portable book readers for at least a decade, without anyone ever producing a market success. The most obvious answer at the moment is the Sony Reader PRS-500 (250g; 9oz), which has a 6in screen. This was belatedly launched in the US six months ago, but doesn't seem to have reached Europe. Vic Keegan tried one for ourFebruary 1 issue, and he said it "makes reading on a screen pleasurable". But it does have limitations, and some US reviews have been hostile.A less publicised answer, says Vic, is the iRex iLiad (389g; 13.7oz). This has an 8.1in screen with 16 levels of grey, and costs &pound;433 inc VAT from the company's website (irexshop.com), or call 01978 712570. The iLiad is a touch-screen tablet and the screen's 768 x 1024 resolution seems very close to the Sony. It also has stereo speakers and built-in Wi-Fi.Another alternative might be Nokia's N800 Internet Tablet (206g; 7.3oz) - a &pound;300 pen-based computer that runs Linux. The 4in screen has a resolution of 800 x 480 pixels so it's nothing like as good as an e-book reader. However, it has other potentially useful features such as stereo speakers, Wi-Fi, an Opera web browser and a built-in low-resolution (VGA) camera. You could also try a handheld or PDA (personal digital assistant) such as a PocketPC or Palm or similar device. These are cheaper but have the disadvantage of small screens. It's a market that is in decline as people switch to smartphones, so you can probably find something usable for very little money at eBay.co.uk.Desperate 4 episodeI wanted to catch up on an episode of Desperate Housewives, but when I went to Channel 4 they told me I had to have a PC running Internet Explorer - I only have an iMac and an iBook. I wrote to them and they told me it wasn't their fault but the production companies insist on something called DRM.Desperate of Dorchester (Alastair Nisbet)JS:You could write to Apple's Steve Jobs and suggest he licences WMV (Windows Media Video) and the companion DRM (digital rights management) from Microsoft. Even small Asian companies seem to be able to manage this. Anyway, I assume Apple is going to license VC-1, which is a version of WMV that has been adopted as a standard option for Blu-ray and HD DVD movies. (It's possible Macs will be unable to play all high-definition movies, but I doubt it.)Alternatively there is hope on the horizon with Microsoft's new Silverlight browser plug-in, formerly known as WPF/E (Windows Presentation Foundation/Everywhere). Microsoft is doing a version for Mac OS X that will play WMV movies, and it includes a DRM option (microsoft.com/silverlight). Of course, it would be even better if producers abandoned DRM, but that may take longer.Locked out of GmailI've had a Gmail account for a few years but for no apparent reason it now refuses my password. I have contacted Gmail countless times but each time they give me the same advice, which is to tell the system I've forgotten my password, then wait five days, when I'm meant to be asked my security question. I've now been through this process six times, but each time I try, it tells me once again to wait five days.Rebecca MillerJS:This is common. There are lots of reasons why you can be locked out of Gmail. These include "receiving, deleting, or popping out large amounts of mail (via POP) in a short period of time", sending a large number of undeliverable messages, opening multiple instances of your email account, using third party file-sharing or storage software, using the account for other purposes than email, and "browser-related issues" such as continual reloading.Any online mail service can also have technical problems, accidentally delete your email, or be hacked. The last one is particularly nasty if the hacker is able to change your security question to one you can't answer, in which case you can probably give in. Of course, you can email the support team. However, any free system with tens or hundreds of millions of users is not going to offer much support.I'm not getting at Google: all web-based services have the same issues, and the old Hotmail may still delete all your mail if you fail to log on every month. You should not rely on a web-based service to look after any mail you cannot afford to lose, which means keeping copies on your PC hard drive - perhaps by using an email client such as Thunderbird.Backchat&middot;Humza Tahir wanted a PC with an ISA expansion slot to take an old visual stimulus generator card, and I suggested a USB converter. Dr Jim Speakman of Mass Spectrometry Solutions says: "We had this problem with some of the older Mass Spectrometers we service. We found a motherboard still in production with ISA slots on it. It is made by Soyo Inc and the board number is SY-P41845PE/GVISA Plus. There was one on eBay a couple of weeks ago. Otherwise, they are available from the US."
Last week's feature about the possible future of audio file formats attracted a lot of feedback - which is odd, because most people don't really care which ones they use, and may not even know what they are. But it turns out there's a handful of open source evangelists who think you should use Ogg or Ogg Vorbis, because it's free in both senses (as in speech; as in beer).That's fine with me. I don't use Ogg myself, but I often recommend Flac (free lossless audio codec), which is also open source and free. What isn't fine with me is the idea that Ogg represents the future of audio file formats. It has less chance than AAC, MP3 and WMA (Microsoft's Windows Media Audio), which were the ones I had space to cover. Indeed, Ogg is still a long way behind other formats I left out, such as Real Audio and Sony's Atrac. These have millions of users, but now look doomed.If you look at theTop Ten Reviewslist of portable audio players, 10 out of 10 play MP3 files out of the box, nine play WMA and only one plays Ogg: the Cowan iAudio X5. (The iRiver H10 has dropped Ogg support.) Of course, only two of these devices play AAC files, but one of those is the Apple iPod, which has the majority of the market.If you look at the top music libraries, it's a similar story. Most use WMA, including Napster/AOL, Microsoft MSN, MTV's Urge, Yahoo!/MusicMatch and Wal-Mart. Real's Rhapsody uses several formats including WMA, Sony Connect uses Atrac and eMusic uses MP3. It's tough finding sources of Ogg downloads beyond the Russian AllOfMP3.com, which majors on MP3 and is fighting for its life. Again, there is only one library that focuses on AAC, but it's the iTunes Music Store, the market leader.If you look at peer-to-peer file sharing systems, the overwhelming majority of files are in MP3 format. I asked a young DJ (my son), who is heavily into this sort of thing, if he'd ever seen an Ogg file and he said not. "But if I had, I'd probably have ignored it, because I wouldn't even know what it was."How you get from a low user base to roughly a billion users is another matter, but I don't hold out much hope for Ogg. Most of the suppliers in the music market don't do things from scratch. They build on the established industry infrastructure for quick and convenient access to hardware, software and data (ie, songs). Even Apple went to PortalPlayer for the basics of the iPod, while Microsoft went to Toshiba for the Gigabeat design on which it based the Zune.Today, the infrastructure supports MP3, WMA and, to a lesser but growing extent, AAC. There is relatively little support for Real Audio and Atrac, and much less for Ogg. An industry giant such as Microsoft, Apple or Sony could, of course, drive support for Ogg, but why would they bother? What's the profit margin on free?Ogg has more chance when it comes to smaller companies with more modest ambitions. However, Ogg still carries potential risks, because there is no guarantee that it doesn't infringe someone's patents.The recent MP3 lawsuit illustrates the problem. Microsoft thought it was safe because, like Apple and others, it had licensed MP3 from the Fraunhofer Institute in Germany. Along came Alcatel-Lucent, the telecoms equipment giant, with some patent claims, and Microsoft was fined $1.52bn (&pound;758m) by a US court.Well, Alcatel-Lucent didn't actually sue Microsoft, it sued Dell and Gateway. Microsoft stepped in because the infringing software was part of Windows. If a device manufacturer is sued over Ogg, who is going take on the burden of fighting the case and paying any fines? A handful of open source hackers?And if a correctly licensed MP3 isn't safe, how safe is Ogg? It has never been tested in court. I am and always have been strongly in favour of open file formats, so I wish Ogg well. But, sadly, the reality is that it doesn't have the support or the supporting infrastructure needed to make it. Basically, Apple killed its chances when it adopted a different open standard, AAC.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Lots more nonsense on the web today following the tragic events at Virginia Tech.Accordingto Gamealmighty.com, Jack Thompson has issued an open letter to Bill Gates, blaming Microsoft for the killings, based on an allegation that Cho Seung Hui played Counter-Strike in highschool. From the letter:"Mr. Gates, your company is potentially legally liable the harm done at Virginia Tech. Your game, a killing simulator, according to the news that used to be in the Post, trained him to enjoy killing and how to kill. You knew five years ago that your on-line game, Counterstrike, so clearly figured in the massacre by a student in Erfurt that the event and the game impacted the race for Chancellor in Germany at the time!"It is not clear whether Thompson plans to send a similar letter to Valve - the developers of the Counter-Strike brand. Microsoft acted as publisher, but only on the Xbox conversion. All irrelevant, of course, to the matter at hand.Thompson references aWashington Post reporton the murders, which, when it first appeared online, mentioned Counter-Strike. The report was subsequently re-posted with all videogame references removed.Meanwhile, Gaygamer.net hasposted details of the police search warranton Cho Seung Hui's dorm room. No mention of videogames, the site points out.Speaking hours after the horrifying events, mostly with gun control protestors in mind but no less relevant for that, Virginia Governor Tim Kaine said:"For those who want to make this a political hobby horse they can ride, I've got nothing but loathing for them"No-one is listening.
Couple of interesting articles in the Technology section today.First upis Keith's look back at games that could be worth a bit to collectors. He may want to blog separately about this, especially as you can get so many classics now on download or portable formats. Still, its all about the packaging, isn't it?Theother articletakes a look at Artificial Intelligence in gaming. And as someone who has sat through numerous unintentionally hilarious "conversations" in Oblivion I'm all for a games designer finally nailing this.
Where can I donate to the VA Tech tragedy?At the moment, it would be best to go via the official site:http://www.vt.edu/tragedy/memorial_fund.phpHundreds of new domains have already been registered in connection with the incident. They are not all bad. However, some of them are being used for phishing, and some are fraudulently collecting donations.TheSANS Internet Storm Centeris tracking the new domains and trying to identify the suspect ones. For details, seehttp://isc.sans.org/domaincheck.htmlAlso, there is already spam that purports to include video connected with the tragedy, but actually installs malware.Note: nobody has asked this yet, but it seemed worth answering in advance.
Videogames, by their very nature, are considered disposable commodities. Today's cutting edge masterpiece is tomorrow's laughable relic, and even those few titles that maintain their appeal can easily be picked up in bumper nostalgia packs like Sega's recent, and in my opinion unmissable, Mega Drive Collection on PSP. The original releases more often than not are left to languish on the "pre-owned" shelves at Game or in Oxfam, as unshiftable as those copies of A Brief History of Time and Superplonk 1993.Slowly, however, as games work their way into our pop culture canon, the physical objects themselves, with their quaint packaging and poorly translated instruction manuals, are becoming collectable. Of course, there have always been rare titles hunted down by demented completists. There is a game for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) called Nintendo World Championship 1990 of which only 116 copies were made for a US gaming tour. One of these is worth several thousand pounds.There are dozens of modestly valuable titles, and looking out for them could brighten up even the most ghoulish trip to the local car boot sale (summer's coming, you know you're going to end up at one sooner or later). So here are a few tips.If you've got no idea what you're looking for, stick to NES titles in good condition - these came in perishable cardboard packaging, so decent examples are rare. It's also worth picking up early or obscure titles in long-running series such as Zelda, Grand Theft Auto or Mario - stuff that new fans won't know, but might well fork out for. There were a couple of Zelda titles on the ill-fated Philips CDi machine that are hard to find (they're awful too, but that's part of the fun), while the early GTA spin-off, GTA London, on the original PlayStation might fetch a few quid.Look out also for older less successful games by well-established developers. Hideo Kojima, the creator of the Metal Gear Solid series, was responsible for two early 90s cult gems, Policenauts and Snatcher - both are gold dust to fans.Finally, grasp almost any Japanese-made title from an obscure videogame console. Basically, if the game has Neo Geo, PC Engine, MSX or FM Towns Marty written in the corner, hand over your coins and run away cackling.Collecting classic videogames is never going to have the cachet (or profit) of fine wine or art, but then you won't come across a bottle of Ch&acirc;teau Margaux 1985 at the church fete. A sought-after game in good condition put on eBay and described in detail can make a sound profit. Certainly more than that pristine copy of A Brief History of Time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
There's a lovely old joke where Steve Ballmer goes into Gates's office and says "Hey, Bill, I've got some good news, and some bad news. The good news is that China is standardising on Windows XP. The bad news is that they've only bought one copy...."This is an issue that raises lots of arguments because Microsoft has certainly benefited from piracy, which has helped to create a bigger market for Windows software and also made Microsoft file formats ubiquitous.The company has certainly looked at a number of ways of trying to make Windows more affordable in less developed countries. Steve Ballmer once told me, to paraphrase, that if Microsoft could getsomemoney for Windows, this would be better than gettingnomoney, which is the case today.Now it seems that "some money" could be as little as $3, which includes both Windows XP Starter Edition and the cheap version of Microsoft Office (Home and Student 2007). Bill Gates has just made the announcement in Beijing, China, according to apress release:Through the Partners in Learning program, Microsoft today announced the Microsoft Student Innovation Suite, an affordable and reliable software package for governments purchasing and giving Windows-based PCs to primary and secondary students for their personal use at home and for schoolwork. The education suite includes Windows XP Starter Edition, Microsoft Office Home and Student 2007, Microsoft Math 3.0, Learning Essentials 2.0 for Microsoft Office, and Windows Live Mail desktop.But there's a catch:Microsoft will offer this suite in the second half of 2007 for $3 (U.S.) to qualifying governments that purchase and supply PCs directly to students. More information about the offer is available athttp://www.microsoft.com/unlimitedpotential/MSIS.This could be a terrific deal because it can be used with refurbished PCs -- ones often donated by Western countries -- and because it could be a huge help to small, local PC manufacturers in third world countries.However, there are not going to be enough takers to make a dent in the 200 million or so pirate copies of Windows out there today. To give you some idea of the scale of the problem, there are roughly 10 times as manypiratecopies in use than there are copies of Mac OS X. And those pirate copies are a problem because they are not secure. Under the circumstances, it's no surprise how big botnets are: it's amazing they are not much bigger.What I've suggested to Microsoft several times is that when these pirate XP PCs hit Windows Update, it shouldn't simply refuse to secure them by downloading SP2. Instead it should offer the user a very cheap ($10) or free update to a limited version of Windows, such as the Starter Edition. This would earn Microsoft more money than it gets now (as Ballmer says) and it would also mean the rest of us don't get as much spam etc. (The botnets make the net worse for Mac and Linux users as well, not just Windows users.)There are some obvious dangers for Microsoft's bottom line. It clearly wouldn't want people to install pirate copies of Windows as an easy way to get a legitimate copy for $10 instead of paying Dell $50 or so. But it seems to me it would have been a much better way of using up some of Microsoft's cash pile thangiving $75 billion back to shareholders, including $30 billion as a free gift, which is what it actually did.
Sony is to cease selling the cheaper 20GB version of its PlayStation 3 console in the US, after sales of the better-featured 60GB model - which also includes built-in Wi-Fi and Flash memory card readers - outstripped it by more than 9 to 1.The decision in the US, where the cheaper model costs $499 (&pound;250), and the more expensive one $599 (&pound;300), must make the appearance of the 20GB version less likely in Europe, although a spokesman for Sony UK would say only that "we will continue to monitor demand for the 20GB machine from the consumers' and retailers' perspective and then factor those into any future plans to launch [it]".But monitoring that demand might prove tough in the UK, because sales of the PS3 are not setting any records - or at least, not good ones. In its third week on sale in the UK, leaked figures from the analysis company Chart Track say that only 17,000 PS3s were sold, below even the Nintendo Wii, which managed 25,000 despite being in short supply at many outlets.More than a year after its launch, the Xbox 360 sold 11,000, according to the leaked data, which Sony does not dispute. So far, Chart Track figures show that the PlayStation 3 sold 165,000 in its first week, after months of pre-release buildup, and then 34,000, before slumping to its latest figure.Here, only the 60GB model - the one which proved more popular in the US - is being sold, priced at &pound;425. On Tuesday, Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's chief executive, said that a total of 800,000 PS3s have been sold in Europe, out of the 1m that were shipped to shops before the launch last month.The decision by Sony US to drop the smaller 20GB model is not being mirrored in Japan, where it will continue to be on sale. For the week ending April 8, the Wii sold 52,000 there, while the PS3 dropped by 2,000 to 14,500 for the same week. (Both versions of the PS3 were launched in Japan last November.) The Xbox 360 struggled: just under 3,000 in the week.In February, British retailers indicated to the games trade magazine MCV that they want to be able to offer both sizes of machine: "There is definitely room for the 20Gb [model] in the UK market," said Anna Downing, senior product manager at retailer Gamestation.The larger model's popularity in the US can probably be accounted for by the relatively small price difference for something with more features and significantly more storage. With games on the PS3 taking up more and more space, some now store significant amounts of data on the hard drive so that it can be more quickly accessed during gameplay.That has led to rumours that Sony will release a version of the PS3 with a larger hard drive, following comments earlier this week by a Sony spokesman in Japan.Seen solely as a gaming console, the PS3 has been slow off the starting blocks: the nexgenwars.com site, which aggregates public sales data, puts its total sales worldwide at 2.8m, compared to 10.4m for the Xbox 360 and 6.5m for the Wii.But unlike its rivals, every version includes a Blu-ray DVD player, able to play Sony's flavour of high-definition video discs. In the longer run, that may prove a valuable asset even while it struggles to make an impact on the console market.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Taiwan's fast-growing HTC (High Tech Computer) has become well known as the leading supplier of Windows Mobile phones, andDigiTimes reportsthat it is "now manufacturing Google handsets with shipments officially commencing at the end of 2007, according to handset component makers."Last December, David Smith, The Observer's technology correspondent, had a great story about the talks between Google and Orange:The future for Orange could soon be Google in your pocket.In March, Andrew Orlowski filled in some of the background related to various companies that Google had bought to support its push into mobiles:Google phone -- it's for real. The most important:In August 2005 Google acquired a stealth-mode startup called Android, founded by Andy Rubin. Rubin was a veteran of Apple and General Magic, but is best known for leading WebTV and subsequently Danger Inc. Danger produced one of the most-photographed phones of recent years, thanks to Paris Hilton: its Hiptop was marketed by T-Mobile as the Sidekick.It now looks as though Google really is doing a branded or, more accurately, co-branded Google/Orange phone, at least for starters, and it will be interesting to see if/how the hardware differs from one of the standard HTC models that are sold under many different names.I'd expected that Google would produce a mobile software suite that it would offer on different handsets from a wide range of carriers, much like Google Desktop is offered on a range of PCs. But if Google has got heavily involved in the hardware design as well, thenmy earlier scepticism was wrong.
If you've nothing better to do today, or you're on holdwaiting for Adobe to explain its CS3 pricingin person, why not go on a tour of the nearby stars?That's what you can do with a web page built in, um, Adobe's Flash. Head over toExosolar planets and systemsand you can be the Captain Kirk (or Janeway), and head at warp factor 1, 5, 9 or whatever your processor and broadband are capable of. A column in the left shows which stars are known to have planets. Bored living here? Find a new home! Though we can't guarantee that the prices of software will be any lower there...
With the pound sterling now getting you $2 or so for the first time in 15 years (though I'm stuffed if I can find a site offering a chart of the sterling/dollar exchange going back more than five), the focus is coming even more intensely on the prices being charged by American software companies for the products they sell here in the UK and Europe.Which means Adobe, notably, which has just launched its Creative Suite 3 range.Amanwithapencil takes Adobe to task, and it has to be said that Adobe doesn't come out well from it. CS3 works out significantly more expensive in the UK and Europe than the US:In the three European countries examined, the price of Apple's software is between 6% and 23% higher than that in the US.Adobe's software, however, is between 25% and 106% more expensive in Europe than in the US (based on the limited number of products and countries analysed.) Once again, these prices are exclusive of sales tax, so they represent a direct hit on the customer levied by Adobe.(It then goes on to see whether Apple might be using its hardware to subsidise its software costs. The conclusion: no, since Apple gear has the same markup.)But come on, says Adobe, we have to allow for all these fancy-schmancy languages that people use in Europe. Or as it puts it in responses to customers who have also complained:The price of software in EMEA (europe-middle east-africa) reflects both the additional expense to develop and test Adobe's applications for local markets and operating systems, as well as for the delivery of complimentary Warranty support. Adobe's complimentary Warranty support covers product installation and defect issues for the life of the current version of Adobe's desktop applications.The rebuttal from amanwithapencil:In my 'International English' install of the CS2 suite, I find that 'colour', 'grey', and 'stylise' are spelled 'color', 'gray', and 'stylize'. If Adobe have made no effort to change spelling (a relatively minor issue, but the only localisation change needed to adapt a US product for the UK that I'm aware of), then what, exactly, additional development and testing has been required?Adobe told the British Journal of Photography thatUnlike the economies of scale achieved in the large homogenous US market, the EU has 10 major languages, and four major currencies. The costs of doing business in European markets are significantly higher per unit of revenue than in the US.The rebuttal from amanwithapencil:How, then, does Adobe justify the fact that prices in Australia are 31% higher than the US? Australia is a homogenous market. You can only purchase English language software from Adobe's Australian online store, and can only pay in A$. One language, one currency, 31% mark-up.(Amanwithapencil is also known as Nigel Moore, a web designer and coder. And you can guess that he's not based in the US.)We've written onMicrosoft's pricing in December, but we'd certainly be interested in any other tightly-argued comparisons of pricing between UK and US products. Or, indeed, of price differences for UK products that are sold in the US. What areAutonomy'slicensing deals like, for example?
I'm a Project Gutenberg fan and I do a lot of reading on trains, and waiting for trains. Do you know of any portable reading devices that aren't too heavy? I'm reluctant to cart my laptop about. Patricia ClarkCompanies have been showing off portable book readers for at least a decade, without anyone ever producing a market success. The most obvious answer at the moment is theSony Reader PRS-500(250g; 9oz), which has a 6in screen. This was belatedly launched in the US six months ago, but doesn't seem to have reached Europe.Vic Keegan tried onefor our February 1 issue, and he said it "makes reading on a screen pleasurable". But it does have limitations, and some US reviews have been hostile.A less publicised answer, says Vic, is the iRex iLiad (389g; 13.7oz). This has an 8.1in screen with 16 levels of grey, and costs £433 inc VAT from the company's website (irexshop.com), or call 01978 712570. The iLiad is a touch-screen tablet and the screen's 768 x 1024 resolution seems very close to the Sony. It also has stereo speakers and built-in Wi-Fi.Another alternative might be Nokia's N800 Internet Tablet (206g; 7.3oz) - a £300 pen-based computer that runs Linux. The 4in screen has a resolution of 800 x 480 pixels so it's nothing like as good as an e-book reader. However, it has other potentially useful features such as stereo speakers, Wi-Fi, an Opera web browser and a built-in low-resolution (VGA) camera.You could also try a handheld or PDA (personal digital assistant) such as a PocketPC or Palm or similar device. These are cheaper but have the disadvantage of small screens. It's a market that is in decline as people switch to smartphones, so you can probably find something usable for very little money at eBay.co.uk.Backchat: Eric Jukes says: "I am sure that Patricia will be delighted with a PDA for reading on trains. I have used a Compaq 3970 for the past couple of years and it is great! You soon get used to the screen size, you just 'turn the page' (with your thumb) more often."
I wanted to catch up on an episode of Desperate Housewives, but when I went to Channel 4 they told me I had to have a PC running Internet Explorer -- I only have an iMac and an iBook. I wrote to them and they told me it wasn't their fault but the production companies insist on something called DRM. Desperate of Dorchester (Alastair Nisbet)You could write to Apple's Steve Jobs and suggest he licences WMV (Windows Media Video) and the companion DRM (digital rights management) from Microsoft. Even small Asian companies seem to be able to manage this. Anyway, I assume Apple is going to license VC-1, which is a version of WMV that has been adopted as a standard option for Blu-ray and HD DVD movies. (It's possible Macs will be unable to play all high-definition movies, but I doubt it.)Alternatively there is hope on the horizon with Microsoft's new Silverlight browser plug-in, formerly known as WPF/E (Windows Presentation Foundation/Everywhere). Microsoft is doing a version for Mac OS X that will play WMV movies, and it includes a DRM option (microsoft.com/silverlight).Of course, it would be even better if producers abandoned DRM, but that may take longer.....Comment: I'm sure most of you can think ofanother answer....
I've had a Gmail account for a few years but for no apparent reason it now refuses my password. I have contacted Gmail countless times but each time they give me the same advice, which is to tell the system I've forgotten my password, then wait five days, when I'm meant to be asked my security question. I've now been through this process six times, but each time I try, it tells me once again to wait five days. Rebecca MillerThis is common. There are lots of reasons why you can be locked out of Gmail. These include "receiving, deleting, or popping out large amounts of mail (via POP) in a short period of time", sending a large number of undeliverable messages, opening multiple instances of your email account, using third party file-sharing or storage software, using the account for other purposes than email, and "browser-related issues" such as continual reloading.Any online mail service can also have technical problems, accidentally delete your email, or be hacked. The last one is particularly nasty if the hacker is able to change your security question to one you can't answer, in which case you can probably give in. Of course, you can email the support team. However, any free system with tens or hundreds of millions of users is not going to offer much support.I'm not getting at Google: all web-based services have the same issues, and the old Hotmail may still delete all your mail if you fail to log on every month. You should not rely on a web-based service to look after any mail you cannot afford to lose, which means keeping copies on your PC hard drive -- perhaps by using an email client such as Thunderbird.
A few weeks ago, one of our intrepid gamesblog readers asked politely why it was I thought non-gaming (but interactive) technologies deserved space on this blog. He wanted to know what it was about the so-called Web 2.0 revolution that should be compelling to people who were interested in videogames, and why it would have longevity. I humbly apologise for not responding, but leaving it to other intrepid commentators to fill in the gap. Here's a partial explanation.I've recently begun to understand that people involved with computer games are an increasingly sought-after breed of experts, hotly pursued by other entertainment and media organisations for their insights into content creation which compels people to revisit applications again and again and again. Games are the stickiest things imaginable; how many times have you lost hours of your life to some ridiculous browser-based piece of (possibly) marketing fluff because youjusthad do get to the next level?What this blog offers is a future-insight for how we, or those younger than us, will engage with information and one another via computer-mediated communication. This is a world of avatars, of three-dimensional world spaces, of immersion, of presence, of constant interactivity, of telemediated challenge, of new considerations of digital privacy. No, this will not happen solely through the medium of games, but via game mechanics - those things which make gamers fall down the rabbit hole, rarely to resurface from a particularly well-realised bit of software.Don't just take it from me - check out the content of game designerRaph Koster's talks at this week'sWeb2.0 Expo(my emphasis in the text):Immersive Experiences: Lessons from Game DesignersBen Cerveny, Director, Playground Foundation Raph Koster, President, Areae, Inc.Track: Design and User Experience Date: Wednesday, April 18Game design has dealt with a lot of the interaction issues that designer-developers are just beginning to face today. Ideas like flow, easter eggs, and feature discovery have been used and refined for years by game designers to achieve some of the same user experiences web designers are pursuing now. This session looks to games and other related fields for both inspiration and practical strategies for improving web design.Reality Bites: The Future of Gaming + Virtual Worlds 2.0Susan Wu, Principal, Charles River Ventures Joichi Ito, Chairman, Creative Commons Raph Koster, President, Areae, Inc. Lane Merrifield, Club Penguin Craig Sherman, CEO, Gaia Online Ginsu Yoon, Vice President, International, Second LifeTrack: Strategy and Business Models Date: Wednesday, April 18The next evolution for the Web isn't about 3D. It's about a sense of place. Already we see that Web 2.0 is pushing the notion of web communities even further into the foreground. What we don't have yet is a sense of location, landscape, and proximity.The future of the Web lies at the intersection of massively multiplayer online games like World of Warcraft and social networks like MySpace. The age of the webpage is ending, and the age of the webplace is beginning. Come hear best practices for building immersive, engaging communities from some of the world's best online game designers.Games are the future, my friends, but not as we know them. As they come of age, it is absolutely fascinating to see how they will change things beyond the console and the arcade.via both Raph's website andWonderland
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Operation Ore flawed by fraudThe high-profile crackdown on internet child porn has claimed 39 lives and destroyed reputations. But fresh evidence says the police got it wrong by overlooking credit card fraud on innocent Britons whose details were used to sign up to targeted sites, says Duncan Campbell.Bad maps are key factor in farming fiascoFree our data: Farmers are down £20m because of the fudged implementation of the single payment system. What lessons can be learnt?Bigger proves better as Sony drops 20GB PlayStation 3 in the USLarger drives more popular, but UK sales keep falling as Nintendo's Wii stays on top. Charles Arthur reports.GadgetsNokia N95 | Fujifilm Finepix Z5 | Sony NW-A805Yesterday's games could be gold dust to collectorsKeith Stuart: Videogames, by their very nature, are considered disposable commodities. Today's cutting edge masterpiece is tomorrow's laughable relic.Accusations of sex and violence were bound to grab the headlinesRead me first: If you wanted to grab worldwide media attention then the headline 'Pretty White Woman Menaced By Hooligans' is a surefire winner.How to be a mobile media magnateVictor Keegan: It is quite amazing that anyone can now operate a global TV station from a mobile phone, and for no extra cost.TechnobileMust everything we buy have a docking station for an iPod, asks Siobhan O'Neill. Surely some objects are sacrosanct?The hard-thought race for intelligent gamingArtificial intelligence is the holy grail for game designers, but just how smart are current methods and what's in the pipeline? Alexander Gambotto-Burke investigates.Let sleeping Oggs lie - it's a music file format without support or hopeJack Schofield: An industry giant could drive support for Ogg, but why would they bother? What's the profit margin on free?Hasta la Vista? Long delays for promised OS upgradeThousands of customers worldwide are still waiting for the replacements offered for Windows XP, writes Kate Bevan.Think global, calculate localCalculating the outcomes of climate change requires a choice between regional and local models, says James Bloom.NewsbytesAged still divided | PIN money | Safer surfing | Attacking Adobe's prices | Make me a rainbow | MySpace trailer park | Xbox TV | Flushed with ingenuityLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.
Operation Ore has become embedded in public consciousness as the landmark police operation that tracked down people - almost always men - who allegedly paid to access child pornography via computer. In all, 7,272 British residents were on its target lists, more than 2,000 of whom have never been investigated; and 39 men have killed themselves under the pressure of the investigations. Ore has dragged big names into the spotlight - such as the musicians Pete Townshend, the Who guitarist, and Robert del Naja of Massive Attack, both falsely accused of accessing child pornography.New evidence I have gathered for my work as an expert witness in defence cases shows that thousands of cases under Operation Ore have been built on the shakiest of foundations - the use of credit card details to sign up for pornography websites. In many cases, the card details were stolen; the sites contained nothing or legal material only; and the people who allegedly signed up to visit the sites never went there.The probe - Britain's biggest ever computer crime investigation - started from 1990s activity by a Texan porn portal called Landslide.com. People could sign up with their credit cards to access affiliated porn sites: the porn site got 65% of the sign-up fee, while Landslide took the rest, and dealt with the credit card companies.In 1999 the US Postal Inspection Service investigated sites linked to Landslide that seemed to be dealing in child pornography. The company was raided by 50 agents, who took computers listing the credit card details of thousands of Britons. These were handed to the British police, who thought they had a goldmine. All they needed to do was seize the computers of those people, find evidence of having viewed child pornography on the sites and secure a conviction - the perfect case. Society would be protected and the police's reputation for defeating computer-based child abuse would be boosted.The fraud factorBut the police had not allowed for fraud - which was carried out to a huge degree against Landslide and unwitting Britons by website owners acquiring or trading in stolen credit card details.Late in 2006, copies of six hard drives seized from Landslide were flown to Britain to be examined by defence computer experts (including myself). They showed that Landslide had been plagued by a range of credit card fraud rackets, known in the industry as Card Not Present (CNP) frauds. In the UK, CNP fraud has increased exponentially in the past decade, from &pound;6.5m in 1996 to &pound;212.6m in 2006, becoming the largest type of card fraud. Online, criminal groups trade thousands of stolen credit card details (including number, expiry date, name, address, and even date of birth, email, password and mother's maiden name), priced by potential fraud value, ranging from $30 (&pound;15) for an unexploited Visa Gold card to $2.50 each for a bumper file of 4,000 stolen American Express card and user details. There's everything required for complete and convincing fraud.One method used from 1999 by criminals, including the Gambino mafia family in the US, was to offer free tours, or access for a credit card payment as small as $1.95, to adult sex sites. Customers had to provide name, address, card details, and email address and password. The criminals then reused the data or traded them online with other fraudsters.Operating out of Indonesia, Russia or Brazil, many of the webmasters linked via Landslide appear to have obtained and swapped lists of stolen cards and charged them up through different portals, usually for amounts of less than $50 - small enough that unwary people might not spot them on a credit card statement.Computer experts employed by the police have claimed in court cases they could find no evidence of hacking or fraud when credit card details were provided to porn sites. But when Dr Sam Type of Geek Ltd was asked during one case held at Northampton Crown Court whether she had looked for evidence of fraud, she replied: "No I didn't, no ... I haven't specifically looked for it." The defendant was convicted, but is now appealing, based on the new evidence uncovered (but not disclosed by the Crown Prosecution Service) that fraud was endemic.Tens or hundreds of thousands of people fell victim, including some who later became targets of Operation Ore. One was 'John' , a top city banker. In 1998 and 1999, his family credit card was repeatedly charged by Gambino internet organisations, and its details then shared with other fraudsters: in June 1999, his card was charged twice more to make payments to one of Landslide's top-earning webmasters - who was also a child porn merchant.Seven years later, 'John' was targeted in Operation Ore: in May 2006, he stood aghast as police entered his home and trawled through his family's intimate possessions. He says that police officers "sneered" when he and his lawyers told them about credit card fraud. "They said they had never heard of it happening," he told me. Only after a two-day High Court case last September did the police agree that he was above suspicion, and apologised to him.Police mistakesEven innocent transactions were not safe. Some British victims of card fraud who later suffered from police mistakes in Operation Ore believe their troubles began after they bought bicycle parts - or even a honeymoon hotel stay - over the internet or on the phone from the US.Landslide's computers also contained 54,348 sets of stolen credit card information, including information on dozens of UK residents apparently stolen from a Florida-based luxury goods company; some were later used to pay for porn websites operated by Landslide. The company whose customer data were stolen, Levenger Inc of Delray Beach, Florida, has declined to comment.Were the big frauds coming from outside Landslide? Certainly. Its owner, Thomas Reedy, first spotted systematic fraud late one night in August 1998. "I was running over the logs and saw something funny," he told a friend in an email. What he noticed was streams of different credit cards being signed up in batches from the same internet address to the same website. It could only be fraud.That meant trouble for Landslide, and Reedy. When someone signed up via Landslide to view a particular porn site, the linked site was passed 65% of the sign-up fee, while Landslide did the transaction with the credit card company. If someone used a stolen card, Landslide had to bear the loss if there was a chargeback from the card issuer - often for the original amount and a penalty fee. So a stream of stolen cards was bad news for Landslide.Reedy quickly traced the source of the traffic to Pakistan-based webmaster Imran Mirza and his Rare Nude Celebs website: in just three days Mirza had charged more than $14,000 to stolen cards. Reedy knew that the credit card industry imposed a 1% maximum for chargebacks, and required a penalty fee every time one was applied. Landslide would end up the loser.Reedy reacted by setting up a new web service, Badcard.com, to trap card numbers coming from the same internet address, and drew up checklists of addresses and card numbers he suspected were in the hands of criminals. It didn't work well enough: fraudsters started switching internet addresses with each new, false sign-up.Topping the league were a trio who traded under the pseudonym Miranda, part of a gang of Indonesian webmasters who had registered over one thousand real or fake websites, and supplied their names and addresses for, sometimes, $100,000 monthly cheques.More than half of the money Landslide took from credit cards was paid to their ring. The gang was supplying extremely unpleasant pornography over the internet, some of it depicting young children being raped and abused. But the undisclosed computer evidence shows they were also in the simpler and less risky business of card fraud.And every time a stolen British card was used, its owner's name was added as a potential suspect for the future Operation Ore. On Landslide websites which computer records show were simply vehicles for fraud, 90% of the people cheated never noticed or complained. The total level of fraud was probably well over 50%.By August 1999, the enormous level and cost of chargebacks had sunk Landslide. Reedy is now in US federal prison serving a 180-year sentence for allowing it to be used for child porn trafficking.But how can we be sure that the card details really were stolen, and not being used by their owners? Jim Bates of Computer Investigations, who acted as an expert witness for a number of defence cases, examined the newly uncovered Landslide website log of all recent activity. The log recorded when credit cards were signed up and charged - and, critically, whether the person putting in the card details then went on to visit the porn site they had paid for. Bates found that not only did thousands of the supposed porn buyers not go to get their porn; many of the sites had been set up purely for fraud. His checks were evidential tests that the UK police seem to have forgotten to take.The CPS was asked by the Guardian to comment on whether this step was taken, but at the time of going to press, it had not responded.Top of the list of spurious websites was Keyzsexyplace, set up on April 4 1999 by young Brazilian hacker Antonio Francisco "Nino" Tornisiello, from Piracicaba, near Sao Paulo in Brazil. By the time Landslide collapsed, Tornisiello had logged 3,181 sign-ups, most of them using stolen British credit card data. "Tornisiello's hacking stood out like a sore thumb," Bates told me. "The police experts couldn't have failed to notice it if they were competent, but they claimed they saw nothing."Among Tornisiello's many British victims were prominent computer programmers and businessmen. Some were lucky. The Operation Ore police haven't got round to knocking at their doors - yet. Nevertheless, their names are now falsely listed in police files as suspected child abusers. This month, Tornisiello admitted to me that his Keyzsexyplace website had been a sham that held only "a page with pictures of celebrities I found over the internet. It was nothing to do with child pornography." He said he was "choked" to learn that his actions meant innocent people have been accused of paedophilia.Operation Ore has become a byword for our police's investigation into the murkiest of online worlds - but hundreds, perhaps thousands, of the cases show that the police were misled and confused by criminals whose computer expertise was years ahead of theirs.Be safe online&middot;Before you enter your details, ask yourself: do you trust this site?&middot;Beware of phishing sites, which pretend to be trusted sites: check the site address in the browser bar&middot;Are you being asked for superfluous detail? Your birthdate isn't really needed for any transaction&middot;Note the date and amount of online purchases&middot;Check credit card transactions often&middot;Contact the card issuer with queries&#183;Duncan Campbell is a freelance investigative journalist, unrelated to the Guardian writer of the same name. A longer version of this piece appears in PC Pro magazine, published today&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Internet providers could be held responsible for the spread of viruses on private computers, one of Britain's leading experts has claimed.Giving evidence to the House of Lords science and technology committee, Jonathan Zittrain, professor of internet governance and regulation at Oxford, said that holding broadband companies accountable for dangerous online traffic could help solve some security problems."When a computer is spewing out viruses, ISPs do not generally block them," Professor Zittrain said. "It's very difficult for users to say that something is wrong ... [but] it's not as if we would be asking ISPs to be significantly more intrusive than they are currently."Internet companies were able to monitor traffic that moves across networks, and had the ability to spot misbehaviour within seconds. But due to a lack of incentives, they did not act upon information to prevent the spread of harmful viruses or sending of spam emails, he added.The proposal would not mean internet users would be prevented from downloading viruses in the first place. However, when somebody did accidentally begin using a malicious piece of software, there would be the potential for ISPs to block the spread of further harm.According to a recent report by online security firm Webroot, 4m websites are currently infected with malware, up 33% since 2006.Prof Zittrain said problems with internet security could eventually turn many users away from using ordinary PCs in favour of locked-down devices such as mobile phones and iPods, which were generally deemed to be more secure. But he rejected the possibility of extensive regulation of internet services, suggesting this would restrict the freedom of surfers.
I'm barely retaining interest in Lost - though last week's episode was a return to moving-the-bloody-plot-along-at-last form - but am quietly looking forward to theforthcoming game. Due out on 360, PS3 and PC towards the end of the year there is little info around on what the game will actually be like. And maybe that's why I'm interested. Could it be a character-driven adventure set on the Far Cry island? Will the polar bear get involved? Or will it be another 24 - ie all the official sound effects and voiceovers but not much game?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
An unusually twee announcement on the Official Google Blog says"We're expecting": "we've been dying to tell you about the bun we've got in the oven. We'll soon be welcoming a new addition to the Google Docs &amp; Spreadsheets family: presentations."The story is that Google has bought Tonic Systems for its Java-based PowerPoint-compatible presentation system. This will eventually join Google Docs &amp; Spreadsheets. "Our due date is this summer. We promise to share family photos just as soon as we can," says Google.In an interview on stage at the Web 2.0 Expo,Google boss Eric Schmidtwas asked if it would compete with Microsoft Office, Schmidt said, "We don't think so. It doesn't have all the functionality, nor is it intended to have the functionality of products like Microsoft Office."Which is true. In fact, it's going to provide a useful extra in helping Office/PowerPoint users to collaborate online, and extend the appeal of the PowerPoint format by making it easier to share slides with people who don't own Office. All this is good for Microsoft. On the other hand, it provides light PowerPoint users with a good reasonnotto buy a full copy of Office, and in the longer term, there is no assurance that Google's version won't gain extra features that make it a PowerPoint replacement. In sum, Google is just using the "Embrace and extend" approach straight out of Microsoft's playbook.On his Rough Type blog, Nick Carr has a post headedGoogle buys PowerPoint editorwith screen grabs of the old TonicPoint site (above), which has now been vaped.One unanswered question is: What happened to the Google PowerPoint knock-off known as Presently (code-named after Writely, the Word knock-off Google bought to create Google Docs)? See, for example,Google Prepares a Presentation Toolat the Google Operating System (not Google) blog on February 4 and followed up byWebProNews.
After starting in a bedroom in London six years ago,Miniclipnow claims to be the world's biggest gaming network.It has 34 million users and has just been shortlisted in the Games category atthe Webbys. I spoke to chief executive Rob Small about the past, present and future.What started things off for you?The first big break was "Dancing George Bush". We filmed it in our flat in Wapping, and sent it to 4,000 people in 2001. Within months we had seen 1.5 million visits We then made Dancing Blair, Dancing Chirac and so on. A lot of it was topically-based in the early days, but we realised we also needed high quality games.Our growth is all through word of mouth. The core demographic is from 10 to 24 and that's a very chatty bunch, so we've been able to tap into that.Kids in schools know who we are, but we've never done any advertising - it's all word of mouth. We had a philosophy when we set up six years ago that it was better to keep small. You see companies like YouTube shouting from the rooftops about what they do as soon as they start, and then everyone goes and copies their business model.So what was the motivation for doing casual, browser-based games?We saw an opportunity to build online Flash-based content; and we now have 360 games and we've been profitable for five years straight. When you think about online games, people tend to think of Yahoo and MSN. But they're often not actually online games, they are downloadable. We believe the browser is the future.What about other platforms?We've now got 59 games compatible with the Wii, a mobile platform launching at the end of May and we're looking at things like in-flight entertainment too.You've just been nominated for a Webby award - what does that mean to the company?To be nominated for a third year running is amazing. I don't think it really makes a difference in terms of hits or anything, but it is recognition. I think people realise that the internet is now a real business. We're very bullish. To me, there's definitely a big difference between now and the first boom. But a lot of companies back then funded the base that our sites run on now.So the growth in online advertising has been kind to you?Advertising is one of our revenue streams, but so is subscription - and it's significant and growing even more so. Parents are prepared to spend $5.95 because it's a very small amount to know that you are going to get quality.We've heard a lot of talk about struggles in games development. Do you feel the same pressures?We don't have to take huge risks like other game developers do; we're here to create high quality, mainstream games. We're finding movement from console development for this; they're tired of some of the limitations . Games on the PlayStation or Xbox have $10m budget and if they flop, the whole company folds. Their skills are applicable for casual games, and the cycle is much quicker - a long development for us is three months, not three years. And the games we're building are played far more than the console equivalents.We've grown along with the development community - it's a big buzz for them to know that the game they've made in their bedroom is going to be played by 50 million people.Indie development for full-blown games is almost non-existent these days - do you think you are filling that gap?I think it's the rebirth of that; it's very viable for a young person to build these games and get them in front of people. In the 1980s the UK was at the forefront of that kind of development, but then the US took over. But now we're gaining ground back.What about the future?We're moving in to integrating community elements - we already have some on our MMO games. And multiplayer games are very interesting to us, so we're in a very good position there.You've never taken any venture funding, and yet you've been profitable since your second year. Does that mean you're rolling in cash? Do you fly in to work in a helicopter every morning?Well, we don't have a helipad - otherwise I would.
