Other titles out now includeTiny Games(iOS), which asks you where you are, who you're with and what you've got with you, before supplying unerringly creative mini-games for you to play;WWE2K14(Xbox, PS3) lets you simulate participation in the unfathomable muscle-ballet of American wrestling in this mediocre beat and grapple 'em up;Castlevania: Lords of Shadow Collection(Xbox, PS3) gives you the game, its previously 3DS-only sequel and a demo of the upcoming Lords Of Shadow 2, in which you play as Dracula rather than trying to kill him;Madagascar 3 &amp; The Croods Combo Pack(DS, 3DS) offers film-licensed frippery for those too young to have developed a critical faculty; andAngry Birds: Star Wars II(Xbox, PS3, Wii, Wii U, 3DS, Vita) infests every conceivable games platform with its overrated avian-catapulting action.
On a long, thin sliver of land between the railway tracks in King's Cross, where rusting gasometers and soot-caked sheds once stood, a multi-storey pleasure palace will soon rise out of the ground. Complete with climbing wall, indoor football pitch and a rooftop swimming pool, this is not a new leisure centre for the people of Camden, but Google's spanking new £1bn London headquarters – designed to make going to work feel like an exciting day out."The idea is that the people who are in the building – not the tenant but the actual staff – need to be attracted to the building," Simon Allford of Allford Hall Monaghan Morris, the project's architects, said in a presentation. "They need to like the community of the building."Stretching 300 metres along a new street, carved out between King's Cross and St Pancras stations, the new HQ will stand like a vast ocean liner run aground.Scheduled for completion in 2016, it will house 93,000sq m of office space within its 11 storeys – enough for 4,500 busy Googlers, twice the number currently employed in the company's two London offices.'A hybrid pleasurescape'. Illustration: GoogleFrom the outside, there is little of the hedonistic southern Californian pizzazz that you might expect. The building is formed from a simple grid of concrete-framed windows, held aloft above a row of shops on a steel frame, painted in Google's brand colours. But within, the architects promise a "looped three-dimensional promenade" of floors, linked with a snaking ramp that will allow employees to cycle all the way into the building."We've talked with Google about theatre, stage set and props," Allford said. "The building is the theatre. It lasts 100 years. The stage set is the auditorium. It lasts 20 years and is a building within the building. The props are things like the little meeting rooms, the furniture, all this, which ideally you could reconfigure overnight."In keeping with the company's self-image as a dynamic, open network in constant flux, the building is conceived as a flexible armature, to be inhabited by a changing landscape of beanbags and thinkpods, laptop stations and the occasional static desk.It is a model honed at the Googleplex in California, a sprawling series of low-lying sheds that accommodate a freeform world of volleyball courts and yurt-shaped meeting rooms, dotted with 19 cafes, 60 snack kitchens, a bowling alley and two outdoor swimming pools. Not to mention the minigolf putting green.Google are keen to 'encourage casual collisions of the workforce'. Illustration: GoogleThe reason for structuring the office environment as a hybrid pleasurescape of youth club and holiday camp, says Google, is to "encourage casual collisions of the workforce". As they bump into each other on their micro-scooters and splash around in the pool, employees will always have a laptop or tablet on hand nearby, for the creative encounter to be channelled into monetisable productivity."You come to a city to meet people who aren't like you, who have different ways of seeing the world," says Allford. "The street life is incredibly important for why you live in a city. Taking that idea of life into the building, the social space will make what Google calls positive friction. You want people to get to their desk and do work, you want them to get around, but you don't want them to miss each other."And, if you're forced to have three meals a day in the office, it might as well be fun.
The engineer and conservationist Jonathan Minns, who has died aged 75, spent a large part of his adult life happily immersed in a world of steam, encompassing giant Victorian beam engines, traction engines, engines for boats and horse-drawn fire engines. There were simple engines, compound engines, triple-expansion engines and, perhaps the highlight of the rich collection of machines he garnered over several decades, George Stephenson's own, handbuilt model of Locomotion, the famous Stockton and Darlington railway locomotive that steamed, at speeds of up to 15mph, during the reign of William IV.Minns brought these treasures together in the 1970s at the redundantGoldstone pumping station, a grand and polychrome Sussex shrine to Victorian sanitation complete with a 95ft chimney modelled on a campanile. Opened in 1866, it was built, under the direction of the self-taught Nottingham engineer Thomas Hawksley, to supply water to Brighton and Hove. From 1971, Minns campaigned energetically to save this magnificent waterworks, complete with a pair of mighty compound beam engines – as much architecture as engineering – installed by various incarnations of the firm Easton and Amos.Five years later, the principal buildings of the pumping station were listed Grade II*, and Minns, who had been working on its restoration since 1974, reopened it as a steam museum. In 1981, he named it the British Engineerium; an instructive and heartfelt celebration of veteran steam technology, it was also a centre for conservation skills and training.To pay for it, Minns worked on 166 restoration and steam museum projects worldwide. Despite this,the money ran outand in 2006, when it seemed that the collection would be auctioned off,Mike Holland, a local businessman, stepped in and did a dealto secure the future of this much-loved centre of historic steam technology. It is due to reopen in 2016.Minns, one of three brothers, was born in London and brought up in Earls Court and Hampstead. His father, Anthony Minns, had studied engineering at Cambridge and had business interests in docks and shipping. Jonathan's mother, Margaret, was the daughter of Sir Sydney Cockerell, a clerk in the coal business who, after sending John Ruskin an interesting collection of seashells, was soon working as William Morris's secretary, going on to become curator of theFitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge. His son, Christopher, wasthe inventor of the hovercraft.After a patchy showing at prep and private schools – he shot his foot and damaged a toe, with a blank from a .303 Lee-Enfield rifle while with the officer training corps at Haileybury, Hertford, and was dishonourably discharged – Minns announced that he wanted to train as an engineer. His family was concerned. Engineering was for "oily rags", not for expensively educated public schoolboys. He got his way, and much enjoyed serving his time at WH Allen, a Bedford firm specialising in turbines, pumps and gears that had built the steam engines for RMS Titanic and today is a part of Rolls-Royce.To avoid national service, Minns's father packed him off to Paris, where, for a spell, he was an actor, before heading south to the Mediterranean where he worked as a marine archaeologist. Minns was a colourful character, bursting with charm, wit and showmanship, but with great empathy, too, for people from all walks to life. He was, his family has said, a "one-man party". People fell for him, and his emotional life – one that produced four talented children from a wife, Vanessa, and two partners – was baroque.From France, he crossed the Atlantic to work for Gulf Oil. One of his dates in the US was the folk singer Joan Baez. Back in London, and temperamentally unsuited to the corporate world and office politics, Minns took to restoring antiques before setting up Steam Age, a shop in Cadogan Gardens, with Ivan Scott in 1965, followed by Jonathan Minns Steam in Hollywood Road, Fulham, where he could often be seen at the wheel of the Little Gem, a favourite traction engine that, while a transport of delight, was not ideally suited to London traffic. At the same time, he worked for Christie's, where he founded the auctioneer's steam model and mechanical antiquities sale.His father's love of steam boats, mills and pumping stations encouraged Minns to restore mills – he owned one for 30 years – and boats, including, latterly, Liberté, a Dutch tug.Minns brought joy into many lives while playing a key role in promoting the history, archaeology and conservation of engineering and steam technology.As he told the Guardian in 2006, when the British Engineerium appeared to have closed for good: "In every other profession, in art, in law, in medicine, in architecture, students are taught the history of the discipline, they understand that the past informs the present. But not in engineering, where the past is seen as irrelevant stuff, an embarrassment." Living his entertaining life at full throttle, Minns made it both highly relevant and utterly compelling.His marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his children, Dominic, Sacha, Jessica and Siena; his grandchildren, Megan and Ruby; and a great-granddaughter, Florence.•Jonathan Minns, engineer and conservationist, born 12 October 1938; died 13 October 2013
Keys have been a necessary evil for the last century or so, but what if you could unlock your house, your phone or you computer with just your hand? That is what the xNT will enable using near field communication (NFC).Produced by biohacking and NFC-firm Dangerous Things, the xNT is the world’s first NFC-compliant radio frequency identity tag that can be implanted inside your body.Measuring 2 x 12mm the NFC tag is encased in a biologically resistant glass capsule andis looking for $8,000 in fundingon Indiegogo to start mass production, with pledges of $99 and up winning you your very own xNT pre-loaded into an injection tube ready for implantation.The chip can be programmed for just about anythingThe xNT implantable NFC chip has the potential to rid you of the need for keys.NFC works by emitting a low power radio-frequency signature that can be recognised by sensors, which can then trigger pre-programmed events. NFC is currently used by mobile devices for one-tap Bluetooth pairing, as well as the transfer of photos and even payments.Once implanted in your hand, the NFC chip can be programmed for just about anything, including opening locks, starting your car, unlocking your computer or phone, or as a one-tap digital business card.Why it might not workThe chip has to be implanted directly into your body, normally between the thumb and first finger, which might put people off the xNT over something like an NFC band or bracelet.NFC also hasn’t seen massive uptake to date, but that may change in the near future, as NFC payments and one-tap functions become more commonplace. To get the most out of an xNT at the moment, the user will have to create custom solutions and won’t be able to rely on off-the-shelf devices for the most part.Why it might take offHaving a programmable NFC chip permanently implanted inside your hand has the potential to rid you of the need for keys, a wallet and to trigger all sorts of labour and time-saving automated processes.The ability to instantly unlock a phone or computer alone would see the chip being used tens of times a day on their own, which combined with almost limitless identification possibilities could make the nXT invaluable.The implantable xNT chip certainly holds a lot of potential, and could be the tip of the iceberg for body modification, if you can get over the surgical procedure required to actually fit the chip.Star rating: 4/5• WithAndroid 4.4 “Kitkat”Google reduced the complexity of using NFC-based applications, which is likely to lead to more widespread adoption of NFC payments and other one-tap solutions
In November 2012, more than 2,000 civil servants and IT specialists from across the world gathered in Dubai for the World Conference on International Telecommunications.A largely procedural event, the conference aim was to update a global telecoms treaty last negotiated in 1988. But from the outset, the event was marked by intensive political and commercial lobbying, particularly on behalf of the US. Ambassador David Gross, a lawyer and government co-ordinator for communications policy, led a well-funded and powerful campaign in the months leading up to the conference. Google, Microsoft, Cisco, Comcast and AT&amp;T were all on board, and the US press ran on-message examinations exploiting anti-UN feeling, concerns about Chinese or Russian control of the internet and warnings that certain proposed revisions were for the benefit of dinosaur telecoms firms.After two weeks of complex negotiations, the treaty failed. The US saw the failure as a victory, claiming that the internet has never needed UN regulation and that the treaty was not consistent, in the words of US delegation head Terry Kramer, "with the multistakeholder model of internet governance". The US was joined by the UK and others, including most of Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, India and Kenya.The US claimed that the treaty attempted to extend its telecoms remit to "grab control of the internet", which one critic said would see the internet develop conflicting standards and competing jurisdictions on a par with the European train system. Countries which unsuccessfully supported the revised International Telecommunications Regulations claimed the opposite; that the treaty enables standardisation, as it has done historically with dialling codes and consistent phone keyboards. They argued that the lobbying was more about protecting a western-dominated, US-centric internet administration.In the wake of the revelations over the extent of international surveillance conducted by America's National Security Agency, the aggressive US strategy around internet governance seems to have had a different agenda. Richard Hill was one of the key players at the UN's International Telecommunication Union and co-ordinated the ITR conference, but has since retired. He told the Guardian that at the time, he had thought US pressure was based on defending its commercial interests."Many countries are not comfortable with what they perceive as the dominant role of the US," he said. "In Dubai, many people were wondering why the US was making so much fuss about such treaty provisions that were in fact inoffensive from a legal point of view.  Why were they expending so much political capital for so little?  At the time, many thought it was a question of principle. After the revelations concerning the NSA surveillance, it seems reasonable to infer that the US did not wish to agree to anything that might limit its surveillance programmes – and having to co-operate with other countries might have such an effect."Hill said  some countries appeared to support key changes to the treaty, but then rejected them at the crucial final stage. Now with the Snowden revelations public, many countries are questioning the agenda of the US and argue that, because of its aggressive lobbying at the Dubai conference, the fallout has been exacerbated, says Hill.Leading the charge against the US is Brazil, which voted for the revised treaty in Dubai. President Dilma Rousseff has accused the US of breaching international law, and announced plans for a national secure email service, an alternative internet infrastructure that will mean data cables are not routed through US soil, and updates to themarco civillegislative bill to tighten domestic cybersecurity. Rousseff also this month met with Fadi Chehadé –  a man the US had "vetted" to run Icann, the organisation which oversees internet addresses – and came out of the meeting having agreed to host a summit on internet governance in Rio in April 2014. "The trust in the global internet has been punctured," Chehadé said after the meeting. "Now it's time to restore this trust through leadership and institutions that can make that happen."The accusation of internet imperialism is something the US fiercely defends, but it has its roots in the creation of the internet, and before it Arpanet, which was established between four US universities in 1969. The ethical and administrative bodies that oversee the internet are diverse and almost deliberately complicated, and present a forest of acronymed organisations including technical standards (IAB,IETFandW3C) and regional domains (AFRINIC, LACNIC and APNIC).Icann  is symbolically important and retains a link to the US government. The two have an "affirmation of commitment", but the US government's National Telecommunications and Information Administration has granted Icann the key Iana contract since 1999.This contract involves managing the database that connects domain names, such as .com, .org and .co.uk, to their numeric address. There are only 13 authoritative root servers globally, but one principal at the centre which is then mirrored. This central root server is administered by Verisign, and is held at its base in Dulles, Virginia – one of the most symbolically important computers in the world.Companies outside the US were not allowed to compete for the Iana contract, and having this central component controlled by the US government – with changes to top level domains passing through the US department of commerce – has long been been a point of contention.The Iana contract is likely to be high on the agenda at the Rio internet governance summit next April. The outcome of this heated response to the Snowden revelations is unpredictable, says Hill. The average internet user will see little difference. But it is conceivable that Icann will further look to distance itself from the US, and could assert that a new server outside the US should become the authoritative root server. If the US resists, and two competing servers begin to compile increasingly different records of internet addresses, it could signify a true split in the global internet network. In the worst case scenario, some websites could become inaccessible to people in other parts of the world.In reality, there are far too many commercial interests for that to happen. There is increasing pressure on the US government by its own technology companies to be more transparent about its surveillance and move to heal the rift in consumer confidence of companies such as Google and Facebook. Brazil is likely to push for plans to remodel Icann, which would include a more global, legal framework.Milton Mueller, an internet policy professor,  helped to draft proposals for Icann transition in 2009, and though the model still stands, the ground has shifted for the US government."There is no indication that official US policy toward hanging on to the Iana contract has changed," he said."However, when the so-called multistakeholder internet organisations that the US purports to defend all unambiguously call for an end to that, the US position is de-legitimised."
All air travellers know the drill. Boarding has been completed, and the faff of the pre-takeoff routine is about to begin, which means all electronic devices must be switched off. Time for a last text or instant message, heartfelt or flippant. Ten seconds to digest one last sentence on your e-book.No longer, if you're travelling in the US. Following a ruling by the Federal Aviation Administration,passengers will be able to use ebooks, tablets and portable video games"during all phases of flight." Delta Airlines announced a relaxation of their own in-flight rules within minutes.Europe's aviation authorities are expected to follow this lead "within months".For years, the official pronouncements of what electronic devices you can and cannot use – and for what reason – have been, if not a scourge of air travel, then at least a source of irritation.For a nervous flyer (and I count myself in this category), the vague fears that opening one's laptop might, due to some mysterious interference, lead to the plane hurtling to earth is enough reason to stick to paperbacks for the duration of the flight. Other, more switched-on souls, may now be wondering if their airbound gadget useage was being curtailed for decidedly nebulous reasons.Are you relieved that the rules are now being relaxed, and do you have any stories of being prevented from using your electronic equipment? Or, like me, are you happier for flights to be a gadget-free zone? Share your stories, and your views, in the open thread below.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. And there wasn't one last week, so today's is a BUMPER 30-apps roundup.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which was published earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Toca Mini (£1.99)Toca Mini is a delightful creative application from children's apps publisher Toca Boca. It involves creating 3D characters using facial features, hair and stripes of colour, like an (even more) child-friendly version of Nintendo's Miis. Characters can be snapshotted and saved once finished.iPhone / iPadLife in the Womb (£2.99)This is big – 1.12GB – but thoroughly worth it: a "visual guide to pregnancy" with a mixture of images, animation and interactivity to show what's happening over the course of a pregnancy. A fantastic resource for parents-to-be.iPadPapa Sangre II (£2.49)The first Papa Sangre was a real treat: an eerie audio-only adventure game voiced by the (then not-so-well-known) actor Benedict Cumberbatch. For the sequel, developer Somethin' Else has roped in Sean Bean for narration duties, and the gameplay is as genuinely-creepy as ever as you explore a world conjured up by your own imagination.iPhone / iPadBBM (Free)With 20m downloads on iOS and Android in its first week, BBM is already finding an audience beyond its traditional home of BlackBerry smartphones. The messaging app brings its familiar features for solo and group chat to iPhone, with the promise of updates adding more functionality in the months to come.iPhonePortal Entertainment's 'The Craftsman' (Free)There's afuller piece on The Craftsmanthat explains its appeal at more length: a gothic thriller designed to be experienced over five days, with notifications used to pull you back into the (extremely) spooky story. It's innovative technically, but that's not the most important thing: it's a wonderful story.iPadTweetbot 3 for Twitter (£1.99)There's been a bit of a rumpus over the decision of Twitter app Tweetbot's developer to charge for its latest update by making it a separate app. It's still the best alternative to the official Twitter app available – and many users think it's much better – with a slick new iOS 7-friendly design.iPhonePuzzle &amp; Dragons (Free)Puzzle &amp; Dragons is quite possibly the most lucrative mobile game in the world right now, but it's only just been released in the UK. It's a mixture of Pokemon and Puzzle Quest that sees you capturing monsters and organising them into teams to fight others by matching coloured orbs. Time will tell whether it will catch on with a mainstream British audience.iPhone / iPadTiny Games (Free)Tiny Games is brilliant: an app that asks you where you are and how many people you're with before suggesting micro-games to play in the real world, using the objects at hand. There are hundreds to discover, and it's the ideal alternative to sitting round a table with friends or colleagues morosely checking your respective inboxes or Facebook and Twitter feeds.iPhone / iPadTelegram Messenger (Free)NSA surveillance has the world spooked about the security of their online communications, so it's no surprise to see some app developers trying to capitalise. Telegram is a one-to-one and group chat app that includes a "Secret Chats" mode with encryption at both ends of the conversation, and self-destructing messages.iPhoneBandcamp (Free)Independent musicians have earned more than $50m from selling music and products through their Bandcamp profiles. Now the company has its own mobile app, through which you can stream the music you've bought and listen to its weekly radio show. Future updates will help you discover new bands you might like too.iPhoneChippy (£1.99)As far as I know, this is the world's first fish'n'chip shop simulator, and for that I salute it. Chippy is a time management game, like Diner Dash with extra batter and salt. You run a chippy and have to fry up food to keep your customers happy, with the difficulty level increasing as you go. It's quirky and really good fun.iPhone / iPadCannonball eMail (Free)Lots of startups are currently trying to fix email (and if your inbox looks like mine, you'll know why email is broken). This app is tablet-only and Gmail-only for now, but offers a well-designed way to separate out different kinds of emails and deal with your daily communications load.iPadJuice Cubes (Free)This is essentially Candy Crush Saga with square-shaped fruit rather than sweets, but it's very well done. Published by Angry Birds maker Rovio, it features 165 levels of fruit-matching puzzling, with combos, Facebook integration and in-app purchases used to buy power-ups when it gets too tough.iPhone / iPadDubble (Free)There's something rather special about Dubble: a photo-sharing app based round double exposures with strangers. Not in the likely-to-lead-to-an-arrest sense. You take a picture with your iPhone, then it gets mixed with an image from another user, chosen at random. And this may sound like a novelty, but the results can be beautiful.iPhoneHarperCollins Reader (Free)Book publishers are quietly excited about the idea of selling e-books direct to their readers, although it's early days for this kind of business model. HarperCollins Reader is a start though: it's no Kindle-killer yet, but it does let you dig in to the catalogue of Narnia creator C.S. Lewis, complete with one free e-book.iPhone / iPadBIT.TRIP RUN! (£2.49)Music games aren't the force they were on consoles, but there's some really fun experimentation going on for tablets and smartphones. BIT.TRIP.RUN is a good example: a "rhythm-music platforming" game that's packed with colour and sound.iPhone / iPadManga by Crunchyroll (Free)Something for fans of Japanese Manga comics here: the official app for the Crunchyroll website that promises new content "as soon as it hits newsstands in Japan". A premium subscription to Crunchyroll is required to make the most of it, but if you have that, the app provides full access to its catalogue.iPhone / iPadThor: The Dark World (Free)Bad news: the new film Thor: The Dark World is apparently"punctuated by thunderous boredom"according to The Guardian's review. The official mobile game looks better though: an action-packed breeze through 90 suitably-epic missions, with in-app purchases used to ensure your hammer is primed and ready.iPhone / iPadStrikr (Free)There's already a great second-screen app for football: it's called Twitter. Also Facebook. But Carlsberg is having a go at its own dedicated football app too. Based on the Barclays Premier League, it offers live scores and stats during matches and hooks into Twitter to see what other fans are saying.iPhone / iPadDead Trigger 2 (Free)The original Dead Trigger was a made-for-mobile first-person-shooter by developer MadFinger Games, and it's so far notched up more than 23m downloads. The sequel amps up the action: more zombies, including bosses, and more weapons to dispatch them with. The graphics are also a draw: this is one of the best-looking Android games in recent times.iPhone / iPadThe Hunting (Free)And yet more zombies. "The world's first interactive zombie movie app," to be specific. Shot on iPhones and designed to be viewed on iPhones, it's a first-person spookfest. And if you like this, you can also get part two as an app.iPhoneKnoala (Free)This is a marvellous idea: an app for parents suggesting daily activities to do with their young children: "silly games that foster artistic, cognitive, emotional, motor, sensory, language skills and more" in the words of the App Store listing. So, not an app to get your child staring at a screen, but an app with suggestions to fuel the exact opposite.iPhoneStack Rabbit (Free)This comes from an interesting source: Tim FitzRandolph, who came up with Where's My Water? for Disney. This time (with the same publisher) the hero is a rabbit who has to match vegetables on a farm without getting caught by a guard dog. In-app purchases pay for power-ups.iPhone / iPadStride &amp; Prejudice (£0.69)I love the fact that this exists: an endless-runner game where the text of Jane Austen's Pride &amp; Prejudice acts as the platforms, complete with a mode where you start each time where you died the last time – so you can eventually read the whole book.iPhone / iPadAvira Mobile Security (Free)Antivirus firms are licking their lips at the growing sense of unease among smartphone owners about security and privacy. In the case of Avira's new app, that means the promise to scan for "malicious" processes, optimisation tools for your battery, and features to help find your iPhone if it's missing. Although you might argue that Apple has the latter covered already.iPhoneNorth Pole – Animal Adventures for Kids (£1.99)Developer Fox &amp; Sheep has made some of my favourite children's apps, including Little Fox Music Box and Nighty Night. This one is all about Arctic animals, with 40 for kids to find out about through facts, animation and sounds.iPadNinJump Rooftops (Free)More endless running (and jumping), this time without literary intent. NinJump Rooftops is pretty much what you can imagine: a ninja running across rooftops, duffing up enemies along the way. There's also an enormous building-sized panda, which should be encouraged in modern mobile gaming.iPhone / iPadShoto (Free)Shoto isn't the first app to think about group photo-sharing from specific events and locations – Cooliris has been at it for years – but it may be of interest. The app aims to gather photos taken by friends at the same event and make them available to the group, using location and contacts data.iPhoneGneo (£2.99)I'm still looking for the perfect to-do list app, to bring order to my chaotic working life. Gneo has potential: as much a calendar as a task manager, helping you organise what you have to do and when you need to do it by.iPhone / iPadPocket God: Ooga Jump (£0.69)Finally, a new spin-off for one of the first big indie-game hits on iPhone, Pocket God. Ooga Jump takes its inspiration from Doodle Jump, as your pygmy character bounces upward, fuelled (if you want to pay) by various power-ups.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Sony's credit rating could be cut to junk, ratings agency Moody's warned Friday, after the electronics giant issued a profits warning amid faltering sales.Moody's said it had placed Sony's Baa3 long-term senior unsecured bond rating on review for a downgrade. Baa3 is Moody's lowest investment-grade rating.On Friday Sony's shares dropped 11% in Tokyo after the company slashed its earnings forecast for the year by 40% blaming tepid demand for televisions, digital camcorders, cameras, personal computers and box office flops from its film division.The move comes ahead of the all important Christmas shopping season and just weeks before the release of Sony's latest game console, the PlayStation 4. In August the company said it had already received over 1m pre-orders for the new consoles. The company expects to sell 5m PS4's between the launch date and the end of the Japanese fiscal year in March."Conditions are harsher than what we had anticipated," Sony chief financial officer Masaru Kato told reporters on Thursday. Sony posted a net loss of 19.3 billion yen ($196.65m) for its second quarter.The news marked a dramatic reversal for Sony which posted its first full-year profit in five years in May and has seen its share price soar. This quarter, Sony's TV operation dropped from a 5.2 billion yen ($53m) operating profit to a 9.3 billion yen ($94m) loss."The rating actions reflect the slow progress being made in improving overall profitability,'' Moody's said in its statement. "Weak earnings across the majority of reporting units suggests the potential for a much longer period of restructuring and financial weakness than previously expected."Sony rival Panasonic has been shifting its focus to business and industrial products as sales of consumer electronics have been hit by cheaper Asian rivals. The company has moved into solar panel manufacturing and recently struck a deal to supply electronics to electric car manufacturer Tesla. Kazuo Hirai, Sony's chief executive, has said he intends to focus the company on gaming, imaging technology and mobile devices.Its latest results were also hampered by flops at the box office. Both of Sony's film studio's big-budget tentpole movies released in the quarter, After Earth, with Will Smith, and White House Down, with Channing Tatum and Jamie Foxx, attracted lackluster attention. Hedge fund billionaire Daniel Loeb has been pushing for Sony to spin off its entertainment assets.
The UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) is scrutinising the use of electronic devices during take-off and landing following the American Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA)approval on 31 October.TheFAA ruledthat devices such as ebooks, tablet computers and portable games consoles could be used “during all phases of flight”. Mobile phones will also be allowed, as long as their cellular radios are disabled or they are put into “airplane mode”.“We will be studying the review’s recommendations closely and discussing their implications directly with the FAA and also with the European Aviation Safety Agency, which will be responsible for deciding a Europe-wide response and next steps,” said a CAA spokesperson talking to the Guardian.Europe expected to follow US &apos;within months&apos;The ultimate decision over the use of electronic devices during all phases of flight now lies with the pan-European body, the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), which oversees flight safety within Europe and has “responsibly for these kinds of airworthiness issues”, said the CAA.The EASA will liaise with the CAA, as well as all the other European aviation authorities, to come to a final decision that is expected “relatively quickly” or “within months”.Following EASA’s decision, the CAA can then implement the recommendation with individual airlines. Instead of a blanket change, the approval for use of electronic devices within take-off and landing will be made on an airline by airline basis.Airlines to present &apos;safety cases&apos;Each airline that would like to allow the use of electronic devices during the entire flight will have to present “safety cases” to the CAA in the UK, asDelta Airlines has already donewithin the US to the FAA.“The airlines now have access to new methodology for the safety testing of devices, which could be a relatively quick process, especially as some airlines are likely to have already done a fair bit of testing,” said the CAA.A ruling from EASA on the use of electronic devices during all phases of flight is expected within the next couple of months and is anticipated to follow the lead of the FAA.• Using theinternet and mobile electronics on planes, is it dangerous?
Google unwrapped a brand new version of its mobile software on 31 October calledAndroid 4.4 “Kitkat”, featuring an always listening intelligent search and more.With Android 4.4 Kitkat Google has improved Android’s performance, added new features and services, as well as integrated new software to support the potential for innovative new uses.Android 4.4 continues the confectionary naming schemeAndroid is now named after the Kitkat Nestle chocolate biscuit. Photograph: Denis Balibouse/ReutersSince its inception, Google has used both an increasing numeric value, like Android 4.4, as well as names taken from famous confectionary.It started with Android 1.5 “Cupcake”, and continued through the alphabet via Android 1.6 “Donut”, Android 2.0 “Eclair”, Android 2.2 “Froyo” (frozen yoghurt), Android 2.3 “Gingerbread”, Android 3.0 “Honeycomb”, Android 4.0 “Ice Cream Sandwich” and most recently Android 4.1 “Jelly Bean”.It was long-rumoured that the follow up to Jelly Bean would be “Key Lime Pie”, however in a deal with Nestle, Google named Android 4.4 after the Kitkat chocolate biscuit.Always listening Google NowGoogle Now is constantly listening out for "OK Google".Google’s intelligent digital assistant and smart search, Google Now, has been given much larger prominence within Android 4.4 Kitkat, integrating an always listening feature, which will instantly respond to voice commands triggered by the phrase “OK Google”.Instead of having to launch a separate app, your searches can be made directly from the homescreen without having to tap any buttons, just by starting your commands with “OK Google”. This always-listening feature was first introduced with Google’s smart glasses Google Glass, which is voice-activated by the phrase “OK Glass”.Full-screen immersionKitkat hides the status bar and menu bar when in full screen mode.Google has taken steps with Android 4.4 Kitkat to make the experience of using apps like ebook readers or web browsers a much more immersive experience. It has changed the way the system-level interface elements are presented, including the status bar at the top of the screen and the Android menu buttons at the bottom.Instead of permanently bracketing your screen with two black bars, the top notification bar is now transparent, allowing more of your homescreen wallpaper to shine through. The menu bar at the bottom of the screen can now also disappear when an app is put into a full-screen mode, allowing content to take up the full real estate of the screen.Dragging your finger down from the top of the screen or up from the bottom of the screen now reveals the notification or menu bars when in full screen applications.Support for lower-end phonesAndroid fragmentation has been a big problem for app developers ever since the operating system’s inception. Essentially it means that multiple versions of Android that aren’t up to date exist on various devices. While that’s not an issue in and of itself, for developers it presents a massive challenge as they have to programme their apps to support multiple versions of Android – all with differing capabilities.Google has already taken steps towards minimising fragmentation through the decoupling of its own applications and services from the operating system into separate downloadable apps. That allows users on older versions of Android to update these apps separately through the Google Play store and gain access to the new services and features.Now Google is taking its battle with fragmentation a step further by reducing the system requirements for Android 4.4 Kitkat. In doing this Google has made it possible to run Kitkat on much lower power devices.Low-power sensors without battery drainKitkat uses batch processing to reduce the battery drain while still allowing your phone to track your movements and use other sensors.Following Apple’s lead with theiPhone 5S and its low-power M7 motion co-processor, Kitkat also features support for low power sensors using a process called “hardware sensor batching”.Essentially, Android will now queue up sensory input to be processed in batches, which means that the central processor doesn’t need to be in a high-power state all the time to accept and process data from the phone’s sensors like the GPS, accelerometers and gyroscopes.The end result is much improved battery life, while maintaining the data logging and sensory activities that facilitate great features like Google Now, fitness trackers and location reporting.NFC payments enhancementKitkat simplifies the use of NFC for payments and other functions.Google has also taken steps to simplify and hopefully accelerate the use of near-field communication (NFC) for payments. A significant proportion of Android phones come with an NFC chip built in, which is currently mainly used for pairing accessories and Bluetooth devices.Now Google has baked a new feature into Android Kitkat that aims to simplify the use of NFC applications for payments called “Host Card Emulation”, which facilitates the connection between the applications and the NFC hardware within the Android device.Google hopes that this new simplification within the Android software will help NFC payments, as well as other NFC uses gain traction.Coming to a device near you soonFollowing theannouncement of the Nexus 5 smartphoneand Android 4.4 Kitkat, various manufacturers announced that they would be updating their smartphones with Kitkat.Google announced that previous Nexus devices, including theNexus 4smartphone and Nexus 7 and 10 tablet computers would get the update within the coming weeks.HTC also confirmed that it would be updating its HTC One line of devices, including the new One Max phablet to Android 4.4 Kitkat, with theHTC Oneseeing the update within 90 days.Other smartphone manufacturers are currently looking at the update, although it is known that the Samsung Galaxy Nexus will not get the Kitkat update.• In October, Google launched its new flagship Android smartphonethe Google Nexus 5that provides high-end features at a more affordable price
Two-year old Hailo, which lets people order taxis from their smartphones, claims to have generated $55m in new business.Chief executive Jay Bregman told the Guardian&apos;s Jemima Kiss at Dublin&apos;s Web Summit that the company now has a dedicated team working on complementary, mobile-first products.&quot;This is all based on the platform we have created,&quot; he said. &quot;A lot of these people come from Zynga, so this is based on a highly experimental culture we have built for mobile. They do substantial AB testing on mobile to see if certain features work before you waste time building them.&quot;This doesn&apos;t necessarily mean taxis. What is Hailo? It&apos;s a brand that is on-demand and mobile native ... we can use that data and those wallets ... there are people screaming out for smartphone technology to enable them to get together for closer, more intimate experiences for their customers without intermediaries.&quot;Bregman said Hailo was dependent on a network of skilled professional drivers who could apply &quot;the knowledge&quot; across the scope of the business, but that that would still apply even when self-driving cars become common in five to 10 years&apos; time.&quot;That would be the best driver engagement and recruitment tool that we could possibly imagine. I would urge Google to do that as soon as possible.&quot;• Hailo was named one of the25 top London-focused tech startupsrecently announced by the UK governmentJemima Kiss interviews Hailo chief executive Jay Bregman
I first played Proteus two years ago – at GameCity of course. Its developer, Ed Key, had left traditional mainstream game development and was trying something entirely new. He had a small stand in the tent on Nottingham's main square – his business card was an acorn with his email address scrawled on it.Something about the game's chunky, luxuriously coloured visuals caught my eye – they took me back to my childhood, to old Atari and Commodore 64 games, when digital landscapes were minimalistic and subjective – like stark impressionist paintings.I sat down and Key popped a headset on me. "You have to listen to the music," he said gently. And I did, because of course David Kanaga's score is an enormous part of this seemingly formless, graceful experience. You are on an island, procedurally generated just for you.There are creatures here, and clusters of trees shedding pink leaves into the wind; there are remnants of civilisation; little stone circles and strange statues. It feels folkloric, like at any moment Christina Rossetti's goblin market could march by:Backwards up the mossy glenTurn'd and troop'd the goblin men,With their shrill repeated cry,"Come buy, come buy."When they reach'd where Laura wasThey stood stock still upon the moss,Leering at each other,Brother with queer brother;Signalling each other,Brother with sly brother.One set his basket down,One rear'd his plate;One began to weave a crownOf tendrils, leaves, and rough nuts brown(Men sell not such in any town);One heav'd the golden weightOf dish and fruit to offer her:"Come buy, come buy," was still their cry.There are seasons, too, though you may never experience them if you don't learn the island's generative secrets. For the most part, you wander the land, learning how the soundtrack bends and wilts to each new area. For some, Proteus is a sound tool, an interactive musical odyssey; something The Orb may have made if the technology had existed in the nineties. It seemed something that we'd only ever see on PC or Mac.But earlier this year, after Proteus was released on Steam, Key was approached by Curve Studios about the possibility of creating a PlayStation 3 and Vita version. It wasn't something Key had considered, but Curve had spoken to Shahid Ahmad, Sony's indie guru, and he seemed interested. Sony is very interested in these experimental things nowadays, so the project was green lit.Now here is Proteus – a thoughtful experiment, a meditation on place and nature available on a major console and a major handheld. Curve has cleverly added new features, such as interaction with the rear touchscreen and a Vita motion mode where you can look around the Proteus environment by moving the device itself."The new stuff is subtle but I'm really happy with it," says Key. "The motion-sensor camera mode, activated by tapping the L button on the Vita, is really neat – almost like VR without the mask or the nausea. I was so happy to seethis crazy trick done with it."It's also possible to create location and date-based islands, both of which generate a random seed and then build an island from that, with a chance of about 10-15 different 'wild' things happening to it. Some of these are subtle and some aren't ... It's more about uniqueness and permanence and interesting dice-rolls than anything else. At one point the location-based islands were being discussed as if they would somehow take real-world elements and mix them in, but I'll leave it to someone else to make a Proteus/Geoguesser mash-up …"For Key, one of the hardest elements of the conversion process was including trophies – a potentially mood-breaking concession to console gaming conventions. "I actually designed the whole set of trophies about four times," says Key. "It was very weird to do and I still flinch when the trophy notification pops up – pling! – but the only solution to that is to play without notifications enabled."The other main headache is that it breaks a fundamental design rule of Proteus: no text after the title screen – except the options screen. I tried to make them fairly cryptic, and the text is all 'sampled' from various books and other media that were important to us whilst making Proteus so there's a kind of oblique 'director's commentary' aspect. For some of them, I took some cues from psychogeography and tried to force the player to take unusual paths on the island. Videogames need more psychogeography."Brilliantly, the trailer for the game actually uses a slice of Key's own psychogeography – it follows him on a walk near his home in Broughton-in-Furness (although Key actually spent parts of his childhood in Kendal and Wiltshire, experiences that also shaped the look and feel of the game)."The film-makers, Rich and Lauren of Stray Dog Video, are friends of Curve's PR and marketing guy, Rob, and I'd always wanted to make a crazy live-action trailer, so we got talking about ideas," says Key. "They came up with a pitch and a storyboard after we knocked around a few initial concepts. The furthest outdoor location, Devoke Water, is only five miles from home, and the bus scene was shot driving around Kendal."It was a crazy battle against the weather, and perhaps even more against despair in the face of worsening forecasts, but in the end we shot almost the whole thing in one day. I'm incredibly happy with how well-received it has been. I enjoyed a certain person at the launch drinks with Curve saying, 'So did you build that stone circle?'"Proteus is not a game, a few people insist. In some ways they're right, but in most they are wrong. Because as humans we gamify everything – it is how we interact with the world. When we explore a new place in real life, we set ourselves parameters and limits: I'll just get to that corner and head back; I have to make it to the brow of that hill. These are rudimentary game mechanics. When we fall in love, we are at the mercy of conflicting game systems – the natural desire is to show your hand, to go all in, express everything. But instead you need to quietly build XP, to learn and to work out in what ways your systems conflict or attune with your partner's. All of life is about finding a place or a person and learning their rules, however subtle, however arcane.Proteus is not about love of course - or at least not obviously. It does, however, explore some of the same ideas as the traditional pastoral romance. In the Elizabethan era there was a fascination with the idea of the rural idyll as something magical and replenishing, and the Proteus environments are fecund with magic; it glistens at the edges of your vision, it sparkles above the trees and through the glades. It is there in the ambience, it drifts through the soundscape like pollen. Proteus renders into digital life, the isle of the Temptest, Shakespeare's pastoral vision of redemption, love and supernatural longing. From Caliban's famous speech:Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.Sometimes a thousand twangling instrumentsWill hum about mine ears, and sometime voicesThat, if I then had waked after long sleep,Will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming,The clouds methought would open and show richesReady to drop upon me that, when I waked,I cried to dream again.You don't always get that in console games.• Proteus is available now on PC and Mac via Steam, and on PS3 and PS Vita via the PLayStation store
On stage at Dublin&apos;s Web Summit, Evernote founder Phil Libin said that he thought the public and the tech industry needs to decide what action it wants from the government on the activity of its national security service.Libin told the Guardian&apos;s Jemima Kiss that surveillance &quot;isn&apos;t a deep structural problem&quot;.&quot;This can be solved in six months – we just have to figure out what we want the government to do. It&apos;s good to be having this discussion right at the beginning of these services.&quot;Libin has described his vision for Evernote as a &quot;100-year company&quot;, and says that 75% of users find the service on mobile first. An IPO is inevitable in 2-3 years time, but is &quot;just paperwork&quot;, he told the Irish tech conference on Thursday.• Evernote launched itsbusiness servicefor small to medium sized companies in December 2012Evernote chief executive Phil Libin interviewed at Web Summit
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Call of Duty: Strike Team (£4.33)Activision&apos;s latest Call of Duty game has been made for mobile devices from the ground up. Some elements are familiar – i.e. all the shooting – but new twists include the ability to swap between first-person action and a more tactical third-person view to plot your squad&apos;s tactics.Telegram (Free)NSA surveillance has the world spooked about the security of their online communications, so it&apos;s no surprise to see some app developers trying to capitalise. Telegram is a one-to-one and group chat app that includes a &quot;Secret Chats&quot; mode with encryption at both ends of the conversation, and self-destructing messages.Juice Cubes (Free)This is essentially Candy Crush Saga with square-shaped fruit rather than sweets, but it&apos;s very well done. Published by Angry Birds maker Rovio, it features 165 levels of fruit-matching puzzling, with combos, Facebook integration and in-app purchases used to buy power-ups when it gets too tough.Grand Theft Auto: iFruit (Free)It took a while, but the official companion app for Grand Theft Auto V has finally arrived on Android. It provides a mobile interface to the console game&apos;s spoof social network LifeInvader; lets you customise cars to be delivered to you on your console; and includes a virtual pet mini-game with Franklin&apos;s dog Chop that – if you stick with it – improves his behaviour in the main game.Strikr (Free)I have a few Android devices connected to Google Play, but Carlsberg&apos;s new second-screen football app is apparently incompatible with all of them. Hopefully that&apos;ll change. Based on the Barclays Premier League, it offers live scores and stats during matches and hooks into Twitter to see what other fans are saying.Jelly Splash (Free)More colour-matching puzzles here, but this time it&apos;s not sweets or fruit: it&apos;s jelly. This game comes from social games firm Wooga, which has been very successful on Facebook. Jelly Splash has more than 100 levels, and yes, extra moves or lives will cost you via in-app purchases.Virgin Media SmartCall (Free)This app is UK telco Virgin Media&apos;s step into the world of voice-over-IP, with the twist that it lets customers with a Virgin Phone contract use their home-phone minutes on their smartphone to call &quot;normal numbers&quot;. It works abroad too, so Virgin is pitching it as a solution to roaming call woes.Stack Rabbit (Free)And yet more colour-puzzle matching, although this comes from an interesting source: Tim FitzRandolph, who came up with Where&apos;s My Water? for Disney. This time (with the same publisher) the hero is a rabbit who has to match vegetables on a farm without getting caught by a guard dog. Again, in-app purchases for power-ups.Crunchyroll Manga (Free)Something for fans of Japanese Manga comics here: the official app for the Crunchyroll website that promises new content &quot;as soon as it hits newsstands in Japan&quot;. A premium subscription to Crunchyroll is required to make the most of it, but if you have that, the app provides full access to its catalogue.Pocket Harvest (£2.99)Once you&apos;ve played one Kairosoft game, you&apos;ll be at home in all the others: the Japanese developer makes grippingly-addictive pixel-art sims covering everything from shopping centres (Mega Mall Story) to games development (Game Dev Story). Pocket Harvest applies the formula to farming.Flyne. The Offline Reader (Free)This is a simple but stylish news-reading app from the developer of Android Twitter app Falcon Pro, Joaquim Verges. It gets you to log in using Twitter and/or Feedly, then downloads stories for offline reading in a flippable magazine format.The Activision Decathlon (£1.49)I was trying to explain the golden age of joystick-waggling to a younger person the other day without sounding like a creepy old man. It was tough. This new (old) game from Marmalade Play revives Activision&apos;s classic Decathlon athletics game, except with touchscreen controls rather than peripheral-busting moves.Shoto - Private Photo Sharing (Free)Shoto isn&apos;t the first app to think about group photo-sharing from specific events and locations – Cooliris has been at it for years – but it may be of interest. The app aims to gather photos taken by friends at the same event and make them available to the group, using location and contacts data.Assassin’s Creed IV Companion (Free)Companion apps are all the rage in the console world: here&apos;s one for Ubisoft&apos;s new Assassin&apos;s Creed IV: Black Flag game. It provides an interactive map, tracks your progress, shows your treasure maps and even lets you send captured ships off on missions while you&apos;re away from the console.Olympic Athletes&apos; Hub (Free)This app comes from official body the International Olympic Committee (IOC) – an app collecting Facebook posts, tweets and Instagram pics of &quot;verified&quot; Olympic athletes, whether past or present. An idea that will presumably come into its own during actual summer or winter Games, although I wonder what sort of moderation there&apos;ll be if, for example, lots of them are tweeting about gay rights during the upcoming Sochi winter Olympic Games.D&amp;D Arena of War (Free)Dungeons &amp; Dragons is back, Back, BACK! And it&apos;s gone free-to-play with one of the bigger mobile games networks Mobage. The game sees you fighting your way through the Forgotten Realms in partnership with friends, although time will tell whether the in-app purchases are handled sensitively: as someone who grew up with D&amp;D, that&apos;s my biggest concern.Wombi Tower (£1.89)Swedish developer Wombi has released some great apps for kids over the last couple of years, and this one continues the trend. It&apos;s designed for children and parents to play together, taking turns to drop tower blocks into place without making the tower wobble over. It&apos;s Jenga meets Tetris meets Tower Bloxx (the latter being a marvellous mobile game in its own right, incidentally).River Cottage Get Foraging (Free)Dungeons &amp; Dragons going free-to-play on mobile might have been predicted. British chef Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall? He&apos;s more of a curveball. This game is the work of Channel 4: a hidden-object foraging game where you have to hunt for ingredients to make 20 recipes from his River Cottage books.Puzzle by Chocolapps (£1.51)Another fun game for kids from developer Chocolapps, which has just ported lots of its iOS apps to Android. This offers jigsaw-style puzzles with a choice of classic, geometry, mathematics modes to keep children interested.Mech Conquest (Free)Finally, one more game, but not for kids. Mech Conquest promises &quot;intergalactic online war on an epic scale&quot; with giant robots kicking (and punching, shooting...) lumps out of one another. The key here being that you only have yourself to blame for losing, as you build your Mechs before sending them into battle.That&apos;s this week&apos;s selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSteam rises to the console challenge with 65m users, surpassing Xbox Live &gt;&gt; TechRadarRecent numbers released by Valve show a steady 30% rise in active accounts, bringing its total active users to 65 million.This number overshadows Microsoft, where Xbox Live only boasts 48 million members.Impressive stuff from Valve, but Sony&apos;s 110m PSN accounts dwarf both steam and Xbox Live. Perhaps that&apos;s because the PSN is free and Xbox Live isn&apos;t?Google Glass accessory store quietly comes online, selling chargers, earbuds, shades and shields &gt;&gt; The Next WebThere is now a section labeled ‘Accessories’ under the Google Glass help site, listing items including chargers, earbuds, shades and shields, swapping frames and pouches — and then linking users to the accessory store.Now you can buy accessories for Google Glass, it&apos;s just a shame most of us don&apos;t have Google Glass in the first place. The real question is, given wider availability, would you pay the £1,000-odd price of entry?Samsung sells more phones than Apple, Nokia, and BlackBerry combined &gt;&gt; UbergizmoIt is also no secret that Samsung is probably the biggest name when it comes to Android devices, what with them selling 5 million Galaxy Note 3 handsets to date, with their overall sales reported to be around 1 million devices a day. However it seems that might only be the tip of the Samsung iceberg as ABI Research has found, along with some additional number crunching by Android Central, that for Q3 2013, Samsung has managed to sell more smartphones than Apple, BlackBerry, and Nokia. Combined.And that&apos;s why Samsung&apos;s making money hand over fist, although its enormous marketing budget surely helps those sales numbers.Apple says fix incoming for 13-inch Retina MacBook Pro trackpad &amp; keyboard issues, offers interim solution &gt;&gt; 9to5MacAccording to the new support page, Apple is aware of the issue and working on a permanent fix. The fix will likely come by way of a software update via the Mac App Store. Until it is released, the issue can be remedied by closing the computer for a full minute and then waking it back up.Great, you might as well turn it off and turn it on again, considering the speed with which SDD-based machines like the retina MacBook Pro boot up.Nokia to seek U.K. sales ban for HTC &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAs a result of winning the case, Nokia said it would seek an injunction against the &quot;import and sale of infringing HTC products in the U.K. as well as financial compensation.&quot; It added that the size of the compensation it is seeking and the nature of a potential sales ban is a matter for further discussion with the court.Nokia&apos;s going for HTC&apos;s jugular in the UK. HTC seemingly just can&apos;t catch a break right now.Space gray iPhone 5s most popular amid supply constraints, blue leads for iPhone 5c &gt;&gt; Mac Rumors43 percent of iPhone 5s units sold were space gray, while 30 percent were silver and 27 percent were gold. Supplies of the space gray model were more readily available than the silver and gold iPhones, but consumers have demonstrated a preference for the black iPhone in the past.Something tells the the limited supply of the gold and silver iPhone 5S massively skewed these results. Let&apos;s just say that in the queue for the iPhone 5S at its launch in Covent Garden in London,everyone seemingly wanted a gold one.Roll-cage equipped drones shrug off impacts to keep flying &gt;&gt; DVICESmall, agile drones will be among some of the first robots on the scene. But navigating debris fields and crumbling buildings in search of survivors presents a number of challenges. The average drone can&apos;t take an impact from falling debris or bounce it&apos;s way through tight passages. That&apos;s why the folks at the Laboratory of Intelligent Systems at EPFL have worked up designs for drones that can take a hit and keep on flying.Great, until those same drones that can take a hit and keep flying turn on us...Rockstar Rewarding Unique Selfies With GTA 5 #EpicPhotobomb Contest &gt;&gt; UbergizmoOne feature of the game that surprised many players when they first started playing Grand Theft Auto V was the fact you could take selfies with the cellphones of in-game characters, resulting in many humorous images to be posted online. Rockstar realises you all really enjoy this feature, and as a result has put together its first Snapmatic Photo Contest.Rockstar seriously has its finger on the pulse of engaging advertising - getting gamers to do the marketing for them is pure genius.You can follow Guardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.
It's Friday.
Tech giants including Apple, Facebook and Google called for substantial reforms to the US government's surveillance programmes Thursday in a letter to the Senate judiciary committee.In the wake of more revelations about the lengths to which the National Security Agency has gone to intercept data, the companies have called for more transparency and "substantial enhancements to privacy protections and appropriate oversight and accountability mechanisms for those programs."The letter, also signed by AOL, Microsoft and Yahoo, follows the release of more documents obtained by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden that reveal the US authorities weresecretly tapping in to the tech firm's main communications links.The letter "applauds" the USA Freedom Act,a bill sponsored by Democrat senator Patrick Leahy and Republican congressman James Sensenbrennerthat would end the bulk collection of data from millions of Americans and set up a privacy advocate to monitor the Fisa court, which oversees the NSA's US activities."Recent disclosures regarding surveillance activity raise important concerns in the United States and abroad. The volume and complexity of the information that has been disclosed in recent months has created significant confusion here and around the world, making it more difficult to identify appropriate policy prescriptions," the letter states."Our companies have consistently made clear that we only respond to legal demands for customer and user information that are targeted and specific."Allowing companies to be transparent about the number and nature of requests will help the public better understand the facts about the government's authority to compel technology companies to disclose user data and how technology companies respond to the targeted legal demands we receive," they write.In a recent report the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF) said the US tech firms could end up losing out on tens of billions of dollars in the cloud-based computing space in the wake of Snowden's revelations. Cloud computing is a rapidly growing area and revelations that the US authorities have been scooping up the personal data of millions of users, particularly outside the US, could cost them business."On the low end, US cloud computing providers might lose $21.5bn over the next three years," ITIF concluded. On the high end the report put the figure at $35bn."We urge the administration to work with Congress in addressing these critical reforms that would provide much needed transparency and help rebuild the trust of Internet users around the world," the letter said.
Google has just announced the release of its latest flagship Android smartphone, the 5in Nexus 5 that comes running the next iteration of Android 4.4 “Kitkat”.With a 5in full HD screen and high-end specifications, the Nexus 5 offers a premium Android experience with a more affordable price tag, starting at £299, than other flagship Android smartphones like the Samsung Galaxy S4 and HTC One, as well as Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S.Based on the underlying hardware of one of LG’s current Android smartphones, the LG G2, the Nexus 5 features, a top-of-the-line 2.3GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor, 2GB of RAM and 16 or 32GB of built-in storage, which should perform well for both multi-tasking and graphically intensive gaming.Colourful and flat Android &apos;Kitkat&apos;&quot;For KitKat, we partnered with LG to develop Nexus 5 – the slimmest and fastest Nexus phone ever made,&quot; saidGoogle in a blogpost.The Nexus 5 also features an 8-megapixel rear-facing camera, and a 1.3-megapixel camera on the front for video chatting, as well as wireless charging and Wi-Fi, NFC and Bluetooth 4.0 for communication with low-power accessories like the Fitbit One and a plethora of other fitness gadgets.&quot;The advanced new lens on Nexus 5 captures more light for brighter night and sharper action shots. And with optical image stabilisation, you no longer have to worry about shaky hands and blurry pictures,&quot; Google said.The Nexus 5 is the first smartphone to run Google’s latest iteration of Android – version 4.4 “Kitkat” – which continues the refinement of the mobile operating system becoming more colourful and flatter, similar to Apple’slatest revision of iOS.Google Now, Google’s context-sensitive digital assistant, has also been given greater prominence in the new software, after thenew &quot;Hummingbird&quot; algorithm updatemade Google&apos;s core search better at answering longer, more complex and spoken queries.As Google intendedThe Nexus 5, as theexcellent Nexus 4was before it, is the result of a continuing partnership between Korean phone manufacturer LG and Google, which sees high-end phone hardware paired with an unmodified Android experience, often referred to as being “as Google intended”, without the usual customisations phone manufacturers typically make to the perfectly usable operating system.&quot;Its design is simple and refined to showcase the 5” Full HD display. Nexus 5 also keeps you connected at blazing speeds with 4G/LTE and ultra fast Wi-Fi,&quot; said Google.The Nexus 5 is availablestarting todayfrom £299/$349 for the 16GB and faces stiff competition from the Samsung Galaxy S4, which woncritical praise, as well as the likes of theHTC One, Sony Xperia Z1 and theiPhone 5S.• Google&apos;s Nexus 5 also features competition from a range of larger-screened devices or phablets like theSamsung Galaxy Note 3.
Infinity Ward, developer of the highly anticipatedCall of Duty: Ghosts, has confirmed that the PS4 version of the game is rendered at native 1080p, but the Xbox One can only manage 720p.Speaking on Twitter,Mark Rubin – executive producer for Infinity Ward – confirmed that on the “Xbox One we’re 1080p upscaled from 720p. And, we’re native 1080p on PS4&quot;, indicating that the Xbox One doesn&apos;t currently display Ghosts at native 1080p resolution. Instead Infinity Ward had to rely on the built-in ability of the console to upscale 720p content to 1080p resolution for full HD televisions.“We optimised each console to hit 60 FPS [frames per second] and the game looks great on both,” Rubin added.Sony’s PS4 has a 50% advantage in terms of raw shader performanceIt has already been noted that, on paper at least, thePS4 has a more powerful combination of processor and graphics capabilities than the Xbox One.Both consoles use graphics processing units (GPUs) that employ AMD&apos;s latestGraphics Core Nextarchitecture, which is divided into working blocks known as Compute Units. The PS4 version, however, has 18 CUs generating 1.84 teraflops of processing power, while the Xbox one has only 12 CUs.In theory, the six extra CUs give Sony&apos;s PS4 a 50% advantage in terms of raw shader performance (for example, lighting and other graphics effects) over the Xbox One. It is never quite this simple because other design and technical elements of theSoCcan affect performance, but it is certainly an indication that there is more graphics grunt there for PS4.Battlefield 4 concursThis apparent performance difference was also shown in a comprehensive comparison performed by Digital Foundry, a technical analysis outfit, of the incoming Battlefield 4 game being played on both the Xbox One and PS4.Digital Foundry determined that, while neither console displayed the game at native 1080p (1920 x 1080), the PS4 produced the game at 1600 x 900 compared to the Xbox One’s 1280 x 720 (720p) resolution.“We determined that the Xbox One code is indeed running at 1280x720. If this is set in stone for release - as is likely - the Microsoft version is poised to give us the most aliasing of the two next-gen platforms by a noticeable degree, and is only a stone&apos;s throw from the sub-720p resolutions of current-gen releases. On the other hand, the PS4 version delivers a whopping 1600x900 resolution in all modes, giving it a 50% lead in output pixels overall,” saidThomas Morgan on gaming site Eurogamer.Noting that it is not just pure pixel count that this effects, Morgan explained that the overall graphical quality was affected:“As well as cutting down on jagged edges, this reduces the amount of pixel shimmer we see in motion on complex shaders or thin geometry, with distant power lines, scaffolding and other elements with sub-pixel elements creating unwanted flickering on Xbox One,” he said.Morgan also noted that while the PS4’s output was of higher resolution, its software-based upscaling to 1080p actually left the game detail looking less crisp compared to the Xbox One version.Clock speed boostingMicrosoft recently increased the clock speed of the Xbox One’s graphics processor from 800 to 853mhz, ostensibly providing a 6% increase in graphics processing performance.Andrew Goossen, a technical fellow at Microsoft who was one of the architects for the Xbox One,told Eurogamer in an interviewthat the clock speed improved performance across multiple parts of the Xbox One.“By fixing the clock, not only do we increase our ALU [the part of the processor that performsintegerarithmeticandlogicalcalculations], performance, we also increase our vertex rate, we increase our pixel rate and ironically increase our ESRAM bandwidth.”Goossen explained that the clock speed increase reduced potential bottle necks that could hamper performance across the processing units of the Xbox One. He also talked about how balancing the CUs across the system was an important factor in improving performance, something Sony apparently agrees with.Goossen said: “[Sony’s] additional four CUs are very beneficial for their additional GPGPU work [the process of utilising the graphics processor to do traditional central processing calculations].“We&apos;ve actually taken a very different tack on that. The experiments we did showed that we had headroom on CUs as well. In terms of balance, we did index more in terms of CUs than needed so we have CU overhead.”The Xbox One’s CU excess processing power should allow room for improved performance down the line, according to Goossen, which is why Microsoft has said it found it very “important to have bandwidth for the GPGPU workload and so this is one of the reasons why [it] made the big bet on very high coherent read bandwidth” on the Xbox One.Early stagesIt is worth noting that this is a very early stage for the next-generation consoles, and that their releases within the next two weeks are sure to see a flurry of comparisons and criticisms.As with all previous generations of consoles, it takes time for developers to get their heads around the development environments for the new machines, with optimisations and large performance gains often coming in towards the middle or end of a console’s life-span – often five to seven years after launch.It is also worth pointing out that quite a lot of people just will not be able to see the difference between a game output at 720p versus 1080p, and that quite a lot of high-definition televisions, especially under 32in in size, are only capable of displaying 720p content.However, on paper as it stands, the PS4 has the edge on pure pixel numbers within game output.• In October, Sony published an extensive frequently asked questions listdetailing a lot of information previously unknown about the PlayStation 4, including the fact that it cannot play CDs or MP3s, or stream media over a network via DLNA
4.31pmGMTThe end (for now)Even with a day of posts, this has scratched the surface of what&apos;s happening around children, devices and digital media. It&apos;s time to close the liveblog, but hopefully it&apos;s been interesting and/or thought-provoking. A lot of the issues and trends will be covered at greater length in future articles, so watch this space!3.55pmGMTAngry Birds: entertainment AND education?The most interesting things about Angry Birds in 2013 aren&apos;t the games, good as they are. It&apos;s the company&apos;s move into two very different areas: shortform TV animation and education.On the former front, the company&apos;s Angry Birds Toons channel launched in March within developer Rovio&apos;s various games, and by September hadnotched up more than 1bn viewsof its short cartoons and trailers.My four year-old discovered it a couple of weeks ago, and not only is it all he wants when he gets his hands on my tablet; it&apos;s also led to him digging out our Angry Birds plush toys from a dusty corner and taking them to bed. He basically loves Angry Birdswithoutplaying the games.Watch that model of distributing cartoons through apps: it&apos;s something that other developers like Outfit7 (withTalking Friends) and ZeptoLab (withCut the Rope) are trying too. They&apos;re not that fussed about TV deals for their animation because they don&apos;t need them to reach a massive audience.Angry Birds Playground will focus on physical books and activities alongside digital contentAnd education? The Angry Birds Playground initiative might be even more interesting, as Rovio works with the University of Helsinki on an educational programme covering maths, science, music, language, arts and crafts, physical education and social interaction.Rovio&apos;s Sanna Lukandaexplained more in a Guardian interview:&quot;It&apos;s not just games we&apos;re talking about here: it&apos;s a full 360-degree approach to learning, where games are just one part of it. It&apos;s not learning by sitting down and playing with a digital device. There&apos;s a real substance to it, and a healthy balance between rest, play and work. We feel it&apos;s necessary to talk about healthy nutrition and physical exercise, as part of this approach to learning, balance and wellbeing...We are studying the formats of the content carefully. We certainly believe a traditional book is good for certain parts, and also that it&apos;s important for children to use pen and paper. We also want the children to start learning about music through composing themselves, so we have the five-string instrument. It&apos;s a real instrument, not a toy. We already see them enjoying the feeling that they can accomplish something, and of music as something composed by people.&quot;It&apos;s launching first in China, which is also interesting. But is this all just about selling more games and related merchandise? &quot;This is not a licensing thing, and Rovio is not a games company any more. It&apos;s a media company, and like many other media companies, it has an educational arm,&quot; said Lukander.3.43pmGMTSome early responses to 'What do you think of £69.99 IAP in kids' apps?'I&apos;m no expert in sentiment analysis, but...@stuartdredgeMostly dark, dark thoughts about dark things relating to the people who exploit kids through the medium of games.&mdash; Craig Grannell (@CraigGrannell)October 31, 2013@stuartdredgeWell, I mean, it IS the best value. I want my children to be savvy shoppers.&mdash; Jared Nelson (@hodapp)October 31, 2013@stuartdredgeas a parent, this is rather frightening...!&mdash; Alistair Wheate (@alistairtweet)October 31, 2013@stuartdredgeoh Snoopy... :(&mdash; Helen Dineen (@aitcheldee)October 31, 2013@stuartdredgeakin to the business practices of Somalian Pirates.&mdash; Mat  (@here_comes_B)October 31, 2013@stuartdredgeApple ought to nix that.&mdash; iucounu (@iucounu)October 31, 2013@stuartdredgeI think that it&#39;s wrong to go so high - some may say &quot;buyer beware&quot; but kids are more vulnerable to purchasing pressures&mdash; George Osborn (@GeorgeOsborn)October 31, 2013@stuartdredgeUnless that is for a lifetime subscription for every future game the dev makes its OUTRAGEOUS.&mdash; DG (@Kid_Desimo)October 31, 20133.36pmGMTKids and music? It's a YouTube world...We asked &quot;Where do you listen to music the most?&quot;#YouTubedominated, but radio wasn&#39;t far behind!#digitalkidspic.twitter.com/kkN5d76AiL&mdash; Super Awesome (@GoSuperAwesome)October 31, 2013The OfcomChildren and Parents: Media Use and Attitudesreport had some good stats on kids and music, too. 32% of 8-11 year-olds and 66% of 12-15 year-olds listen to music on their mobile phones – the third most popular activity behind texting and calling.Meanwhile, Ofcom found that 29% of 8-11 year-olds and 59% of 12-15 year-olds say they watch or download music videos. Most of that is likely to be YouTube.3.27pmGMTWhat are your thoughts on £69.99 in-app purchases in kids' games?Yes, that certainly is real money... Screenshot: Stuart Dredge/The GuardianHere&apos;s an article from earlier in the year:10 mobile games for kids with £69.99 in-app purchase options. A rogues gallery including Snoopy, SpongeBob SquarePants, My Little Pony, Skylanders and other familiar brands.But are they rogues? If parents are on top of their in-app purchase restrictions, some developers argue that there isn&apos;t a problem in offering such high tiers of virtual items for sale in a game that children will be playing. Others argue that it&apos;s not a good thing to do at all, given the likelihood that a lot of parents still won&apos;t have their settings locked down.True fact: when I showed some of these screenshots ina talk at the Children&apos;s Media Conferencein July, it was Snoopy that made the entire room gasp in shock, then sigh in disappointment.Another true fact: I worried after writing the 10 mobile games feature that it had simply stoked the growing view that all kids&apos; apps weren&apos;t to be trusted, so followed up with a50 best apps for kids from 2013 that parents can trust roundup. There are some marvellous apps in there.But yes, views on in-app purchases: how high should they go, and where does responsibility fall between developers, parents and app store owners like Apple and Google?3.14pmGMTThat moment you realise modern three year-olds can play Temple Run better than you can...3.03pmGMTQuestion: are people thinking enough about digital inequality?Chris Pitcher, a secondary-school computing teacher, emails with a very relevant question:&quot;What about kids who don&apos;t have access to the Internet, tablets or other devices? Do they risk being left behind both culturally and educationally? Some schools have the budget to throw devices at students whereas others do not or are not interested.&quot;Is there any research out there on this? Post a comment if you&apos;re aware of some. It&apos;s something I&apos;ve noticed at media and tech industry conferences: the tendency for speakers to say things like &quot;Well, now that every child has an iPad...&quot;That&apos;s quite possibly true for children of parents in the media and tech industries, but it&apos;s not for the population as a whole – the Ofcom report cited earlier suggests 42% of British 5-15 year-olds have access to a tablet at home.But yes, risks of being left behind in a new digital divide?2.57pmGMTWhat do tablets do to children's developing minds?This is from March, but it&apos;s still areally good read from Nick Bilton at the New York Times. The focus: lots of young children are using tablets, but what might the neurological effects be on their brains?It cites a report from theMillennium Cohort Studyin the UK about children&apos;s media usage:&quot;Those who watched more than three hours of television, videos or DVDs a day had a higher chance of conduct problems, emotional symptoms and relationship problems by the time they were 7 than children who did not. The study, of a sample of 11,000 children, found that children who played video games — often age-appropriate games — for the same amount of time did not show any signs of negative behavioral changes by the same age.&quot;Yet Bilton also quotes professor Sherry Turkle on the potential downside: an always-available digital device may not help children learn skills to alleviate boredom and interact with their peers.&quot;Learning about solitude and being alone is the bedrock of early development, and you don’t want your kids to miss out on that because you’re pacifying them with a device... They need to be able to explore their imagination. To be able to gather themselves and know who they are. So someday they can form a relationship with another person without a panic of being alone.&quot;The problem for parents is that a lot of these big, challenging questions about the effect that new devices and media forms have on children simply won&apos;t be answered for a few years. The current crop of iKids are the guinea pigs, for better or worse.2.47pmGMT2014 as 'the year of larger scale family-focused digital entertainment'An email from British firmDubit, which works with brands like the BBC, Cartoon Network and PBS Kids on digital projects, and further back (2000) launched the first 3D Flash virtual world for children. CEO Ian Douthwaite has some thoughts on 2014:&quot;We’re expecting 2014 to the year of larger scale family-focused digital entertainment. While there is no avoiding the fact that children love mobile devices, we’re seeing IP owners become more concerned about discoverability and retention, which is difficult for Apps and mini-games to achieve.This is making more brands lean more towards immersive experiences, with wider gameplay and stronger social features, rather than quick-fix apps. Likewise, we recognise that a way to circumvent the over populated app stores is through games which involve parents as well as children – kids may be increasingly digital savvy but parents are the gatekeepers and can introduce children to apps they approve of.Apps and web-based games which involve parents will have a distinct advantage next year, much in the same way that family-play helped make the Wii such a huge hit.&quot;It&apos;s another counter to that &quot;apps as digital babysitters&quot; argument, perhaps, if the apps that succeed are the ones that encourage parents to be a part of the play and/or education?2.43pmGMTPrint isn&#39;t dead! Only 20% of the kids we&#39;ve questioned absorb their literature from a tablet#digitalkidspic.twitter.com/YV04rzfMcM&mdash; Super Awesome (@GoSuperAwesome)October 31, 2013More from SuperAwesome&apos;s survey of British children.2.41pmGMTMakieLab: from 3D-printed dolls to animated cartoonsThe Makies Doll Factory app gets children to design their own dolls. Image: MakieLabLondon-basedMakieLabis one of the most interesting British startups in the children&apos;s entertainment world. It started off with a focus on 3D printing, with children able to customise their own dolls using its website or app, then order them.CEO Alice Taylor explained the genesis of the company in aninterview with The Guardian:&quot;We started with the question of whether virtual goods could produce physical goods. Would 3D printing mean we could make virtual crates and barrels into real crates and barrels? The short answer was yes, but nobody was going to buy a crate or a barrel…&quot;Since then, the company has launched its own stand in London store Selfridges, and worked on an upcoming tablet game with a theme of designing clothes – the twist being they can then be ordered for real. MakieLab is also working on an animated TV show for girls based on its characters and world.In anappearance at the MIPJunior conferencethis month, Taylor talked about the likely importance of tablets going forward for all forms of children&apos;s entertainment:&quot;The tablet has replaced the computer for the kid at home. They will no longer go and sit down with a mouse and turn on the big screen and click around with the mouse… There is no doubt that every kid will have one.&quot;2.15pmGMTThis is fun: a short film by media planning and buying firm Generation Media on how children&apos;s media consumption has changed through the ages.2.11pmGMTApp to try: Toca Mini from Toca BocaSomething my children have been loving this month isToca Mini, the latest iOS app from Swedish developerToca Boca. It&apos;s a creative app for making mini characters, a bit reminiscent of Nintendo&apos;s Miis.Toca Boca is an interesting company too: 47m downloads of its apps so far, and a deliberate philosophy of focusing on a.) learning through play rather than explicit education, and b.) not using in-app purchases.Here&apos;s what its CEO Björn Jefferytold the Guardian in an interviewearlier this year that this isn&apos;t because the company thinks in-app purchases are always bad:&quot;There&apos;s a good way of doing it and a bad way of doing it. Unfortunately, most people that do it for kids are doing it in the bad way.I don&apos;t think you should sell consumable items: Smurfberries and the like. I don&apos;t think you should do that at all. You should have a conscience. But there is a certain case for expansion packs where you get new content of some sort, where the payment is outside the gameplay behind a parental lock...Trust takes a very long time to build up, but you can ruin it very quickly. If you start messing with it, you might sell a lot of IAP in the short term, but in the long term you may sell less overall.&quot;He was also good on his response to a regular criticism of children&apos;s apps: that they&apos;re just &quot;digital babysitters&quot; designed to keep children quiet so parents don&apos;t have to, well, parent:&quot;As an app developer, our intention is never to replace the parent, and I&apos;ve never met a developer who tries to replace physical play with digital toys. The two aren&apos;t mutually exclusive, and they can even be combined.Some of these arguments are hypothetical: if kids only used apps all the time, that would be bad. Well, yes, but if kids played football all the time, and that was the only thing they did, that would be bad too. Why would you hold the iPad to that standard?&quot;Well, would you?2.00pmGMTNet Children go Mobile report from the LSEWhat devices are children using to go online, and where are they doing it? Photograph: /LSEDr. Leslie Haddon from the London School of Economics emails pointing me to another report:Net Children Go Mobile, which was published earlier this month.It studies &quot; the post-desktop media ecology that children inhabit and its consequences on young people’s online experiences&quot;, and has thrown up some interesting stats.&quot;The average age of first internet use is still dropping,being now 8 years old in the four countries. However, the age at which children start using the internet varies consistently by country, age group and, to a lesser extent, by gender.European kids are increasingly mobile, and increasingly social: 53% of children aged 9 to 16 own a smartphone, and 48% use it to access the internet.Increasingly privatised access: 26% of children use the smartphones in mobility, but more and more children tend to use it in their own bedrooms (39%).&quot;1.41pmGMTTablets, schools and the challenges of 'distractibility'Time for another research report,this time from Tablets for Schools, which conducted a study of what happened when tablets were given to every child in four secondary schools between 2012 and 2013.&quot;Results suggest that long-term use of the Tablet has a profound effect on pedagogy, and that pupils benefit from having access to content both at school and at home.Pupils appear to have greater engagement with learning, collaboration with peers increases, and teachers can monitor individual progress effectively. There are some concerns about pupil distraction and managing time effectively.It is clear that schools need time to adjust to the introduction of one-to-one devices, and that the functions of the Tablet need to be understood by teachers, together with the changes to pedagogy that are brought about by an increase in independent learning.&quot;I smiled at the section on those concerns around pupil distraction, where students were caught using messaging and other apps during lessons.&quot;The concept of &apos;distractibility&apos; is unclear. For example, some students claimed music helped them concentrate, others were unable to multitask, and it was also found that a large number of the 5% of students who were &apos;distracted&apos; during lessons were actually &apos;also&apos; doing work. However, the key is to have clear rules, effective classroom management, and educating students in using tablets responsibly.&quot;A lot of this comes down to trust, of course. But it does also raise the vision of a teacher rushing to one side of the room to boot someone off Facebook, while five children on the other side of the room merrily fire up Clash of Clans...1.32pmGMTWill this be an Android tablets Christmas for kids?The Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 Kids is an Android tablet for children Photograph: /PRApple said last week that it has a 94% share of the education tablets market, although it&apos;s not entirely clear where that stat came from. But what about tablets in the home?There&apos;s a growing sense that a lot of kids will be getting Android tablets under the Christmas tree come 25 December, with a number of models jostling for parents&apos; attention.Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Tab 3 Kids tablet got a UK release dateyesterday, and it&apos;ll be competing with the impressiveTesco Hudl, the not-so-impressiveArgos MyTablet, andAmazon&apos;s latest Kindle Fires.It&apos;ll be fascinating to see how the number of children with their own tablets rises over the Christmas period, with devices below £130 falling into Christmas gift territory for a growing number of parents.What apps to get for them, though? The Guardian&apos;s50 best Android apps for kids from 2013feature would be a start, although with several of the tablets above running their own curated app stores, it&apos;s unclear how many will be available.1.25pmGMTOne of the new faces of digital kidsHere&#39;s Lucy – AKA theMoshimonsterkitty – she has 4.4m views and 7k subs on#YouTube! Video a huge medium#digitalkidspic.twitter.com/fQo4PjCsPS&mdash; Super Awesome (@GoSuperAwesome)October 31, 20131.16pmGMTFace 2 FaceLiam Berriman from the University of Sussex&apos;sCentre for Innovation and Research in Childhood and Youthhas emailed about a research project he&apos;s involved in calledFace 2 Facewhich looks at how children&apos;s lives are shaped around movement between face-to-face and online interactions:&quot;Face 2 Face is a 12 month project that aims to develop methodological tools for researching the temporal rhythms of children&apos;s everyday lives - be these the long and slow processes that might be captured in stories that children and families tell about themselves, or the more intensive temporalities that structure the course of a day or characterise the life cycle of a &apos;craze&apos; or an argument. Funded by the National Centre for Research Methods, the project will develop and evaluate a range of methods for exploring the movement between face-to-face and online interactions.&quot;He&apos;s also got areally useful feed of news sources and reports on digital kidson Bundlr, which covers topics including children and coding, digital childhood reports and children, data and privacy.1.09pmGMTHakitzu: the app teaching kids to codeFrom earlier this year, here&apos;s a video onHakitzu, an app from UK firm Kuato Studios that aims to teach children programming skills... through big, fighty virtual robots.12.06pmGMTRecap: Digital Kids day so farMan cannot live on liveblog entries alone, so I&apos;m popping off for some lunch. Here&apos;s a quick recap of some of the main posts from earlier:Ofcom&apos;s latest Media literacy report on children&apos;s use of tabletsSimilar research from Common Sense Media in the USWhere to start teaching my kids to code?Are apps and YouTube reducing the number of children reading?Nielsen on kids&apos; educational use of tablets in the USWhat next for Moshi Monsters as its audience migrates to tablets?The power of Minecraft for kidsSee you in about an hour.Updatedat 12.06pm GMT11.57amGMTThe online risks for children using smartphones and tabletsMany more children are using smart devices to get education and entertainment, as well as going online. But what are the risks?A recent study by the London School of Economics –Zero to Eight: Young Children and their Internet Use– noted that the fact that kids are going online at younger ages, and suggested that &quot;their lack of technical, critical and social skills may pose a greater risk than for older children&quot;.This blog post by Sonia Livingstonehas more on that:&quot;It is not uncommon for parents to allow very young children to use smartphones and tablets to play games, watch videos and the range of apps aimed specifically at younger children is growing rapidly. It has not been established that children under nine years of age have the capacity to engage with the internet in a safe and beneficial manner in all circumstances.This is particularly the case when young children are accessing social sites intended for teenagers and adults, such as Facebook and YouTube; but, greater transparency regarding how data are collected, collated, used and shared via children’s apps specifically aimed at the younger age group, and the provision of opt-out choices for parents and children is also urgently needed.&quot;Having read that report, I then saw an announcement this week by the American Academy of Pediatrics that seemed relevant:How to Make a Family Media Use Plan. It suggested that parents should sit down to make a media use plan for their family:&quot;Make a media use plan for your family. Take into account not only the quantity, but the quality and location of media use. Consider TVs, phones, tablets and computers. The rules should be written down and agreed upon by all family members.&quot;Suggested rules include keeping screens out of children&apos;s bedrooms; substituting unstructured play and human interaction for screen time for under-twos; co-viewing TV shows with children and discussing values; keeping computers in public parts of the home; and talking to children about ideas like digital footprints and being &quot;good digital citizens&quot;.11.39amGMTYo Gabba Gabba co-creator kickstarting new  kids' TV show (and app)Children&apos;s TV show Yo Gabba Gabba is fabulous, but now one of its creators, Scott Schultz, is working on something new. It&apos;s calledHi BabyBoo!and it&apos;s a collaboration between his production company The Magic Store and apps firmNight &amp; Day Studios.They&apos;retrying to raise $150k on crowdfunding site Kickstarterto get the project up and running, and it sounds rather marvellous:&quot;We envision a show overflowing with fun music that provides the foundation for beautiful visuals. In addition to the musical genius of the songwriters at the Magic Store, imagine a sweet instrumental lullaby from the Flaming Lips, Low, or Band of Horses. Or what about a fun song from Frank Black, Mates of State or MGMT? I&apos;m just dreaming out loud here but if I&apos;ve learned anything from making Yo Gabba Gabba, it&apos;s to dream big and collaborate with amazing people.It starts and ends with a new cast of cuddly puppet friends who play with real kids. It&apos;s also about human characters who peekaboo in with a funny facial expression. And a cast wouldn&apos;t be complete without cute animated characters to be friends with.&quot;For the prospect of MGMT appearing with puppets on a kids&apos; show, I&apos;m in. But this is also an interesting example of a wider trend: TV producers and apps developers working together from the start of a project as creative partners, rather than the TV company just licensing its brand out to the app folk later.The Kickstarter pitch video is above: what do you think?Updatedat 11.40am GMT11.19amGMTJustin Fletcher and the 'rise of the iTods'Justin Fletcher has his own range of apps. Photograph: PRSome more stats on kids and tablets in the UK, this time from a survey of 1,000 parents of 2-6 year-olds by OnePoll, commissioned by the developer of the officialJustin&apos;s World appsfor children&apos;s TV star Justin Fletcher earlier this year.Its findings claimed that 38% of two year-olds and 61% of three year-olds are playing and learning on tablets, with 4% of two year-olds and 8% of three year-olds actually owning their own device, rising to 19% of four year-olds.(I suspect a lot of these are pass-on tablets from parents who&apos;ve upgraded to newer models.)What are 2-3 year-olds (or &quot;iTods&quot; as OnePoll dubbed them) doing with a tablet? Playing with educational apps and/or games is the most popular use, ahead of watching children&apos;s TV shows, YouTube and video-calls with family members.Earlier in the year,Fletcher talked to The Guardianabout why he&apos;s making his own apps:&quot;I&apos;m a bit antiquated when it comes to technology, but I&apos;m astounded at the way children are now using apps from a very young age as a learning tool. It seems like a natural progression to explore that format... The key is the simplicity of the format. It&apos;s not too busy, there&apos;s no background and no distraction. I wanted to take what we do on television to create that on the phone or tablet.&quot;He&apos;s not the only children&apos;s TV personality getting interactive, either:here&apos;s an interview with Fletcher&apos;s fellow CBeebies star Phil Gallagher(aka Mister Maker) about his first app.11.05amGMTThe power of Minecraft for kids54 kids were asked, &quot;What&#39;s your favourite app&quot; – ahh! So &quot;app&quot; is synonymous with &quot;game&quot;, right?#digitalkidspic.twitter.com/bWfCiv73bS&mdash; Super Awesome (@GoSuperAwesome)October 31, 2013Any word-cloud about what kids are doing digitally will see Minecraft looming large, as above. Angry Birds, Temple Run, FIFA and Minion Rush all feature too.The latter is somewhat under the radar for the wider games industry, but Despicable Me: Minion Rush (to give its full title) is something of a mobile monster:100m downloads in three monthson iOS and Android earlier this year.And while we&apos;re on the subject of Minecraft, I can&apos;t recommend highly enough my colleague Keith Stuart&apos;s recent feature –Minecraft at 33 million users– a personal story – in which he talked about his own child&apos;s experience with the game:&quot;This is particularly resonant to me, and I suspect many other parents with autistic children. My seven-year-old son, Zac, was confirmed on the scale earlier this year, although in a lot of ways we&apos;ve always known. He has a somewhat limited vocabulary, and finds noisy social situations like schoolyards frightening and confusing; he is demonstrative, but has difficulty with empathy. We have watched as his younger brother, Albie, has overtaken him on things like reading and writing. But he is funny and imaginative and wonderful.And like a lot of children with an autism spectrum condition, he loves Minecraft. From the moment I downloaded the Xbox 360 edition and handed controllers to him and his brother Albie, they have been addicts. At first, they simply trudged across the rolling landscapes, randomly attacking the sheep, cows and ducks that graze each Minecraft world. They would throw together weird hovels, filled with random doors and windows, huge gaps in the walls, bizarre jutting extensions, like nightmarish sets from a German expressionistic horror movie.&quot;Architecture in 2030 is going to be an interesting thing, if the Minecraft generation are putting their skills to use in the real world...Updatedat 11.08am GMT10.50amGMTPlay-i's toy robots hoping to help kids learn to codePlay-iis a US startup that&apos;s justlaunched a $250k crowdfunding campaignfor its two robots – Bo and Yana – which will help children learn to code in the Scratch and Blockly languages using apps, music and games (as in physical games: the robots can play tag and hide&apos;n&apos;seek).The robots will be shipping in the summer of 2014, although developers can get early access to the products and their API. Three days in, and Play-i has already raised $218k of its target.10.40amGMTWhat next for Moshi Monsters as its users migrate to tablets?Michael Acton Smith: 'Where I see more our competitors emerging from are definitely in the App Store'.&nbsp;Photograph: Mind CandyChildren&apos;s virtual worldMoshi Monstershas 70m registered users, but it&apos;s facing a tricky time as its young users migrate to tablets. Earlier this month, CEO Michael Acton Smith talked about the challenges this is presenting.&quot;I&apos;ll be honest, it&apos;s been really tough. We thought we&apos;d waltz in and have a successful app, and as most people have found, that universe is really tough. It&apos;s great because anyone can create an app, but that&apos;s why it&apos;s tough. There&apos;s so much content... Where I see more our competitors emerging from are definitely in the App Store, everything from Talking Tom to Temple Run to Angry Birds, these extraordinary apps getting tens of millions of downloads. That&apos;s where kids are spending a lot of their time these days.&quot;The company is still working on its fully-fledged tablet app for Moshi Monsters, but mobile looms large in its plans for new, non-Moshi worlds and characters too. It&apos;s working on three new projects, all of which will be mobile-first.&quot;They will always start, these new brands, in the mobile and tablet space. And if they&apos;re successful then we will start expanding them into different media... Some of the apps we launch will use in-app purchases, some will be paid apps, and some will be completely free and used to generate revenue through making characters more popular.&quot;There&apos;s more inThe Guardian&apos;s interview with Acton Smith, including his belief that children&apos;s apps can build business models based on in-app purchases in an ethical way, despite recent controversies around kids splashing their parents&apos; cash on virtual items without permission.10.32amGMT&quot;Favourite TV Character&quot; is a matter of self-identity. We asked 36 kids at Stratford but no clear winner#digitalkidspic.twitter.com/qvwhKTdkdR&mdash; Super Awesome (@GoSuperAwesome)October 31, 2013I&apos;m enjoying the word-clouds from SuperAwesome: this time, favourite TV characters for kids in Stratford. Is it too late for the BBC to make Gary Lineker the next Doctor Who?10.28amGMTNielsen on children's educational use of tabletsMore research from Nielsen, but this time the parent company. Itasked American parents about their children&apos;s tablet use, and found 54% saying their kids use the devices for educational purposes. It also dug into what children are doing with tablets at school:Sorry, no Angry Birds... Image: Nielsen10.22amGMTAnother suggestion for your children's first steps in codingUpdatedat 10.23am GMT10.14amGMTApps, games and YouTube. But what about reading?One of the most interesting yet controversial pieces of research into children&apos;s use of devices and digital media this year came from Nielsen Book.It surveyed 2,000 British children and parents in June, and found that 32% of kids still read books for pleasure on a daily basis, behind only watching TV (36%) and ahead of social networking (20%), watching videos on YouTube (17%) and playing mobile games and apps (16%).But... &quot;There&apos;s a really disturbing pattern beginning to emerge when you look on a weekly basis,&quot; said Nielsen Book&apos;s Jo Henry when shepresented the researchat The Bookseller Children&apos;s Conference in September.As I wrote at the time:Only three activities increased in percentage terms between 2012 and 2013: playing &quot;game apps&quot; (the term used by Nielsen Book), visiting YouTube and text messaging. Reading? That was down nearly eight percentage points.&quot;It&apos;s a snapshot, not a sustainable trend and next year it might go up again. But this is alarming: children are being less engaged with reading,&quot; said Henry, who also pointed to industry figures showing an 8% year-on-year drop in (printed) books bought for children.&quot;I want to stress that most children are still medium and heavy book readers, but what we&apos;re seeing is a really significant rise in the number of occasional and even non-readers in the children&apos;s market.&quot;With my own children, I&apos;ve tried very hard to help them love reading as much as apps and games: books not screens at bedtime, for example. And there&apos;s also a growing number of excellent apps designed to encourage reading too. But what are your thoughts?10.04amGMTWhat online games are 11-16 year-old children playing?Moshi Monsters is marvellous, but does it skew younger? You might think so, but research from another British firm,Dubit, found earlier this year that 10% of 11-16 year-olds here were still playing it, while 17% were on Disney&apos;s Club Penguin.That said, adult games were creeping in too: 7% on Runescape and 6% on World of Warcraft, although the fashion-focused Stardoll virtual world also had a decent audience.9.54amGMTWord-cloud time: what are children in Stratford doing online?We asked kids at Stratford their favourite kids&#39; website –@moshimonsterson top, and lots of@SpursOfficialfans!pic.twitter.com/glgNgFgkSb&mdash; Super Awesome (@GoSuperAwesome)October 31, 20139.51amGMTKantar: 48% of UK adults in households with children have a tabletSome more research, this time fromKantar Media&apos;s recent FutureProof study, which found that 48% of adults in households with children have a tablet. It also posed a question about the implications:&quot;Devices like tablets have made technology accessible to young children and while parents are conscious that their kids need to be digitally literate, there&apos;s also a concern around the wide open world that these devices provide access to.&quot;9.47amGMTA quick response on the 'what to teach your kids to code with?' question@stuartdredgeAlice: it only makes animated stories, but the focus means language is simpler. Wrote about it here:http://t.co/fcZpHQjB4M&mdash; Matt Thrower (@mattthr)October 31, 20139.40amGMTTalking of Raspberry Pi...This videoposted on the Raspberry Pi blogis marvellous: Seven year-old Amelia and five year-old Oliver have used Raspberry Pi to &quot;rig up their house to scare any trick-or-treaters who might visit tomorrow&quot; (i.e. today). More instructions on how they did itcan be found here.9.37amGMTQuestion: where to start teaching my kids to code?No parental pressure was involved in the choice of wording. Really. Photograph: Stuart Dredge/The GuardianThe photo above really is my six year-old&apos;s first ever attempt at coding yesterday – with genuinely no input from me about what he should type between the quote marks. Let&apos;s just say I had something in my eye for a few minutes after seeing it.We&apos;d just set upThe Fuze, a computer for kids based on Raspberry Pi, which has an emphasis on teaching children BASIC. It&apos;s good so far, but it made me wonder: what are your recommendations for children taking their first steps in coding?What languages are good to start with – I&apos;ve been mullingScratch, but am open to suggestions. Any thoughts on the merits of initiatives likeCode ClubandFire Tech Camp? Or apps likeHopscotch,Light-botandHakitzu? Post a comment if you have views.9.30amGMT.@Disneyasked: What&#39;s your favourite type of#YouTubevid? Music videos and sports dominate the answers#digitalkidspic.twitter.com/2zBTachY90&mdash; Super Awesome (@GoSuperAwesome)October 31, 2013Children&apos;s networkSuperAwesomehas been travelling the country asking children about their digital media usage. Here&apos;s one of its findings (it&apos;s tweeting more throughout the day, apparently).9.25amGMTCan Minecraft create the next generation of quantum scientists?qCraft in action, blending Minecraft with quantum physics.Heard ofqCraft? It&apos;s the work of Google&apos;s Quantum A.I. Lab: a modpack for Minecraft – a game that&apos;s hugely popular among children – that aims to get kids interested in quantum physics.&quot;Where will future quantum computer scientists come from? Our best guess: Minecraft,&quot; explained Googlewhen it unveiled qCraft earlier this month.&quot;Millions of kids are spending a whole lot of hours in Minecraft, not just digging caves and fighting monsters, but building assembly lines, space shuttles, and programmable computers, all in the name of experimentation and discovery. So how do we get these smart, creative kids excited about quantum physics?&quot;9.16amGMTCommon Sense Media's 'Zero to Eight' surveyCommon Sense Media's infographic on children's daily screen time and app use. Graphic: Common Sense MediaHow about kids in America? Kim Wilde is on my internal jukebox for the rest of the morning now, but it&apos;s well worth reading thesurvey released earlier this week by Common Sense Media, based on a survey of 1,463 parents of children aged eight and under.It notes a big spike in tablet ownership for US families in the last two years: &quot;Among families with children eight and under, there has been a five-fold increase in ownership of tablets (from 8% to 40%), and the percent of children with access to some sort of smart mobile device at home has jumped from half (52%) to three-quarters (75%).&quot;The research has also made headlines for its finding that 38% of children under two years old have used a mobile device, up from 10% in 2011. Too young? My kids may have swiped a jammy hand across my tablet every so often when they were toddlers, but I&apos;m not sure they actually &quot;used&quot; it.9.12amGMTOfcom's latest Media Literacy reportLet&apos;s kick off the research element to today with the latest report by UK telecoms regulator Ofcom.Children and Parents: Media Use and Attitudescame out in early October, and has masses of data on how British children are getting their entertainment across different devices.There&apos;s no way to summarise all its contents here, but the tablet stats are particularly noteworthy:&quot;Around one quarter of children aged 12– 15 (26%) and 18% aged 8-11 have their own tablet computer, while household ownership of a tablet has more than doubled since 2012 (51% vs. 20%). Use of a tablet computer at home has tripled among 5-15s since 2012 (42% vs.14%) while one-quarter (28%) of 3-4s use a tablet computer at home.&quot;Also note that children are now less likely than in 2012 to have a television, games console or radio in their bedrooms. Are tablets leading them back to the living room?Ofcom's latest figures on tablet ownership and usage by British children. Photograph: /Ofcom9.04amGMTWelcome to Digital Kids dayThe liveblog has now ended, and flipped back to chronological order. Thanks for reading!Kids these days, eh? If they&apos;re not swiping your tablet and filling it with their own apps, they&apos;re playing Moshi Monsters, surfing YouTube, creating chicken-packed Minecraft castles or learning to code. Digital natives is an overused buzzphrase, but it&apos;s still accurate.It&apos;s an area worth further attention for parents, teachers and anyone else involved in creating digital education and/or entertainment for children. There is plenty of research, trends and companies to talk about in the area.So, Digital Kids day: a liveblog that will run through until the evening, blending research links, videos, infographics and snapshots of previous Guardian coverage on children&apos;s changing media habits, as well as some first-hand views from kids.Your views will be part of it too. Post comments on what&apos;s been covered and make your own recommendations; join the conversation on Twitter using the #digitalkids hashtag; or email me your thoughts and tips atstuart.dredge@theguardian.com. It&apos;s a bit of an experiment, but hopefully interesting and worthwhile.Updatedat 4.32pm GMT
204.4m Android smartphones shipped in the third quarter of 2013, giving Google&apos;s platform an 81.3% market share, according to research firm Strategy Analytics.Android&apos;s growth came at the expense of Apple and BlackBerry. The former sawiPhone shipments risefrom 26.9m in Q3 2012 to 33.8m in Q3 2013, but its market share dropped from 15.6% to 13.4% in that time.BlackBerry, meanwhile, looks out for the count: 2.5m smartphones shipped in the third quarter left it with a market share of just 1% according to Strategy Analytics – down from 4.3% this time last year.Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone? It&apos;s on the rise, albeit from a small base. The number of Windows Phone shipments nearly tripled from 3.7m units to 10.2m units in the third quarter, giving it a 4.1% market share globally.The caveat, as ever, is that these figures cover shipments: sales to retailers and operators, but not necessarily to people. Even so, Android&apos;s growth (from an already-dominant market share of 75% in the third quarter of 2012) is undisputed.&quot;Android’s gain came mainly at the expense of BlackBerry, which saw its global smartphone share dip from 4 percent to 1 percent in the past year due to a weak line-up of BB10 devices,&quot; said Strategy Analytics&apos; senior analyst Scott Bicheno. &quot;Apple also lost some ground to Android because of its limited presence at the lower end of the smartphone market.&quot;Bicheno also noted that Apple is likely to haul back some of its lost market share in the final three months of 2013, with its iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c smartphones only having gone on sale on 20 September.Android is also putting Apple under pressure in the tablet market, with research firm IDC claiming earlier today that iPad&apos;s share of that market fell below 30% for the first time in the third quarter, as Samsung&apos;s grew to 20.4%.Microsoft may be happy with having established Windows Phone as the third horse in the smartphone race, albeit with a lot of help from its friend.&quot;Microsoft grew its smartphone shipments by 178 percent annually in Q3 2013 and it is currently the world’s fastest growing major smartphone platform,&quot; said Bicheno&apos;s colleague Neil Mawston, noting that the growth was &quot;almost entirely&quot; due to Nokia&apos;s range of Lumia smartphones.Nokia&apos;s latest financial resultsrevealed that it had shipped 8.8m Lumia handsets in the third quarter of the year. Overall, Strategy Analytics said that global smartphone shipments grew 45% year-on-year to 251.4m units in the third quarter.
I recently updated Firefox, registered my free copy of Ad-Aware, and updated CCleaner. I then found two unwanted programs installed on my PC. One was Mobius (?), to do with mobile apps, and the other was My PC Backup, both of which I did not consciously download, and certainly never gave permission to be installed. The installation even included desktop shortcut icons!My questions are: how were these programs downloaded, how did they install themselves without my permission, and how do I prevent further downloads of unwanted software programs?The vast majority of unwanted programs are either pre-installed when you buy a PC, or were bundled with a download that you wanted. A few are "drive by" installations, where malware is installed on the fly by infected websites. These almost always exploit a security hole in your PC's software. At the moment, the weakest link is Oracle Java in the browser.I can't tell what has happened in this case, but all the programs you installed should have been registered with Windows' Add/Remove Programs utility. Go to the Windows 7 Control Panel, select "Programs" and click "Uninstall or change a program". The listing tells you the name of the program, the publisher, and the date it was installed. It should also be able to uninstall the program.If Mobius and My PC Backup are not listed, check the dates when their shortcut icons were created. To do this, right-click the desktop icon, select "Properties" from the dropdown list, and click the "General" tab. This will tell you the date and time it was created, which is easier than finding the folder creation dates in Windows Explorer.Next, click the "Installed on" heading in the Windows 7 uninstaller to sort the list by date, and see if any programs have the same date and time stamps as your rogues. This could show which of your downloads installed the unwanted programs.I don't believe Mozilla would ever foist another program on you on principle, and because of its lucrative search deal with Google, it doesn't need the money. If you download CCleaner directly fromPiriform, then it does include some foistware in the form of Google Chrome and the Google Toolbar for Internet Explorer. Google pays for foistware installations, which helps cover the cost of the free version of CCleaner, but the installation isn't deceptive. You can decline it by unticking the boxes. Lavasoft's Ad-Aware includes a toolbar and has previously bundled Blekko, but it's not generally known for foistware.Sources of foistwareOf course, it's possible that one your chosen downloads has been repackaged by another site to include foistware that neither Mozilla nor Piriform knows about. It's therefore very important to download programs only via the original website, or from a trustworthy source such asAll My Apps. As when applying for passports etc, be extremely wary of Google links and Google adverts,especially if you find it hard to distinguish between the two. There are plenty of scammers who would happily charge you for free programs such as CCleaner and Firefox, or use them to install things you don't want.But people usually install foistware by two other methods. First, the unwanted program is presented in such a way that you can easily miss it. I've been caught out by Adobe, andOracle can be appalling. The only cure is vigilance.Second, the unwanted program may be hidden from view. For example, if you click on the "normal" installation then you'll get the program you asked for plus one or two you didn't, such as the Ask toolbar. You should always click the "Custom" or "Advanced" installation button, which should allow you to untick any foistware programs you don't want. Of course, if you're dealing with a rogue package, it will install whatever it likes even if you tell it not to.If you have any doubts, open the installation program (eg. ccsetup407.exe for CCleaner) in aSandboxiesandbox, which prevents it from making any changes to your PC. After you have seen what it wants to do, you can either move the installation program out of the sandbox or go toAlternativeTo.netand pick a different program. There are usually several good alternatives."Drive by" attacks are mainly used to install small bits of malware rather than things that look like utilities. You can avoid almost all of these attacks by installing the latest security patches from Microsoft and, more importantly, other software suppliers such as Oracle, Adobe and Apple. I use Secunia's freePersonal Software Inspector(PSI) to check for and install updates. It's worth remembering that most malware attacks use popular "exploit kits" such asBlackhole, which try to exploit holes that were fixed months or even years ago.Exploit kits typically target old versions of browsers and popular browser plug-ins such as Adobe Flash, Adobe Acrobat and Oracle's Java. For this reason, I recommend uninstalling all versions of Java from your PC to see if you can avoid using it. If you must have it, make sure you only have the latest version installed, and that there are no earlier versions on your hard drive.Removing unwanted programsOrdinarily, unwanted programs are not hard to uninstall. You can do it using Windows, as mentioned above, or a third party program such as CCleaner or SlimCleaner. If you suspect something will be harder to uninstall than normal, useRevo Uninstallerinstead.I think CCleaner should be able to uninstall My PC Backup, if it's a legitimate program. To try this, click the "Tools icon" and check the "Uninstall" listing for your unwanted programs. My recommendation, however, is to download the free version ofMalwarebytes Anti-Malware(MBAM) to your desktop and run a quick scan. MBAM is good at removing stuff that your usual antivirus software has missed or thinks is a legitimate program. (Real malware doesn't usually install icons on your desktop.)In August, someonecomplained to Malwarebytes, saying: "I am the Product Manager for MyPC Backup, recently a customer has reported MalwareBytes is reporting our application as Malware". (He described it as "an automated backup tool".) Malwarebytes responded that it was reported as a PUP or potentially unwanted program "and not malware or malicious". In ablog poston the general issue, the company says: "Malwarebytes feels most of our users have no knowledge that these PUPs were installed and would like them removed." This fits your case exactly.PUP was coined by MacAfee, and the acronym is now used by AVG, Avast, Lavasoft and many others.So, Malwarebytes may be able to remove your PUPs whether they are legitimate programs or malware. If not, theKaspersky Virus Removal Toolis also worth a go, before resorting to a help forum such asBleeping ComputerorWilders.Note that in this case, we're assuming your PC is infected in some way and we're trying to remove malware, not to replace your current anti-virus product or provide long-term, full-time protection.PreventionHow do you prevent it happening again? I've already mentioned keeping software and security patches up to date, which today is mostly an automated process. I've mentioned being vigilant and only downloading stuff from trusted sites. This should preclude falling for "social engineering" attacks such as downloading a new media player or codec to see a sexy/funny/personal video or whatever. You should also be vigilant about free music and free wallpaper offers, because those are the most obvious ways for scammers to bait their hooks.Upgrading from Windows XP to Windows 7 or Windows 8 is another important step in making your PC more secure, but you've done that already. Anyone still using XP should plan to movebefore 8 April 2014, when Microsoft stops patching this antique operating system, and malware writers will be able to run riot.Companies may be able to avoid the worst by using Group Policy to lock down their PCs, and in theory, you could do this with Local Group Policy in Windows 7. See Microsoft's guide,How Software Restriction Policies Work. Anyone who fancies a go can watch a training program on YouTube, such asWindows 7 Software Restriction Policies - Microsoft 70-680: 3.3.
Google and Yahoo, two of the world's biggest tech companies, reacted angrily to a report on Wednesday that the National Security Agency has secretly intercepted the main communication links that carry their users' data around the world.Citing documents obtained from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden and interviews with officials,the Washington Post claimedthe agency could collect information "at will" from among hundreds of millions of user accounts.The documents suggest that the NSA, in partnership with its British counterpart GCHQ, is copying large amounts of data as it flows across fiber-optic cables that carry information between the worldwide data centers of the Silicon Valley giants. The intelligence activities of the NSA outside the US are subject to fewer legal constraints than its domestic actions.The story is likely to put further strain on the already difficult relations between the tech firms and Washington. The internet giants are furious about the damage done to their reputation in the wake of Snowden's revelations.In a statement, Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond, said the company was "outraged" by the latest revelations."We have long been concerned about the possibility of this kind of snooping, which is why we have continued to extend encryption across more and more Google services and links, especially the links in the slide," he said."We do not provide any government, including the US government, with access to our systems. We are outraged at the lengths to which the government seems to have gone to intercept data from our private fiber networks, and it underscores the need for urgent reform."Yahoo said: "We have strict controls in place to protect the security of our data centers, and we have not given access to our data centers to the NSA or to any other government agency."According to a top-secret document cited by the Post dated 9 January 2013, millions of records a day are sent from Yahoo and Google internal networks to NSA data warehouses at the agency's headquarters in Fort Meade, Maryland. The types of information sent ranged from "metadata", indicating who sent or received emails, the subject line and where and when, to content such as text, audio and video.The Post's documents state that in the preceding 30 days, field collectors had processed and sent on 181,280,466 new records.Internet firms go to great lengths to protect their data. But the NSA documents published by the Post appear to boast about their ability to circumvent those protections. In one presentation slide on "Google Cloud Exploitation," published by the Post, an artist has added a smiley face, in apparent celebration of the NSA's victory over Google security systems.The Post said that the interception took place on the cables that connect the internet giants' data centers. TheNew York Times reported on Wednesdayevening that one of the companies that provides such cables for Google wasLevel 3. It said in a statement provided to the Times: "We comply with the laws in each country where we operate. In general, governments that seek assistance in law enforcement or security investigations prohibit disclosure of the assistance provided."In its report, the Post suggested the intercept project was codenamed Muscular, but the Guardian understands from other documents provided by Snowden that the term instead refers to the system that enables the initial processing of information gathered from NSA or GCHQ cable taps.The data outputted from Muscular is then forwarded to NSA or GCHQ databases, or systems such as theXKeyscore search tool, previously reported by the Guardian.The Post said that by collecting the data overseas, the NSA was able to circumvent the legal restrictions that prevent it from accessing the communications of people who live in the United States, and that it fell instead under an executive order, signed by the president, that authorised foreign intelligence operations.In response, the NSA specifically denied that it used the presidential order to circumvent the restrictions on domestic spying, though the agency said nothing about the rest of the story.The NSA statement said, in full: "NSA has multiple authorities that it uses to accomplish its mission, which is centered on defending the nation. The Washington Post's assertion that we use Executive Order 12333 collection to get around the limitations imposed by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and FAA 702 is not true."The assertion that we collect vast quantities of US persons' data from this type of collection is also not true. NSA applies attorney general-approved processes to protect the privacy of US persons – minimizing the likelihood of their information in our targeting, collection, processing, exploitation, retention and dissemination."NSA is a foreign intelligence agency. And we're focused on discovering and developing intelligence about valid foreign intelligence targets only."A GCHQ spokesman said: "We are aware of the story but we don't have any comment."The NSA statement was much more narrowly drawn than the initial response by the agency's director, General Keith Alexander.At a Washington conference on Wednesdayas the Post story broke, Alexander issued an immediate denial, but was not specifically asked to address allegations that the NSA intercepted data transiting between the companies' data centers.The latest disclosures may shed new light on a reference in a GCHQ document,first reported in Septemberby the Guardian, the New York Times and ProPublica. As part of its efforts with the NSA to defeat internet encryption, GCHQ, the 2012 document said, was working on developing ways into the major webmail providers, including Google and Yahoo. It added that "work has predominantly been focused this quarter on Google due to new access opportunities being developed".Other documents provided to the Guardian by Snowden suggest that GCHQ's work on Muscular, and a related tool called Incensor, is regarded as particularly valuable by the NSA, providing intelligence unavailable from other sources."Muscular/Incensor has significantly enhanced the amount of benefit that the NSA derives from our special source access," one 2010 GCHQ document notes. It adds that this highlights "the unique contribution we are now making to NSA, providing insights into some of their highest priority targets".Relations between the tech companies and the government are already strained over the Snowden revelations. Speaking at a tech conference in September, Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg said the government had done a "bad job" of balancing people's privacy. "Frankly, I think the government blew it," he said.Google will have its first turn before a legislative panel to confront surveillance questions next month. Senators Al Franken and Dean Heller, who are backing a bill to compel the government to provide more transparency about bulk surveillance, announced Wednesday that the Internet giant will send a representative to a Senate hearing they will hold on 13 November.
Apple’s iPad market share has slipped to less than 30%, its lowest since launch in 2010, allowing its biggest rival Samsung to catch up.By moving its iPad release event from earlier in the year to November, the lack of a new iPad models has allowed rivals Samsung, Asus, Lenovo and Acer grow, pushing Apple’s global tablet market share to below 30% for the first time in the third quarter of 2013, down from 40.2% year on year according to new datafrom research firm IDC.The Android threat“Apple’s tablet market share decline was inevitable because it solely targets the premium segment of the market,” said Tim Coulling senior analyst with research firm Canalys talking to the Guardian.While Apple shipped 14.1m iPads, claiming 29.6% of the market in the quarter, Android tablet manufacturers Samsung, Asus, Lenovo and Acer all saw large growth. Apple’s arch rival Samsung shipped 9.7m tablets alone, securing a 20.4% chunk of the device market share in Q3 - a 123% year-on-year growth.“The biggest threat to Apple’s tablet market share are the low cost Android tablets - Apple essentially doesn’t compete in the low end,” Coulling said.The days of a 50% share are goneApple is attempting to expand its tablet customer base with previous generation products kept on at lower price points, however, according toIDC’s Jitesh Ubrani.&quot;With two 7.9-inch models starting at $299 and $399, and two 9.7-inch models starting at $399 and $499, Apple is taking steps to appeal to multiple segments,” said Ubrani.With the newiPad Airdue for release on 1 November, and thehigh-resolution iPad mini with retina displayset to join it on sale later in November, Apple’s tablet market share is expected to recover to some extent, but “the days of Apple’s 50% tablet share are gone, and no amount of product refreshes are likely to change that,” Coulling explained.Data from UK electronics recycler SellMyMobile.com shows that the unveiling of the iPad Air triggered a large 585% surge in the number of tablet trade-ins, with 38% of those surveyed specifically trading in their existing tablet to fund the purchase of the new full-sized Apple tablet.Apple doesn&apos;t chase market shareApple’s ownership of the overall tablet market share isn’t necessarily as significant for the company as it might be for others, however, as long as the iPad still maintains a strong position at the premium end.Apple specifically targets high value consumers, as they spend more money on content and services than any other segment, generating significant revenue though the company’s iTunes and App Store ecosystem.“Apple doesn’t chase market share. Its business is all about revenue and margin over volume, which is something very different to the other tablet manufacturers, who mostly operate on very thin margins and attempt to make it up in volume,” concluded Coulling.That point has been hammered home by Apple execs during recent press launches. Chief executive Tim Cook hailed iPad&apos;s 81% &quot;usage share&quot; in the tablet market atthe recent unveiling of its new modelsas &quot;over four times more than all of those other tablets put together, and this is what is important to us... It’s not about quantity. It’s about quality.&quot;Tablets still growingOverall, global tablet shipments increased by 36.7%, with third quarter tablet shipments totalling to 34.8m. The fourth quarter is expected to see dramatically increased tablet sales as we head into the Christmas gifting period, where tablets are anticipated to be even more popular than last year.In the UK, Europe’s biggest tablet market for instance, the tablet category has exploded in the last few years, with tablet sales dominating in the run up to Christmas. According to data from research firm CCS Insight, 8.3m tablets were sold in the UK in 2012, with more than half of sales coming in the last quarter of the year alone. 2013 is anticipated to mirror that increased demand in Q4.• Apple’siPad Air is thinner, lighter, more powerfuland packed with free entertainment and productivity software
Is it a truth universally acknowledged that every single person in possession of a good device must be in want of a Jane Austen game to play on it?Perhaps not yet, but two new projects are aiming to give Austen&apos;s work a new lease of life for the sense and sensibilities of modern gamers.Stride &amp; Prejudiceis billed as &quot;the first endless runner game to include an entire novel&quot;, with that novel being Pride &amp; Prejudice. The book&apos;s text acts as the platforms for a pixel-art Lizzy Bennet to scamper along.The £0.69 game is the work of developer No Crusts Interactive, which has released the game for iPhone and iPad. Players can choose from e-book style black-on-white, white-on-black and sepia text, with a &quot;reader&quot; mode ensuring they start each game from the point in the novel where they last died.The second project isEver, Jane, a virtual world currently available as a downloadable prototype while its developer tries to raise $100k on crowdfunding site Kickstarter to launch commercially. The game swaps battles and looting for balls and dinner parties.&quot;Similar to traditional role playing games, we advance our character through experience, but that is where the similarities end,&quot; explains its Kickstarter listing.&quot;Ever, Jane is about playing the actual character in the game, building stories. Our quests are derived from player&apos;s actions and stories. And we gossip rather than swords and magic to demolish our enemies and aid our friends.&quot;Developer 3 Turn Productions was founded by Judy Tyrer, who previously worked as senior engineering manager at Linden Lab, the company behind virtual world Second Life, and before that at Sony Online Entertainment.The launches come as book publishers are making their moves into gaming with more modern fiction too.Random House signed up more than 6,000 playersearlier this year for its Black Crown free-to-play web game, which marked the debut of author Rob Sherman.
Sony recently posted anextensive frequently asked questions(FAQ) list for the PS4 ahead of its November debut, explaining several facts about thePS4we didn’t already know.Here are five of the most important facts we’ve learned from the FAQ.You will be able to log into two machines simultaneouslyNow that games, game saves and a whole host of player information is stored on a Playstation Network account, Sony has made it possible to log into two PS4 systems at the same time. This will allow you to take your purchased games and saves to a friend’s house without causing issues with your home console.The PS4 has an internal power supplyUnlike Microsoft&apos;sXbox One, with itslarge, bulky external power brick, the PS4 houses its power transformer and all the electrical workings within the console’s enclosure, just like the PS3 before it. That may not sound like a lot, but for those who are confined on space, or have TV stands with limited room behind, it should make fitting the next-generation console into your existing setup a lot easier.The PS4 can’t play CDs or MP3s or media streamed from a PCA strange omission given that the PS3 can play both CDs and a variety of digital music files, as well asSuper Audio CDs, the PS4 will no longer support audio playback media other than Sony’s own Music Unlimited subscription service. Sadly the excellent audio visualiser has also been removed.It’s not only audio playback that has been crippled on the PS4 versus the PS3, media playback viaDLNAover your home network from a PC has also been removed. That means you will no longer be able to stream movies and music from a computer.The PS Vita’s Remote Play isn’t quite as robust as Sony’s marketing makes outOne of the most interesting differentiators for the PS4 over Microsoft’s Xbox One rival console is the interlink with the Sony PS Vita handheld console. You will be able to play PS4 games on your PS Vita streamed over a wireless network with its “Remote Play” feature.In the FAQ, however, Sony makes it very clear that “a robust and stable Wi-Fi connection and broadband Internet connection” is required to play PS4 games on a PS Vita. It “strongly recommends” that you only use the feature when the Vita and PS4 are both on your home network or at least the same local network.Sony’s marketing for the Remote Play functionality has certainly given the impression that it would work just fine from pretty much everywhere. Now it seems that the data bandwidth required for Remote Play to work as advertised will be pretty high.You’ll be able to command the PS4 via voice, just like the Xbox OneOne of the most marketed features of the Xbox One is the ability to fully control the console via voice using theKinectsensor system. The PS4 will also allow the user to “control key PS4 functions using commands such as starting up a game or taking a screenshot” via voice using either the PlayStation Camera or the included headset.Sony has mentioned it before in passing, but certainly hasn’t marketed it as a primary feature like Microsoft has for the Xbox One.There are many more titbits buried within Sony’sextensive FAQ for the PS4, which are worth reading through if you are considering purchasing one of the £350 machines next month.• If you&apos;re still on the fence of which next-generation console to buy in the run up to Christmas, read ourXbox One versus PS4 comparisonto help you weigh up the pros and cons of each machine
This week's edition of Tech Weekly is dedicated to two very different but hugely insightful and challenging perspectives on the role of technology and educating our children.First upAlek KrotoskimeetsCarlos Contreras, the head of computer manufacturerIntel's US education operations. Aleks met Carlos in Rome at Europe's firstMaker Faireonly days after the announcement ofIntel's partnership with the Italian micro processing manufacturer Arduino.Next up, Tech Weekly'sJason Phippswent to Newcastle to speak to computer scientist and education researcherSugata Mitra. Mitra is a recipient of the prestigious TED Prize and isProfessor of Educational Technology at Newcastle Universitywhich hosted this yearsBritish Science Festival.Mitra discussed his latest project "School in the Cloud", the creation of self-learning spaces for unsupervised children, as well as how technology can enable kids around the world, from Delhi to Gateshead, to become high achievers in education.
You are dead. The words ring out through the dank low corridors of Nottingham's galleries of justice, a historic courthouse, considered to be one of the most haunted buildings in Britain. We're here at midnight, a small huddled group of us, to try theiOS app Papa Sangre II, sequel to the spooky, sound-only iPhone game released in 2010. But at this fascinating little event, held as part of the GameCity festival, developer Somethin' Else wants to shake us up a bit first.In groups of two and three we're led through the 15th century basements of the old gaol, past the tiny cells where condemned prisoners were locked before execution. The light, such as it is, comes from small candles placed along the route and while we're creeping through doorways and up stairwells, hidden speakers are playing sounds and dialogue from the game. The voice we hear is Sean Bean, the narrator. You are dead, he repeats in his gruff Yorkshire tones.That is the starting point of this unsettling and interesting game. While the original Papa Sangre was a mission of mercy into the Mexican world of the dead, in the follow-up, it's you who has passed over. Suddenly you awake, confused and alone in a sort of halfway house between life and afterlife, and the themes of this new limbo world are much more British. "We think of Papa as someone otherworldly," says senior producer, Tom Green. "Is it a man, a woman or even human? We don't know and that allowed us to present a completely different setting. We wanted to give ourselves the freedom to try new sounds. Obviously our palette is limited to audio. If we stuck with the Mexican theme we'd be hamstrung. This one is a very English game."Bean is your guide. He says he can get you out, back to the living, but in order to escape you have to listen to him and do what he says. "Close your eyes" he intones, slowly. "And don't open them, no matter what." This is a game of sound. So you close your eyes and you do what Bean says. It turns out that you have to locate and steal the memories of the dead. You do this by listening for the music these memories make and then heading toward it. In the first game, navigation involved stroking the iPad screen to move and change direction, but this time, Somethin' Else has been able to make use of the iPad's gyroscope, as well as a proprietary 3D binaural audio engine. You can point the iPad toward a sound to locate it in 3D space, then tap two feet icons on the screen to "walk" toward it.The technology is impressive and accurate, but the artistic implementation really matters too, the choice of sounds and where they're placed in the audio environment. For this Somethin' Else worked with the sound designers Ben and Max Ringham. "It's been really useful," says Green. "They understand the relationship between the theatrical nature of games and how to bring sound design into narrative. One of the challenges with audio games is how to give the right feedback to players. Every action has to have very palpable feedback. They're really aware of that, because their work in theatre is about expressing things that happen off stage in a very easy to understand way."The effect is incredibly immersive. This world is full of crackly, weird, unsettling noises, and all of them seem to be within reach. They're spooky, but you navigate by them. Bean tells us that we're in a sort of gaol of souls, and that these souls come from different eras. We stumble across the memories of people who died in 1920s disasters, and 1970s drownings. The music drags us back in time. "Writer Neil Bennun is obsessed with 1920s sound," says Green. "There are a lot of gramophones and other early sound technologies in the game."So it's a game about navigation and memory, all within a sort of faux Victorian ghost story. Later, the souls are guarded by what sound like giant insects that can steal your own. You have to creep around them, walking slowly and quietly, keeping their horrible scuttling noises far to your left or right. Or you can clap, using the hand icons on screen, to distract them, before making off with yet another memory. You need a good pair of headphones to get the proper feedback, but once tuned into this dark world, you really do begin to "see" the noises, see the rooms. And Bean's voice is perfect, filled with menace and gravelly import.Papa Sangre was a critical success three years ago, hinting at the expansive possibilities of smartphone and tablet gaming. It attracted a large audience of blind and visually-impaired players, who have largely been ignored or seriously sidelined by the video game industry. This game, with its mix of spatial audio and motion controls creates or simulates an understanding of the world that may well be familiar. For the rest of us, it is unsettling and testing, attempting to form a picture of a trap-filled dungeon in which bubbling pools of soul-sucking lava await if one careless foot is placed too close. If you do get caught by an enemy or a hazard, your character is brought back to "afterlife", but the game tells you this has cost you a memory. "You no longer remember your first school sports day," Bean dolefully states.Ultimately, the effect is a sinister fairground haunted house ride, mixed with a well-narrated ghost story. With my useless in-ear headphones I sometimes found it difficult to locate whether a noise was in front or behind me, the subtleties got lost over my head somewhere, and in the more panicky moments this could get frustrating. But this is a game like all games. It rewards perseverence, it has a system and a set of skills to learn. It's just that here, you're using your ears and not a controller or a sequence of buttons.Eventually, during the GameCity event, we were led into the Victorian courtroom and allowed to play the game for a couple of hours. The lights were off, and all that could be seen in the pitch darkness was the glow from a dozen iPad screens and the odd shuffling body. Whatever ghosts were in that room, they were receiving short shrift from its living occupants. The supernatural presence we cared about was in our hands, and in our heads.•Papa Sangre II is available for iPad and iPhone on the Apple app store from today
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.EA rules out Titanfall for PlayStationWere you hoping Respawn's PC and Xbox mech shooter Titanfall would eventually find its way onto PlayStation? Nope, says EA – the exclusivity deal is permanent:This was cemented by EA's Blake Jorgensen today when, during the firm's FYQ2 earnings call, he definitively stated that Respawn Entertainment's anticipated shooter will be exclusive "for the life of the title" to Xbox One, Xbox 360 and PC.However, the extent of the exclusivity deal was a surprise to Respawn co-founder Vince Zampella. On Twitter, the exec said the partnership with Microsoft was always planned for the console's launch, and that "EA made a deal for the rest".Worryingly, Zampella seems not to have known about the extended deal until late on. He saysin a tweet:Always MS exclusive at launch, great partner and focus is good for a startup. EA made a deal for the rest, we only found out recently =(So there surely must be a PS4 version of the game in some stage of development at the studio? How long was wasted onthat?Online Pass Activates Some Assassin's Creed IV Single-Player ContentI'm not sure I like the sound of this:They may not like it, but gamers are at least familiar with the idea of an online pass gating off multiplayer content. However, in Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag, a noteworthy element of the single-player campaign is unavailable without the Ubisoft's Uplay Passport.When protagonist Edward Kenway boards a ship, he has the option to add the ship to his fleet. This fleet functions similarly to your assassin recruits in previous titles; you can send them on missions, and after a varying number of real-time minutes, the ships return with money and spoils. However, we've confirmed that your access to this whole loop is gated by the Uplay Passport. In other words, if you borrow the game from a friend who has already redeemed the code (or buy the game used), you don't get the fleet and the benefits that come with it in your single-player game.Sign up with an online service to complete the single-player experience? It seems rather intrusive – is it about marketing and data collection or DRM?Inquisitr continues the story:It appears that the DRM controls Microsoft is planning to bring to the Xbox One are already being used by Ubisoft on current generation consoles. Your copy of Assassin's Creed 4 will be tied to your Uplay account, and this account will be specific to the game.Ubisoft has done this before with other games. In Assassin's Creed 2 for consoles, you couldn't access the secret family tomb without signing in to your Uplay account. The rest of the game was fine, but that particular area was off-limits if you weren't signed in online.This probably won't be popular...EA "bullish" about 10 million PlayStation 4 and Xbox One sales by April 2014Here is Electronic Arts COO Peter Moore getting us all in a froth about the future:"When I talked to our friends at both Sony and Microsoft," said EA chief operating officer Peter Moore in a Q&amp;A session following its Q2 financials, "and I'm trying to get some indications in the numbers that are going to be available for sale by the end of our fiscal year on March 31 and I aggregate them, I think I can squint and see 10 million units combined, very easily.""Both Sony and Microsoft are proposing that this could be their best launches ever as regards their production numbers and their ability to globalize this business quickly. So we feel bullish about our ability [...] of having five truly next-gen titles available for that."Just warming us up there, for the next-generation!Wii U sold under 500k in six monthsWell, saves of Wii U are up from the last quater, but the figures still make grim reading:Nintendo sold fewer than 500,000 units of its Wii U console in the last six months, though favourable exchange rate saw the company turn a small profit.Despite the launch of key first-party titles like Pikmin 3 and The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker HD, Nintendo failed to gather some much needed momentum around its faltering console. In the six months ended September 30, 2013, the Wii U hardware sold 460,000 units worldwide, along with 6.3 million units of software.This actually represents a relative improvement in performance: the Wii U sold only 160,000 units in the first quarter of the six-month period, meaning that it almost doubled sales in the second quarter. However, thanks to a price-cut on the hardware that increase hasn't helped the company's bottom line.What's it going to take to really turn this around? Mario Kart? Wii Fit? Or is it all too late?SpyParty's vicious (and entertaining) cycle of stress and reliefInteresting feature about long-awaited body language strategy game, SpyParty:Independent game developer Chris Hecker has been spying on people at parties.His goal isn't to be creepy: Hecker's been observing human behavior and interaction in crowds as he develops his multiplayer espionage game SpyParty. His observations have led him to make notable changes to how the game feels.Hecker has been working on SpyParty for a few years now. The game has one player attempting to complete a number of objectives in a room packed with AI characters, while the other player -- a sniper -- observes the party from outside, and uses a single bullet to take out who they believe is the opposing player.Talking to Gamasutra as part of a video interview (below), Hecker explained that observing human behavior has led him to a game design decision that is different from what he originally had assumed would work best from a behavioral standpoint.Can't wait to play this.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Mobile advertising now accounts for just short of half of Facebook's revenues, the social network company announced Wednesday sending shares soaring in after hours trading.Releasing its latest quarterly results, Facebook said mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 49% of $1.8bn in ad revenue the company made in the third quarter of 2013.Fears that Facebook was facing difficulties adapting to the rapidly growing mobile market contributed to its rocky share sale last year. It took Facebook close to a year to surpass the $38 price its shares initially sold for. Facebook's shares soared close to 10% to $53.88 in after-hours trading as investors digested the mobile figures.Facebook is expected to account for a 15.8% share of worldwide mobile ad spending in 2013, up from a 5.35% share last year, according to analyst eMarketer. Google is expected to grab 53.17% of the worldwide mobile ad market this year, up slightly over a 52.36% share in 2012.Mobile advertising is the fastest growing advertising category. The overall mobile ad market worldwide is expected to grow 89% to $16.65bn in 2013, eMarketer estimates, up from just $8.8bn in 2012.Overall, Facebook's revenues were over $2bn for the quarter, up from $1.26bn for the same period last year. Net income was $425m, compared to a loss of $59m last year.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and chief executive, said: "The strong results we achieved this quarter show that we're prepared for the next phase of our company, as we work to bring the next five billion people online and into the knowledge economy."The company said there was an average of 728m daily active users (DAUs) on Facebook in September 2013, an increase of 25% year-over-year. The number of monthly active users was 1.19bn as of September 30, 2013, an increase of 18% year-over-year.
They are young, famous and adored by fans around the world. But boy band One Direction can now boast another achievement: they&apos;re more influential on Twitter than David Cameron, Piers Morgan, Caitlin Moran, Ricky Gervais and other British users of the social networking service.That&apos;s according toPeerIndex, which has released its third annual chart of the top Twitter users in the UK, ranked by influence rather than just how many followers they have.One Direction&apos;s five members take the top five slots in the chart, with Liam Payne, Harry Styles, Niall Horan and Louis Tomlinson all scoring 98 out of 100 for their Twitter influence, while Zayn Malik scores 97.The top 10 is rounded out by Ed Sheeran, Cameron, Morgan, Moran and Gervais, with the chart based on PeerIndex&apos;s analysis of more than 10bn tweets from 150m people, focusing on UK Twitter users and the influence they have on other Brits.&quot;As Twitter has become more mainstream, the top 140 starts to resemble the contours of popular culture and power, the footballers, politicians and boy bands,&quot; said PeerIndex founder Azeem Azhar.&quot;However, social media’s democratising effects still allow those with challenging, well-defined or interesting views to build influence. Witness the number of independent media stars, like Marius Listhrop and Dan Howell and authors like Owen Jones and Caitlin Moran.&quot;Corporate and brand accounts were excluded from the list, as were parody accounts and journalists from the main national newspapers, although those with external activities such as writing books (Moran and Jones, for example) stayed in.PeerIndex is keen to point out that Twitter users can be influential without millions of followers, while also suggesting that the social network has fragmented into &quot;subcultures&quot; that exist almost entirely separately.&quot;Twitter is so rich and vast, that subcultures co-exist on it, often without knowing about each other,&quot; said Azhar. &quot;For example, even though more than 900, 000 people follow both George Osborne, the chancellor, and Rylan, the reality TV celebrity, they only share six followers in common.&quot;Scroll down to see the full list of 140 top Tweeters from Liam Payne to Dianne Abott and scroll right to see their description and categoryReading on mobile? Seethe list of UK&apos;s top tweeters here
The technology industry may be buzzing about the potential for wearable technology like Google Glass and smart watches, but is this enthusiasm matched out in the real world?Research firm GfK sees high interest in these products, but has warned that the price needs to come down before they find a mainstream audience.The company surveyed 1,600 British and American people in September to gauge their attitudes towards wearable technology, and claims that just 6% of the general population already own a device – including fitness-tracking gadgets like Fitbit and Nike&apos;s FuelBand alongside smart watches and Glass-style augmented eyewear.GfK reports that six in 10 16-24 year-olds find the idea of a &quot;connected smart watch&quot; – one that works standalone without having to sync with a smartphone – appealing. Meanwhile, four in 10 found the idea of Google Glass appealing.The sticking point, for now, is price. When GfK told people they&apos;d have to pay between £150 and £200 for a connected smart watch, it found that the percentage planning to buy one fell from 24% to 12%. For connected glasses, mention of a price tag between £400 and £600 saw buying intentions drop from 16% to 7%.&quot;Our research suggests that the current price points are a barrier, restricting wearable tech to an older, more affluent audience,&quot; said GfK&apos;s Johanna Martin. &quot;So while consumer awareness and interest is definitely there, we are still waiting for the launch of that ‘must-have’ wearable tech device for Christmas 2013.&quot;It&apos;s too early to be making snap judgements on pricing and popularity for some of these devices, though. Google Glass isn&apos;t commercially available yet: a small group of &quot;Explorer&quot; beta testers have been using that device this year, with Google now enabling each of them to choose three friends to buy one.Meanwhile, smart watches likePebble,Samsung&apos;s Galaxy GearandSony&apos;s SmartWatch 2are still new in the market: premium products for early adopters, rather than mainstream gadgets. The prices are certain to come down over time, while new high-end products are likely to emerge from Apple, Google and other companies.Other research firms remain bullish about the potential. Juniper Research claimed earlier this year that wearable devices will be a $19bn market by 2018, while Berg Insight expects annual shipments of these gadgets to reach 64m by 2017.
Britain will take a leap into the digital future when Telford becomes the country's first superfast broadband town.A new town built around a shopping centre after the second world war, Telford is set to become the first urban area where average speeds pass the official superfast threshold of 24 megabits per second. Its residents enjoy an average of 23Mbps, but a national record will be reached in November when this rises to 26Mbps.A study of Britain's 50 largest cities and towns based on 1.4m broadband tests carried out by householders shows Belfast is likely to cross the superfast marker next: the average speed there is the second fastest in the country at nearly 21Mbps."This is a big milestone and we hope it will be the start of many more superfast cities to come," said Marie Louise Abretti, telecoms expert at price comparison site uSwitch, which compiled the survey. "It's a perfect storm of the infrastructure being there and people being prepared to sign up to contracts to use the infrastructure."Council officials admit to being a little surprised by Telford's pioneering digital status, but the town is one of the fastest growing in the Midlands and last year topped the uSwitch league for the street with the fastest broadband in the UK.Residents of Willowfield are clocking 71Mbps, which means they can download a music album in 11 seconds and a two-hour film in two minutes and 49 seconds."The reason we have such fast speeds is because of the high quality and extensive broadband infrastructure that was installed in the borough of Telford &amp; Wrekin by companies like Virgin," said Telford councillor Bill McClements. "This is independent research and demonstrates what we have been saying – that Telford is a fantastic place to live, work and base your business."Belfast is reaping the benefits of a strategic decision by the Northern Ireland executive to prioritise broadband investment. In partnership with the public sector, BT has invested £30m in improving both urban and rural infrastructure and 90% of premises in the country are now connected to a fibre cabinet which can mean speeds of up to 80Mbps.Belfast is expected to become the first superfast capital in the UK with 27Mbps in two months, well ahead of London, which is currently in 26th place with an average speed of 17Mbps. One fifth of Londoners are struggling with less than 3Mbps, at which rate a high-definition film takes six hours to download.Of the four capitals, only Cardiff is slower, in 27th place, at just under 17Mbps. Edinburgh has almost reached 18Mbps, according to the speed tests logged between April and September this year.The government defines superfast as 24Mbps and above, although European officials put the threshold at 30Mbps. Its availability is dependent on telephone cabinets being upgraded with fibre lines.Average speeds are a combination of the right infrastructure and consumer willingness to pay more for a better connection, according to Laura Kell, operations director at broadband research firm Point Topic."Belfast has the highest take up of superfast broadband of any area in the UK because it's available pretty much everywhere and in the capital they have more affluent people who can afford to take up the services," said Kell.The European Union target is for every household to have 30Mbps or above by 2020, and Britain has promised superfast speeds for 95% of homes by 2017.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPirate cull: UK court orders ISPs to block 21 filesharing sites &gt;&gt; Wired UKAs one notorious piracy sitecomes back online, 21 more get blocked in the UK.&quot;We asked the sites to stop infringing copyright, but unfortunately they did not and we were left with little choice but to apply to the Court, where the judge considered the evidence and declared that ISPs should not serve access to them,&quot; BPI chief executive Geoff Taylor said in a statement. Virgin and BT have already stated they will comply with the court order, as is expected.Apple’s claim that iCloud can store passwords “only locally” seems to be false &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaTalking about Apple&apos;s claim that iCloud syncs passwords without storing data in the cloud:If true, this would be an important advance in password management, allowing users to create long, complicated passwords on one device and have the passwords automatically sync to their other devices, but without storing data on Apple&apos;s servers.That&apos;s a bigif, according to Ars Technica.Building Cars Out of Batteries Isn’t as Crazy as It Sounds &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewBut batteries also open up new design possibilities because they can be shaped in more ways than gasoline tanks and because they can be made of load-bearing materials. If their chemistries can be made safer, batteries could replace conventional door panels and other body parts, potentially making a vehicle significantly lighter, more spacious, and cheaper. This could go some way toward helping electric cars compete with gas-powered ones.Removing range anxiety by sitting in a giant battery is certainly clever, just don&apos;t talk about the centre of gravity and handling.I HDR’d a photo 3 times over using Google+ Snapseed’s new filter and it came out like this &gt;&gt; The Next WebThis photo was taken with my HTC One stock Android camera. I edited it with Google+ Snapseed, repeating the max HDR effect that Google released today three times over.Nothing else.This is the result.Hit the HDR button three times and you can create art out of almost anything. It reminds me of GTA&apos;s visual style.CAPTCHA hacked by AI company &gt;&gt; DVICEObviously, this could have serious implications for Internet security, but the greater discovery here is the AI involved. In cracking CAPTCHA, this algorithm could be the next step in creating computers that see and think more like humans. If this algorithm truly can see the CAPTCHA image and understand the jumbled mess of letters and numbers it displays, companies like Vicarious may soon be able to create computers with human brain-like functions.The rise of the machines won&apos;t be stopped, not even by the human-confusing CAPTCHA.Facebook Considers Vast Increase in Data Collection - The CIO Report &gt;&gt; WSJNew types of data Facebook may collect include “did your cursor hover over that ad … and was the newsfeed in a viewable area,” Mr. Rudin said. “It is a never-ending phase. I can’t promise that it will roll out. We probably will know in a couple of months,” said Mr. Rudin, a Silicon Valley veteran who arrived at Facebook in April 2012 from Zynga Inc., where he was vice president of analytics and platform technologies.Surprise! Facebook&apos;s tracking your every move - try not to hover over the ads now, won&apos;t you?Gasp! Twitter displays pictures in main feed as IPO looms &gt;&gt; The RegisterAdmen will be delighted with the strategy because it means their visual promotions are now slotted into the main Twitter feed. Would-be investors, who have been concerned about the company&apos;s ability to turn its loss-making business into a profitable outfit, might also been encouraged by Twitter&apos;s latest move.Just wait for the ads if you thought images were intrusive to your perfect text-only feed.ARM releases new GPU powerful enough to take on gaming consoles &gt;&gt;TechRadarThe new flagship that takes over the latter is the T760, a mammoth GPU that can scale up to 16 cores and boosts a fourfold improvement over the T604 in terms of power efficiency (i.e. performance per watt).Powerful enough to take on gaming consoles, apparently.You can follow Guardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.
It's Thursday.
Online fraud is costing the global economy "many times more" than initial estimates of losses of $100bn (£62bn) a year, a world expert on cyber security has said.Eugene Kaspersky said the amount stolen from banks, financial institutions, companies and individuals could be at least double the $100bn estimated three years ago. The co-founder of Kaspersky Lab, an anti-virus software firm, said the next big cyber shock to the world's economy could be an online attack on a state's national infrastructure, as in the film Die Hard 4, in which Bruce Willis battles cyber criminals who threaten to hack and sabotage the United States' transportation systems, power stations and stock market.Speaking at the Web Summit in Dublin, the Russian internet security entrepreneur  said: "Three years ago we were told that the annual cost of cyber crime was around 100 billion US dollars. I would say that today that figure is multiplied many times, it is far in excess of that figure. "He said his security business is working with several global financial corporations to protect them from criminal hackers. "I think now the situation is even worse than it was three years ago. Altogether it looks like, it smells like, it sounds like one hundred billion multiplied many times more.''His Moscow-based company had stopped hackers from stealing hundreds of millions of euros from a bank. "We managed to stop this on-line bank robbery which was targeting about €100 million or if you like four billion Russian Roubles. That was just one case of attempted cyber-robbery that we managed to prevent because my guys were watching them."The Russian cyber security evidence said that states were recruiting "cyber mercenaries,'' experienced internet criminal hackers who steal money from banks, for online espionage and sabotage projects. The worst acts of cyber warfare would be future attacks on "critical infrastructure" – power plants, hospitals, factories and transport. "Just have a look at Die Hard 4 because they had stories in it about these types of cyber attacks. This production was made in 2007 and although half of the movie is not true it is not complete Holywood fantasy. The cyber bit is not fantasy any more because it's reality now. Systems running modern power plants, factories and so on are much more complicated, and unfortunately they are not made in a 100 per cent way so they are vulnerable," Kaspersky said.In response to a world in which individuals, companies and countries are all more exposed to cyber attack, Kaspersky has called for lessons to be introduced as early as primary school in Internet security. His company is rolling out an education programme with Microsoft around the world to reach children about cyber protection. "From two years old kids are learning about the Internet so for the rest of the world we need to teach kids how to behave in the networks. It's like we teach kids how to behave on the street, how to cross the street safely, not to trust everyone. It is ethnical as well as technical and it is non profit. It's actually technical later the ethical bit comes first."
A big UK pension fund is among a number of investors preparing to protest against the pay polices of the California-based software company Oracle – whose chief executive Larry Ellison received $76m last year – at its shareholder meeting on Thursday.Railpen has joined forces with other high-profile fund managers, CalSTRS of the US and PGGM of the Netherlands, to urge fellow shareholders to vote against all the directors standing for election to the board and in the vote on pay policies.Deborah Gilshan, corporate governance counsel at Railpen, said it was very unusual for the pension fund to join in such an effort and to oppose the election of directors to the board. "This is a reflection of the serious of our governance concerns," she said.Advisory groups such as ISS are also recommending a vote against the pay policies and the re-election of some directors.Oracle, which declined to comment, had failed to win the backing of its shareholders for its pay policies last year."By our calculations, 86% of independent shareholders voted against the resolution," the three pension funds wrote in their joint letter to all shareholders.Ellison, who founded Oracle, owns 25% of the shares."This is not a situation any board should ignore, even taking into account the advisory nature of the pay resolution, as it is clearly a request for change by shareholders," the three funds said. "Subsequent to the vote from last year, we would have expected the board to have addressed issues such as excessive compensation and the lack of performance hurdles in the vesting of long-term incentives."In its invitationto the meetingsent out to shareholders, Oracle said "significant changes to our executive compensation programme were not warranted" despite last year's protest.The company added: "The compensation committee realises that certain of our stockholders may disagree with this conclusion, but the compensation committee believes that our executive compensation philosophy and the current structure of our executive compensation program are in the best interests of Oracle and its stockholders."
Two email providers forced to close their services in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations on mass surveillance have proposed a new open standard for secure email that would be harder for security services and others to eavesdrop upon.The encrypted email service Lavabit, and Silent Circle, a firm also encrypting phone calls and texts, are the founding members of the Darkmail Alliance, a service that aims to prevent government agencies from listening in on the metadata of emails.The metadata is the information bundled up with the content of an email such as that showing the sender, the recipient and date the message was sent.Conventional email can never be made fully secure because the standard requires some metadata to be sent unencrypted.Mike Janke, Silent Circle's chief executive and co-founder, said that this factor meant the medium was "fundamentally broken".The new service was revealed at theInbox Love conference in Californiaon Wednesday. The alliance hopes to bring on board potential partners."We want to get another dozen to two dozen email providers up and running on Darkmail architecture so that at any one time citizens of the world can choose two dozen email providers to get their email service from," said Janke.The ultimate aim is to get the big email providers, such as Microsoft, Yahoo! and Gmail, using the new standard too.The Darkmail Alliance aims to fix many of the problems affecting the old standard. "The existing email architecture is 40 years old, and it's what allows the world's surveillance community, hackers and other data mining companies, to get [users'] data," Janke told the Guardian.He said that the services Lavabit and Silent Mail kept too much data on the provider's server. "So what happened is you saw nation states can go to an email provider and coerce them into turning over the keys and decrypting."Look at Lavabit, they were coerced by law. The same thing happened to Hushmail. And on top of that, you've got big data companies like Microsoft, Yahoo! [Google] and 50 others that offer these free services that are actually mining your email for keywords. And selling it and packaging it up for ads. So it's broke, it's absolutely broke."Lavabit, which was once used by the US whistleblower Snowden, was forced to shut down in July 2013 when its founder, Ladar Levison, was ordered to hand over the keys to all his users' private data. Facing a fine of $5,000 a day, he complied, then switched off the servers.Levison said: "I'm worried about how we're just a blink technologically away from becoming a totalitarian state, where our government is watching us all the time."You have to remember that the email protocols that we're using today were developed in the 70s when there were only a handful of people on the internet, or back then it was called Darpanet, and everybody trusted everybody else."Security was never baked into the protocols, it's really become an afterthought. And as a result, messages [are] passed over the internet in plaintext. It's hard to develop a system which is backwards compatible but is secure by default. In fact it's impossible."The proposal of the alliance, it says, is as close to being compatible with conventional email as can be; users can send and receive insecure emails with contacts on normal services, and it is only when an email is sent between two accounts within the alliance that the message is encrypted and routed from one peer to the other without going through a central server.That mechanism would prevent the kind of metadata collection routinely carried out by intelligence agencies, such as that exposed by Snowden, the alliance says.Janke said: "We always say we will be successful if, in three years, 50% of the world's email are sent through this Darkmail architecture. That's why we teamed up [with Lavabit]&nbsp;… This whole unique engine that we developed, we're putting it out open source. We think it's our responsibility to do that."The focus is on the mid-to-small providers initially, but Janke said he had one bigger target in mind."The interesting part is, at Inbox Love it's going to be all the big [providers], Microsoft, Yahoo!, Gmail – you name it. And we know that eventually, as we start to proliferate what we call the email 3.0 architecture, they're going to have to decide. It's going to be very difficult for them."The ball was going to be in the court of big email providers. "What are they going to do?" said Janke. "Are they going to actually join in? Or are they going to kick the can down the road?"
They sit on barges, sprout electronic gizmos, tower several storeys high and are fast becoming Google&apos;s worst-kept secret.The internet giant appears to be constructing floating data centres off the coasts of California and Maine behind layers of elaborate security.Google has said nothing but the hulking structures, built out of shipping containers and shielded by scaffolding,stirred intense sleuthing and speculationon Wednesday.Contractors working on the structures in the San Francisco bay and Portland harbour are subject to omerta, and US government officials familiar with the projects have signed confidentiality agreements.Technology and security experts said they were probably floating data centres – for which Google was granted a patent in 2009. The Mountain View-based company is known for Kremlin-type secrecy during product development,On barges the facilities would have access to abundant water, a requirement to cool large numbers of servers, Joel Egan, the principal at Cargotecture, which designs custom cargo container buildings,told CNET, whose investigation triggered this week&apos;s media scrutiny.&quot;The cutouts in the long walls of the containers, when they line up, they make hallways,&quot; said Egan. &quot;You could put all sorts of mainframes into the containers ... It doesn&apos;t have enough windows for an office building.&quot;The San Francisco TV station KPIX suggested the purpose was to be a floating retail store for Google&apos;s &quot;Glass&quot; wearable computer device, but few bought that theory.A barge built with four levels of shipping containers is seen at Pier 1 at Treasure Island in San Francisco, California October 28, 2013. Photograph: Stephen Lam /ReutersThe barges are 250 feet long, 72 feet wide, 16 feet deep and sport tall white spires that could be masts, flagpoles or antennas. They were built in 2011 in Belle Chasse, Louisiana, by C &amp; C Marine and Repair, and are reportedly owned by By and Large LCC, a company with apparent ties to Google.Theyrecently appearedoff Treasure Island, a former military base in San Francisco bay, and Portland harbour. Chain-link fences and security guards block access.At least one Coast Guard employee was obliged to sign a non-disclosure agreement with Google, Barry Bena, a US coast guard spokesman,told Reuters.Another person who would only identify himself as an inspector for a California government agency had to do the same because he was present during early construction work on Treasure Island&apos;s hangar-like Building 3. He also had to surrender his mobile phone.Bob Jessup, a construction company superintendent who works nearby, said Google spent the past year working on the project, fencing off a wide area and employing at least 40 welders a day, who worked around the clock without saying a word.&quot;They wouldn&apos;t give up any of the information. It was a phenomenal production. None of them would tell us anything.&quot;He said they worked on the inside and the outside of the containers, outfitting them with electronics – &quot;very hush hush&quot; – and used a crane to load them onto the barge. They put sides on the containers, with glass windows in some of them. Precision welding ensured they could stack.Larry Goldzband, the executive director of the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission, told Reuters his agency has had several meetings with Google officials about the barge in recent months. The company provided little information other than saying the vessel would be used for &quot;general technology purposes,&quot; he said.Google &quot;could not give us a specific plan of any kind,&quot; not even whether they intended the barge to move or stay in one place, Goldzband said.Valleywag, Gawker&apos;s technology site,mockedwhat it called the “spooky Nancy Drew adventure” tone of some media coverage.
Google has injected a few funEaster eggsinto its search for Halloween including facts about what witches eat and how to defeat the Grim Reaper.Searching for terms such as “ghost”, “witch”, “skeleton” and “Grim Reaper” now produces new amusing hidden messages taking the form of Halloween-themed fact boxes along with the traditional Google search results.The interesting little Easter eggs flow from new entries in Google’sKnowledge Graph– an encyclopaedia of about 570m concepts and relationships that allows Google to anticipate facts and figures users might want to know about their search term.Google's Halloween Easter Eggs explain what a skeleton likes to eat, where it came from and how to defeat oneIt is unknown precisely how many of thes Easter eggs that Google has inserted into the encyclopaedia, but there are at least 10 to find, each with their own interesting results.Google has a history of includinghidden messages and inside jokeswithin its products for people to find, as well as having some fun around public holidays and notable events with itsGoogle Doodles.• In September, Google boosted the prominence and effectiveness of its Knowledge Graph aspart of its Hummingbird update, which made its core search better at answering longer, more complex and spoken queries
Isohunt, previously the third most popular BitTorrent search engine, has been resurrected after having beenshut down through legal actionfrom the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA).The notorious 10-year-old BitTorrent indexing site has been brought back online by a group unaffiliated with the original Isohunt and its creator Gary Fung, complete with familiar branding and interface along with about 75% of the data that was pulled from Isohunt before it was shutdown in October.“IsoHunt can definitely be called a filesharing icon. People got used to it and they don’t want to simply let it go. We want those people to feel like being at home while visiting isohunt.to. The main goal is to restore the website with torrents and provide users with the same familiar interface,” one of the anonymous members of the new groupexplained to TorrentFreak.Some parts of the new Isohunt site remain inactive, including the forum, user profiles and comments, however the rest of the site faithfully mimics the original Isohunt site in form and function.Isohunt brought back online after MPAA shutdown‘Copyright infringers will be held accountable for their actions’Fung&apos;s decision to close the site and pay the MPAA the huge settlement in mid-October came amid claims that the site &quot;induced the pirating of movies and TV shows&quot;. A US federal court had previously issued an injunction against the site in 2009, but Isohunt kept operating via servers in Canada until it was shutdown prematurely in an attempt to thwart a team of people from making a complete backup of the site.&quot;It&apos;s sad to see my baby go. But I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, and I have remained faithful,&quot; Fungwroteon his blog before the shutdown. &quot;10.5 years of isoHunt has been a long journey by any business definition, and forever in Internet startup time.&quot;The MPAA&apos;s chairman Chris Dodd saidin a statement at the timethat the settlement sent “a strong message that those who build businesses around encouraging, enabling and helping others to commit copyright infringement are themselves infringers, and will be held accountable for their actions.&quot;It is unclear what the legal ramifications of the resurrection of Isohunt will have, although the new team will almost certainly have the MPAA to contend with in the near future.• In October, 57% of UK game developers saidpiracy was hurting their business, but only 10% wanted legal action over new business models
Infinity Ward knows a thing or two about change – even if it has worked on the same multimillion-dollar franchise since its origins as a splinter group from the Medal of Honor series 11 years ago.In that time it has seen the Call of Duty brand catapulted from a modestly successful cinematic shooter to the biggest entertainment property in the world. It has also seen its founders Jason West and Vince Zampella, leaving under a vast mushroom cloud of controversy and recrimination, taking many veteran staff with them, to the new horizons of Respawn Entertainment.It has seen FPS contenders come and go; it is now staring down the barrel of a new console generation that may have fresh ideas about the shooter genre.I visited this studio two years ago, its battered old office in Encino looking tired and dark. Since then the company has moved to Woodland Hills, and into a cavernous bespoke building, designed to accommodate the huge development teams that a game of this size requires.Now, that team is putting the finishing touches to Call of Duty: Ghosts, a very recognisable CoD game, but with a brand new setting and story, and a few little twists to the formula. With its release sandwiched between the gargantuan success of GTA V and the promise of Destiny and Titanfall, the pressure is on. And the pressure never lets up for these guys.Executive producer Mark Rubin is his usual relaxed yet resolute self when I meet up with him, first in LA for the Ghosts multiplayer announcement, and then weeks later at Gamescom. &quot;It&apos;s been refreshing,&quot; he tells me about the move to a new narrative universe.&quot;On many levels, the game has been such a new experience for us – and moving into a new studio was part of that. It feels like a fresh start. And this is a console transition year so we knew we were going to be on new hardware; because of that we knew we&apos;d need a new engine. That made it feel different, too. We felt that Modern Warfare had completed its story arc and we wanted to start a new one that would be in a completely refreshed universe. We just carried that theme throughout the entire project. Everything felt different. I mean, in terms of formula there are pieces that are very obviously Call of Duty, but with multiplayer, we just felt that we were going to take some bigger risks – we changed some systems that have been pretty sacred since Modern Warfare.&quot;Call of Duty: Ghosts&apos;Dynamic maps won&apos;t always mean destruction&apos;It&apos;s the multiplayer that I&apos;ve seen most of so far. The new character system, which does away with anonymous custom load-out mannequins in favour of actual customisable soldiers all with their own kit. The emphasis on ground warfare rather than aerial killstreak blitzkriegs. There are 30 new weapons, including a new class of marksman rifles; Perks now have a points system, allowing you to buy several weaker options or opt for one or two really meaty specials.None of this represents the big risk that Rubin alluded to. &quot;It&apos;s the whole dynamic map system,&quot; he says, alluding to the feature which sees buildings collapse and train carriages fall into chasms. &quot;People who&apos;ve played Call of Duty over the years are used to a a certain style of map, a certain design. We really branched away from that. Dynamic maps won&apos;t always mean destruction. You can blow up a gas station or parts of the wall in some environments, but in others you can move objects or open and close doors to change paths.&quot;Controlling those points becomes part of the strategy of defending those maps. And there are other maps where it&apos;s about full-on massive change. So in Strikezone, when someone earns the relevant care package from completing a Field Order challenge, they can destroy the entire map. Then there are the more environmental non-player controlled versions of that. So we have a map where the environment is falling and as it falls things change, like walls collapse or paths alter – you&apos;re fighting in a crumbling world. The whole idea started with the concept of bringing campaign cinema beats to multiplayer.&quot;We chat about the maps I&apos;ve seen so far; the abandoned sports stadium in StrikeZone, the wrecked cityscape in Chasm … How do these designs start? &quot;It either comes up at a brainstorming session, or someone – it does&apos;t matter who – pitches an idea to someone else,&quot; says Rubin.&quot;From here, it begins to gather momentum. Usually when we pitch things to each other, the person being pitched to attacks the idea – it&apos;s how we&apos;re used to doing it, playing the devil&apos;s advocate. You have to defend your ideas. If you can&apos;t do that straight up then it&apos;s not good enough to continue with. Later someone will make a prototype and we&apos;ll try it out, get lots of feedback, make lots of changes and continue the iteration. Blitz didn&apos;t start out the way it is now, it has shaped itself over many playtests.&quot;So what&apos;s the hit to waste ratio during this process? &quot;You&apos;d be surprised at how many levels get thrown out,&quot; he shrugs. &quot;There are six to eight maps that aren&apos;t going to ship that I&apos;ve seen multiple iterations of. Early on, we had a group of maps that were really fun and I thought they&apos;d ship, but we keep going, keep going and they don&apos;t work out. There&apos;s a lot of that stuff on the cutting room floor. That&apos;s a general philosophy for us – we&apos;re really good at cutting. If it doesn&apos;t make the game better, it doesn&apos;t belong.&quot;&apos;We&apos;re trying a more organic new style of design&apos;I&apos;m interested in this process – after-all there must be a financial impetus to just keep everything. In these days of downloadable content, each map represents potential revenue. So if creativity and gameplay rule, I want to know what makes a classic map, and how easy one is to spot. There have been some fantastic ones in the CoD lifeline – Crash, Terminal, Crossfire – but also some stinkers that somehow made it though; maps with horrible camping spots and site lines that strafe the whole arena.What&apos;s clear is that there is a formula: most maps have three parallel paths allowing flanking play, or they generate out from a central hub in concentric circles. You learn the layout and you exploit it. The same tricks always work the same way. Ghosts is in on that of course, but Rubin insists that his team is playing with some of the conventions this time round. Chasm, for example.&quot;Chasm is a medium to large map – it plays a little larger than it is. From one end to another isn&apos;t that long, but there are a lot of twisting routes. We&apos;re trying a more organic new style of design; we wanted to come up with some maps that don&apos;t feel like gameplay arenas, that feel like real places, but still have the necessary routing to make them play like Call of Duty,&quot; says Rubin.&quot;It&apos;s a real challenge and there were some maps that we really struggled with. Chasm fits into the organic style. It&apos;s a broken down building on the edge of a giant crater from one of the Odin strikes [the massively destructive super-weapon that forms the basis of the single-player campaign] – the paths all flow in and out, they&apos;re like spaghetti going over and under each other.&quot;So there are no choke or skirmish points? &quot;There are still fun engagement areas,&quot; he continues. &quot;But we want it to feel like something you&apos;ve never played before. There&apos;s a section where you&apos;re in a broken building with an elevator where the shaft around it is damaged and it&apos;s just hanging by a few wires. You can run and jump onto the elevator and then on to the floor on the other side. But I&apos;ve watched players take a C4, throw it on the elevator roofs as they pass, then fire it off to cause the elevator to fall, taking anyone following into the shaft.&quot;Call of Duty: Ghosts&apos;No one starts with a blank piece of paper&apos;I wanted to talk about the stuff people don&apos;t like – at least people not entirely embedded in the CoD community. The over-riding power of certain killstreaks for example. &quot;We&apos;ve altered every system someway to make it interesting,&quot; insists Rubin.&quot;For killstreaks, one of the things we noticed when we&apos;ve watched players is that they&apos;ll spend a lot of time just running and then being killed by something from the sky, or running around looking up, trying to fire their stinger missile at something above and not paying attention to what&apos;s in the game around them. We felt … let&apos;s get people&apos;s heads back down to ground level. We still have some air stuff – it&apos;s important to have that balance. But there are less air-based killstreaks now.&quot;The other thing people always pick up on is the Infinity Ward engine – the rusting battery that&apos;s been powering the series for many years, with seemingly only the occasionally half-hearted re-charge. Ghosts has a &apos;new&apos; engine apparently, but what does that mean? How new is new? Rubin takes it in his stride. &quot;No one starts with a blank piece of paper – you have to start with something,&quot; he says.&quot;But then you go through and you pick apart systems. Some of them are much broader: if it&apos;s a tool-based change or a massive change to the way memory is handled – which we had to do this time around in order to provide customisation – we have to add in a whole new system of transient files. That&apos;s a new tech that effected everything in the game. It all had to be rewritten to work with that system. Sometimes it&apos;s a few lines of code, but it can require massive changes. So the engine starts with what we had before, but it changed dramatically over time.&quot;Actually, you know, I don&apos;t really care about the engine – and for all the faults of CoD, one of the things I like about this game is, it doesn&apos;t much care either. Obviously, it cares that things work, but the engine is there to service the flow of the action, the 60-frames-per-second hyper-pace of spawning, shooting and sprinting.Whatever this game is, whatever it says about us that it&apos;s the biggest entertainment leviathan on the planet, it just wants to get its bloody job done. And some of the biggest changes are to the flow state of the game – the fact that players can now knee slide across the ground into cover, or vault seamlessly over obstacles. These are little additions we know well from other games, but here they will make more of an impact than, I don&apos;t know, super advanced particle effects.&apos;Separate multi- and single player modes has a very long future&apos;Anyway, I want to get away from all this. I want to talk about the future. Infinity Ward must have looked across at Respawn and wondered what those guys, those ex-colleagues, were up to. And now we know. It&apos;s Titanfall, the undisputed winner at Gamescom.There&apos;s this new game design concept – mingle player – that seeks to merge single- and multiplayer components together into seamless experiences. There&apos;s Destiny lurking out there, too. Does the rigid structure of CoD have a place in this nascent universe? Can the centre hold? What about this brave new era of campaign multiplayer and online narratives?&quot;I&apos;ve thought about this a lot myself,&quot; says Rubin. &quot;I think it would be really fun to try something like that with Call of Duty, but I don&apos;t think it&apos;s the required future. I think there will always be a mass audience that wants one aspect of the game, and not the others. That&apos;s the problem when you blend the two. If you look at PvE and PvP servers on MMORPGs – the PvP guys hate the PvE guys and vice versa. Blending the two isn&apos;t necessarily always the right idea. So I think separate multi- and single player modes has a very long future … but again, from an artistic standpoint, it would be an interesting thing to do.&quot;This might be a polite brush-off, the typically open-ended, non-committal answer of the media-trained exec. But Rubin continues. &quot;It could be handled in a very game-like way,&quot; he says. &quot;You could be in an open-world single-player environment where you can go up to a gate and when you enter that base, you&apos;re walking into a multiplayer map. That would be fun.&quot; This is, of course, how Destiny is handling things, and how GTA Online works, too. CoD rarely breaks new ground, but it has always quietly adapted. How much more can this behemoth adapt to the vagaries of cloud-based persistent worlds?How about, say, more players in these new next-gen modes? &quot;It&apos;s possible, but ground war in general has always been a difficult mode for CoD,&quot; says Rubin. &quot;It&apos;s fun, but spawning is horrible … and with that many people you can cover the whole map. There&apos;s nowhere you can spawn that someone from the other team doesn&apos;t see you. The easy thing is, we can always do that – tomorrow we can set up a new playlist and say now it&apos;s 24 players . The question is, should we?&quot;Call of Duty: Ghosts&apos;The interactivity of it is the thing that&apos;s most compelling&apos;And that&apos;s always the question with this series. CoD is a billion-a-year business, with 30 million customers – all of that starts in Rubin&apos;s office. When I talk about how the next ten consoles are seeking to revolutionaries the concept of matchmaking and lobbies, he bats the issue away – the CoD system works just fine, thank you.When I put a similar question to Eric Hirshberg, the CEO of Activision, the response is slightly different. &quot;I agree that games need to be more social,&quot; he says as we talk in Gamescom meeting room. &quot;That&apos;s why we developed Call of Duty Elite – the design conceit was, wouldn&apos;t it be great if we could unlock the game as a more social experience. At the time, with the current gen consoles as our platforms, we had to do a lot of technological gymnastics just to do simple things like creating your character&apos;s load out on your smartphone on the train then have it waiting for you on the console when you got home. Now that wall has been lowered - the idea of the second screen is baked right into the hardware design.&quot;Hirschberg, an advertising industry veteran, sees the value in engaging with and encouraging social activity away from the raw game – or the brand – itself. &quot;We put a lot of capabilities into Black Ops II that were designed for e-sports competition and again, the creative process has a way of repurposing things that aren&apos;t always expected,&quot; he says. &quot;The theatre mode for example, was designed to capture highlights, but it has turned into a cottage industry of blooper films and other user-generated content that our fans have had a blast with. There are thousands of videos getting millions of views from that mode because we handed creative tools over to players and they used them in ways we never anticipated.&quot;But I don&apos;t want to get bogged down in the issue of audiences and social content systems. I want to question how games like Call of Duty can continue to function in a changing industry. After The Last of Us, we&apos;re seemingly moving toward an era of emotional realism. What does it mean for CoD? Can it just go along as it always has?Fans will say yes, that it fulfils a particular need. But let&apos;s look at cinema – in America, the Western was the predominant action genre for decades, and it spoke to its audience in the same way as military first-person shooters talk to gamers: tough men, following arcane codes of honour, brawling in the streets, bringing order to anarchy. But socio-political changes and the rise of auteur cinema in the seventies effectively killed the western. People change. Do people want meaning now?Hirshberg is fascinatingly mechanistic in his response. &quot;With the enhanced graphics and facial animations in Ghosts, we&apos;ve made the decision to have it be about one platoon of characters that you&apos;re with from the beginning to the end of the campaign - it&apos;s the first time we&apos;ve done that. We&apos;ve brought in Steve Gaghan to hopefully provide a more rich and compelling story. But at the end of the day it&apos;s a Call of Duty game and there will be a percentage of people who press the X button to skip past all that wonderful rich story to get to the action faster. That&apos;s because it&apos;s a game and the interactivity of it is the thing that&apos;s most compelling, and that&apos;s what it is designed to driver first and foremost.&quot;&apos;The content level keeps climbing… it&apos;s… it&apos;s scary&apos;Rubin is more circumspect. He considers the question very carefully. &quot;There&apos;s a simple side to this. The tech will make characters look more realistic and more believable. That&apos;s the obvious part. We can do amazing CG-style moments, like big character interaction moments, which could be really cool,&quot; he says.&quot;I&apos;ll use Quantic Dream as an example: that Kara demo is the perfect example of where youcouldgo in terms of storytelling. I think Kara is stunning, amazing quality in terms of tech and interesting emotional story-telling. I get teary in the part where she says she wants to live. It&apos;s so impactful. Putting that into games is something I think will make games better.&quot;But there&apos;s a downside – we&apos;ve seen it happen with a lot of developers and it&apos;s hurting. We&apos;re having to put in so much more content and that content is getting harder and harder to make, and taking longer and longer, and more and more resources and money … I mean, it&apos;s something we all want to do but there&apos;s an obvious challenge there that I don&apos;t think enough people are really thinking about. Do we understand where we may be going if we start down this route? I still want us to do it, it&apos;s awesome, but as a producer, it scares me! If we have to do a whole game with masses of emotional intensity, the content level keeps climbing … it&apos;s … it&apos;s scary.&quot;This is where I wanted to go. Toward the future of game design and what that can mean for a studio of creative people working on a &apos;franchise&apos; that makes money on a vast industrial scale. We&apos;re talking fresh starts now, so how about it? Can Call of Duty be an emotional journey? Ghosts is marketed as a human story, but death will be the one writing the script, we all know that. Does Infinity Ward care at all about fear and loss and humanity? Does it need to?&quot;We do try to have those moments, and we tie them together. There&apos;s a moment early in CoD 4 when you&apos;re sitting in a helicopter flying in at night to a cargo ship. And Price is there, smoking a cigarette, expressionless … then he throws the cigarette away, pulls the mask down and he&apos;s ready for action. That told a story about a character who can just get into combat mode, this intensity, without worrying about dying,&quot; says Rubin.&quot;In Modern Warfare 2, we have Soap on the side of a cliff about to engage an enemy base; and he&apos;s just sitting smoking a cigar, then he tosses it and the level begins. It was a purposeful tie in between the two characters. Doing things like that, is something we always want to try. The moment when you jump across the ice chasm and slip, and someone catches you – there&apos;s a little bit of emotion in his face that says &apos;I&apos;ve got your back&apos;.&quot;&quot;That&apos;s always something we&apos;re trying to do,&quot; he says. &quot;The problem with Call of Duty is, most of the time, you&apos;re shooting guys.&quot;• Call of Duty: Ghosts is due out on PC, PS3, Wii U and Xbox 360 on November 5 and on next-gen consoles later in the month
A talented young cast, high production values, and covers of pop hits that have already spawned a spin-off soundtrack album. Side Effects has all the ingredients to be the new Glee or High School Musical.One crucial difference: this TV show is not being aired by a traditional broadcaster. Instead, Side Effects is making its debut on YouTube as the latest original series developed by US multi-channel networkAwesomenessTV.The first 40-minute episode appeared on YouTube yesterday (29 October), introducing viewers to the central character Whitney, a 16 year-old who has &quot;musical hallucinations&quot;, played by Meg DeLacy.The episode includes covers of songs by Kesha, Pink and Taylor Swift, performed by a cast that&apos;s a mixture of traditional actors and YouTubers like Chester See, Taryn Southern, Meghan Rosette and Lia Marie Johnson.&quot;We are convinced that YouTube will become a new launching pad for long-form television style content, which is why we decided to debut a 40-minute version of Side Effects on AwesomenessTV,&quot; said chief executive Brian Robbins.&quot;Side Effects combines YouTube stars and trends with television narrative and production values, which we believe will be the wave of the future, particularly for our teen/tween audience.&quot;The episode features on-screen promotions for the Side Effects soundtrack album, whichAdWeeksays is a partnership with Universal Music Group. Its sister company Universal Cable Productions worked with AwesomenessTV on the show itself.AwesomenessTV was acquired by Hollywood studio DreamWorks Animation in May 2013 for $33m plus up to $117m in future earnings-related bonuses. The network now claims 25m subscribers, 65m monthly visitors and nearly 2bn total views of its videos.In a recentkeynote speech at the MIPJunior conference, Robbins said that half the company&apos;s views come from mobile devices, and showed a trailer for Side Effects which, at the time, was designed to be watched in 5-6 minute episodes.The show may well transfer to traditional TV in the future, with AwesomenessTV having already worked with Nickelodeon on a TV compilation of its comedy sketches.&quot;We want to play in both worlds. I think there&apos;s a great opportunity to start stuff on YouTube, develop it, build an audience and then drive it elsewhere in other forms, like we did with Nickelodeon,&quot; said Robbins at MIPJunior.Robbins&apos; boss,DreamWorks head Jeffrey Katzenberg reinforced that strategyin an interview with The Guardian during the conference.&quot;Brian is not just an incubator to find stars: he&apos;s an incubator to find hits. We&apos;ve never had that in television. If you look at what&apos;s going on in network TV today, they&apos;ve gotta make a bazillion shows, they spend hundreds of millions of dollars, and maybe three or four things come out of it,&quot; said Katzenberg.&quot;Brian is able to do it instantly, he gets feedback literally within hours of posting something, and his metrics are vastly greater. So that marketplace is not only going to have value in its bits and bytes, but as an incubator for big ideas and things that can then move to linear.&quot;
The first wave of reviews of Apple&apos;s new iPad Air tablet have been published overnight, includingone by the Guardian&apos;s technology editor, Charles Arthur.&quot;It&apos;s only when you get hold of an iPad Air that you realise how well Apple has crafted this device. It&apos;s lighter and the internals are faster. Add in the free software, and it has raised the bar on what you can do out of the box with a tablet.The iPad now isn&apos;t just something to do a few functions around and about. It&apos;s a device to replace your computer for almost everything.&quot;What are other journalists who got early access to the iPad Air making of it? The tablet has been winning rave reviews across the board, with (unsurprisingly) plenty of &quot;best iPad ever&quot; verdicts.What they like: the slimmer and lighter design, including the way its smaller bezel means the device itself is smaller, even though the screen is the same as previous full-sized iPads; the speedy A7 processor; the 10-hour battery life; the improved front camera for 1080p video calls; and the free iLife and iWork apps.What they&apos;re less keen on: the lack of the iPhone 5S&apos;s Touch ID feature; no support for the 802.11ac Wi-Fi standard; the uncustomisable keyboard (e.g. third-party apps); readability in direct sunlight; the fact that the rear camera isn&apos;t the same as the one on the iPhone 5S; and no parental controls (an iOS 7 issue rather than iPad Air specifically).Here&apos;s a roundup of some of the key verdicts from elsewhere:Pocket Lint&quot;Apple has done it again: the iPad Air is a tablet better than the last iPad. Simply put the iPad Air is the best iPad the company has ever made. It&apos;s light, it&apos;s thin, it&apos;s fast, it&apos;s amazing.For die-hard Apple fans we can see how you would be disappointed in terms of wow factor, there is no standout feature here that you will want to show your friends the moment they walk through the door in the same way you can with the iPhone 5S and Touch ID, however this is Apple creating the ultimate experience rather than focusing on specs for specs&apos; sake.&quot;TechCrunch&quot;When Apple introduced the iPad mini, I feel in love and felt that I’d never be swayed back to the other side. The iPad Air makes the argument anew that there’s still room for big tablets in people’s lives, and it might just help usher in an era of computing where households own more than one kind of iPad, and PCs are harder and harder to find.&quot;CNET&quot;If you found yourself tuning out the last few generations of iPad thanks to their extreme familiarity, it’s time to get yourself dialed back in. The iPad Air is worth getting excited about. Though it brings no new functionality to the table, and we can’t help being disappointed about the lack of Touch ID, the performance increase and solid battery life show that progress is still being made on the inside. It’s the new exterior design, however, that really impresses. The iPad Air is thinner than any tablet this size deserves to be, and lighter, too. The old iPad always felt surprisingly hefty. This one, compellingly lithe.&quot;Time&quot;The iPad Air’s best feature is the 475,000 third-party offerings tailored for it in the App Store, still by far the most bountiful collection of tablet software in quantity, quality and sheer diversity, from entertainment to Web tools to education to mundane business stuff. No competing model has anything like it, which is the single biggest reason why no other full-sized model has made much of an impact on the market.Designwise, this iPad is so much svelter that it almost feels like a new class of Apple tablet, but it remains an iPad — and for now, at least, that continues to be the most important bragging right that any tablet can claim.&quot;Engadget&quot;Surprise: the iPad Air is the best iPad we&apos;ve reviewed. In addition, though, it&apos;s also the most comfortable 10-inch tablet we&apos;ve ever tested. Not every manufacturer can produce a thin and light device without also making it feel cheap or flimsy, but Apple nailed it. Factor in a sizable boost in performance and battery life, and the Air is even more compelling. The last two iPads served up relatively few improvements, but the Air provides people with more of a reason to upgrade or even buy a tablet for the first time.&quot;AnandTech&quot;Two weeks ago I had all but written off the bigger iPad. It was too bulky and just no where near as portable as the iPad mini. Once the latter gets a retina display and equal hardware across the board, why would anyone consider the bigger model?The iPad Air changed my perspective on all of that. It really does modernize the big iPad. While I suspect there are still going to be a lot of users who prefer the smaller form factor of the iPad mini with retina display, I do feel like there are those users who will continue to appreciate all of the benefits that go along with having a larger display.&quot;All Things Digital&quot;I’ve been testing the iPad Air for about a week and found it a pleasure to use. This new iPad isn’t a radical rethinking of what a tablet can be, but it’s a major improvement on a successful product. It is the best tablet I’ve ever reviewed.That isn’t just because of its slimmer, lighter design, but because Apple boasts 475,000 apps optimised for tablet use — far more than any other tablet platform. (The iPad also can run all of the million or so apps available for the iPhone.) By contrast, the vast majority of apps available for rival Android tablets are just stretched versions of phone apps.&quot;New York Times&quot;What you may not know is this: Those 6.4 ounces make all the difference when, as you recline while reading or watching a movie, you conk out and the iPad falls forward to bonk you on the nose. The Air won’t hurt you the way the old iPad did.The weight reduction and a 20% slimmer profile provide other benefits, too. My messenger bag strap didn’t dig into my shoulder as deeply when my iPad was in it. My hand didn’t cramp up while grasping the iPad Air for an hour while watching movies or playing games.&quot;Telegraph&quot;There is a question, of course, over why anyone should spend £399 on a tablet when Carphone Warehouse will sell you one for £49, and Tesco will sell you the perfectly decent Hudl for £119.But neither of these devices, nor for that matter Samsung’s more expensive versions, feel like the truly premium iPad. And none has that vast library of unique tablet apps. While Android phones have caught up with the iPhone, and in many aspects surpass it, the iPad remains a unique proposition and the iPad Air is the best iPad yet.&quot;The Loop&quot;This smaller size is great. If you have decent sized hands you can type with two thumbs on the iPad in portrait, something I wasn’t really able to do with the last generation iPad without a lot of stretching. Clearly a full-size iPad is not something you will be thumb typing with all the time1, but it does give you an idea of how much smaller the iPad Air is.The iPad Air also comes with Apple’s A7 chip, the fastest chip the company has manufactured to date. Power has never been something I worried about on an iPad and I certainly won’t be worried with this new version.&quot;USA Today&quot;This latest full-size Apple tablet is the most tempting iPad yet, better than its already best of breed predecessors, superior still to each and every rival big screen slate that I&apos;ve tested. Apple dominates the tablet apps ecosystem. Its tablet remains the easiest to use.But rivals are closing the gap with clever features that I wish Apple would adopt. And even for Apple aficionados, the iPad Air isn&apos;t a must-do upgrade.&quot;T3&quot;Pitching the iPad Air against its competitors is quite easy – it&apos;s the best looking, premium, and app-happy tablet on the market. The cosmetic design changes are an unequivocal improvement, and the weight reduction proves a genuine benefit for everyday use.We&apos;d hoped for a better camera (more for the slo-mo video) and Touch ID tech, but the 64-bit processor improvements mean it&apos;ll cope with anything you throw at it for some time. The battery seems to have improved a touch, too.&quot;Bloomberg&quot;One thing that’s not here that should be is Touch ID, the fingerprint sensor on the latest iPhone. Apple won’t say why it was left out, but it’s arguably even more important on a larger device, which may be used to access more sensitive personal information. I expect to see it on future iPads, and will be glad when it shows up.Not that long ago, the iPad so dominated the tablet market that it would have been unthinkable to buy something else. With the rise of quality tablets from Google, Amazon and others, it’s no longer the only choice. But it’s still the best choice.&quot;Stuff&quot;The truth is that the iPad Air is every bit the dramatic update its name suggests. It’s not simply the smaller and lighter form, or the increased processing power and battery life. Nor is it the improved and now bundled iLife and iWork apps.It’s the way those three elements of portability, power and productivity combine that make this the most useful and usable tablet Apple has ever made. There are other tablets that are more portable, more powerful, or better suited to productivity, but none manage to combine the three as effectively as the iPad Air.&quot;Mashable&quot;Is the Apple iPad Air a major innovation in tablets? No. Heck, it doesn’t even have the cool, or oddball, Mayday 24/7 video-chat customer service found in the new Amazon Kindle Fire HDX devices. Time will tell if that’s a good thing or a bad thing. For me, though, the question is not which tablet offers the most whiz-bang features the question is not which tablet offers the most whiz-bang features. It’s which one serves as the ultimate consumer device.&quot;David Pogue&quot;So that’s the iPad Air for you: No longer alone in the marketplace, no longer the only right choice, no breakthrough new features. But it’s smaller, lighter, and faster than ever, with a much bigger catalog of apps—and much better ones—than the competition. If you want a big tablet, this is the one that will make you happiest.Put another way, there really is something in the Air.&quot;
Nokia reported an operating profit of €118m in the third quarter of 2013, although its revenues fell 22% year on year to €5.7bn.The company was buoyed by stronger sales of its flagship Lumia Windows Phone handsets, with 8.8m shipments representing a new high for the brand.Nokia has now sold 36.1m Lumia handsets since the first model launched in late 2011, although that figure is put into perspective by Apple&apos;s 33.8m iPhone sales in the third quarter of 2013 alone, as well as the more-than 900m Android smartphones activated so far by Google.Nokia also said it shipped 5.9m of its Asha handsets in emerging markets during the third quarter, taking it to 14.7m smartphones overall. Nokia&apos;s devices and services division&apos;s net sales fell 19% year on year to €2.9bn.Microsoft has agreed to pay €3.8bn for the division and a further €1.7bn for a 10-year non-exclusive licence for its patents, with a further fee due for a four-year licensing deal for its HERE maps and location platform.The acquisition is expected to close early in 2014, when Nokia will focus on its three remaining cor businesses: Nokia Solutions and Networks, HERE, and its Advanced Technologies R&amp;D division.&quot;Our strategy work is making good progress and it has already become clear that there are meaningful opportunities for all of our business areas: NSN, HERE and Advanced Technologies,&quot; said chairman and interim chief executive Risto Siilasmaa in a statement.In all of these businesses, we have strong assets that we continue to invest in for the long term benefit of our customers and shareholders.&quot;The HERE division reported net sales of €211m in the third quarter, down 20% year-on-year, but converted a €56m operating loss into a €14m operating profit. Meanwhile, NSN&apos;s net sales fell 26% to €2.6bn, while its operating profit slipped 9% to €166m.
Samsung has confirmed a UK release date for itsGalaxy Tab 3 Kids, its first Android tablet intended for use primarily by children. The tablet will go on sale on 1 November from online retailers, before appearing in stores a week later.Retailers confirmed to sell it include Toys R Us, Argos, Shop Direct, Dixons, JLP and Asda. Samsung will be preloading the device with a range of e-books, apps and games, while also curating its own &quot;Kids Store&quot; for parents to download new content.The Galaxy Tab 3 Kids is essentially the existing Galaxy Tab 3 tablet with a colourful, more-easily grippable casing, and a &quot;C Pen&quot; stylus for use with drawing apps. It also provides a time management feature for parents that can lock the device after a pre-set amount of usage.The device has a seven-inch screen, 1.2GHz dual-core processor, front and rear cameras, and 8GB of internal memory plus a microSD card slot for storage.&quot;We’re seeing technology become ever more popular with children, and wanted to create a tablet that provides kids with interactive and educational content with the added benefit of giving parents control over their children’s tab use,&quot; said Samsung&apos;s Simon Stanford.The device was first unveiled in August, but at the time only a release in Samsung&apos;s homeland of South Korea was confirmed. British parents will be getting the device ahead of Americans, with Samsung having announced a10 November debut for the devicein the US earlier this week.The Galaxy Tab 3 Kids will have plenty of competition in the run-up to Christmas.Tesco&apos;s Hudlis being marketed as a family-focused Android tablet, as is theArgos MyTablet.Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire HDXis also aiming to be nestled under family Christmas trees come 25 December.Tablets are already popular with British children. Ofcom&apos;s recentChildren and Parents: Media Use and Attitudes Reportfound that use of a tablet at home has tripled among British 5-15 year-olds in the last year to 42%, while 26% of 12-15 year-olds and 18% of 8-11 year-olds now have their own tablet.
Owners of a certain model of Dell laptop have been subjected to very unpleasant “cat urine” odours emanating from their new machines.The powerful odour is “not at all health hazard” and seems to have been caused by a “manufacturing process that has now been changed,” according to SteveB, a senior technical consultant for Dellposting on the company’s support forums.Dell was first made aware of the issue in June 2013 when a Dell user called “three west”first posted about the smellof a new Dell Latitude E6430u saying “the machine is great, but it smells as if it was assembled near a tomcat&apos;s litter box. It is truly awful! It seems to be coming from the keyboard”.Cleaning is not the answerDell first suggested cleaning the keyboard and air vents around the laptop to cure the smell, but as more and more users complained of the same stench being emitted from the laptop from different countries and regions, it soon became clear that it wasn’t users to blame but the actual laptop.“Well .. here I am Sunday doing some work on the couch and my wife says ,&quot;What stinks like cat pee?&quot;. I said ... I think its this laptop ... she puts her nose up to the keyboard and BAM! It really stinks,”said gambit29.Fixed but still smelling in the homeThe smell was narrowed down to an issue with manufacturing, which was apparently resolved in October, meaning that new machines running off the production line were cured of the cat-pee smell.For all those suffering from the smell, the only solution was to return the affected laptops to Dell for a replacement, althoughDell was initially worriedit wouldn’t “have sufficient stock for everyone and also that any parts we are sending out do not also have the same issue”.Unfortunately, not all of Dell’s replacement machines were free from odouras one user complained: “I just received my 5th replacement 6430u yesterday and the smell is still there ...”Dell Latitude E6430u users are now advised to contact technical support to arrange for an exchange of any odour afflicted machines.Dell failed to elaborate exactly what was causing the issue, but the majority of users complained that the laptop’s palm rest and keyboard seemed to be the culprit.“If you order an E6430u now, it will not have the issue,” SteveB added.• In September, Dell’s founder Michael Dellbought back the PC manufacturerin a $24.8bn deal
If you want a first reaction, how about that of the video producer who was an onlooker in our rough comparison of the Surface Pro and the new iPad Air? &quot;Wow,&quot; he said, on picking up Apple&apos;s latest revision to the iPad. &quot;That&apos;s amazing, isn&apos;t it?&quot;Compared with the Surface Pro – which at 903g (without keyboard) is nearly twice as heavy – the iPad Air is indeed a svelte chunk of &quot;wow&quot;. It makes the previous generations of iPads look a bit clunky, and heavy; their bathtub-shaped profile has been replaced with a rounded one which precisely echoes last year&apos;s iPad mini (and this year&apos;s catch-it-if-you-can iPad mini retina). And it&apos;s really light. And thin. Put beside it, the Surface Pro, with its abruptly acute angles and uncompromising heft, seems like a piece of 1960s brutalist architecture.Yet Apple doesn&apos;t think that design is enough in tablets now. By making its creativity apps – the iLife suite (Garageband, iMovie, iPhoto) and iWork suite (the Numbers spreadsheet program, Pages document editor, Keynote presentation program) – free with each new device, and the upgrade free for those who already bought them on the iOS platform, it is raising the bar both for what tablets should look and feel like (and especially weigh), and what they should be able to do.Plus by adding its 64-bit A7 chip into the iPad Air, it has created a device that doesn&apos;t pause in handling pretty large spreadsheets and drawing graphs that would have other tablets lagging, in every sense.SPECIFICATIONSScreen:9.7in 2048x1536 &quot;retina&quot; (264 pixels per inch)Processor:Apple 64-bit A7 custom ARM plus M7 coprocessorRAM:1GB (reported)Storage:16/32/64/128 GB SSDGraphics:on chipOperating system:iOS 7Connectivity:Wi-Fi (802.11a/b/g/n), optional 4G (compatible with UK and international networks though not all simultaneously), AirPlay, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, AirDrop, Lightning port (connectors available to HDMI, SD cards)Cameras:5MP back, 1080p HD video recording with stabilisation, face detection, 3x video zoom, 1.2MP front with 720p HD videoDimensions:6.6in (169.5mm) x 9.4in (240mm) x 0.29in (7.5mm) for both Wi-Fi and LTE versionsWeight:469g (LTE version: 478g)HARDWAREAs with so much of Apple&apos;s stuff, photos don&apos;t really do it justice. The iPad 3 was pretty and thin; the iPad mini was thinner and much more elegant. Now the iPad Air takes its cues from the mini – a thinner bezel around the screen (but with thumb detection so you don&apos;t accidentally activate it), an almost-vertical profile (but gently rounded), and so little weight that you might think it&apos;s just a large mini. (Which in a sense it is, since it contains the same number of pixels and processor as the new iPad mini.)The build quality is terrific; the screen is crisply sharp; and it leaves one wondering whether you can make a tablet any thinner and still get the same battery life.Speaking of battery life, it&apos;s as colossal as ever – about 10 hours, as promised. What&apos;s noticeable is that with the M7 motion coprocessor, which detects movement (or lack of it), the standby time is greater because when the device detects that nothing&apos;s happening – no screen input, no movement of the device – then it reduces battery use. That doesn&apos;t mean that background tasks (such as uploading to Dropbox) stop but does mean when the cover is closed and it&apos;s motionless, it uses almost nothing.SOFTWAREIf you&apos;ve already got an iOS device, you can restore it onto a new iPad. This still works better than on Android, where my experience is that certain apps won&apos;t download when restoring a device.Besides the huge number of apps designed for the iPad – on which those running the Android team gaze enviously, if their efforts to create a similar&quot;designed for tablet&quot; section in Google Playare any guide – Apple is also making its play with those free apps for people who buy a new device. (Enough people are expected to do the latter that Apple had to make some allowance in its revenues.)The message here is that tablets aren&apos;t just for consumption; they&apos;re to let you do useful stuff too. Arguably, they can become a PC replacement for a lot of things. And since one of the most-used phrases whenever someone says &quot;tablets are taking over from PCs&quot; is &quot;yeah, well I&apos;ll always want a PC to run Photoshop&quot; (in itself a daft idea, given Photoshop&apos;s comparatively tiny user base), let&apos;s look at iPhoto.iPhotoThis has gone from being a rather clunky photo editing app on the Mac and iPad to something which you could happily use to enhance pictures at a level that&apos;s well beyond &quot;no more red eye&quot;. There are tons of effects, and touch-sensitive editing controls which let you alter the colour intensity of different areas within a photo (using a neat filter set called &quot;drama&quot;). You can crop, rotate, erase, saturate, add filters, apply effects – and where it used to be a puzzling, mute affair, iPhoto now (at last) comes with a Help menu that actually helps.iPhoto has extensive help &ndash; as do the other iLife and iWork apps (photo downsampled from 4MB screenshot)iPhoto on iPad now has multiple filter effects (photo downsampled from 4MB screenshot)What it really shows is that Apple has finally given some thought to how a photo-editing app ought to function on a large touchscreen device. iPhoto still has its challenges on the iPhone – principally, that that screen is too small to make sensible overview decisions – but on the iPad you can do detailed work at a fraction of the price of any big photo editing app.iPhoto on iPad has standard controls you'd find on a desktop image editing program (photo downsampled from 4MB screenshot)iMovieOriginally, iMovie was the first big desktop program that demonstrated that Apple could write software which simplified life for those who weren&apos;t professionals but wanted to do thing. Its &quot;big preview pane/video clip/editing area&quot; paradigm was so good it drove Bill Gates to chew out the team on Microsoft Movie Maker because theirs wasn&apos;t nearly as good.iMovie on the iPad offers plenty of help, and has a sensible layout, with the timeline editor at the bottomNow, Apple&apos;s doing this on the iPad. It&apos;s the same recipe: video clips, editing area, preview pane. Split the clip? No problem. Slow it down or speed it up? Sure. Freeze frame? Duplicate? Change the audio level? Add your own audio? Can do. Add themes? Fade in or out? Rotate the clip? Zoom in? No problem. (The last two are done with your fingers.) Again, it&apos;s a poke in the eye for anyone who insists that tablets are just for &quot;consumption&quot;. Moreover, the A7 chip is scarily fast. Where the first iMovie – and quite a few successors, a decade ago – needed time to render clips at different speeds, the A7 does it right away.GaragebandI know professional musicians who like to jot down ideas on Garageband (though they then use the power of something like ProTools when they get back to the studio). If making music is your thing, then there are enough drum loops and other input methods to keep you completely happy. Even though I can barely scratch the surface of Garageband, it&apos;s evident that there are vast areas that a talented – or budding – musician could exploit, all without ever cracking open a physical keyboard.But of course, people keep saying (in yet another of the wearying Canute-ish refrains about the iPad), iOS &quot;isn&apos;t a full-fat operating system. For that you need Windows.&quot; However,as Ben Thompson puts it:&quot;the iPad is a truly disruptive product. It is inferior to a PC on the attributes that matter to PC-users, even as it excels on orthogonal attributes that appeal to a new type of customer. Those orthogonal attributes certainly include things like portability and battery life.&quot;Or as Ian Betteridgeput it more succinctly, the &quot;full-fat operating system&quot; argument mistakes means for ends: &quot;The answer to &apos;what do you want to do with a computer?&apos; is not &apos;run a full operating system&apos;. It&apos;s write/draw/paint/program/whatever.&quot;Talk of &quot;needingWindows&quot; is rubbish. What youneedis a device that does the computing tasks you want to get done. Microsoft puts Microsoft Office on the Surface (at a price); now, Apple is putting itsiWorksuite for free on the iPad Air.NumbersMost people don&apos;t need the deep functionality that Excel offers. Which is fortunate, because Numbers doesn&apos;t have that deep functionality; pivot tables aren&apos;t catered for, though there&apos;s a very large range of formulae available. It can open Excel spreadsheets (though some compatibility may be lost).What I did fund was that Numbers on the iPad is as usable as its sibling on a desktop. (I use Numbers all the time for calculations and graphing of all sorts; it&apos;s a long way ahead of Google Docs, and a lot more comprehensible than OpenOffice.) The new interactive charts are fun, certainly.Nor does the iPad choke on workload. Given a spreadsheet containing a main workbook of 81 rows x 50 columns, with multiple interdependency in each column, and two attached workbooks, Numbers on the iPad Air scrolls through it without trouble. I tested the same spreadsheet (saved via iCloud) on an iPad 2: it had trouble keeping up with the screen fills – patches would appear where it hadn&apos;t been able to draw the numbers quickly enough for the scrolling.An animated spreadsheet in Numbers: the tab below lets you step through a time seriesPlus the iPad Air can draw graphs on Numbers without a pause: I could pick out a multi-row 50-column set and draw a graph (including the interesting new interactive graphs, which weren&apos;t available on previous versions) in seconds. It&apos;s actually easier doing that on the iPad than on a laptop – the scrolling works better.The clear space for improvement: you can&apos;t (at present) choose a chart you&apos;ve already created in Numbers and paste it or link to it in Keynote, the presentation program – though you can into Pages (with a static or interactive chart). The absence from Keynote feels like a silly oversight; it certainly needs to be fixed.PagesOn the desktop, this has always been a slightly odd hybrid of desktop publishing and simple document editing, a strange fish-fowl. On the tablet, it makes more sense: it&apos;s all your document editing functions rolled together so you don&apos;t need separate apps. It even has change tracking. And it&apos;s Office-compatible – at least, coming in. Once it&apos;s in Pages format, it&apos;s pretty much stuck there until it gets to someone with Pages on a Mac desktop, who can output it in Word format. However, before that you can share the link for collaborative editing on iCloud, and for general editing – by sending a link to someone who can then read and edit it, even if they don&apos;t have an iCloud account, on a Windows (with IE9+ or Chrome) or Mac.Using Pages on the iPad with Track Changes enabled, and a chart pasted from the Numbers spreadsheetAgain, Pages isn&apos;t as powerful as Word. But then again, there are so many functions in word that that&apos;s like comparing the Swiss army to a Swiss army knife. The latter suffices fine for most things except dealing with war.KeynoteAs presentation software goes, Keynote does have the merit that it&apos;s hard to create ugly presentations. But that aside, you have pretty much all the elements you would like: presenter notes (appear on your screen, not the presentation one), links out to web pages, &quot;kiosk&quot;-style presentations which work on a loop. When you&apos;re working on a presentation, you also get dynamic lines showing whether you&apos;ve got elements of a slide arranged correctly in relation to each other. (The picture below shows what happens when you resize an image inside a shape.)Editing a Keynote slide: guide lines show when you have proportions correct (photo downsampled from 4MB screenshot)If you&apos;re a Powerpoint whiz (everyone thinks they are; very few are) then this won&apos;t satisfy you. If you like to get presentations together in a handy form, it will. And yes, it does open Powerpoint files – both the .ppt and .pptx formats. You can take them direct from Dropbox (via the &quot;Open in&quot; menu). Or you can import them via iCloud (though that requires a desktop Mac.)The previously-mentioned problem – you can&apos;t copy or incorporate charts from Numbers into it – is the key one I&apos;d point to. The big problem is that Keynote lacks a &quot;paste&quot; control, which is a pretty big oversight. If you want to paste an image into a presentation from Dropbox, say, you have to first save it into the onboard Photo library, and then incorporate that via Keynote&apos;s menu. It&apos;s a bit clunky; let&apos;s hope this gets solved in an update.Opening a Powerpoint (.pptx) in Keynote from DropboxOverall, though, Keynote on the iPad sticks two bullet-pointed fingers up at the idea that you can&apos;t do office work on an iPad. Just make sure you&apos;re on a good connection for moving any media around.CAMERAIt&apos;s surprising how many people you see taking pictures with an iPad. That big clunky thing? Yet you see them doing it at weddings, while touring around, in really surprising situations – the most remarkable I recall being an aid worker taking a picture of a dead animal in a drought area in Africa.Why? Clearly, people find it useful. The new camera is just the same as the old one, at 5MP, as is the camera on the front. Apple seems as surprised as anyone that people use iPads as cameras.KEYBOARDApple didn&apos;t announce its own keyboard to do with the iPad Air; it was obvious from the moment Tim Cook said &quot;the competition is trying to turn a laptop into a tablet, and a tablet into a laptop&quot; that Apple wasn&apos;t going to follow the Surface route to a keyboard. Nevertheless, there are lots of add-on Bluetooth keyboards for the iPad (Logitech has one which fits the bill excellently).PRICINGThe iPad Air starts at £399/$499 for the 16GB Wi-Fi model, through £479/$599 (32GB), £559/$699 (64GB) and £639/$799 (128GB).The 3G/LTE model starts at £499/$629 (16GB), to £579/$729 (32GB), £659/$829 (64GB), and finally £739/$929 (128GB).Yes, that&apos;s really a lot more than you&apos;d pay for aTesco Hudl. Or anArgos MyTablet. The latter, though, truly is a waste of money (in testing for our video review of the tablets, the on-screen button for the MyTablet didn&apos;t respond to a touch in any orientation across five different takes).In general, Android tablets are cheaper – although Apple is starting to make life harder for them, first by the pricing of last year&apos;s iPad mini at £249/$299 for the 16GB version (and doesn&apos;t the US price look a lot more appealing there?), secondly by adding all that extra software (eschew the fake versions you&apos;ll see in the Google Play store, unless you like malware), and third by keeping the iPad 2 – from 2011 – on sale. (This is principally aimed at enterprises and education, but is the best-selling model.)Apple has always been unashamed about pricing at a premium. But it also lays on free stuff; the iLife suite has come with Macs for years, and there still isn&apos;t a comparable suite on Windows. Now it&apos;s doing the same on the iPad. Sure, you can spend less. But you don&apos;t get the apps. For example, Google&apos;s own free app QuickOfficecan&apos;t edit Google Docs files. You can hunt around for Garageband-alikes on Android (Pocketband&apos;s Uloopsseems to be preferred, though it requires a fast connection, and doesn&apos;t have the same range of instruments; it&apos;s essentially just a sequencer). And that&apos;s before we get on to AirPlay, which lets you play content wirelessly on a TV via an Apple TV (£99/$99).VERDICTIt&apos;s only when you get hold of an iPad Air that you realise how well Apple has crafted this device. It&apos;s lighter and the internals are faster. Add in the free software, and it has raised the bar on what you can do out of the box with a tablet. The iPad now isn&apos;t just something to do a few functions around and about. It&apos;s a device to replace your computer for almost everything.Apple hasn&apos;t joined in the &quot;spec wars&quot; by upping its screen resolution beyond the &quot;retina&quot; level (where in theory you won&apos;t be able to see individual pixels at typical arm&apos;s length), even though lots of Android tablets have. But then, if your only metric is screen resolution, of course you&apos;re going to think that&apos;s the most important. Apple seems to think that getting things done matters more.Stars: 5/5Cons:not the cheapest; screen PPI lower than some Android tablets; Keynote missing some functionalityPros:very light; very thin; large screen area; powerful A7 chip deals with big spreadsheets or games easily; long battery life; great free iLife and iWork software; huge third-party app ecosystem designed for tablets.
Global online payments provider PayPal is hoping to give digital startups a boost by waiving up to $50,000 in payment processing fees for 18 months.PayPal’sStartup Blueprint Programreduces the costs for startups helping them get up and running quickly, removing the complexity of payment processing, and helping them to expand while maintaining them as payment customers as they successfully go forward.“Startups weren’t interested in investment from PayPal; what they were after was help with working out how payments work and getting up and running fast,” said John Lunn, global director of PayPal’s developer network speaking to the Guardian.Those over five years old and $3m plus need not applyTo be eligible for the fee waiver and PayPal’s Startup Blueprint Program, startups need to be first nominated either directly by PayPal through one of its developer evangelists or one of its partnering incubators and accelerators including 500Startups, Seedcamp and Elevator.PayPal's Startup Blueprint Project aims to get startups going quicker to help them expand.“We&apos;re thrilled to be a part of the PayPal StartUp Blueprint program, as it directly aligns with our goal of helping early-stage startups compete in the global marketplace,&quot; said Tom Bronfield, co-founder and managing director of Elevator.The startups also need to be under five years old and making less than $3m a year in revenue.High risk is PayPal’s game“Startups were going from being an idea to a multimillion pound business within two years, falling under the radar of a normal merchant bank because going from nothing to something very big so quickly is considered very high risk and that’s where PayPal can help,” said Lunn.PayPal’s waiver of fees is carefully calculated, of course, ceasing at 18 months or $50,000, which equates to about $1.65m in payments, because most startups sink or swim within 18 months.It is not just money PayPal’s prepared to help with, however. Lunn said: “We’re also offering startups the kind of &apos;white glove&apos; support large companies like British Airways get, offering them a named, local contact at PayPal who will manage their account and help with their business models, plus access to startup mentors and evangelists.”PayPal is starting relatively small with a select number of startup incubators in the US, EU and Israel, but is looking to expand into other territories with local language support.“We’re starting slowly for now, but we’re looking to build it up with the right people in the right places,” Lunn said.• In October, payment processor iZettle,equipped homeless sellers of Sweden’s equivalent of the Big Issuewith card machines and smartphones
