A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe real danger of copying music (it's not what you think) &gt;&gt; Wired.comJaron Lanier:It is one thing to sing for your supper occasionally, but to have to do so for every meal forces you into a peasant's dilemma: The peasant's dilemma is that there's no buffer. A musician who is sick or old, or who has a sick kid, cannot perform and cannot earn. A few musicians, a very tiny number indeed, will do well, but even the most successful real-time-only careers can fall apart suddenly because of a spate of bad luck. Real life cannot avoid those spates, so eventually almost everyone living a real-time economic life falls on hard times.What really happens on a teen girl's iPhone &gt;&gt; Huffington PostFourteen-year-old Casey Schwartz has ditched more social networking services than most people her parents' age have joined. Like many of her friends, Casey has a tendency to embrace social media sites, then suddenly drop them.Skype, Formspring and WhatsApp: All three have suffered this fate. Casey still uses Snapchat, but less than she did last year, and in the span of three months, she's joined, quit, and rejoined Twitter. She's collected banished apps into a folder on her phone labeled "Stuff Nobody Likes." And she's thought about deleting her Facebook account because she checks it so frequently.Remember being 14? Alternatively, looking forward to being 14?Snapchat changes logo amid lawsuit challenging founding of startup &gt;&gt; latimes.comSnapchat, the popular social network startup that lets users send each other photos that quickly disappear, has given its logo a facelift.Since launching in 2011, the Los Angeles-based company has been known for its logo of a ghost making a silly face by sticking its tongue out. But earlier this week, Snapchat rolled out an app update for its Apple users with a logo that shows a face-less ghost.The startup on Thursday told users that the change was not an accident.Why tech responds poorly to crises, and how to do better &gt;&gt; Scripting.comDave Winer:The first time I saw a tech company blow it in the Internet age was in 1994 when Intel was trying to quell public outrage about a problem with math functions on their Pentium chip.According to Wikipedia, an estimated 1 in 9 billion floating point divides would produce inaccurate results. The problem could be demonstrated in Excel. Intel said the flaw was so small that it didn't warrant any concern by users. They were probably right. But that didn't stop the outrage from escalating. Every time Intel spoke, the problem got worse. Eventually they had to offer replacement chips to any user who wanted one. It might have cost much less if they had admitted the problem at the start.Winer's right; yet equally, people were "upset" about something that would hardly ever affect them. Part of why they were upset was that they couldn'tpredictwhen they would be affected. Possibly that's the real lesson: people dislike uncertainty with a visceral intensity.BBC Weather launches mobile app &gt;&gt; BBCAs soon as you open the app it will automatically detect your location and give you an instant overview of the weather conditions wherever you are. It also gives quick access to the 5-day forecast with the option to look up further detail such as hourly UK forecasts, and three hourly forecasts for international locations, for the next 48 hours. You can find other destinations from the UK and abroad with a simple search and save them to a customisable list of your favourite places.No option to improve the weather, however. (Thanks @slimbowski for the link.)'This Is Our Signature': iOS 7 &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber:There's a sense of place, depth, and spatiality in iOS 7 that makes it feel like hardware. A real thing, not pixels rendered on glass. It's as though Ive has brought the same design goals that have always informed Apple's hardware to software. And here, his team isn't limited by physics. Planes can have zero thickness. But it's a system, in the truest sense of the word.iOS 7 is not perfect; this new design framework will evolve and improve over time, just like iOS's original aesthetic did.Tablet segmentation by usage: explaining the popularity of smaller tablets &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:Content "consumption" is a popular buzzword among analysts to describe tablet use cases. However, this categorization limits itself to a single segment of the tablet users and the products that cater to those users. The usage patterns here are along expected lines and similar to the "computing" segment of smartphone users, i.e. heavy social networking/email, messaging, browsing, gaming, etc.The key point to understand here is that most of today's tablets ranging from the 9.7" iPad to low-end 7-inch tablets cater to this segment.The iOS 7 Power User Challenge &gt;&gt; Fraser SpeirsFraser Speirs:Conventional wisdom said that you couldn't possibly get a desktop OS running on a phone. Conventional wisdom said that you couldn't get rid of a user-visible filesystem. Conventional wisdom said you couldn't require all software on the platform to come through a first-party app store.Right now, just before WWDC 2013, I think it's important to take time to appreciate exactly what iOS has achieved.iOS broke the tyranny of the hierarchical filesystem as a user interface. A concept so complex that possibly the majority of computer users never achieved any level of real competence in its use. A far larger proportion certainly never achieved any kind of mastery.iOS turned the purchase and installation of third-party software from a great opportunity to destroy your computer into something that people do for fun.That is a key point. iOS doesn't require power users; and so power user complaints don't necessarily carry any traction. Except Speirs can think of a lot of power user things he'd like to do - few of which are answered by iOS 7. (Thanks @Avro for the link.)iOS7 &gt;&gt; AppleWatch this video, with commentary by Jonathan IVe and Craig Federighi, and bear in mind a subtitle: "everything Scott Forstall did was WRONG." It makes it much more interesting.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday – the start of E3! Woohoo! Oh and don't forget to watch theEToo London feedtonight from 7pm!
Consumers worried about their internet privacy in the wake of the online snooping revelations have the option of using some alternatives to the likes of Google and can try to use more secure forms of communication – if, that is, individuals believe maintaining their online security is worth it.What services could be affected by Prism?According to the National Security Agency documents seen by the Guardian,a programme called Prismhas been used to gather information from users of Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Yahoo, AOL, PalTalk and Skype since as early as 2007. Services affected are likely to have included Google's search, Gmail and YouTube, Yahoo's email and Flickr photo services, Microsoft's now defunct Hotmail email service, and Apple's mail and music products.How do I work out how exposed I am?There are tools available to help visualise how consumer data, as well as activity online and on mobile phones, are tracked. Online privacy initiativeMe &amp; My Shadowallows users to select the services and platforms they use, and maps the risks associated with that activity. It also suggests alternative tools and masks to hide online activity.How can I anonymise my online activity?There are straightforward search tools, such asDuck Duck Goand the Firefox browser extensionPriv3, which won't track your search history.Click&amp;cleanwill clear your internet history, too.The more heavyweight option is to mask your IP address, the unique identification number of every device that connects to the internet, and there are three main choices:TheOnion Router, or TOR, is free and will disguise your IP address, but can be complex to set up. Another option is to use a different server or proxy, which can be done by changing individual access settings on your machine. The third option is to subscribe to a VPN service.A "virtual private network", such asBolenVPNorAstrill VPN, will encrypt and anonymise your information for upwards of $10 per month. For the ultimate in internet armour, there's even a complete secure operating system calledWhonix.Rik Ferguson, vice-president of security research at Trend Micro, said the complexity of something like Tor is not likely to be relevant for most web users: "Unless you're conducting research for humanitarian projects where you feel there may be inappropriate government-level interests, it is too much effort to go to."Most of the material you are looking at are public resources, material made available to the general public, so it's just not relevant for the general public's use of the internet."How can I stop my information being tracked and used by ad networks?The browser add-onGhosteryvisualises who is following you across the web, such a ad targetting tools, and will block them.Collusionfor Firefox creates a real-time map of the information you are leaving across the web. There is a swathe of tools to mask identity, location and personal information specific to other services such as thePlease Don't Stalk MeTwitter app, which shows an alternative location,Sharemenot, which stops Facebook 'likes' being recorded until you click on them andAdblock Plusstops certain elements on a page being downloaded.What about social networks?Social networks are by their nature intended to be at least partly public. Consumer awareness is relatively high about how Facebook, among others, uses the personal data of its users.The advice always given on social networks is if you are not happy shouting out the information in the middle of a crowded shopping centre, don't put it online.There may be a resurgence of interest in European social networks, which could include Friends Reunited, though many social networks in Europe have been either subsumed or overtaken by localised Facebook versions.How can I protect my email?Email should be thought of as a digital postcard. "If you're not doing the equivalent of putting that information in an envelope then you are not taking steps to help maintain your confidentiality."Ferguson says Google has always been explicit about the content of email being automatically scanned to display relevant ads, though scanning by the security services might be more unsettling for users; when you break up with your partner, it's no coincidence that ads for online dating appear.One way of stepping up email security is to use encryption keys, and though it is effective it is quite unwieldy, Ferguson explains.gnupg.orgprovides a service based on creating two encryption keys. One is public and one private, and the user gives the public key to anyone who wants to send them an email. Another is Trend Micro's Email Encryption tool, similar email encryption software that originated as a project at Bristol University. It uses the same principle of two keys, but the public key is effectively the email address and the tool can be used with web-based email as well as desktop email clients.What is the risk from continuing to use Google, Facebook and the rest?Professor Muttukrishnan Rajarajan, professor of security engineering at City University London, says there's a balance between risk and convenience when using services online. Most consumers are aware that big corporates retain their personal data. "If you really want to have some value from the web, you are bound to give information away because there's a tangible economic benefit for you."In reality, Muttukrishnan says, authorities are obliged to monitor and police the internet, and their minimal resources are focused mostly on aggregating trends and general behaviour in the population.He explains that granular examination of individuals would be likely to be retrospective, if that person had been flagged as a security threat. "It's more about patterns in activity that are evolving globally so I'm sceptical that this is threatening the privacy of individual users. Policing the internet is the same as policing the roads. It is part of the critical national infrastructure," he says, so a policy similar to stop and search is realistic.
The Atlas robot looks something out of the post-apocalyptic future, or maybe a Will Smith blockbuster. It's a 330lb cyborg with eerily human-like hands and a head equipped with a laser. It lunges forward with a grim, deliberate clatter on curved slices of metal for feet.This bot will be a first responder in times of crisis, says the Pentagon – it's designed to use tools and trudge through difficult terrain, heading into smoky, dangerous areas that humans can't. With its human capabilities it could also, not coincidentally, be a good soldier. This robot – named Atlas after the Greek mythological hero who supported the world on his back – is part of the Pentagon's quest to create a humanoid robot that can do everything from turning knobs in nuclear plants to driving a car.Atlas sits on his massive hydraulic haunches at the leading edge of robotics. And the US military wants more like him. Starting today, the Atlas is the center of a $2m robot beauty pageant – the Darpa Robotics Challenge – held by the US government's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Darpa is the technical-innovation arm of the US military; its purpose is to "create strategic surprise for US adversaries by maintaining the technological superiority of the US military." The internet, for instance,started out as a Darpa project.For the Darpa Robotics Challenge, the agency is offering as much as $34m in awards money to contestants. They will include software developers and engineers vying to create the operating system that will rule future Pentagon robots as well as robot-makers themselves. If successful, Atlas and others machines in the competition could be put to work in future disaster zones deemed too dangerous for humans; their abilities could include turning a valve, connecting a hose to a spigot, and even driving a car.Boston Dynamics – the Waltham, Mass-based company that co-created Atlas – will provide copies of the cyborg to teams that will compete to win military prizes for designing the best software to bring Atlas to life. Already Atlas, and its predecessors, can rapidly climb stairs, do more push-ups than any human, andeven pass for a personwhile donning a chemical protection suit.Chris Atkeson thinks the best robots for such tasks should not only have the dexterity of a human, but also can assess a situation and model a plan. As a professor in the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, and an expert in cognitive science, he's leading one of the school's two teams in the Darpa competition.Atkeson's mission is to create robots that base their actions on an ability to observe the changing world around them. He says his robot software designs are like investment strategies in the stock market that use models and algorithms. While other robots might make snap decision, like investors who buy stocks based on their gut feeling, Atkeson is designing robots to think about the "probabilities" of potential outcomes."In the old days there were a lot of people who went with their gut and would invest in General Electric or something.  You ask them why, and they say: 'Oh you know it feels good,'" he said  "The transition in robotics that I'm interested in is getting to the point where robot behavior is determined by the quants."The goal of a semi-autonomous robot able to perform various diverse tasks on its own is still years away, Atkeson said, but Darpa has a history of pushing technologies borrowed from the future.  The internet appeared similarly improbable when that agency began to funnel money into its development, Atkeson said."If you had run around and said, 'we're going to have almost universal access to a massive computer network,' if you had said that in the 1960s and 70s, people would have shrugged,'' he said.  ''They wouldn't have even understood the benefits of what you're talking about, and robots are the same thing."Atkeson will demonstrate the Carnegie Mellon team's bionic brain in the first heat of the contest, starting June 10, when software developers will compete to create the best program to run a robot. The winners of that first leg will get a crack at deploying their programs in Atlas himself in a later event of the competition.Perhaps, not surprisingly, the US military is also increasing its use of robots - or unmanned systems, as it calls them. The Unmanned Systems Integrated Roadmap, a paper published by the Defense Department in 2011, outlines its strategy for expanding robotics technologies through 2036 to include war machines. Despite the ongoing controversy over drones, the Pentagon contends that robots will make military operations to be faster and more affordable.The Darpa Robotic Challenge isn't the only effort to expand robotics research in the US. In June 2011, President Obama shared a stage at Carnegie Mellon with a boxy four-wheeled yellow SensaBot – which looks a golden sibling of Pixar's Wall-E –  designed to inspect industrial facilities. At the time, Obama announced the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership, a plan to fund new research that would lead to job growth in factories. About $70m of the $500m funding is allotted for projects in "next-generation robotics."The moral aspect of creating humanoid military machines weighs heavily on some. US army Lt Col Douglas Pryer oversaw the deployment of hand-launched reconnaissance planes while commanding a company in Iraq in 2004.In a column titled Rise of the Machines and published in the March/April edition of Military Review, he described his concern that machines, as the distance they allow troops to remain from the battlefield, will encourage troops to feel indifferent toward civilian deaths."Since we were physically removed from the action, maybe such an event would not affect us much. Would it look and feel, I wondered, like sitting at home, a can of Coke in hand, watching a war movie," he said.Atkeson, of Carnegie Mellon, also comes from a military family. He acknowledges the ethical issue involved with developing robots for the Department of Defense.He reasons that as long as the military exists, it might as well be an efficient one: "If you ask me a technical question of who can fly an airplane better, I think a machine can."
3.32pmETSummaryIn two short hours,Applemanaged to unveil a slew of new services and functions that for the most part, the public won’t be seeing until autumn. Some highlights:• The new operating system is calledOS X Mavericks. The updated system will integrate organizational features like tabs and tags into Finder. Developers can preview the system today.• Apple unveiled its updated desktop operating systemMac Pro, which is one-eighth the volume of the current Mac Pro and will be assembled in the US.“Can’t innovate any more my ass,”said Apple’s Phil Schiller.•iCloudnow has iWork integreation. Microsoft Office documents can also be edited in iCloud, simply by dragging and dropping. iCloud can also be accessed in Windows.•iOS 7is the product of a major redesign – new, thin fonts and a brighter interface with more subtle animation. It will also include aControl Centerthat can be accessed anywhere and gives users immediate access to volume, flashlight and airplane mode.•Sirigets a new voice, available in female and male characters. It can also be used iniOS in the carwhile lets people use their mobile devices: “eyes-free” while driving.Apple CEO Tim Cook waves while walking off stage after the keynote address of the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference. Photograph: Eric Risberg/AP3.14pmETSo, while the live stream was failing to work on two seperateApplecomputers in Apple’s Safari, here’s what we missed:iTunes Radio– This is Apple’s competitor to Pandora, Rdio and other music stream services. The service is free and ad-supported. It’s built into iOS 7, iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad, iTunes on Mac and PC and Apple TV in the US, initially.Activation Lock– Used for stolen phones and can’t be deactivated even if the iPhone is stolen.iOS 7is available in Beta for developers today. The official version will be available to the public in autumn.Tim Cookhas wrapped the keynote, wishing developers a merry conference.Keynote ends. Ios7 very intriguing. Closing music:  sixteen saltines by Jack white.&mdash; Charles Arthur (@charlesarthur)June 10, 2013Last thought on#wwdcbefore write-up: This was as much about branding Apple the company as releasing new products.&mdash; Jessica Lessin (@Jessicalessin)June 10, 2013New Siri voice is a bit bland. I liked the old Siri. She was sassy, in a weird cyborg kinda way.#WWDC&mdash; Gideon Lichfield (@glichfield)June 10, 2013Updatedat 3.17pm ET3.01pmETTom Grinsted, a Guardian project manager,is pretty excited about these updates:In general today, I think that you can see the impact of the heavy competition in the mobile space. This is a very good thing. When Apple feels like it might be being challenged in the design and functionally stakes it really comes out fighting, and consumers benefit. iOS 7 is a fantastic (and fantastic looking) example of this.We saw it with &quot;Can&apos;t innovate any more my ass&quot;. This is a bullish company who don&apos;t want any confusion about who&apos;s still the industry leader.2.57pmETBig news, which I would be able to announce if the live stream was still working, which it is not.Apple announces FaceTime audio-only calling, notification syncing across iOS devices, and Message, FaceTime, Phone blocking.#WWDC$AAPL&mdash; CNBC (@CNBC)June 10, 20132.52pmETMore fromTom Grinsted, a product manager at The Guardian:Thinking about the new photos app (and previously some of Google&apos;s work on photos in Google+) it does feel to me that the big tech companies are really starting to address a major challenge of the digital world: namely that their products make it so easy to create high-quality personal items that we have too many of them to handle. We&apos;re seeing smart ways to auto-organise our collections of content to make them usable again. As someone who takes shed-loads of photos on my phone, this is very much welcome.2.51pmETEddy Cue, Apple&apos;s senior vice president of Internet software and services, is showcasing the changes toSiri.Sirihas a new voice, which can also be male if you’d like. Siri can also speak in male and female voices in French, German and “other languages over time.”New feature:iOS in the car, which is being integrated into multiple car brands for 2014. The feature lets people to do things “eyes-free.”2.47pmETNow it&apos;s time to unveil updates to thePhoto appfor iOS 7. There is a new photo organizing feature that acts in a similar way as the iPhoto program, by dividing photos intoMoments.This also makes it so thumbnails of Moments can be seen by year, and years, giving users a comprehensive look at their lives.“You may not remember when you did it, but iOS does,” says Federighi.2.39pmETMore initial reactions fromTom Grinsted, a product manager at The Guardian.With the design flourishes and responsive nature, the iOS redesign feels to me that it&apos;s all about re-inserting wonder into the system, and it does look very very beautiful. That&apos;s not to say that there&apos;s not a wealth of new features and engineering as well, which are being announced now.The new multitasking features for apps is very welcome (some would say its been needed for a while). I wouldn&apos;t underestimate how powerful being able to spin an app up in the background from a push notification is going to be.It feels a bit ironic that in a &apos;post-PC world&apos; Apple&apos;s secret weapon in the platform battles might be OSX (Mavericks) and its OTA integration with iOS (Send to phone, Notifications, Maps) and safari.2.33pmETFederighi&apos;s back with a live demo ofiOS 7. The revamp emphasizes design, with the screen looking lighter with very subtle animation transitions. It looks clean, but is clearly one of those things the average user will have to get used to.TheControl Centercan be accessed anywhere, even from the lock screen, and gives users immediate access to the flashlight, brightness, volume, airplane mode and do not disturb.Control Center - like android &quot;wifi/Bluetooth/etc&quot; controls. About time.&mdash; Charles Arthur (@charlesarthur)June 10, 2013Updatedat 2.41pm ET2.26pmETApple Chief Executive Tim Cook speaks during the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) 2013 in San Francisco, California June 10, 2013.&nbsp;2.24pmETAnalysis fromTom Grinsted, a product manager at the Guardian:I suspect that the iWork for iCloud announcement is rather important for Apple&apos;s continuing march into the business market. It means that Apple can now compete on a level playing field with MS Office and Google Docs. I&apos;d argue that one major thing holding iWork back from broader adoption has been cross-platform support and usage. Having a fully-featured browser-based interface is a smart way to address this.2.21pmETTim Cook back on stage to unveiliOS updates. More than 600 million iOS devices have sold. He says Apple products are used &quot;substantially more&quot; than other companies products.Plenty ofanti-Android rhetoricgoing on, as expected.Apparently, only 33% of Android users are using the company&apos;s most updated operating system – Jelly Bean. Meanwhile, 93% of iOS users are using the most updated system.2.13pmETTime foriCloud, with Apple’s iWork vice president Roger Rosner presenting iWork’s new features in iCloud. Pages, Numbers and Keynote now work on iCloud.“We live in a world full ofMicrosoft Officedocuments, so how do we work with Office documents,” Rosner said.He was able to drag and drop an Office document into Pages for iCloud and was immediately able to edit it. This will make students the world over ecstatic, provided they have an iCloud account.iCloud also works on Windows 8, which Rosner is showing off by making fun of Google Chrome.2.08pmETSchiller ends his presentation with a sneak preview of the newMac Pro– ”the future of the pro desktop.”It&apos;s one-eighth the volume of the last Mac Pro and will be assembled in the US.&quot;Can&#39;t innovate any more my ass,&quot; says Schiller. Crowd loves it. Mac Pro is sort of circular tube.&mdash; Charles Arthur (@charlesarthur)June 10, 2013Phil Schiller introduces the new Mac Pro. Photograph: Eric Risberg/APUpdatedat 2.45pm ET2.04pmETSchiller says the 11-inchMacBook Airwill now have 9 hours of battery life, instead of 5 hours, and the 13-inch Air is going to have 12 hours of battery life, up from 7 hours.He’s also announced price points – the 11-inch, 128GB will cost $999; the 11-inch, 256GB will cost $1,199. The 13-inch, 128GB starts at $1099, and the 13-inch, 256GB costs $1,299.Updatedat 2.07pm ET1.59pmETDevelopers get a preview ofOS XMavericksstarting today. It will be available to the general public in the autumn.Apple&apos;s senior vice-president of worldwide marketing, Phil Schiller, is on stage to talk aboutMac updates,which seems to be all about better performance and improved battery life.Updatedat 2.01pm ET1.54pmETTheNotificationfeature has changed so people can reply directly in the notification to iMessages, emails and apps that send notifications to your iOS device.If you put your computer to sleep, when it’s opened, you’ll receive an update on all the notifications you’ve missed.Now for the much malignedMaps appwhich has street maps, point of interest search and turn by turn directions. Apple’s also added info cards that seem to accumulate information from Yelp to show reviews. The info can also be sent to iCal and iOS devices from the desktop.No jokes about Google this round.1.49pmETApple’s trying to do away with your desktop sticky notes of passwords with theiCloud Keychain.It will encrypt and store website logins, credit card numbers, Wi-Fi networks and account information to help you have a different password for every site, as security experts suggest.Updatedat 1.59pm ET1.41pmETCraig Federighi, senior vice-president of software engineering at Apple, introduces the new OS X Mavericks operating system Photograph: Eric Risberg/APMavericks’ Finderhas a bunch of changes meant to improve organization. Multiple Finder windows can now be collected into one Finder window with Tabs. Apple is also adding atag featureto save and organize files.Federighi is now talking about Safari, the web browser you are required to use to see this stream live. He says Safari uses way less energy than Google’s Chrome browser and when Safari is compared to Firefox’s energy-use, “it’s just sad” for the Mozilla browser.Updatedat 1.58pm ET1.37pmET(Meanwhile, outside the conference, Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has made a splash by arriving on a Segway.)Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak arrives in style. Photograph: Eric Risberg/AP1.34pmETOS X MavericksThe new operating system has a name:OS X Mavericks. Federighi said it’s “California-themed.” Mavericks’ is a surf spot in northern California, famous for its immense waves. This is almost as cool as sea lions.Federighi promises that Mavericks will have longer battery life, lots of applications and features for Mac power users.Updatedat 1.52pm ET1.27pmETCook is leading into theOS Xannouncement by touting iMac and MacBook’s successes. Mac has grown 100% in the past five years, while PCs have grown at a stilting 18%.&quot;We&apos;re not standing still,&quot; Cook said. &quot;Today we want to talk to you about what we&apos;re doing with OS X.&quot;Apple’s chief of iOS and OS X, Craig Federighi, is discussing the most “important” part of the new operating system – the name. He said the update was delayed because of the “dwindiling supply of cats,&quot; and joked that the next system would be named Sea Lion, which is actually not that bad of a name.Updatedat 1.52pm ET1.15pmETTim Cookis on stage, celebrating five years of the app store’s existence. in that time, the store has seen more than 50 billion downloads and there are 575m store accounts.More numbers: the app store has 900,000 apps and developers have been paid $10bn, half of which was paid this year.Updatedat 1.51pm ET1.04pmETSo,Al Goreis at the conference.Former US vice president Al Gore and Apple chief executive Tim Cook converse before the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) 2013. Photograph: STEPHEN LAM/REUTERS12.46pmETThe Guardian’s technology editor Charles Arthuris in San Francisco for the conference. He sent us a dispatch from the scene this morning:It&apos;s just a few hours beforeApple&apos;s WWDC keynote. The banners outside have tantalised people by showing iconography that they insist looks &quot;flat&quot;. Apple’s senior vice president of industrial designJonathan Ivewasspotted on Sundayheading into the Moscone West centre to pick up his badge leading to speculation about whether he&apos;ll actually speak at the event – something he&apos;s never done, except on film.The expectations: &quot;iRadio&quot;, a streaming radio service; a new Mac Pro desktop, perhaps assembled in the US; a timetable for the introduction of the next version of OSX, the desktop operating system; and, crucially, the unveiling of the next version of iOS, the iPhone and iPad operating system.There might also be updates to theMacBook Air(last year Apple used WWDC to introduce its &quot;retina display&quot; MacBook Pro laptops). But it&apos;s pretty certain there won&apos;t be new iPhones (not even multicoloured ones) or new iPads. There might be an update – even a new version? – of the Apple TV set-top box. If there is, will it allow third-party apps and begin to compete with the Xbox for TV attention? Might there even be an &quot;iWatch&quot; - for wearable computing?All of which raises the question of why WWDC is worth paying attention to. Simply, Apple is a gigantic company, andiOSin particular is seen as being at a crossroads: Android has overtaken it in sales terms and many critics say it offers users more flexibility – so what&apos;s Apple going to do to stop the iPhone looking fusty? And whatever happened to Apple&apos;s reputation for innovation?That, of course, assumes that Apple listens to that sort of criticism. History suggests it doesn&apos;t. Yet that hasn&apos;t hurt its sales – at least, not in any way one can discern.San Francisco's Moscone center is wrapped and ready for WWDC Photograph: Charles Arthur/The GuardianUpdatedat 12.47pm ET12.29pmETToday is thestart of Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)in San Francisco where the normal batch of rampant speculation has been mitigated by a lack of leaks concerning Apple’s expected announcements. Read Guardian technology editor&apos;s Charles Arthur&apos;sfull report on what to expectduring chief executive Tim Cook&apos;s keynote address, which begins at 1pm ET.What we know:the next iPhone will not be unveiled, though previews of changes to the mobile iOS operating system are almost guaranteed as it is a developer’s conference. The operating system is expected to be released in full in the autumn, possibly with an updated iPhone. This updated system will likely include changes to how apps are integrated and created.Anew version of the desktop operating systemMac OS X is alsoexpected and could demonstrate an attempt to integrate capabilities and features used in Apple’s iPad tablet and the iPhone. No idea what they&apos;re calling it, as they seem to be running low on animals to name operating systems after.Changes to the Mac Pro desktop computerare also expected, as isa new music streaming service. If it is made available for free to iTunes users, the streaming service could pose one of the most serious threats to streaming mainstays like Pandora and Spotify.The much malignedMaps app, Apple TV, MacBook AirandSirimay also see some updates, though they&apos;re not guaranteed.Charles Arthuris at the conferenceand will be providing news and analysis throughout the event, which you can watch live, provided you have Apple TV or Safari on OS X or iOS 4.2 and up.Consensus seems to be that nobody knows what&#39;s in Apple WWDC keynote tomorrow. Apart from the NSA, obv.&mdash; Charles Arthur (@charlesarthur)June 10, 2013
Here is the livefeed from EToo London, the alternative E3-inspired indie gaming event in London's Soho. We'll be showing all the press conferences as well as developer reactions, interviews and more.
This week in Los Angeles, the future of the mainstream games industry will be announced. Over 200 developers will show up, spending many millions on huge stands and massive banks of monitors and demo machines. They will show their latest titles to more than 40,000 attendees and the whole thing will be broadcast, tweeted, reported and recorded by more than 4,000 journalists, all endlessly trudging the show floor. This is the most important event of the year as far as retail games are concerned.If you've never been, here's a quick rundown of what happens and what you should look out for...The press conferencesThe Monday before the E3 exhibition officially opens, the biggest companies in the industry all run their own big press conferences, usually in the ornate old theatres littered around downtown LA. Microsoft, EA, Ubisoft and Sony will use their respective conferences to reveal what they'll be demo-ing when the actual show begins. This are all streamed live over the internet and most of the big game sites, the likes ofGameSpot,IGN,JoystiqandCVG, will be hosting the streams. Also, I have organised a livestreaming event in the UK, EToo London. We'll be running all the conferences, with debate and analysis, via theEToo London YouTube channel. Here are the times of the conferences:Microsoft – 9am Eastern (5pm UK)EA – 1pm Pacific (9pm UK)Ubisoft – 3pm Pacific (11pm UK)Sony – 6pm Pacific (2am, June 11, UK)The E3 eventE3 itself kicks off at the LA convention centre on Tuesday morning and continues through until Thursday. The event takes up two huge halls of the complex, as well as a number of other smaller locales around the site. Last year over 45,000 people attended, most of them video game publishers developers, retailers and journalists. It is a trade-only event, so there's no public access, though these days, the lines are blurred – lots of bloggers and YouTube video-makers will apply for press passes, and many will be accepted. Hence, the show's unique atmosphere – part-business event, part-showcase, part-community get-together.How to stay up to dateWe'll be covering the key events here on Games blog, but all of the specialist game sites will be absolutely bloated with E3 coverage over the next few days. If you want a UK perspective, go for CVG, VG247, Eurogamer or VideoGamer. Also check out the official websites of all the key publishers and developers, who'll often publish new trailers and footage as soon as it's announced. There's also anofficial E3 Expo sitethat will be jammed with footage. The key players you want to be following are:Microsoft, Sony, Nintendo, Ubisoft, Electronic Arts, Activision, Bethesda, Warner, Capcom, Konami, Sega, Square Enix and Namco.What should we be looking out for? The four big questions from the press conferencesHere's what the gaming press want to know from Monday:1. What does the PlayStation 4 look like?The console was announced at an event back in February, but Sony didn't actually show the machine itself. Everyone wants to know how it will compare to the rather boxy Xbox One.PlayStation 4: glimpses of the console itself have been elusive. Photograph: Brendan McDermid/Reuters2. What is going on with 'always on' internet connectivity.Lots of console owners are worried bythe revelationthat the Xbox One will need to be connected to the internet every 24 hours if you want to continue playing games. There are also likely to be restrictions on the selling of pre-owned titles. Microsoft and the major publishers are keen to find new ways of preventing piracy and ensuring they make money from every copy of a game that gets distributed. However, how this works is highly ambiguous at the moment. Also, Sony hasn't revealed whether it has similar plans for PlayStation. The head of worldwide studios, Shuhei Yoshida, has stated that PS4won'trequire a constant internet connection, but details are sketchy.3. What will be the big new gaming announcements?There are lots of titles weknoware going to be at E3 (see ourgallery of anticipated titles), but there will also be plenty of announcements – especially at the Sony and Microsoft press events. Some of the titles people are hoping to see confirmed are LittleBigPlanet 3, Fable IV, Dead Rising 3 and Mirror's Edge 2. We're also expecting to get glimpses of Bayonetta 2, Saint's Row 4 and the second season of the excellent Walking Dead adventure series from Telltale Games. The likes of Dead Souls II  and the Wii U versions of Mario Kart and Super Mario will also be popular.4. That's a lot of sequels, how about original titles?Knack: Sony will show off the PS4 platformer at E3Good question – and always one that journalists dwell on during the E3 week. Sony has open-world racer DriveClub and platformer Knack, both for PS4. Microsoft is promising 15 totally new "franchises" and we're expecting one of those to be Crytek's Roman hack-'em-up, Ryse. EA should have Titanfall from Respawn Entertainment, the studio set up by the original creators of Call of Duty. And Activision is has space opera Destiny, from Halo originator, Bungie Studios. Elsewhere, look out for Bethesda's survival horror opus The Evil Within (from the original creator of Resident Evil) and Square Enix's intriguing thriller, Murdered: Soul Suspect.Industry insiders on the E3 experienceWe asked a number of developers and journalists about their E3 thoughts and memories. Here's what they has to say...How would you describe the experience of E3 to someone who has never been?Tom Bramwell, editor, Eurogamer:For most people who attend E3, it is a frenzy of appointments to hear product pitches and discussions conducted in dark, imposing exhibition halls full of ludicrously expensive fibreglass dioramas that have been designed to reflect product features - usually science fiction, military or fantasy settings - while providing space to house demo units. It's like a funfair where you're also supposed to do business. It's very silly.The weird thing is that I love it, probably because it creates so much work and allows for so much interesting analysis of how games are made and sold, although these days I prefer to enjoy it from afar.Ste Curran, game developer and writer:Imagine fighting through a cardboard city constructed from adverts; through a slow-shifting swamp of unlikable men, saran-wrapped in logo-stained T-shirts, shambling like the dullest zombies. Imagine 100 desperately-competitive bloggers holding their iPhones above their heads to capture a Picadilly-Circus screen showing a digital countdown to the same Call of Duty trailer that has been playing on loop for six hours. Imagine a migraine.Jon Hicks, editor, Official Xbox Magazine:It's like three days in a violence-obsessed Disneyland, only crammed into a couple of warehouses with no natural light, and you know that nearly all the rides are going be really similar to ones you've already tried and got bored of but you have to go on them anyway. The small children have been replaced by shuffling 20-something men grimly determined to harvest as much terrible merchandise as they can carry, and the wandering Disney characters have been replaced by scantily-clad women who they take cameraphone pics of.  There is a constant, deafening soundtrack of rival booths trying to have the biggest explosions, interspersed with looping sales pitches that by the third day you can quote verbatim. You are usually late, and hungry, and reaching an appointment in a blank, white, air-conditioned meeting room away from the main hall feels like finding an oasis in the desert.Destiny: eagerly awaited space opera for PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox OneRich Stanton, veteran freelance writer:E3 is a show in the truest sense – the bottom line is money, but what really matters is the performance. It's well known how closely the big platform holders and publishers brief their retail partners before and around E3, but then the job is to convince the people in attendance and the millions watching that your console, your particular game, is the best. It's a competition for attention, and so brings out the very best and worst of the industry – from amazing surprises to booth babes. There are other events comparable to E3, but none offers quite this level of exposure – for one week, LA is the biggest stage in video games, and everyone's watching. For the biggest companies in gaming that makes it, for once, as much about the performance as the business.What do you think are going to be the big themes this year?Simon Barratt, develoepr and founder of FourDoorLemon: The PS4 vs Xbox One battle is going to be the ongoing theme for the whole week and I expect a new battleground will emerge with every new announcement from third parties throughout the show.I'm excited to see how much VR sneaks in, certainly it has been getting great coverage and with the new Omnidirectional treadmill Kickstarter doing well and new devices coming from Razer, there is certainly a wave of exciting stuff for 'early' (early for the new dawn of VR at least) adopters. I hope to see indie games become more of a focus for the show, although IndieCade and larger indies have attended for a long time there has been something of a spotlight put on the indie community by the new platforms and their support for them.Neil Long, editor of Edge Online:It'll be a good old-fashioned format war – Xbox One versus PlayStation 4. Microsoft and Sony know this is the most important E3 for years – they each have a new console to sell at the end of the year and the hardcore games player has a straight choice between the two. In terms of game announcements, they have to dazzle; big name games are vital, but a few fan favourites and some credible indie projects will show that they each understand where the future of their business lies – they need to  empower and harness this new generation of independent game developers.Meanwhile, I honestly think Nintendo has done the smartest thing for them by stepping out of the race entirely. With its simple, cost-effective Nintendo Direct videos it is ditching all the silly bombast and taking its news straight to its audience. I think Nintendo could really surprise us: its Wii U hardware is confusing, but its games have never been in question – we're guaranteed a new Super Mario, Mario Kart, Smash Bros and more Zelda. Nintendo always throws in a few fan-pleasing favourites, too. A huge Wii U price cut is essential, though.'A huge Wii U price cut is essential.' Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/ReutersNicholas Lovell, industry analyst and author:Microsoft will do a bunch of pointless stuff about you can watch sports on your console. The F2P guys will be less visible (E3 isn't for them) but Microsoft and Sony will both showcase F2P games on their new consoles. Publishers will unveil a bunch of new IPs, because the best time to launch a new IP is at the start of the console cycle. It will set the stage for the launch of PS4/Xbox One, but everyone will be disappointed: there won't be enough new IP. There won't be enough information on console launch plans. There won't be enough F2P or there will be too much. There will be too much about TV and sports and films.Andy Payne, CEO of Mastertronic and AppyNation:It's going to be all about the new set-top boxes – sorry, consoles – that Microsoft and Sony want to launch. And the games that will look ace. But eyes must also be peeled for more Oculus Rift action and ears open to see what Apple reveal at WWDC up the road in the eminently more cooler San Francisco. Whatever happens it will all be mad and bad in equal measure. Oh yes and there will be some very cool action in London at EToo. Don't miss it!What is your most memorable E3 experience?Ellie Gibson, associate features editor, Eurogamer:I always love the press conferences. Nothing beats that heady combination of exciting announcements, laughable hyperbole and graphs. And the highlight of every press conference is the bit where the executives try to do some comic banter.The best ever example of this can be seen in the video ofSony's 2007 conference(skip to 13 min 45), where a virtual version of Jack Tretton shows us his "new tricked-out apartment" in PlayStation Home. "I've left the door open, so hopefully a few of those hot chicks from the square will pop in and join us," he says, before pretending to be surprised to find a virtual Kaz Hirai on his balcony."Hey Kaz, what are you doing here??!?!?!""HA HA HA HA HA," says Kaz. "I got some burgers and some hot dogs on the grill, what can I do you for?"There follows a bizarre exchange about turkey burgers and PSP before Tretton announces he is going to "chill here on the deck".At Eurogamer, we enjoyed this so much we even created a special trophy for our annual E3 awards – the "Let's Chill Here on the Deck Memorial Award for excellence in strained banter."Jon Hicks:2010 was just weird all week. Microsoft's Cirque du Soleil event unveiling Kinect was a long, baffling fever dream that felt like a religious sect gathering for the birth of a new and highly confusing deity. Activision's peak Guitar Hero moment was a live event featuring an unending string of massive music acts that went on so long I actually went to another event for an hour and came back. And then a variety of work-related crises required me and a publishing rep to work 20-hour days trying to coordinate across different time zones, which ended with me having a little breakdown in a Hollywood diner from a combination of stress, malnutrition and sleep deprivation. We've tried to look back on it and laugh, but the scars run a bit too deep for that.Cirque du Soleil at Microsoft's launch of Kinect for Xbox 360 at the World Premiere Experience at E3 2010. Photograph: Casey Rodgers/AP Images for XBoxMartin Hollis, developer:The indiscreet charm of a video game arcade as large as two fields must be acknowledged! but the ambience destroys most games and bleeds out the soul of many others. E3 is a meat-market for bangs. The same broad strokes apply to any industry-led exhibition including, sadly, Tokyo Game Show. Fewer games, fewer genres, less interesting work and marginal opportunity to discover fun new ideas. Rezzed, EToo, IndieCade, GameCity are all enormously more exciting to me than E3.An illustrative example: E3 2011 was notable to me as a show which included a game built around a kissing controller by Hye Yeon Nam and Deep Sea, a sensory deprivation and negative experience game by Robin Arnott, both in the IndieCade E3 booth. If I went again it would be for IndieCade.
Google appears to have seized pole position in the race to acquire Israeli navigation startup Waze, with multiple reports suggesting it will pay more than $1bn to beat rivals including Apple and Facebook to the deal.The latest speculation comes from Israel, where business website Globes claimed on Sunday (9 June) thatGoogle will pay $1.3bn for Waze, with news site Ha'aretz following up with its own claim ofan all-cash deal worth more than $1bn.In the US, All Things Digital cites its own sources aspredicting a Google-Waze deal is close, predicting an announcement on Tuesday (11 June). Facebook and Google were previouslyreported to be in a bidding war over Waze, after the social network offered $1bn, months after Apple was tipped as a potential acquirer in a $500m deal.Why such a frenzy? Waze's free navigation app has nearly 50m users, but what the technology giants are fighting over is its data. Waze collects information on traffic, accidents, road hazards and other obstacles in real-time from its community of drivers.Maps and navigation have become a crucial battleground in the smartphone war between Google, Apple, Microsoft and BlackBerry, with Apple in particular under pressure to improve its much-criticised Maps service to better compete with Google.Waze was one of the startups Apple turned to for data in the wake of Maps' underwhelming launch in 2012, so an acquisition by Google may be a double-blow: enhancing Google Maps while potentially removing a valuable source of data for Apple Maps.If the acquisition goes through, Waze's spurned suitors are likely to turn their attention elsewhere, which may be good news for other companies in the space like TomTom, Skobbler and Navmii.There may yet be further twists and turns in the path towards a lucrative exit for Waze, which has raised $67m of venture-capital funding since 2008. The new leaks in Israeli media may be an attempt to spark new bids by Apple and Facebook, in order to gazump Google in the bidding war.
Picture for a second being locked in a teenage boy's bedroom for three days – except this bedroom is occupied by 30,000 teenage boys and they're listening to loud and terrible rock music. You are imagining E3, the world's largest video game exhibition.Over the next four days, the interactive entertainment industry will descend on the Los Angeles convention centre for a mammoth Bacchanalian celebration of mainstream games culture. Global corporations will present themselves behind multimillion-dollar stands, gaming websites will ship in hundreds of reporters and film crews and fans will queue for hours to see beloved titles. The sound of simulated gunfire or heavy rock, or both, will accompany it all."It is a kind of Frankenstein's event," says James McQuivey, a principle analyst at Forrester, a technology and market research company. "It's part tech trade show, part Hollywood and part Star Trek convention. It attracts the hardcore of the gaming world, the people who care about how many polygons your game can render in a second or how effectively your algorithms can create realistic hair on a mountain troll. The people who attend E3 care about games the way other people care about sports – or, perhaps, their children."This ritual has been going on since 1995. This year's E3 is big because Sony and Microsoft will show their brand new consoles, the PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One. The former is being pushed as an ultra-powerful gaming beast, boasting unfathomable processing grunt and a strange new controller with a touch pad on it for when you want to stroke things&nbsp;on screen. Microsoft's Xbox One is pitched as a do-it-all living room entertainment commando, capable of playing live TV and connecting you with friends via Skype, as well as actually recognising you via its built-in camera. Nintendo, which has dominated console gaming for the last five years with its Wii console, which has sold 100m units, is set to sulk in a corner thanks to disastrous sales of its Wii U machine. The games industry can be a cruel and capricious mistress.Monday will be when all the big hitters of the industry – Sony, Microsoft, EA, Ubisoft and Activision – hold press conferences to reveal their fresh and innovative new games. Not really. It will all be about sequels: Battlefield 4, Forza Motorsports 5 and Call of Duty: Ghosts. But look out for fiendish indie puzzle titles The Witness, and Watch Dogs, a surveillance thriller in which players can hack into a city's computer mainframe and dig dirt on any of its inhabitants. From Tuesday  until Thursday it's all about the vast show floor, where multiple demo pods blare out franchise sequels.At the same time, Apple is holding its annual worldwide developers conference in San Francisco, where the big news will be new versions of iOS, its mobile operating system and OS X, its computer software. There are persistent rumours that the company will broaden its AppleTV set-top box to feature games and other apps. If that happens, those console manufacturers at E3 have a serious new rival to worry about.These events are happening while gaming itself is changing. "E3 is about big, expensive-looking, overproduced action, sports and driving games being pitched as the reinvention of the wheel," says Tom Bramwell, the editor-in-chief of the gaming site Eurogamer. "But often, it's the last place to find out what's really going on in the games industry at large. The rise of independent development has taken place almost completely outside its halls, as has the ascent of giant social gaming companies."One corner of the E3 megaplex, known as IndieCade, shows off titles produced by tiny studios and lone programmers, usually on small budgets. Here you will find That Dragon, Cancer, which is about parents struggling to cope with their child's terminal illness, and Spaceteam, an ingenious multi-player iPhone game that allows groups of friends to pretend they are on the bridge of a starship while shouting technobabble at each other. Like Hollywood, E3 is a bubble that reveals just one facet of a diverse and exciting medium – and like Hollywood, it shouts really loud and doesn't like original thinking.Still, E3 is important because games are everywhere now. The industry is predicted to be worth more than $80bn (£51bn) a year by 2017. A report published in 2012 by the Interactive Software Federation of Europe suggested that 40% of the UK population regularly plays video games. An increasing number of films and stage plays are being inspired by videogame design. The Dundee Rep Theatre's current production of the vampire chiller Let The Right One In is accompanied by its own iPhone game, Other, which transfers the ghoulish themes into a walking tour of the city. Hollywood is watching – and now we have Stephen Spielberg producing a TV series based on the game Halo, which will be viewable on Xbox One.E3 is somehow both a relic of what games were and a demonstration of how pervasive and confident game culture is becoming. The door to this teenager's bedroom is opening, and everything is tumbling out.
Technology startupOuyamade waves in 2012 when it raised $8.6m on Kickstarter to make an Android-powered games console that would be sold for less than $100.In 2013, it's one of several such devices jostling for the attention of gamers and developers. Gaming accessories maker Mad Catz is the latest manufacturer to enter the fray with a device codenamedProject M.O.J.O.When it goes on sale, it will go head-to-head with Ouya, as well as rival "micro-consoles"GameStickandGamepop, although Project M.O.J.O. appears to be the furthest from a commercial launch.According to IGN, the device is still "in its prototyping stage", with hardware specifications yet to be nailed down.It suggests that the device will ship with 16GB of internal storage, two USB ports, possibly Nvidia's Tegra 4 processor, and the ability to download games from existing Android app stores like Google Play and Amazon Appstore, as well as the ability to stream and play games wirelessly from a PC.Project M.O.J.O. will sit within Mad Catz'sGameSmartrange of mobile gaming accessories, which includes the C.T.R.L. wireless gamepad, R.A.T. and M.O.U.S. wireless mice and F.R.E.Q. headphones – all of which will presumably work with the new micro-console.The timing of Mad Catz's announcement, as the E3 games-industry show gets underway in Los Angeles, emphasises that the Android micro-consoles will be a prominent sub-plot at the event, even if announcements around Microsoft's Xbox One, Sony's PlayStation 4 and Nintendo's Wii-U will hog more headlines.For more evidence, see the announcement on Friday (7 June) by Gamepop's maker BlueStacks that its device has beendesigned to make it easy for developers to port their iOS games, to bolster the 500-odd Android titles that will be available when it launches towards the end of 2013.That's the key battleground for all these devices: attracting talented developers with well-known iOS and Android games, but also original (and possibly exclusive) titles, to help them stand out from their rivals, and give gamers confidence that they'll be around for the long-term.Independent developer Overdose Caffeine caused a stir in May when it announced that it wasending development of its multiplayer space-dogfighting game Pocket Fleet for Ouyaand switching to Gamepop instead.E3 will be bursting at the seams with announcements of new games for PS4, Xbox One and Wii-U. But keep an eye too on what Ouya, BlueStacks and Gamestick's owner PlayJam have to say about developer support for their own devices, as well as further details of Mad Catz's plans.There's a lively debate about whether any of these micro-consoles has a healthy future, though, given the growing popularity of gaming on smartphones and tablets, and the growing ease with which they can be connected wirelessly to a TV when desired.The theory of playing Android games on the living room's bigger screen may sound appealing, but the micro-console makers still have to prove that millions of people will want to buy a new device to do it, rather than use the ones already in their hands.
Talking to developers ahead of Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) at San Francisco, one detects a sense both of puzzlement and excitement.Puzzlement because there have been absolutely no leaks from the company ahead of the announcement on Monday, at which chief executive Tim Cook, marketing chief Phil Schiller, software chief Craig Federighi, services chief Eddy Cue and – perhaps – design head Jonathan Ive will be speaking.Excitement because it's been years since so little was known ahead of a big Apple event like this. Even John Gruber, normally one of the best-connected people with "little birds" who pass on hints and nudges from inside Cupertino,professes that he has no idea what's coming. That in turn means that people are awaiting the "big reveal".As ever with Apple, one has to go on hints, nudges and timing. So let's run down the list of certain through to definitely not.Certain• There will bea new version of iOS–iOS 7– revealed, at least in part. It's expected to be released in the autumn, when the next update of the iPhone is released. Based on the icons some claim to have seen, and the posters for the conference, the expectation is that it will follow Ive's philosophy: no frippery in appearance, and a "flatter", more functional appearance.The death of skeumorphism (seen in apps such as Find My Friends, which suffers faux leather stitching for no obvious reason, and Find My iPhone, which displays a bizarrely flickering compass needle while it "looks" for your device, and so on) will be widely celebrated. Scott Forstall, the former chief for iOS software, was known to be a fan of skeumorphism; Ive isn't.The question around iOS is what it will do to bring it forward to cope with the next years of smartphone development. In recent years it has added the Notification Center (just like Android's), iCloud and its own Maps app. The first won applause; the latter two, raspberries. Furthermore, there's no way to change the default apps for processes like maps or email, nor any equivalent of the "intents" that Android uses to let apps hook together. On the desktop, Apple has its own equivalent of intents – Applescript's object handlers – but hasn't let mobile apps link up in the same way.The enduring question is, do most people need or want the power to change their default apps, or to hook together mobile apps? It's a fact that a minority likes being able to change the default apps on Android. That's very different from the question of whether it's necessary or even desirable. Most user behaviour sticks with defaults; allowing different ones multiplies the complexity of support geometrically, both from the developer end and the customer support end.Tim Cook seemed to suggest at the ATD11 conference that Apple might be receptive to the idea of making the iPhone more open to third-party apps, which has companies which write keyboard apps (for example) pricking up their ears. Even so, it seems unlikely. Far more likely that more companies will be "baked in" to the operating system - so where last year both Twitter and Facebook were added as baseline apps to which one could post from anywhere in iOS,this year Flickr and Tumblr may join the crew. (That would be a double win for Yahoo.) Don't expect YouTube or Google+ to be made first-class citizens. Because, you know,reasons.•A new version of Mac OS Xwill be shown off. The name and timing of its release are unknown, but from the poster that's on show at the Moscone Center where the event will happen – showing a thin sans-serif "X" against what looks like algae – some people have decided that the next version of the desktop software will also have "Lion" in the name, just like the previous two.What name? "Mac OS X Sea Lion". (Brm-tish.)Seriously, though, it's hard to know quite what the desktop can learn from the tablet or phone version, as happened with the previous version a year ago. More likely – one hopes – that Apple will see the tablet as a "middle ground" which can learn from the desktop, as Microsoft has done with the Surface, where you can have two windows open from different applications at once, greatly easing the task of shifting information between apps. The great revelation about the original GUI interface on the Mac compared with command-line interfaces was that it made it easier to shift information around between apps; iOS on both the iPhone and iPad has apparently forgotten this fact, which Samsung (on TouchWiz Android on large screens) and Windows 8 (on the Surface) have both shown to be a useful function. If "Algae X" really indicates that the iPad version of iOS will get extra functionality, that will be all to the good.Fairly certain• A new Mac Pro, the professional desktop computer. The Mac Pro had a minor update in June last year, but has been essentially moribund since 2010. The expectation is that it will finally get high-end processing and a design update – along with an announcement, hinted at by Apple sources, that it will be made in the US. Certainly WWDC would be the appropriate venue to announce a new version of the professionals' desktop product. Otherwise it will just wither on the vine.• A streaming music service, perhaps called "iRadio". All three major music labels are now reported to be on board with this, which would enable Apple to steamroller companies such as Pandora and Spotify by offering a free (ad-supported) service to its hundreds of millions of iTunes users. One big advantage Apple has over those rivals is its Genius service,launched in 2008. Genius runs in the background looking at all of your iTunes library, trying to figure out what goes with what; that could make "iRadio" fantastic, because the best predictor of what music you'll like is what music you already like – not, as some services try to pretend, what your friends like.True, Apple's Ping serviceflopped badly– but that's because it tried to be a social network. Unusually for something that so many people engage with, one's taste in music isn't social; it's not predictable from your political or social position. You don't necessarily like the music your friends like. You like what other people who like the same music like. Genius should know what that is – so "iRadio" should be good at finding music you'll want to listen to.Less certain•New MacBook Airs. The lightweight computers could get an update with the Intel Haswell chip, which uses far less power than previous generations. But it's unlikely there will be a "retina" version with four times as many pixels as now; the battery wouldn't be able to take the hammering that implies.•A new Apple TV set-top box, and apps to go with it.Last year, it looked completely obviousthat Apple would announce an SDK (software development kit) for Apple TV apps, which would lead its way into the "smart TV" revolution. Nothing of the sort happened. Increasingly, it's hard to see how any company can break into the content producer/cable TV tieups in the US which dictate how companies like Apple view TV. Both sides benefit from the situation as it stands; neither would benefit from its breakup. (For more on this, and why the idea of "cable-cutting" is a fiction, readBen Thompson's Stratechery posts.) Google underestimated the extent of this interdependency with Google TV, though it did incidentally prove that simply offering a technology is no guarantee that it will be adopted by anyone.•Improvements to Maps. This is sorely needed; the cartography gives roads insufficient emphasis when trying to find locations, and updates (aka corrections) aren't taken in rapidly enough.•Better connectivity to Siri. Again, this was hoped for last year and didn't emerge; instead Apple itself began offering more interfaces from Siri to services such as football results. Opening it all up to third-party apps could be a voice control boon.Just uncertain•Time-limited or other flexibility on buying apps. Developers complain that they can't offer time-limited full functionality, nor "buy the functionality" versions of apps; all they can do is offer two versions, the "lite" and "full" versions of apps.Apple however has little reason to salve these complaints. It can point out that it's still (for now) the company with the most app downloads, and certainly the most monetisation of those apps. For developers, the money is starting to shift into developing "line of business" apps for companies of all sizes: two of the restaurants I visited today in San Francisco used iPads for their point-of-sale systems, and it won't have been because Apple is headquartered in the same region. (After all, so is Google.) Though apps could certainly benefit from more variation in sales systems, there's little incentive for Apple to add what it will see as more complexity to its app sales process.•Better iCloud. Developers have been complaining bitterly about iCloud, with good reason. As one pointed out to me, its problem is that it's an umbrella name for all sorts of processes – synchronising email, calendars, passing data about location, synchronising documents, storing information. It doesn't work well for third-party developers, and barely for Apple. At the two-year mark, it's time for something to change radically so that iCloud makes sense.•An "iWatch". The idea of a wearablesomething– watch? – is tempting, but it's the wrong time of year to launch it; Apple is increasingly focused on the Christmas buying season, though it might not be averse to offering something in summer to test the waters, and release a newer version in a year's time to really go for the mass market.Definitely not•New iPhones. It's the wrong time of year, and this is a developer conference, not a hardware conference.•New iPad(s). As for iPhones, it's the wrong time of year; announcing something now would just give rivals the chance to announce something in early autumn and capture Christmas share.•A TV set. The fact that the rumours persist around this doesn't make it more true; it just makes those who push the rumours persistent. Those are two quite different things. There's too little renewal in the TV business to make it worthwhile for Apple; the margins are too low; it's a commodity business which is shaped by its content, which already suffers from the cable/content tieup.•Any mention of the Prism programmeand the access the NSA gets to messages and email. Even if it is the story dominating front pages and news bulletins.We'll be liveblogging from the keynote event (which starts at 10am US Pacific time, 1pm EST, 6pm BST). Join us there.
Technology mavenMary Meeker is taking flak this weekfor a claim in her latest Internet Trends Report that the average smartphone owner looks at their device 150 times a day.Now the research (or rather lack of it) behind that datapoint is being questioned, but it's noticeable how few journalists and analysts thought it sounded strange when Meeker first said it.Checking your smartphone 9.4 times per waking hour? To people who pride themselves on being always-connected digital natives, it may even have sounded a little low. But they know they're going to have to face it: they're addicted to apps.Inevitably, there's now an app for that. It's calledPause, and it's a free download for iPhone (with Android to come) that comes armed with the slogan "Pause the digital. Start the real.""Pause is a mobile app designed to help us reconnect with real life. Pause helps us to reduce our dependency on digital media and in turn free us up to do something more," suggests its App Store listing.Essentially, it's about putting your smartphone into Airplane Mode for set amounts of time, while telling the app what real-world activity you're planning to do in that period. Pause –developed by Polidea– then tracks how long you keep Airplane Mode on.Oh, and just as inevitably, there's a gamification aspect here. "Who is more addicted, you or your Facebook friends? Pause uses a ranking system so you can compete and compare the amount of time you spend looking at the world beyond a touchscreen," explains the listing.It's easy to laugh at the idea of an app to fight apps addiction, just as it is to chuckle at the thought of people willingly paying over-the-odds for "digital detox" holidays where their smartphones are taken away from them for the duration.Still, with the "Quantified Self" movement all the rage for people tracking their physical activity, food intake, vital signs and even their personal genome through digital services, it's no surprise to see an app tracking your ability to disconnect from all digital services temporarily.
The illustrations of renowned children's author Maurice Sendak, who would have turned 85 on Monday is the subject of Google's latest doodle.The doodle is an animation of the illustrations contained in some of his best-selling books such as Where the Wild Things Are, which has sold around 17 million copies worldwide, mostly in the US.Mysterious creatures are seen dancing around in a bizarre set of colourful outfits.Sendak, born to a family of Polish Jews, was most well-known for his 1963 book Where the Wild Things Are that tells the story of a boy called Max whose imagination takes him on a wild journey wrestling monsters in a far-off land before returning to his bedroom to find his supper waiting for him.Sendak died last year, aged 83.• This article was amended on 10 June 2013. The original subheading described Sendak as a Polish author. He was an American author born to Polish parents. This has been corrected.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 8 June 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Grid 2(7+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (3)22 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (28)VITA (6)Wii (5)373 (–)Remember Me(16+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (45)PC (3)14 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (30)PC (27)15 (4)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (51)PC (5)286 (3)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)PC (1)77 (10)Tomb Raider(18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (45)PC (3)148 (12)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)119 (8)Donkey Kong Country Returns(3+)3DS (99)Wii (1)710 (6)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)3211 (18)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)Wii U (2)812 (16)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (44)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (15)3DS (7)3213 (9)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (17)PS3 (17)DS (14)4814 (11)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (35)PC (12)1115 (–)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (36)PC (3)Wii U (1)2916 (5)Resident Evil: Revelations(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (44)Wii U (4)PC (1)517 (7)Metro Last Light(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (37)418 (17)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (22)Wii (20)DS (9)1919 (15)Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins(7+)3DS (100)720 (19)Grand Theft Auto IV (18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (32)51UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Two weeks ago, I had the idea of organising an alternative E3 event in London – just somewhere for gamers to congregate and lap up the atmosphere of the biggest week in gaming. I got together with developer Georg Backer and Jimmy Dance, owner of the Loading Bar in Soho, and we hatched a ludicrously ambitious plan. That plan has swung into action today.At 10am,EToo Londonopened its doors to game players, indie developers and industry veterans. We'll be demo-ing new games all day – and indeed for the next four days from 10am every day –  and if you find yourself in Central London, please do pop along: if it's quiet we'll let you in without a ticket.But if you can't make it, don't worry. Tonight from 5pm, EToo be live streaming an E3 'magazine show', running all the press conferences and providing expert analysis and opinion on what gets shown. You'll be able to access the live stream on this site, or viathe EToo YouTube channel.After this, EToo will be live streaming a full programme of E3 trailers, news and debate every night from 7pm.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.E3 2013: Call of Duty: Ghosts - Diving Into the Campaign | IGNHere's an early preview of Ghosts, based on a studio visit. Lots of good details for fans, but still no definite word on the key antagonist:The studio is also taking this opportunity to explore new enemies based on a more modern geopolitical climate. In Call of Duty: Ghosts, the oft used but painfully dated Russian threat has been thrown out, and players are now facing "resource rich" states, most notably certain oil-abundant nations of South America.Also, there's more on the dog!Nintendo dismisses E3's importance as it turns to Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube | The VergeNintendo of America's president Reggie Fils-Aime has taken to Facebook to defend his company's decision not to hold a press conference at E3. Speaking directly to fans, Fils-Aime notes that "change can make people nervous," and adds that he understands "people are wondering how we can possibly share information about all our games without all the bells and whistles of a press conference."Nintendo is embracing Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube to promote itself during E3. It has a Nintendo Direct conference planned for 7AM PT (10AM ET) on June 11th, followed by a "steady stream of content" ranging from developer interviews, game trailers, and wrap-up videos.Skylanders Swap Force coming to PS4, Xbox One, current-gen versions dated | VG247Skylanders Swap Force will be released on next-gen systems when it launches in the fall, Activision has announced.No word yet on any special features for the new consoles, but still, my children will be pleased...Just Dance 2014 leaked on Xbox Live Marketplace, could feature 'Ghostbusters' theme song | PolygonThe next entry in Ubisoft's long-running Just Dance franchise could be called Just Dance 2014, according to a listing on Xbox Live Marketplace.According to the Marketplace description, Just Dance 2014 is focused on social features that allow players to "connect and dance with players from all over the world." The description also mentions "iconic pop culture references," which are borne out in nine screenshots. The images, which you can see above, appear to reference the film Ghostbusters — specifically, the film's theme song by Ray Parker Jr.Microsoft to show 20 games at E3 conference | VG247Microsoft has lined up 20 games for its E3 2013 presentation, although we don't know how many are current generation and how many will show off the Xbox One's grunt.The tally comes via Spike TV's Geoff Keighley on Twitter, who had it from Microsoft executive Phil Spencer.Keighley noted that additional Xbox games wil be shown on Spike, including exclusive reveals during its Xbox pre- and after-shows.There's no breakdown available of how many games will be for Xbox One and how many for Xbox 360 (or even Games for Windows Live and Windows Phone, come to think of it) but we do know there will be at least one surprise for Xbox 360.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Wallet is leaking money &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGoogle Wallet, the mobile software that allows Android users to pay for purchases online and in stores with their phones, has become a money pit. The company has dedicated hundreds of developers to Wallet and spent about $300m to acquire digital payment startups to help develop the app. But consumers aren't sold. Wallet has been downloaded fewer than 10m times in the two years since its launch, according to Play, Google's app store.Loses money on every transaction, according to the former head of Wallet, who left on 20 May. Recall too that it was reported that Larry Page blocked the idea of a Google credit card ahead of Google I/O. And the biggest US networks block Wallet on their phones.Tell-all telephone &gt;&gt; De ZeitGreen party politician Malte Spitz sued to have German telecoms giant Deutsche Telekom hand over six months of his phone data that he then made available to ZEIT ONLINE. We combined this geolocation data with information relating to his life as a politician, such as Twitter feeds, blog entries and websites, all of which is all freely available on the internet.You can think of ways in which this is both good and bad.Analyzing Yahoo's PRISM non-denial &gt;&gt; slight paranoiaChristopher Soghoian, security and privacy researcher at the American Civil Liberties Union:Yahoo's General Counselposteda carefully worded denial regarding the company's alleged participation in the NSA PRISM program. To the casual observer, it might seem like a categorical denial. I do not believe that Yahoo's denial is as straightforward as it seems.Basically, it denies lots of things that haven't been suggested in order to make it seem as though Yahoo isn't involved with the NSA's Prism.This time it's real: Google-Waze deal on the way &gt;&gt; AllThingsDLiz Gannes and Mike Isaac:Waze will remain an independent entity for the time being, one source said, perhaps assuaging some fears that the tech giant will either outright kill or significantly alter the popular app.The deal would put an end to long-running speculation, fueled by leaks and tacit admissions, that the Israeli-founded mobile startup would end up in the hands of a major tech player.However, it's likely not going to be as easy as writing a check. There are not many global sources of mapping data: just Waze, Google, Navteq and TomTom. Thus, this would be a deal that attracts serious regulatory scrutiny — the political rigamarole that the search giant is all too familiar with at this point.Even if it keeps Waze independent for a while, at some point it will have to integrate it - and bite the bullet over competition. Otherwise, it's just a favoured source of data - which it could get for a lot less than the reported $1.3bn.Obama Is Checking Your Email &gt;&gt; TumblrHe's a busy guy.Microsoft retrieves lost Windows Phone device with prototype software &gt;&gt; The VergeTom Warren:Jeremiah Wong purchased a Lumia 920 from eBay on June 5th from a seller located in Seattle. "The phone in the pictures looked different," says Wong, speaking exclusively to The Verge. "Mainly the Start Screen had the feedback hub, also etching on the back that read MSFT." Wong initially thought the device was a developer kit because it had the special etching alongside a cracked screen, but it was a lot more important. So important in fact that Microsoft wanted it back.After posting screenshots of the software running on the device, and accidentally revealing his cellphone number in the process, Wong was contacted by Microsoft's legal team. Microsoft locked the phone remotely and requested that Wong take down his photos from his Flickr account.  "Apparently the guy who owned it lost it on a bus. It was then picked up and sold," he says. Instead of pursuing Wong, Microsoft has offered to reimburse him for the cost of the device and also ship him a replacement phone. "I was incredibly surprised at the lack of intimidation and even more surprised at their accommodation," says Wong.It was running an early version of "Windows Phone Blue". The screenshots suggest it will include a notification centre, among other improvements. Nice for someone not to get bullied by lawyers over a "lost" device.Carnivore (software) &gt;&gt; WikipediaCarnivore was a system implemented by the Federal Bureau of Investigation that was designed to monitor email and electronic communications. It used a customizable packet sniffer that can monitor all of a target user's Internet traffic. Carnivore was implemented in October 1997. By 2005 it had been replaced with improved commercial software such as NarusInsight.Just in case you thought Prism and its kin were new.'Draw Something' studio OMGPOP reportedly shuttered amid Zynga layoffs &gt;&gt; The VergeAs we reported earlier this afternoon, Zynga is laying off 520 employees, a full 18% of its global workforce, and reportedly shutting down offices in Los Angeles, Dallas, and New York. What we didn't realize is that OMGPOP is Zynga New York.Now, OMGPOP's official Twitter account and some of its staffers are unsurprisingly tweeting that they're out of work, including community manager Joseph Alminawi and VP of outreach Ali Nicolas.OMG it Popped. The real problem: couldn't adjust quickly enough to mobile.The most sophisticated Android Trojan &gt;&gt; SecurelistRoman Unucheck at Kaspersky:the cybercriminals found an error in the Android operating system which relates to the processing of the AndroidManifest.xml file. This file exists in every Android application and is used to describe the application's structure, define its launch parameters, etc. The malware modifies AndroidManifest.xml in such a way that it does not comply with Google standards, but is still correctly processed on a smartphone thanks to the exploitation of the identified vulnerability. All of this made it extremely difficult to run dynamic analysis on this Trojan.The creators of Backdoor.AndroidOS.Obad.a also used yet another previously unknown error in the Android operating system. By exploiting this vulnerability, malicious applications can enjoy extended Device Administrator privileges without appearing on the list of applications which have such privileges. As a result of this, it is impossible to delete the malicious program from the smartphone after it gains extended privileges.And with that the fun is only just beginning. This is reckoned to be one of the worst pieces of Android malware yet identified.Anonymous' leaked NSA documents aren't new (or secret) &gt;&gt; The Daily DotThedocuments Anonymous claims to have leakeddo not include the names any of the companies working on PRISM, nor do they explicitly mention PRISM at all. Instead, they contain a bunch of technical jargon, run-on sentences, acronyms, and details on the Global Information Grid (GIG) network. This network enables "the secure, agile, robust, dependable, interoperable, data sharing environment for the department", states one of the documents provided by Anonymous.While this network has caught the interest of news organizations likeTechCrunch, a mountain of seemingly identical documents on GIG can befound directly on the NSA's website.Oh, Anonymous, you and your documents that you find on servers and claim you hacked.Why the tech company 'denials' don't necessarily mean they weren't cooperating with NSA spying &gt;&gt; ThinkProgressFollowing reports of a top secret program called PRISM that allows intelligence agencies to access a wide variety of supposedly private online communications, several of the tech companies implicated in the report have issued carefully worded statements denying the government has access to their servers or a backdoor method of entry. But that doesn't necessarily mean the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) don't have the ability to access their data.It's all in the wording.Downbeat Galaxy S4 view hits Samsung shares &gt;&gt; WSJTraders said the decline was triggered by a research note from J.P. Morgan analyst J.J. Park, who wrote that shipments of the Galaxy S4 for the third quarter would likely "disappoint" investors, resulting in lower-than-expected margins for Samsung."Our supply chain checks show monthly orders have been cut 20%-30% to 7 to 8 million units (from 10 million) starting July," wrote Mr. Park. He downgraded Samsung's share price target to KRW1,900,000 from KRW2,100,000 previously.Samsung declined to comment Friday. The share price decline was reminiscent of the fall in Apple Inc. shares earlier this year, which was sparked by concerns over iPhone sales.Guidance has been downgraded from 40m units in two quarters to about 25m in those same two quarters, some reports say..How people read online: Why you won't finish this article &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineFarhad Manjoo:Schwartz's data shows that readers can't stay focused. The more I type, the more of you tune out. And it's not just me. It's not just Slate. It's everywhere online. When people land on a story, they very rarely make it all the way down the page. A lot of people don't even make it halfway. Even more dispiriting is the relationship between scrolling and sharing. Schwartz's data suggest that lots of people are tweeting out links to articles they haven't fully read. If you see someone recommending a story online, you shouldn't assume that he has read the thing he's sharing.Also explains comments which criticise something that's explained later in the story. Simple solution: put all the story into the first paragraph. Or something.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday! And don't forget, theEToo Londongaming event that I am co-organising will be live streaming tonight from 5pm tonight. You'll be able to see the feed on this very site, or head over toour YouTube channelto subscribe!
Price £23,345MPG 67.3Top speed 130mphWould you enter a sporting contest if you had no chance of winning? That's the challenge facing the newMazda6. Coming up against Ford's all-conquering "Miracle"Mondeoin the family saloon class is like clambering into the ring with theUndertaker– world wrestling's 6ft 10in 300lb undisputed heavyweight (signature move: the Chokeslam followed by the Tombstone – no one gets up from that). But the Mazda6 boasts wit,&nbsp;intelligence and ingenuity – and,&nbsp;sometimes, giants are slain.In the cold world of sales, much comes down to numbers, and Mazda's engineers have decided to play the percentage game. Their 6 is lighter and more efficient than the Mondeo. Its fighting gains are down to a raft of improvements brought about by the firm'sSkyActivproject. This is an entire reworking of all the car's key components: engine, transmission, chassis, suspension – basically anything that can be refined to help reduce carbon and increase efficiency without killing the joy of motoring. No mean feat, as no one sets out to buy a family saloon for its hair-raising performance or to four-wheel drift a hairpin, let alone because it can smackdown a Mondeo.So, having appealed to your head (and hopefully gained a little audience support), Mazda now has to finish the move by appealing to your heart. And that's the hard bit. They say a job interview is over in the first few seconds. And so it is with a&nbsp;car. When you slide into the driver's seat of a&nbsp;new vehicle, you'll do that thing where you grip the steering wheel and shrug your shoulders a&nbsp;couple of times, you'll adjust the mirror and silently press the accelerator, and you'll know if you like it or not before you've even turned the key. It's incredible how quickly we can make up our minds on such a massive purchase – and that's a nightmare for the car builders. A&nbsp;sticking door handle, a too-firm seat, an oddly placed gear knob and the game's up – regardless of how many hard yards they've made on reducing carbon emissions.From the pavement the 6 is one of the best-looking cars from Mazda in years. The swooping front wings flow from its handsome face and are met by creased panels puckering the lower doors. Chrome beading picks out the headlamps and frames the boot. It's a surprisingly big car, with real presence at the kerb. Inside, the story continues. The cabin is well thought out and roomy. It doesn't feel lavish, but neither is it cheap. It's well judged.Inside story: the well-thought out cockpit. Photograph: ObserverStart it up and the 2.2-litre turbo diesel feels eager and powerful; you'd never guess it offers 67.3mpg – Prozac for your wallet. One neat technical development is the i-ELOOP, which gathers electricity from braking and stores it in a&nbsp;capacitor to power on-board systems. Another feature I liked is that the onboard computer calculates how much running time its stop-start system has saved you. Over a 350-mile weekend and 10 hours at the wheel, the engine was switched off for 2 hours and 7 minutes.Smart, slick and smooth, the Mazda has a lot going for it. But Ford has dominated this sector for two decades. And it's going to take more than some clever gadgetry to shift the Mondeo, which also has a killer move up its sleeve: it's cheaper. Not by much, but then matches can be won and lost by the tiniest of margins.Buying BritishA superb new website calledBritish Built Carshas just launched. It lists, in detail, every known car currently or about to be made in the UK, from mass production right through to the low-volume specialist market. Each make and model has a brief description, images and a hyperlink to the manufacturer's own website. The site also features a comprehensive video library and news archive. It's terrific, interesting and useful – since when has idling on the internet felt so patriotic...Did your parents buy that?A new generation of internet-savvy, designer drivers are shunning the traditional hand-me-down banger for more upmarket motors subsidised by the Bank of Mum and Dad. Anxious parents, concerned about safety issues and their children's ability to find work in a period of record youth unemployment, are happy to pay for cars denied to them as youngsters. A third of all UK drivers aged 51-60 have paid, or would pay, for their teenager's first car. These young drivers are also using online resources more than dealerships, as they admit to feeling out of depth on a dealer's forecourt. Armed with knowledge gleaned from the internet those young people who cover their own motoring expenses are refusing to wait until they earn more money to buy a better car. Research bywebuyanycar.comreveals that the economy has bred a new generation of designer drivers, with 31% of drivers aged 18-24 admitting they would happily trade in a hand-me-down car to free up cash to invest in a better vehicle. It's good news for car manufacturers, but in some ways it makes me sad that the days of the banger may be numbered. Think of all those adventures the more mature driver has had with over-heating, smoking rust buckets. Happy days.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
A reader writes:"Dear John Naughton, As you write about the internet, I wondered if you knew how long it takes Yahoo to get back to people. I have an iPad, but went to the library to print a document (attached to an email). Yahoo knew I wasn't on my iPad and asked me to name my favourite uncle. I replied, but Yahoo didn't like my answer, so locked me out for 12 hours. I can't get into my email account. Getting to the Help page is really difficult. Do you ever speak to anybody at Yahoo? I had to open another non-Yahoo email account, so I opened a Gmail account and it looks to have the same problem. Not easy to get in touch with anybody when things go wrong. I am sure I am not the only one who wants to discuss my problem with a human being. Yours sincerely…"Dear Reader,I hear (and sympathise with) your pain, but we need to get something straight. Yahoo email is ostensibly a "free" service (as indeed is Gmail). That doesn't mean that it costs you nothing, only that you don't pay cash up front for it. You do however "pay" in a different currency, namely your personal data. This is valuable to Yahoo because they can convert it into revenue; it enables them – and their commercial partners – to target advertisements and other marketing propositions at you and people like&nbsp;you.I'm sure you realise this, really, because you must have signed up to their end user licence agreement (EULA) when you opened your Yahoo email account. You may not have read it carefully before you clicked on the "Agree" button but, buried in the knee-deep legal verbiage was a clause running something like this: "Yahoo collects, stores andusesyour registration data and other information about you that are subject to the Yahoo Privacy Policy that you agreed to when you applied for and received your Yahoo Mail account." (Emphasis&nbsp;added.)There's nothing unusual about Yahoo's EULA, by the way. The "agreements" required by Google, Facebook and other online companies are cast in the same mould, in the sense that they are all pathologicallyasymmetrical. That is to say, they requireyouto accept all kinds of conditions imposed by them, while explicitly exemptingthemfrom any obligations whatsoever.Which explains why, when you go looking for what you may innocently think of as customer support, you find that no such thing exists. That's because you are not a "customer", you're merely a user. And a user, moreover, who has explicitly (if unwittingly) waived their rights to any kind of support. It also explains the adage: if the service is free, then its users are its product.When the history of our time comes to be written, people will marvel at the way that billions of people were seduced into the kind of one-sided agreements they have struck with outfits such as Yahoo, Google, Facebook, Microsoft and Apple. In the case of Facebook, the historical analogy that comes immediately to mind is sharecropping – the agricultural system in which a landowner allowed tenants to use his land in return for a share of the crops produced on it and which was once a staple of the southern states of the US. Its virtual equivalent is the Facebook system: a billion people till Master Zuckerberg's land, creating all the content that is then harvested by him and his advertiser buddies. The only difference is that on Facebook the sharecroppers don't get any share of the proceeds. They're just croppers.And here's the really weird bit: the croppers are absurdly pleased with their lot. They get to post photographs of themselves drunk, sober, recumbent and upside-down. They get to "Like" their friends' jokes and status updates and to organise parties and social events without having to use obsolete media such as email. And in the process they "pay" for this entertainment with their privacy and their personal data, apparently without batting an eyelid. Like I said: weird.But back to your problem with Yahoo. Everyone who has been in your position has experienced the frustration that drove you to write. Why do these companies not provide&nbsp;telephone support lines with human beings at the other end? The answer is simple: call centres cost money and are only necessary if a company is compelled, by law or by competitive pressure, to support its customers. Your problem is that you're&nbsp;not a customer of Yahoo. Its customers are advertisers who want to exploit its network and what it knows about its users. And I bet there's a support line forthem, staffed by a real human being.So if you want an email service that provides the equivalent of a helpline, I'm afraid you'll have to pay for it. Yours sincerely,&nbsp;John.
Set 20 years after a horrific fungal contagion causes the downfall of society,The Last of Usis a gritty survival drama filled with desperate, flawed and – above all – human characters. As the gruff Joel, much of the game involves guiding the young and vulnerable Ellie to safety. Travelling across a ruined America, Joel and Ellie encounter many other survivors, some of whom present a greater threat than the monstrous infected. Each conflict is tense – you'll be overrun if typical "action shooter" tactics are attempted. Caution, stealth, listening and forethought are the key weapons.The relationship between the co-leads is the crux of the game, while moments of violence are designed to shock rather than serve as adrenaline-rush exploitation. It is a harsh world players are cast into, one demanding reflection on the brutal actions they'll be forced to undertake. Between its stunning visuals and emotional core,The Last of Usmay prove to be the finest game released this console generation.
In a future where memories can be traded through a device called the Sensen, the amnesiac Nilin is waging a guerrilla war to bring down the corrupt corporation overseeing the technology. But when your entire recollection of an event can be rewritten with the flick of a switch, can anything be trusted?That's the question at the heart ofRemember Me, Capcom's brilliant new cyberpunk adventure, one regularly asked by its innovative narrative technique of "remixing" key characters' recollections, changing their view of the past to shift their actions in the present. Between posing philosophical and moral questions, it also offers a fantastic combat system and a visually stunning series of locations that demand to be explored. Unfortunately, linearity robs the game of true greatness, with every action, fight and remix rigidly scripted. A memorable experience, then, but one a sequel will, it's hoped, improve on.
Ministers will respond in parliament on Monday to claims that UK intelligence agencies have gained access to a vast reservoir of private data relating to people living in Britain – including emails and phone logs – collected by spies at the US National Security Agency.Amid growing calls for the government to reveal what it knows aboutthe data interception scandal revealed by theGuardianlast week, senior Whitehall sources said it was "highly likely" that a statement would be delivered to MPs in the Commons either by the foreign secretary, William Hague, whose department is responsible for GCHQ, or the home secretary, Theresa May.May is scheduled to answer Home Office questions  at which the issue will dominate, if no formal statement is to be made. Among questions that MPs want answered as a matter of urgency is whether any of the intelligence supplied by the US about British citizens was handed over to GCHQ in breach of British interception legislation, or whether British intelligence officials attempted to bypass British law by sending requests for intercepts to the US.The calls follow several days of leaks of top-secret documents from within the NSA to theGuardian, painting in shocking detail for the first time the vast reach of the NSA's electronic spying operations conducted as part of anti-terrorism investigations and foreign intelligence gathering. Included have been revelations of how the NSA has collected huge amounts of so-called "metadata" from telephone companies such as Verizon. This is data that gives details of calls made, numbers dialled and their duration, rather than the content of the conversations.A second leak to theGuardianwas contained in a PowerPoint presentation detailing the secret NSA programme called "Prism", which appears to make use of vast swaths of email and instant chat messaging data supplied by technology companies including Google, Facebook, Microsoft and Apple.Although the Obama administrationhas admitted that the NSA mines telephony and other communications data– including from US citizens – senior executives at technology companieshave denied in the most emphatic termsthat the programme amounts to a direct pipeline from their servers to the NSA. US spies have been accused of tapping into servers of nine US internet giants including Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Google in a massive and wide-ranging anti-terror sweep. All deny giving government agents access to servers.On Saturday Google said that the US government had no access – "not directly, or via a back door, or a so-called drop box". Instead the companies – which say they have not heard of Prism – insist that the only material they hand over is that demanded by a court order, under the US foreign intelligence surveillance act (FISA).Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder and CEO, said: "Facebook is not and has never been part of any programme to give the US or any other government direct access to our servers." Google and Facebook insisted that they only turned over data when they received court orders, and frequently challenged them. But theNew York Timesreported on Saturdaythat key tech firms, including Google, Facebook and Microsoft, had co-operated with the NSA "at least a bit". The story describes a close working relationship between top intelligence officials and the companies. The chairman of the US joint chiefs of staff, General Martin E Dempsey, met "personally with executives including those at Facebook, Microsoft, Google and Intel," the paper reported. Twitter is said to have declined to participate.In addition to the denials of the companies, the office of the US director of national intelligence on Saturday night moved to declassify aspects of the controversial Prism programme. A fact sheet released by the office of James Clapper, the director of US national intelligence, insisted that no "unilateral" unregulated capability exists that provides a direct feed of internet data for US intelligence analysis. It insisted that all information demanded was subject to specific court requests under FISA, overseen by Congress. "Under section 702 of FISA, the US government does not unilaterally obtain information from the servers of US electronic communication service providers. All such information is obtained with FISA court approval and with the knowledge of the provider based upon a written directive from the attorney general and the director of national intelligence."Since the revelation of Prism and the court order demanding that Verizon hand over its telephony metadata, the Obama administration has tried to justify the need for the NSA's interception operations, insisting that all collection is approved by secret FISA courts and overseen by Congress.But in Britain MPs of all parties have demanded clarity. Douglas Alexander, Labour's shadow foreign secretary, said: "Our intelligence agencies do vital work to keep our country safe from harm, but it is also vital that they operate within a framework of legality and accountability."These reports have raised serious public concern, so I am now calling on the foreign secretary, William Hague, to come to the Commons on Monday to make an urgent statement to MPs."In that statement he must explain the government's position and tell MPs how the government will work with the intelligence and security committee to address these public concerns."GCHQ has agreed to send a full report about the controversy to the all-party intelligence and security committee chaired by a former Conservative foreign secretary, Sir Malcolm Rifkind. By coincidence Rifkind and members of his committee are flying to Washington on Monday to meet members of the intelligence committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives as well as other US officials involved in the intelligence field. The committee will be sent the GCHQ report via the British embassy in Washington.The committee will be keen to know if British intelligence agencies used requests for information under Prism to circumvent the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (2000), which requires ministerial authority for intercepting data content such as emails, or a senior intelligence officer's agreement to reveal metadata.In the past there have been suggestions that the NSA and GCHQ have had reciprocal arrangements which see them issue requests for intercepts.In 2003 Katharine Gun, a translator at GCHQ, leaked a request from an NSA officer, Frank Koza – first revealed by theObserver– thatrequested GCHQ's assistancein the illegal and secret bugging of UN delegations in the runup to the Iraq war.That leak suggested that both agencies had in the past exchanged requests for assistance in interception operations against targets.A potential cut-out allowing deniability does, however, exist under the so called "control principle". That regulates the arrangement under which the UK and US intelligence agencies share material, which means that the organisation supplying intelligence, even following a direct request, "owns" the intelligence and does not have to disclose how the information was acquired.Former shadow home secretary David Davis said the US monitoring programme appeared to allow the state to "spy on who they like". He told Sky News that if reports of its operations were accurate then "it is actually quite a scandal".David suggested that May and Hague must have had knowledge if the system was used by GCHQ to provide information on UK citizens. "Presumably they at least would have had to sign an authorisation for this to take place," he said."[There were] nearly 200 British citizens under surveillance of one sort or other in one year so they must have known something about it."
I met a couple of old friends for a drink the other evening. Not in a pub, but in more of a wine bar-y kind of place. We drank wine, in fact – not too much of it, mind, since this was a school night. We talked about our lives, our work and our families, before going back to them – our families – neither too late nor too inebriated. In the old days there were no families, and work was something that was done but not very seriously. We would have talked about music and girls, maybe even tried to talk to girls, certainly got drunk, on beer.We've grown up, though and, yes, become rather dull, I'm afraid. We've gone from being first-generation Rav4s to being this one,&nbsp;the fourth generation. Over pretty much the same timescale, as&nbsp;it happens.Remember it, that first three-door Rav4? One of the first compact soft-roaders, it was an awkward-looking thing, but there was also a&nbsp;silly, youthful, hell-let's-go-to-the-beachness about it. This new one? Hell, let's go on the school run. And&nbsp;I did.It's undoubtedly a much better car than the first one, and proportionally better than the generations in between. Bigger, roomier, more comfortable, more practical, more refined. There's just nothing about it that stands out very much from the competition: it could be aFord Kugaor aHonda CR-Vor a&nbsp;Nissan Qashqaior any of the others.In fact, the only memorable reaction it provoked in me was annoyance, over one small thing – the power back door (I've got a&nbsp;high-spec model). You know what? I&nbsp;don't really mind opening a boot manually: you press or squeeze something, then pull – it's really not such a massive chore. But they have to keep giving you toys, even if you don't want or need them. So I'm pointing the remote-control key fob thing, and pressing, and pressing again, because nothing happened the first time, and eventually the door lifts, very slowly. Jesus, if I'd been in the Serengeti, say, and I&nbsp;was trying to get my gun out of the back because I was being charged by a&nbsp;rhino… Well, I'd be dead, impaled like an impala. Not that I would actually drive across the Serengeti in a Rav4. Or shoot a rhino.We did take it along a muddy farm track and up a wet, grassy slope, both of which it managed adequately, though it didn't feel as if&nbsp;it really belonged there. On the road, too, it coped very well, without being an especially engaging driving experience. There's not much joy or fun involved. It's a sensible, grown-up, go-home-early kind of car. Which wouldn't be as sad if it – and if we – hadn't once been something else.Toyota Rav4 Invincible 2.2 D-4D AutoPrice£29,305Top speed115mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10 secondsCombined fuel consumption42.2mpgCO2emissions176g/kmEcorating5/10Cool rating4/10
It's not often that archaeology and video games come together, but Atari's legendary dumping of thousands of E.T. game cartridges in the New Mexico desert has inspired a film crew to try to find the site. Along with multiple copies of the infamously godawful E.T., they're also hoping to discover long-lost artefacts from Atari's past …Games out this week includeJourney: Collector's Edition(PS3), which bundles Flow, Flower and a couple more experimental titles with Journey, whose three-ish hours remain a unique and beguiling adventure;The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Legendary Edition(Xbox, PS3, PC) packages the staggering vastness of Skyrim with copious downloadable content; charming puzzle gameLIMBO(PS Vita) works nicely on Sony's shiny handheld; andKingdom Rush: Frontiers(iOS) expands the scope of everyone's favourite tower-defence game.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIn 2084, 99% of the population upload their memories to be shared with others over a network controlled by the evil mega-corp Memorize. You're an "errorist", one of the refusenik 1%, but with the unique ability to reach in and tinker with people's memories, changing the minutiae until you discover the right combination of factors to shift their entire perspective on life. As you explore the extraordinarily beautiful rooftops, sewers and inevitable underground laboratories of Blade Runner-meets-Fifth Element Neo-Paris, you're given opportunities to change the minds of powerful antagonists by remixing their memories. Most of the time, though, you'll be kung fu-ing robotic and human henchmen using the game's customisable combos overlaid with targeted special moves. Fights are challenging but rarely unfair (and that includes the game's super-epic boss battles) but it's not entirely successful, with combat eventually becoming repetitive and your infrequent opportunities to remix memories relying entirely on trial and error.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewFuse is an alien substance that handily powers a breed of secret super-weapons, some of which your four-person team manages to get its hands on after the rest are stolen. Your job is to hunt down and shoot the mercenary thieves, in a process that's nearly identical to many other third-person action games. Your team is a dispiriting clutch of nonentities, carefully drained of character until they're mere cyphers, filling the gaps between gunfights with banal reiteration of plot points. Although mechanically sound, Fuse's formulaic milieu and lack of distinguishing features make you yearn for more of its flashes of wacky humour (such as your most meat-headed team member's fear of cats). Without big characters or memorable set-pieces, it's reduced to a humdrum series of arenas filled with tedious waist-height barriers, and while there's pleasingly ludicrous weaponry to accumulate, it's not enough to stave off overwhelming apathy.
Ministers are under mounting pressure  to explain whether they authorised GCHQ to gather intelligence on Britons from the world's biggest internet companies via a covertly run operation set up by America's top spy agency.MPs, academics and campaign groups rounded on the government afterthe Guardian disclosedthat GCHQ, the UK's electronic eavesdropping and security headquarters, had been supplied with information from the top secret system.The US-run programme, called Prism, would appear to have allowed GCHQ to circumvent the formal legal process required to seek personal material such as emails, photos and videos from an internet company based outside the UK.According to documents obtained by the Guardian, the agency generated 197 intelligence reports from Prism last year, and has had access to the programme since at least 2010.On Friday senior MPs challenged David Cameron, the foreign secretary William Hague – who oversees the work of GCHQ – and Theresa May, the home secretary, to spell out what they knew of Prism.David Davis, the former shadow home secretary, told the Guardian: "It is a perfectly reasonable question to put to the foreign secretary: did you or did you not authorise all of these Prism intercepts on British citizens? It is perfectly appropriate for him to answer that. We are not asking him to comment on individual cases. We are saying did you, as a matter of policy, sign off all of them or sign off some of them? If so what was the criteria?"Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, said parliament's intelligence and security committee (ISC) should launch an immediate inquiry into Prism, the nature of the intelligence being gathered, and the extent of UK oversight by ministers."It is important for the UK intelligence community to be able to gather information from abroad including from the United States. However, there also have to be legal safeguards in place, including proper protection for British citizens' privacy. That is why the prime minister, home secretary and foreign secretary, and all the intelligence agencies should provide full information to the ISC." Keith Vaz, the chairman of the home affairs select committee, added: "The most chilling aspect is that ordinary American citizens and potentially British citizens too were apparently unaware that their phone and online interactions could be watched. This seems to be thesnooper's charterby the back door." The Foreign Office and GCHQ have so far refused to be drawn on the issues.By coincidence, the ISC is due to travel to Washington next week – giving MPs their first opportunity to question US officials about the covert programme.Sir Malcolm Rifkind, chairman of the ISC said on Friday night that it is due to be given a report on claims that GCHQ received material through the secret Prism scheme "very shortly"."The ISC is aware of the allegations surrounding data obtained by GCHQ via the US Prism programme," Sir Malcolm said. "The ISC will be receiving a full report from GCHQ very shortly and will decide what further action needs to be taken as soon as it receives that information."The details of GCHQ's use of Prism are set out in documents obtained by the Guardian. The papers were prepared for senior analysts working at America's National Security Agency.Dated April this year, they describe the remarkable scope of a previously undisclosed "snooping" operation which gave the NSA and the FBI access to the systems of nine of the world's biggest internet companies.  The group includes Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo and Skype. The documents, which appear in the form of a 41-page PowerPoint presentation, suggest the firms co-operated with the Prism programme.Technology companies denied knowledge of Prism, with Google insisting it "does not have a back door for the government to access private user data". But the companies acknowledged that they complied with legal orders.The existence of Prism, though, is not in doubt.Thanks to changes to US surveillance law introduced under George Bush and renewed under Barack Obama in December 2012, Prism was established in December 2007 to provide in-depth surveillance on live communications and stored information about foreigners overseas.The law allows for the targeting of any customers of participating firms who live outside the US, or those Americans whose communications include people outside the US.The documents make clear the NSA has been able to obtain unilaterally both stored communications as well as real-time collection of raw data for the last six years, without the knowledge of users, who would assume their correspondence was private. The NSA describes Prism as "one of the most valuable, unique and productive accesses" of intelligence, and boasts the service has been made available to spy organisations from other countries, including GCHQ.It says the British agency generated 197 intelligence reports from Prism in the year to May 2012 – marking a 137% increase in the number of reports generated from the year before. Intelligence reports from GCHQ are normally passed to MI5 and MI6.The documents underline that "special programmes for GCHQ exist for focused Prism processing", suggesting the agency has been able to receive material from a bespoke part of the programme to suit British interests.Unless GCHQ has stopped using Prism, the agency has accessed information from the programme for at least three years. It is not mentioned in the latest report from the Interception of Communications Commissioner Office, which scrutinises the way the UK's three security agencies use the laws covering the interception and retention of data.Asked to comment on its use of Prism, GCHQ said it "takes its obligations under the law very seriously. Our work is carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate, and that there is rigorous oversight, including from the secretary of state, the interception and intelligence services commissioners and the intelligence and security committee".The agency refused to be drawn on how long it had been using Prism, how many intelligence reports it had gleaned from it, or which ministers knew it was being used. However, campaigners insisted ministers had important questions to answer.Eric King, head of research at Privacy International – a charity focused on the right to privacy – said: "Keeping the public in the dark about secretive and potentially unlawful programmes must stop, and greater oversight is needed to ensure human rights are not being trampled."Professor Peter Sommer, a cybersecurity expert, said: "It is one thing for the government to go to the public and say the level of the threat is so great that we need to have this type of surveillance, and quite another for them to do so covertly. The principle of jurisdiction swapping is not new and in some ways the fact the NSA has been helping GCHQ is not surprising. But the consequence of this is that there is far less oversight than people might imagine of GCHQ. One wonders whether ministers would have been told the details of something like Prism, or whether they were told in very general terms about what it involved."The existence and use of Prism reflects concern within the intelligence community about access it has to material held by internet service providers.Many of the web giants are based in the US and are beyond the jurisdiction of British laws. Very often, the UK agencies have to go through a formal legal process to request information from ISPs.Because the UK has a mutual legal assistance treaty with America, GCHQ can make an application through the US department of justice, which will make the approach on its behalf.Though the process is used extensively – almost 3,000 requests were made to Google alone last year – it is time consuming. Prism would appear to give GCHQ a chance to bypass the procedure.Nick Pickles, director of privacy and civil liberties campaign group Big Brother Watch, said: "There are legal processes to request information about British citizens using American services and if they are being circumvented by using these NSA spying arrangements then that would be a very serious issue. The wider legal authority of the surveillance that the US government has been undertaking is being disputed by very senior figures and it is essential that questions are asked at the highest levels about whether British citizens have seen their privacy intruded upon without adherence to the proper legal process or any suspicion of wrongdoing."In its statement about Prism, Google said it "cares deeply about the security of our users' data. We disclose user data to government in accordance with the law, and we review all such requests carefully. From time to time, people allege that we have created a government 'back door' into our systems, but Google does not have a back door for the government to access private user data".Several senior tech executives insisted they had no knowledge of Prism or of any similar scheme. "If they are doing this, they are doing it without our knowledge," one said. An Apple spokesman said it had "never heard" of Prism.In a statement confirming the existence of Prism, James Clapper, the director of national intelligence in the US, said: "Information collected under this programme is among the most important and valuable intelligence information we collect, and is used to protect our nation from a wide variety of threats."A senior US administration official said: "The programme is subject to oversight by the foreign intelligence surveillance court, the executive branch, and Congress."It involves procedures, specifically approved by the court, to ensure that only non-US persons outside the US are targeted, and that minimise the acquisition, retention and dissemination of incidentally acquired information about US persons."
The Apple chief executive, Tim Cook, is expected on Monday to unveil an "iRadio" streaming music service to compete with Spotify, Pandora and Google, along with a new look for the iPhone's software – though not new phones.With Apple's stock in the doldrums and regulatory scrutiny on the company increasing on both sides of the Atlantic, Cook will be under pressure to reinvigorate the company's brand as rivals like Google steal a march with products such as Google Glass.Cook will be a keynote speaker at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) in San Francisco, bringing together the writers of thousands of apps that have helped the iPhone and iPad generate billions of dollars in revenue.The conference will also be the first time that the hardware designer Jonathan Ive's influence will be visible on Apple's software since Cook put him in overall charge of both software and hardware design,firing the former iPhone software chief Scott Forstallin October.Music industry sources have indicated that Apple has signed agreements for streaming music services over the past months, with Reuters reporting that Warner Music Group, with artists including Taylor Swift, and Universal Music Group, had signed up. Of the big three music companies only Sony Music had not signed up by the weekend, although there were reports that the Japanese music major is about to do a deal.While Apple's iTunes is the biggest single music seller in the world, streaming music services such as Spotify and Pandora have threatened to erode its revenues as they draw in more and more subscribers.Spotify, launched in 2006, announced in March that it has six million paying subscribers, while Pandora, started in 2005,announced in Aprilthat it has 200 million registered users – a number that has doubled in just two years. It said it streams 200m songs before 10am every day and has about 70m regular users."A music service with some sort of suggestion or curation service would fill an obvious gap in Apple's ecosystem and help it lock users in," said Benedict Evans, a technology and telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis. "It also feeds into speculation about how such a service might fit into new hardware – watches, TV, cheap phones with less storage for songs."But even though Google has garnered huge media interest for its wearable Glass spectacles, now being tested by thousands of developers, Apple is not expected to unveil its expected iWatch nor any much-anticipated cheaper iPhones at this event.Some think it might upgrade its Apple TV set-top box to enable apps to run on it, potentially opening up a huge new market for developers. New high-end desktop computers made in the US could also be a fillip for would-be buyers who have waited more than two years for an update.Apple is currently under more regulatory and market scrutiny than at any time in its 37-year history. It is accused of anti-competitive price-fixing in anebook trial in the US, while European legislators are understood to beexamining whether its pricing contracts for the iPhonewith operators constitute monopoly abuse.US senators have alsocriticised its tax avoidance arrangements, in which shell companies in countries including Ireland hold huge amounts of profits offshore and avoid US corporation tax.Meanwhile Apple's stock price has lost almost 40% of its value since 19 September, in the run-up to the launch of the iPhone 5, when it hit a record high of $702.10. On Friday it was trading at $438 as investors continued to fret about the absence of a "cheap iPhone" to compete in the smartphone market.The company also lost a patent fight with Samsung that could see its two-year-old iPhone 4 banned from import to the US after July – but that is not expected to affect sales.Yet its rival Samsung is also under pressure, having reportedly cut its guidance for the number of top-end Galaxy S4 smartphones it will sell over the next two quarters from 40m to 25m. Samsung's stock fell by around 6% on Friday following the news.Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice-president of worldwide marketing, said: "Our developers have had the most prolific and profitable year ever, and we're excited to show them the latest advances in software technologies and developer tools to help them create innovative new apps. We can't wait to get new versions of iOS and OS X into their hands at WWDC."
Eccentric Irish-American billionaire Patrick Callahan launchesWorld Series Racing, a franchise that collects together the world's best and brightest racers for a globe-hopping battle royale. Thanks to a performance in a race in Chicago, you're chosen as WSR's poster boy (or girl), which lucrative job offer comes complete with a garage of cars, international exposure, and fresh racing rivals. On this narrative coat hanger hangs a beautifully polished racing sim that genuinely exhilarates.Grid 2 cleaves a compromise route between realism and an arcade driving experience. Trading paint with other cars is encouraged, and can be an occasional source of tactical advantage, but an unsympathetic damage mechanic can reduce your ride to a leftwards-trending hulk with the power of a pedalo.Enemy AIs have grown markedly angrier since Grid, and are happy to plough headlong into your flank if you corner inexpertly. The WSR pits you against regular rivals: after having tangled more than once with expert driver, narrative antagonist, and all-round bête noir Harrison Carter, you may find yourself fixated on committing vehicular manslaughter.Grid 2: trading paint is encouragedRacing modes include Race, which, your utterly unironic in-house technical assistant informs you, involves finishing the race before your opponents, one-on-ones; Elimination, where the last-placed car each lap gets axed; Checkpoint, which capitalises on nostalgia for the era of arcade games by forcing you to win extra time by hitting checkpoints; a number of bonus modes, including Overtake, where you must overtake a fleet of ambling pickups car-by-car without crashing to gain points; and Endurance, which is really just a misleadingly named variant of Race.Grid 2 boasts LiveRoutes, which are procedurally generated tracks where your course varies as you drive it. Much more fun, however, is getting to know a course, and comparing performances across consecutive attempts at the same corner. As any regular Top Gear viewer will tell you: you have to watch out for Gambon.So LiveRoutes serves as something of a paltry substitute for Grid 2's dearth of racetracks. Too many of the courses are invented, and many courses are frequently repeated in the single player. Players who find themselves especially frustrated with a particular course will find themselves forced to revisit it again and again, even if the game makes you do it backwards the second time. One map led ineluctably to a series of intimate and violent encounters with the trunk of the same giant redwood across multiple challenges. This grew tiresome.Grid 2: the action moves to California ...Grid's major innovation was Flashback, which allows you to transport your car back in time a few seconds so as to perfect your cornering, prevent yourself from careering into a giant redwood, or to readjust your aim so that you successfully sideswipe Harrison Carter into the sea. Collisions of car and wall can be enjoyed for their visual beauty, without the frustration they would otherwise cause. This is retained, and is given an aesthetic upgrade.It's clear that a lot of love has gone into recreating, and then destroying, each car, and grappling with each vehicle's distinctive personality, both in sickness and in health, is very rewarding. Grid 2, like its predecessor, eschews tuning, so you are required to become familiar with each car's quirks and peccadilloes.It's also a game whose sound engineers deserve plenty of credit. When hurtling through a canyon, your engine's throaty roar ricochets uniquely off the rock walls. These cars feel powerful, and this is because they sound powerful.Grid 2: ... and Paris in multiplayerMultiplayer uses its own progression system, so progress in the single-player campaign doesn't count for squat. The lack of real tracks, and the limited number of total tracks, will both act as drags on multiplayer's popularity, however.But as Californian sun coruscates off the stresses in the roof of an electric blue Dodge Charger RT, it is hard to not to appreciate the sheer beauty of the game, as played on the PC. Grid 2's engine has been fantastically optimised. Older laptops can also extract their fair share of sparkle and shine from the game's engine. A little bit of dedicated graphics hardware goes a long way.The cars variously purr and growl. The locales glimmer in regionally appropriate levels of sunlight. Harrison Carter explodes into a vivid, crimson fireball. This is a gorgeous, exciting game.• Game reviewed on PC
The UK's electronic eavesdropping and security agency, GCHQ, has been secretly gathering intelligence from the world's biggest internet companies through a covertly run operation set up by America's top spy agency, documents obtained by the Guardian reveal.The documents show that GCHQ, based in Cheltenham, has had access to the system since at least June 2010, and generated 197 intelligence reports from it last year.The US-run programme, called Prism, would appear to allow GCHQ to circumvent the formal legal process required to seek personal material such as emails, photos and videos from an internet company based outside the UK.The use of Prism raises ethical and legal issues about such direct access to potentially millions of internet users, as well as questions about which British ministers knew of the programme.In a statement to the Guardian, GCHQ, insisted it "takes its obligations under the law very seriously".The details of GCHQ's use of Prism are set out in documents prepared for senior analysts working at America's National Security Agency, the biggest eavesdropping organisation in the world.Dated April this year, the papers describe the remarkable scope of a previously undisclosed "snooping" operation which gave the NSA and the FBI easy access to the systems of nine of the world's biggest internet companies. The group includes Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo and Skype.The documents, which appear in the form of a 41-page PowerPoint presentation, suggest the firms co-operated with the Prism programme. Technology companies denied knowledge of Prism, with Google insisting it "does not have a back door for the government to access private user data". But the companies acknowledged that they complied with legal orders.The existence of Prism, though, is not in doubt.Thanks to changes to US surveillance law introduced under President George W Bush and renewed under Barack Obama in December 2012, Prism was established in December 2007 to provide in-depth surveillance on live communications and stored information about foreigners overseas.The law allows for the targeting of any customers of participating firms who live outside the US, or those Americans whose communications include people outside the US.The documents make clear the NSA has been able to obtain unilaterally both stored communications as well as real-time collection of raw data for the last six years, without the knowledge of users, who would assume their correspondence was private.The NSA describes Prism as "one of the most valuable, unique and productive accesses" of intelligence, and boasts the service has been made available to spy organisations from other countries, including GCHQ.It says the British agency generated 197 intelligence reports from Prism in the year to May 2012 – marking a 137% increase in the number of reports generated from the year before. Intelligence reports from GCHQ are normally passed to MI5 and MI6.The documents underline that "special programmes for GCHQ exist for focused Prism processing", suggesting the agency has been able to receive material from a bespoke part of the programme to suit British interests.Unless GCHQ has stopped using Prism, the agency has accessed information from the programme for at least three years. It is not mentioned in the latest report from the Interception of Communications Commissioner Office, which scrutinises the way the UK's three security agencies use the laws covering the interception and retention of data.Asked to comment on its use of Prism, GCHQ said it "takes its obligations under the law very seriously. Our work is carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate, and that there is rigorous oversight, including from the secretary of state, the interception and intelligence services commissioners and the intelligence and security committee".The agency refused to be drawn on how long it had been using Prism, how many intelligence reports it had gleaned from it, or which ministers knew it was being used.A GCHQ spokesperson added: "We do not comment on intelligence matters."The existence and use of Prism reflects concern within the intelligence community about access it has to material held by internet service providers.Many of the web giants are based in the US and are beyond the jurisdiction of British laws. Very often, the UK agencies have to go through a formal legal process to request information from service providers.Because the UK has a mutual legal assistance treaty with America, GCHQ can make an application through the US department of justice, which will make the approach on its behalf.Though the process is used extensively – almost 3,000 requests were made to Google alone last year – it is time consuming. Prism would appear to give GCHQ a chance to bypass the procedure.In its statement about Prism, Google said it "cares deeply about the security of our users' data. We disclose user data to government in accordance with the law, and we review all such requests carefully. From time to time, people allege that we have created a government 'back door' into our systems, but Google does not have a back door for the government to access private user data".Several senior tech executives insisted they had no knowledge of Prism or of any similar scheme. They said they would never have been involved in such a programme."If they are doing this, they are doing it without our knowledge," one said. An Apple spokesman said it had "never heard" of Prism.In a statement confirming the existence of Prism, James Clapper, the director of national intelligence in the US, said: "Information collected under this programme is among the most important and valuable intelligence information we collect, and is used to protect our nation from a wide variety of threats."A senior US administration official said: "The programme is subject to oversight by the foreign intelligence surveillance court, the executive branch, and Congress. It involves extensive procedures, specifically approved by the court, to ensure that only non-US persons outside the US are targeted, and that minimise the acquisition, retention and dissemination of incidentally acquired information about US persons."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier today.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad apps posts).Night Zookeeper Teleporting Torch (£1.99)A timely reminder that not all children's apps arepunting super-premium-priced in-app purchases. This is the second app from Night Zookeeper, and it's about encouraging children's creativity by setting them daily "drawing missions", themed around a zoo full of magical animals. Parents can set missions for their kids too, and the drawings are stored in the cloud for safekeeping.iPadThe Incomplete Map of the Cosmic Genome (£5.99)Presented by Robin Ince, this app brings together scientists, writers and performers to talk about science, the universe, life and everything. It's a mixture of interviews and videos – "an interactive magazine-documentary-TV show all in one" as the developers put it. The app uses subscription billing: you get three months as part of the initial download fee, then it costs £3.99 a quarter (or £5.99 / £9.99 for six / 12 months at a time).iPadWWDC (Free)Only really useful if you're a registered Apple developer, whether you're going to the company's WWDC conference this month or not. If you are going, you'll find times, locations and descriptions for all the sessions. If you're not, you can watch the session videos for the full skinny on the next versions of iOS and OS X (once they're announced, obviously). The app is also being pored over for visual hints at Apple's rumoured move to "flat" design for iOS 7.iPhone / iPadVogue Today (Free)Switching tack from app-design fashion to, well,fashionfashion now. This iPhone app from Condé Nast aims to be your "personal fashion assistant every day", suggesting how to dress for the weather, as well as recommending new clobber on a daily basis.iPhoneGrayson Perry: The Vanity of Small Differences (£1.99)Artist Grayson Perry's The Vanity of Small Differences tapestries were originally created as part of a TV series that saw him travelling around Britain. Now they're going on tour too, complete with an official app that lets you browse the artworks close-up, read about the inspiration behind them, and get Grayson's commentary for each of the six tapestries.iPhone / iPadGlastonbury Festival 2013 (Free)Mobile operator group EE is behind the official app for this year's Glastonbury music festival, with features split for people who are attending, and people who want to enjoy the event from afar. Right now, the app provides news in the buildup to the festival, but later in the month it will get full lineup details and a customisable schedule. Most interesting, though, are the promise of live streams from the BBC's coverage of the six main stages.iPhoneKingdom Rush Frontiers (£2.99)Developer Ironhide Game Studio has released a sequel to its impressive Kingdom Rush tower defence game, promising more upgrades, abilities and enemies to fend off. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the HD iPad version.iPhone / iPadVesper (£2.99)John Gruber is famous for blogging about Apple on hisDaring Fireballsite. Now he's turned app-maker as part of the team behind Vesper, "a simple and elegant tool for collecting notes, ideas, things to do". Everything can be tagged and grouped into "playlist-like collections", with photos attachable too.iPhoneScribbleMix (Free)ScribbleMix is the latest new thing from Disney: a "hilarious and absurd drawing game played with friends". Sounds familiar... You're guessing phrases based on what friends draw, earning coins as you go. It's not the first Draw Something-inspired game, but the jury is out on whether it can be the first to rival the popularity of the original. On iOS, it comes with a limited-time Monsters University pack to tie in with the new movie.iPhone / iPadBoxer (Free)Email app Mailbox made a splash earlier this year, but it only works with Gmail at the moment. Boxer works along similar lines – swiping your way towards Inbox Zero – but supports Exchange, Yahoo, Hotmail and AOL as well as Gmail. It adds in Dropbox features for file attachments and a built-in To-Do list.iPhoneVidora (Free)It won't be long before we need an app to curate all the video-curation apps: there are plenty out there trying to help iPad users find videos to watch. Vidora looks like it has potential though: sorting videos from sources including YouTube, iTunes, Netflix, ESPN and Vice into themed channels, while learning what you do and don't like watching.iPadPan: The Fearless Beribolt (£2.49)Another children's app with a one-off download fee rather than in-app purchases, this comes from a new developer named Hullabalu, and tells the story of a "young purple panda in the clouds" named Pandora. Animation, voice narration, lots of interactivity and a photography feature make it look great fun for children.iPadCC: Stand-Up (Free)Comedy Central's new app is US-only for now, but looks very good. It digs into the channel's archives of stand-up comedy, offering sets from comedians including Louis C.K., Amy Schumer and Aziz Ansari. Videos are sorted into topics, searchable or simply streamed continuously, TV-style.iPhone / iPadMcLaren's Workshop (Free)This app comes from the National Film Board of Canada, and focuses on the work of animated filmmaker Norman McLaren. It includes 51 of his films, including Oscar-winning Neighbours, as well as 11 short documentaries, and a Paper Cut-Outs workshop to show you how to make your own short films in the style of McLaren.iPadSpongeBob Moves In (£1.49)SpongeBob SquarePants' latest app outing sees children building their own version of SpongeBob's Bikini Bottom underwater home, unlocking characters, buildings and animated clips as they go. Asoutlined in this separate article, it's also one of a growing number of big-brand children's games to offer super-premium in-app purchases, going up to £69.99 for jars of virtual Jellyfish Jelly.iPhone / iPadfocus@will (Free)Shortly after its Android release, this digital music service has launched on iOS. As its name implies, it provides music designed to work or study to: carefully-crafted streaming radio stations in genres including classical, jazz, ambient and "alpha chill".iPhone / iPadEverest (Free)US startup Everest's app wants to help its users "live your dreams and achieve personal goals" by breaking those goals down into small, achievable steps – then connecting you to other people who are working towards the same ambitions, to get encouragement.iPhoneTotal Domination - Reborn (Free)Massively multiplayer online game Total Domination has been very popular on the web, with more than 30m installs. Now developer Plarium has turned it into a separate mobile game for iOS, which sees you waging war in a post-apocalyptic world, building an army, fighting enemies and making alliances with other players.iPhone / iPadWOWDAD Maps (Free)Something for the dads, here: a companion app for WOWMUM, which came out a few months back. It divides the UK up into 13k "WOWSpots" for parents: places to eat, playgrounds and parks, toy shops and so on, easily filterable and displayed on a map. There's even a "panic button" for nappy changing, for those awkward moments when your child has got to go. Or, indeed, has gone already and it's starting to seep out...iPhoneDirectional Dash (£0.69)Finally this week, the newly-universal Directional Dash, which gives a nifty spin to traditional block-clearing puzzlers across three game modes. Simple but intuitive swiping controls make it an addictive treat.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android apps posts).Vine (Free)Twitter's app for shooting and sharing "beautiful, looping videos" was released earlier in the week, and is already well past 500k downloads on the Google Play store. As on iPhone, it's focused on clips of up to six seconds, which can be shared on Vine's own social network, as well as parent company Twitter.Fleksy Beta (Free)On iPhone, the Fleksy virtual-keyboard app has won plenty of praise. Now it's trying its hand on Android, where there's a lot more established competition from the likes of SwiftKey and Swype. The emphasis is on simplicity: a stripped-down keyboard with "an auto-correct engine that actually works". Signup for its beta happens through the Fleksy Google+ page.Final Fantasy IV (£10.99)Publisher Square Enix is busily porting its vintage Final Fantasy games to smartphones and tablets, with Final Fantasy IV the latest to get spruced up for modern devices. The 1991 game has been accurately ported across, with additional voice acting, a blank dungeons map, and "visibly apparent emotional changes" for the characters. Which is always handy.Google Keyboard (Free)Google Keyboard? Doesn't every Android device come with a Google keyboard? Well, yes, but as with other apps like Gmail and Maps, Google has released a standalone version on its Google Play store, which will at least ensure faster updates when the app gets new features. Features include Swype-style gestural typing, voice recognition and dictionaries for 26 languages.ScribbleMix (Free)ScribbleMix is the latest new thing from Disney: a "hilarious and absurd drawing game played with friends". Sounds familiar... You're guessing phrases based on what friends draw, earning coins as you go. It's not the first Draw Something-inspired game, but the jury is out on whether it can be the first to rival the popularity of the original.Glastonbury Festival 2013 (Free)Mobile operator group EE is behind the official app for this year's Glastonbury music festival, with features split for people who are attending, and people who want to enjoy the event from afar. Right now, the app provides news in the buildup to the festival, but later in the month it will get full lineup details and a customisable schedule. Most interesting, though, are the promise of live streams from the BBC's coverage of the six main stages.Battlestone (Free)It's not been the best of weeks for social games firm Zynga, having laid off nearly a fifth of its staff. The publisher is hoping mobile will fuel its growth, which is where games like Battlestone come in. It's an action-RPG game that sees you creating and customising heroes then sending them nito battle against enemies and friends alike.Warmly — An alarm clock (£1.49)There's some good buzz around Warmly this week: an alarm clock app released by The Chaos Collective that promises to help you "wake up gently with the calm sounds of weather and something you enjoy (like cooking breakfast, brewing coffee, or catching a plane)". In other words, ambient sounds rather than blaring beeps, although it turns the volume up gradually to ensure you don't snooze too long.Ticket to Ride (£4.59)Nothing to do with the Beatles. This is a "cross-country train adventure" by developer Days of Wonder, which sees you collecting virtual train cards for journeys, trying to score points for long routes while avoiding being blocked by other players. A bustling community of 100k players from other platforms gives it a running start on Android.Space Colony (£1.29)Latest in a growing line of live wallpapers for Android that are actually worth paying for is Space Colony. It turns your homescreen into a glowing space-cityscape, complete with spaceships and a moving camera. Mainly for showing off? Of course, but it's very good for that.Jane Wilde (Free)Described as a "cowboy side scrolling shooter game", this stars a cartoon heroine so top-heavy, it's a wonder she can stand up, let alone shoot things. She does shoot lots of things though: zombies, vampires and skeletons, mainly. There are 30 Story stages and a Survival mode to play through.Speek (Free)Only available in the US for now, Speek is an app for making "super simple, free and visual conference calls", with a no-frills interface designed for corporate and personal use alike.Premier Manager (£2.99)Here's a blast from the past for football management-game fans. Premier Manager has been rejigged for modern touchscreen devices, with a European focus and plenty of transfer/tactics/training action. It's facing stern competition in the form of Football Manager Handheld 2013 though.Sheep Up! (Free)This is the latest freemium game from publisher Pocket Gems, and it focuses on a bunch of "tiny toy sheep stored in a cardboard box". Your job is to help them escape by jumping up through the levels, with tilting controls and lots of power-ups to help.KicksOnFire (Free)With 2m monthly visitors, the KicksOnFire website has been a big hit with sneaker-lovers. Now it's got a mobile app for Android promising news and all-important release dates for new trainers from Adidas, Nike, Reebok and other big brands.RPG Infinite Dunamis (£2.99)Publisher Kemco Games has attracted a fair few fans for its Japanese RPGs on Android, with this being the latest to get a translated release in the West. Promising a "dramatic fantasy RPG about man, magic and machine", it looks to have many of the elements that JRPG fans enjoy.Tiny Token Empires (£3.29)HeroCraft's new strategy-puzzle game is based on five famous civilizations, pitching them into battle with one another through a mix of battle-strategy and match-three puzzling. It's been compared to a mish-mash of Puzzle Quest, Risk and Civilization, which should be enough to whet your appetite.Plane Finder 3D (£1.99)Released on iOS in late May, Plane Finder 3D is now on Android too. Based on real data from flights, it plots them on a 3D landscape, showing the flight numbers and routes. Eerie, but interesting.7s - Android's Vine Instagram (Free)You have to feel for the developers of this app, given that it came out in the week when Android got therealVine (it's had the real Instagram for a while too). Still, 7s may find its own fanbase, helping people shoot seven-second videos, apply visual filters and then share them.Fairy Princess Fashion &amp; Makeup (Free)Finally, something for the kids: at least, the kids who like princesses. This is a dress-up game for children, based on seven fairy princesses who are keen to be kitted out with crowns, wands and other accessories – as well as makeup.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One must go online every day, will play used games | VG247In a series ofXbox Wireposts, Microsoft has put paid to various misconceptions about the Xbox One – and confirmed other details. The first of these is that the console will need to go online every single day if you want to keep gaming. Microsoft justified this decision by pointing out the many advantages of a networked console, and said it is preparing for a "connected future"."While a persistent connection is not required, Xbox One is designed to verify if system, application or game updates are needed and to see if you have acquired new games, or resold, traded in, or given your game to a friend. Games that are designed to take advantage of the cloud may require a connection," the platform holder said.Just to be clear this means that, if you go offline after authenticating your system, you have 24 hours of play before the console presumably stops your game and asks to be reconnected to the internet. This is either a DRM measure or a means of transferring from a system in which consumers 'own' games into one in which they effectively lease them. Whatever, the forums are up in arms, and game sites are reacting with anger – seeTom Bramwell's blistering tirade on Eurogamer. Microsoft is going to have to do a lot of damage control at E3...Titanfall from Respawn coming to PC, Xbox One, Xbox 360 | VG247Brought to the Internet's attention by a NeoGAF user, Titanfall is slated for PC and Xbox One, with an Xbox 360 version "being developed by someone else," – this last bit was rumored back in April.According to bits from the article, the FPS isn't coming to PlayStation platforms due to the small team at the studio, and it and wanted to focus on creating "the best possible product."The title will apparently use the cloud for certain AI and physics calculations – this is something Microsoft engineers hinted would happen with a lot of games on the new console. Respawn are also promising to blur the lines between single- and multiplayer gaming...Capcom Teases 'Big Surprise' at E3 | IGNCapcom is teasing a surprise at E3 next week. In a post announcing its E3 lineup, Capcom said it has "a big surprise to share with you" and recommends that attendees visit the Capcom booth on the show floor.Capcom's other E3 games include DuckTales: Remastered, Dungeons &amp; Dragons: Chronicles of Mystara, Lost Planet 3 and Pheonix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies.Dead Rising 3 and yet another new MegaMan title are among the frontrunners. Am I alone in wanting a Capcom vs SNK reboot?Diablo III arriving on PS3 AND Xbox 360 on September 3rd | MCVBlizzard's console port of its hit PC dungeon crawler Diablo III has finally been dated.The game will be released on PS3 on September 3rd. The surprise move is that it will also hit Xbox 360 on the same day.There are big design and content updates, according to Blizzard, and smartly, there is four-player co-op, both online and local – for that authentic Gauntlet feel.Kiefer Sutherland Playing Snake in Metal Gear Solid V | IGNIn its pre-E3 conference today, Konami revealed that Kiefer Sutherland will play Snake in Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain."I wanted Snake to have a more subdued performance expressed through subtle facial movements and tone of voice rather than words," Metal Gear creator Hideo Kojima said. "Furthermore, the game takes place in 1984 when Snake is 49 years old. Therefore, we needed someone who could genuinely convey both the facial and vocal qualities of a man in his late 40s. It's different from anything we've done before."David Hayter, a man genuinely in his 40s, isn't happy. Yesterday he tweeted, "Can't fault @RealKiefer Great actor, good man. The game will probably still be excellent. Like New Coke!"Miaowwww!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPrivacy? Screw that. Turn the tables! &gt;&gt; Data DealerBecome a data dealer and get all the dirty details on your friends, neighbors and the rest of the world.This game is just like real life!Bing Translator &gt;&gt; MicrosoftDon't know what language you are trying to translate from? The automatic language detection determines the source language for the text you are viewing.This looks very cool. Works offline too. Windows 8 app. Really you want it to be on Windows Phone, though (as well).Is that next?Update:there is a version for Windows Phone. (Thanks @pigonwheels on Twitter for the pointer.)Why multitouch on notebooks makes perfect sense &gt;&gt; Chicago GridAndy Ihnatko:I'm in the middle of my deep-soak testing of Google's Chromebook Pixel (review coming soon). This is the first time I've spent a whole week with a touchscreen-enabled notebook as my daily driver, to do all of my actual work. I try to to deep-soak testing because I often learn things I wouldn't have figured out if I were being more casual about it. I've had other touchscreen notebooks on loan, but they all failed to pass the "Meh" test. So they never made it to the "deep soak" stage.What I've learned from my experience with the Pixel is that I'm using the touchscreen a lot. And it almost blows my mind. I never would have expected that.Citizen Eco-Drive Proximity review: a different kind of smartwatch &gt;&gt; The VergeThe Proximity can only really do one thing other than tell the time, and that's vibrate. It can vibrate when you get a phone call; when you get an email; when you have a calendar alert; and when it loses connection. You can't set it to vibrate differently for each thing, so the watch uses its ticking secondhand to tell you why it's buzzing. When you get an alert, the hand stops ticking and sweeps quickly to 9, 10, or 11 o'clock to let you know what just happened.9 is LL, which means the watch has lost connection with your phone — this happens a lot, often seemingly for no reason, so even though it makes your wrist jitter too often it's probably a good thing to have.This seems to be a different use of the word "good" than the usual one. As is "different" in the headline.Welcome to the Bush-Obama White House: They're Spying on Us - NationalJournal.comRon Fournier:And now this: The Guardian newspaper reports that the National Security Agency is collecting telephone records of tens of millions of customers of one of the nation's largest phone companies, Verizon.If the story is accurate, the action appears to be legal. The order was signed by a judge from a secret court that oversees domestic surveillance. It may also be necessary; US intelligence needs every advantage it can get over the nation's enemies.But for several reasons the news is chilling.Verizon probably isn't the only company coughing up its documents. Odds are incredibly strong that the government is prying into your telephone records today.Issued in April, the NSA order "could represent the broadest surveillance order known to have been issued," according to The Washington Post. "It also would confirm long-standing suspicions of civil liberties advocates about the sweeping nature of US surveillance through commercial carries under laws passed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks."This appears to be a "rubber stamp," order, reissued every few months since 2001. As is the case with all government programs, the systematic snooping into your telephone records is unlikely to ever expire without public outcry.Going on since 2001? That's a long time.Interactive Apple iPhone 5S &amp; iOS 7 Concept &gt;&gt; RecombuSteve King has been hard at work:Interactive iPhone 5S &amp; iOS7 Concept -built with HTML, CSS &amp; JavaScriptNo images or masks. Very nifty programming. Looks pretty much like an iPhone, to be honest. And the icons are flat..ter.Windows 8.1 - What's New, IT Pro Features, Devices, UI | TechNetAmong many things...Boot to DesktopWe have made configuration options available which will allow you to boot directly to the desktop in Windows 8.1.Desktop and Start ScreenImprovements have been made to better support users who prefer a mouse and keyboard experience to access applications.(Thanks @Stephenjpc for the link.)Google is the General Electric of the 21st century &gt;&gt; FT.comJohn Gapper:Indeed, the best comparison for Google seems to me not Microsoft in the 1980s but General Electric in the late 19th century – the age of electrification. Like GE, Google is a multifaceted industrial enterprise riding a wave of technology with an uncanny ability not only to invent far-reaching products but also to produce them commercially.It coincides with Larry Page's ascent to being undisputed leader of the company he founded at Stanford University with Sergey Brin 15 years ago. Instead of the "Google guys" – Mr Page, Mr Brin and Eric Schmidt, its former chief executive and now chairman – running it as an amiable mixture of a company and a chaotic research lab, Mr Page has made it formidably focused.Subscription required to view full article. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)BBM not coming to iOS and Android June 27 &gt;&gt; Business InsiderThere's a report spreading around today that BBM is coming to iPhones and Android devices on 27 June.The report is based on a tweet from T-Mobile's UK account [tweet since deleted]According to a source with knowledge of BlackBerry's plans, that date is not correct. In fact, our source called all those stories you may have read "bogus."Except that 27 June is the day before BlackBerry's first-quarter results are announced. It would be a smart day to do it. The deletion of the tweets might mean they're correct.Corrected article to remove duplicate links from Thursday. Apologies for the error.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Apple used its influence to secure preferential treatment from mobile operators wanting to offer the iPhone, squeezing out competition from rival brands, according to a former senior executive at a major European operator.The Guardian has been given a detailed description of an alleged three-year contract between Apple and the operator. The source, who asked not to be identified, said some colleagues had concerns about the legality of the contract, but that these were brushed aside because his company decided it needed access to Apple's bestselling device."The marketing people were filled with joy about getting the iPhone," he said. "Our second thoughts from a legal point of view were overruled by the marketing people."The revelations come as the European commission considers whether to take action over Apple's contracts with operators. Phone companies are beginning to push for a shift in the balance of power in their relationships with Apple, now that manufacturers like Samsung and Nokia have proved their ability to make smartphones of equal quality.The iPhone sparked a pocket computing revolution with its arrival in 2007, which is generating unprecedented traffic for operators, but their profit margins have been squeezed by the expense of subsidising handsets and beefing up their networks to cope with the extra demand.There are more than 100 mobile operators in Europe, led by Vodafone, Telefónica, Deutsche Telekom, France Télécom, Three and Telecom Italia - multinationals who operate alongside often powerful local mobile phone businesses.It is claimed Apple used the contract in question to state the maximum price a consumer should pay. This retail price was less than the operator paid to acquire the iPhone, and the difference was to be met by a subsidy from the operator.Crucially, the contract is alleged to have blocked more generous subsidies from being given to rival handset makers, using what are commonly known as "most favoured supplier" clauses. Amazon, the online retailer, uses similar clauses in its dealings with publishers. If Apple is found to be a dominant player, this kind of preferential treatment could be challenged as breaching competition law.Apple says its contracts comply fully with local laws wherever it does business, including the EU. The commission, the EU's executive arm, is concerned that Apple's contracts may have limited the amount of support operators could afford to give to other manufacturers.Since the launch of the iPhone, only Samsung has overtaken Apple in the smartphone market, while others including Nokia, HTC and Blackberry have seen their sales collapse.Proving Apple's dominance could be difficult. The world's most valuable technology company had a 22% share of the smartphone market in Europe last year, according to research firm IDC – a far cry from the 40% usually considered a threshold for dominance. It was outsold by Samsung across the region and in individual markets. Companies can often be unsure about how the competition authorities will define the market. The commission may chose a more narrow definition of the iPhone's market in order to determine Apple's influence."The most important issue is whether the company which forced the inclusion of the most favoured supplier clause has a dominant position," said José-Antonio de la Calle, a European competition lawyer. "Determining whether Apple is dominant depends on how you define the market. If you can slice the market more narrowly, for example high-end smartphones, the market share of Apple could be much higher."The commission's competition directorate has sent out a questionnaire which operators must respond to by 17 June. It is considering a formal investigation under articles 101 and 102 of the treaty on the functioning of the EU. These forbid the abuse of a dominant position, price fixing, or anti-competitive agreements.Apple's terms were not illegal individually, the operator source said. "If you looked at them one by one they were OK, but if you consider the overall impact of these provisions they could hinder competition. This most favoured position they had in the contract was very useful for them. They stalled competition in the market."Independent auditors were allegedly appointed to police the contract in question, combing through every price promotion on every rival handset sold by the operator over the three year period. If the operator was found to be in breach, they would pay the audit bill. If they were not, Apple would pay.It is understood the penalty for breaching most favoured supplier clauses is financial. The difference between the money discounted from a rival handset and the subsidy given to an iPhone would allegedly have to be paid to Apple, for example in the form of extra marketing for the iPhone.Subsidies have been a key part of the iPhone's success. The device costs as much as €700 (£594) in Europe if bought direct from Apple, a price that is out of reach of most consumers.What has made it affordable is the money networks put into discounts, which are given in exchange for consumers signing lengthy contracts for calls, texts and web browsing. Under the contract in question, Apple is said to have insisted on a subsidy of around €100 per phone.The contract was also unusual because it is claimed the operator was asked to commit to buying a minimum number of iPhones per year, three years in advance, without knowing what technology would make the new devices stand out."We were not allowed to subsidise any other phone more than we subsidised Apple, and that was written into the contract," the source claimed. "The minimum purchase and price setting were somewhat of a hindrance to competition for other smartphone makers, because they would have to make a cheaper product than Apple which had the same functionality and appeal. It was not possible for other smartphone makers to convince the telephone companies to subsidise their products more than they subsidised Apple."
The prospect of a damaging conflict between Britain's commercial interests and its national security was laid bare in Thursday'sstinging report by parliament's intelligence and security committeeinto the way the government handled contracts with Huawei, the giant Chinese telecommunications company.In an attack on how officials kept ministers in the dark, one passage stands out. The ISC, in its report, reveals what it calls a "disconnect between the UK's inward investment policy and its national security policy". It adds: "The government's duty to protect the safety and security of its citizens should not be compromised by fears of financial consequences."Pointing to potential risks to national security, the committee, chaired by the former Conservative foreign and defence secretary Sir Malcolm Rifkind, says that the unit set up to monitor Huawei's cybersecurity should be staffed by GCHQ, the government's signals intelligence agency – not, as now, by the company's own employees.It points to a US congressional report warning that dealing with Huawei could undermine American national security interests, and to the decision by the Australian government to ban Huawei from its national broadband network, a similar project to that being pursued by BT in the UK.But the strong language the committee used to describe what it calls Britain's inadequate defences against espionage and cyber-attacks is in marked contrast with its much more circumspect references to espionage and cyber-attacks.Britain's security and intelligence officials have privately questioned the nature of Huawei's contracts here which have undercut its UK competitors. It has been "widely reported", Rifkind said on Thursday, that "the Chinese state is responsible for more hacking than any other government".The problem is getting hard evidence. Any Chinese company can be put under pressure by the Chinese government, Rifkind said, but it did not "automatically" mean that was happening.Judging by comments made about the contribution Huawei is making to the British economy, that might be just as well. The chancellor, George Osborne, issued a statement emphasising that boosting trade links with China was his "personal priority". He welcomed Huawei's new office in Reading. The company recently promised to invest more than £1bn in the UK."The message is simple – inward investment is critical to generating UK jobs and growth," said Osborne. The British ambassador in Beijing, Sebastian Wood, also issued a statement praising Huawei as "a long-term valued investor in the UK".Former cabinet secretary and ISC member Lord Butler said: "The fact that Huawei is a case study does not mean it is an anti-China or anti-Huawei report."The ISC had been taking evidence in private for many months, including from MI5. The report was expected to have been sent to David Cameron before last Christmas. The fact that it has only now been released may point to the sensitivity surrounding the issues and the conflicting pressures on the government.There is a clear sign that the government is still wrestling with the serious issues at stake. As its report "went to press", it said, "we were told that the government has now developed a process to assess the risks associated with foreign investment into the UK". Only now, the ISC – which has not been told of the measures – might have added.
EA has released a new gameplay trailer from Fifa 14, a few days ahead of E3. The 90 second clip whizzes through a series of scorching goals, crushing tackles and flying takedowns. Have a look here:The developer is promising a range of refreshed features including an entirely new ball physics engine, allowing more powerful controlled shots from distance. A precision movement system allows players to quickly turn, pivot and accelerate, while 'protect the ball' lets strikers fend off defenders from the ball. You can see ourin-depth preview right here.
The future of the Web is being decided at this very moment. While I'm speaking personally rather than for the W3C, the decisions made today by the W3C will build the Web of tomorrow, so these decisions will affect you. The question is: Are you at the table?For example, take the issue of whether or notdigital rights management (DRM) should be part of HTML. More than20,000 signaturesagainst DRM got delivered to the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), the standards body where I work, which is led by Tim Berners-Lee and Jeff Jaffe and is creating the next generation of the web through its standards like HTML5.The members of the W3C Advisory Committee will be trying to reach consensus on the decision to include DRM compatibility in HTMLon Monday in Japan. While petitions can be useful to raise awareness, you can make much more of a difference by directly participating in the W3C.Here's how.Decisions within W3C about standards are not driven by the whims of a single individual. The W3C is driven by consensus and has awell-documented multi-stakeholder processwith plenty of options for absolutely anyone to participate. The authority of the W3C is gained by popular trust, intellectual property agreements, and conforming code with wide deployment. Due to its open process, the W3C and other standards bodies are working hard to keep that trust by creating a Web that serves everyone.Most of us are simply happy to launch our browsers and surf the web without a second thought as to how the standards like HTML are created. These standards are in the hands of a fairly small set of standards bodies that have in general acted as responsible stewards for the last few years. The issue of DRM in HTML may be the turning point where all sorts of organisations and users are going to stop taking the open web for granted.How web standards are madeIf every company on the websuch as Googlecan be thought of as a nascent virtual state, then standards bodies like the W3C can be thought of as virtual meta-organisations for assorted companies and other organisations. Instead of nation states hammering out binding laws, the W3C convenes industry to hammer out the voluntary standards like HTML that define the web itself. Remember the bad old days in the late 1990s where it seemed Microsoft and Netscape almost fractured the web into incompatible corporate fiefdoms where webpages could only be viewed using a particular browser? It's through the efforts of Tim Berners-Lee and the creation of the W3C that such a catastrophe was averted.Who is the W3C? While the W3C has a full-time staff that helps navigate the consensus process, the vast majority of the heavy lifting is done by Working Groups (WGs). Working Groups are composed of individuals from W3C members and independent world-class experts. These Working Groups have a charter that gives them a clearly defined scope, and are approved based on whether or not the W3C can determine if there's consensus in thereviewof the charter by theAdvisory Committee. The W3C Advisory Committee is currently composed of 377 representatives of members ranging from Aalto University to Zynga. Is your organisation on that list?There was heateddissent against DRMinside the HTML Working Group when Google, Microsoft, and Netflix started working onEncrypted Media Extensions(EME), which enables HTML to be compatible with existing DRM systems. However, the Director said that these features werein-scopein part based on theHTML charter, and so EME could be published as a pre-standard draft. In response to the dissent, the W3C has explicitly added "supporting playback of protected content" to a newdraft charterto clarify that EME could eventually become a web standard.A few days ago, the EFF raised aformal objectionto the charter based on that clarification. Right now the fate of DRM in the HTML Working Group is still up for grabs, so the amount of support or dissent the Advisory Committee expresses to the W3C will be critical for deciding the fate of DRM in the HTML WG. If you don't know wherea particular companystands on DRM, now is a good time to find out.This isn't about actually stopping DRM code. If anyone can stop DRM, it's the companies actually shipping DRM. DRM is already inside many devices, such as any machine running versions of Windows with thePlayReadyDRM technology. Google has already shipped Encrypted Media Extension to work with the GoogleWidevine DRM systemon Chromebooks and has a demonstration of how DRM will work withYoutube. While EME is not part of the HTML5 standard, much less a new DRM system, it allows HTML to be compatible with existing DRM systems. What is at stake is whether or not EME will benefit from royalty-free patent commitments and wide review that the W3C provides. W3C followed its own consensus process by asking the Advisory Committee to review the HTML charter. But guess who hasn't been asked: the users.Where are the users?There is a crisis of representation at the heart of all politics. There are, after all, 377 member organisations in the W3C, but around a billion people on the internet. If the web is a truly a shared space for all humanity, everyone needs to be concerned that the technology of today does not prematurely optimise the web of tomorrow. So far, companies and nations have spoken on behalf of users. What if users and companies disagree?The question is a classic one for not only the W3C, but also corporations, governments, or any organisation. How do the people participate? It's not as simple as having national governments represent their citizens. Sometimes "the people" don't agree with their governments: in eastern Europe, the largest demonstrations since the fall of the Iron Curtain came when nations states got together to passthe Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement(ACTA), which many people felt was an attack on their right to free speech, innovation, and privacy on the internet.In my mind, there is no doubt the W3C and other organisations will have to evolve to better include users. The devil is in the details, and the W3C is always open for suggestions.Society hasn't found consensus about the right way to deal with DRM, so the technical battle is a source of controversy. The European Commission is"carrying out in-depth legal and economic analysis as regards the scope and functioning of copyright and related rights associated with internet transmissions"while even in the US there are calls toreform copyright laws. No-one said consensus was going to be easy, but luckily the process of standardisation is at the beginning rather than the end.How to participateThere are lots of ways for both organisations and users as individuals to participate. The W3C runs byconsensusrather than voting, so you can make a difference in W3C by building consensus around solid proposals. Proposals weigh more than petitions.The Advisory Committee of the W3C is composed of companies as well as universities and non-profits. If your employer is a W3C member, now is the time to open the discussion internally with your management. Questions over whether DRM should be part of the HTML Working Group or part of another Working Group - or outside of W3C entirely! - are dealt with in the review of charters by Advisory Committee representatives. It's at this level that the EFFobjectedto EME in HTML. If your organisation is not a member, your organisation canjoin the W3C. W3C membership fees have been adapted to organisations large and small, for-profit and non-profit, start-ups, and for organisations in developing countries.If you work for a W3C member, now is the time to join the HTML Working Group. The HTML Working Group are working through the technical details of Encrypted Media Extensions inthe HTML Working Group Media Task Force. Also, the HTML WG has a very liberalInvited Expertpolicy to allow participation by those domain experts who don't work for W3C member organisations. Questions and objections that go beyond the technical content and charter are generally considered out of scope.Questions that go beyond technically working on EME should be aimed at theRestricted Media Community Group, which anyone can join. Unlike Working Groups, W3C Community Groups provide a forum for discussion but do not themselves publish standards. Disappointingly, so far the discussion has beenpretty weak, but this Community Group is monitored by many people deeply involved in the DRM debates.Also, W3C Working Groups such as the HTML Working Group take technical comments from anyone on the entire web. Public comments can be made by ordinary users; the Working Group must formally address these comments if the comment is within the scope of the charter and done before the standard is complete. That means you can in publiccommenton EME or any other standard like the cryptographic primitives as pursued by theWeb Cryptography Working Group, which can be used to exchange private messages between human rights activists as well as be part of Netflix'splanto switch to HTML5.Lastly, users vote with their feet when they buy products. Don't count on non-profit and open-source members of the W3C not to support DRM. Would users leave the FirefoxOS or Linux-based phones if they don't support DRM-enabled applications? Looking beyond the W3C, people who argue against DRM need to exert pressure on companies to experiment with different business models that don't include DRM. If users keep demanding premium content that companies say require DRM, of course these business models will try to migrate to the web rather than use proprietary browser plug-ins that arebeing phased out.Although the web has long been an open space for the unfettered sharing of knowledge, the maxim that "the price of freedom is eternal vigilance" applies just as well to standards bodies as it does to governments. If there's one golden rule in web standards, it's that more people at the table are a good thing. It's time to join the table.Harry Halpin is a staff member of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). He writes in a personal capacity.
In this week's editionJemima Kisstalks toRytis Vitkauskas, founder and chief executive ofYPlanabout the YPlan app and why his event list app can put the spontaneity back into people's social lives.Also Jemima is joined by Guardian games writerKeith Stuartto preview this year's E3 games convention which takes place in LA on June 11-13 and Keith's alternative London eventEtoowhich will be a gathering of the gaming community and celebration of all things gaming related running over the three days of the convention in the US.Click here to find out how to join Etoo.We also have a roundup of this week's tech news including the growing popularity of encryption tools in Turkey due to the riots and why a New Mexico dump is a gold mine for gamers.
Is Google giving Apple a good kicking in the smartphone wars, or is Apple sticking it to Google when it comes to actual usage of its devices? Who's winning? According to mobile analytics firm Flurry, both companies are.The iOS v Android debate is polarised and often bad-tempered, with both sides able to pick and choose statistics that suit their arguments.Android is certainly far ahead of iOS for sales of smartphones: Gartner estimates that theirrespective market shares for sales to end users(i.e actual people, not just shipments) were 74.4% and 18.2% in the first quarter of 2013, while Google says it's activating 1.5m new Android devices every day.Yet Apple and its supporters tend to point to usage and content sales to prove iOS' superiority: share of mobile web browsing being one example of the former, and payouts to developers ($9bn and counting) for the latter."What the numbers suggest over and over again is that people are using our products more,"said CEO Tim Cook in his most recent public appearanceat the D11 conference in May 2013, where he also pointed to customer satisfaction surveys as a metric where iOS is also winning.Flurry can't settle any of these debates, but it can provide some useful data to flesh out the picture of what's happening in the smartphone and tablets market.Its new study published todayargues that "there is more than one race for mobile market share occurring simultaneously".The report notes that Flurry was tracking 564m Android devices worldwide through apps using its analytics tools by April 2013, with Google's OS having overtaken Apple's in late 2012 and remained ahead ever since.Despite this, iOS remains ahead for the time people are spending using apps, at least according to Flurry's stats, which show the two platforms nearly level in March 2012, but Android having since declined to around 80% of the total time spent in iOS apps.Why? "Once Apple established the app ecosystem many of the consumers who purchased iOS devices were doing so to be able to run apps on those devices. They were buying a computer that fit in their pocket or purse," suggests Flurry."In contrast, many Android devices were provided free by carriers to contract customers upgrading feature phones. To the extent that those customers were just buying replacement phones, apps may be a nice add-on, but not a central feature of the device."Flurry also sugests that the fragmented nature of Android – lots of different devices, screen sizes and processors – is still putting many developers off the platform, and thus limiting the availability of apps (and thus the usage).But the company notes that while Apple is winning the usage race, Android is looking the likely winner for the emerging world "where its lower prices and open architecture give it an advantage"."As we've shown, there are multiple contests for mobile market share occurring simultaneously. That raises a question about whether that is a temporary state that will eventually give way to a clear overall winner or if there can be multiple long-term winners," concludes Flurry."For the moment it seems as though the consumer is winning in that they are able to choose devices from two dominant ecosystems as well as several smaller ecosystems."That's a fair conclusion: the competition between Android and iOS is spurring rapid, intense innovation around smartphone (and tablet) features and interfaces.Google deserves praise here in particular: its work around mapping and navigation, voice control and its Google Now service have raised expectations for Apple's iOS 7 software, which is due to be unveiled at its WWDC show next week.There's a real edge to the two companies' rivalry, and with Microsoft and BlackBerry battling to force their way back into the market, as well as to make their platforms even more appealing to talented app developers, it's the people using their devices who will benefit.
How do I encrypt the hard drive on my laptop so that if I lose it the personal data on it is protected?RichardThis is one of those ideas that sounds good but may be more trouble than it's worth. If you work for a big company then drive encryption is straightforward. Staff will be using the Enterprise edition of Microsoft Windows, which includes the BitLocker drive encryption system. This automatically encrypts any files saved to the hard drive, and USB thumb drives and other external devices can be encrypted using BitLocker To Go. IT staff can set everything up using a management console and use your Active Directory service to store the recovery keys.However, BitLocker is not included with consumer versions of Windows, only with Enterprise and (expensive) Ultimate versions, and I wouldn't recommend this approach to individual users. Nor would I recommend similar systems aimed at corporate users, such as McAfee Endpoint Encryption and Sophos SafeGuard Enterprise.If you really want to take this route, the usual option is TrueCrypt, though it's far from user-friendly. This is free (donationware), open source "virtual drive" encryption software, and it's available for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux. However, it has no supporting management infrastructure, and no key recovery system. If you forget your password, or something goes wrong with the TrueCrypt file, there is no way to get your data back. You must therefore keep separate backups.The drawback with full disk encryption is that the hard drive is, in effect, unencrypted when you are using it. This is a good thing because you want everything to work normally. However, once you have entered the password, anyone who can access your PC can also access your data. If you are logged on and using your laptop in a coffee shop, for example, your data isn't protected.Encrypting files and foldersThere are other problems with full disk encryption — see Gizmo'sEncryption is Not Enough— which suggest that other approaches may be better. If you need to carry personal data around, then I suggest you encrypt specific files and/or folders, or use an encrypted USB memory stick. Someone should then need at least two passwords — for your user account, and your encryption — even if they have physical access to your laptop while it's running.To do this, set Windows so that the on/off button puts the PC into sleep mode and a password is required when it is woken up. This works well with Windows 8 since it should restart almost instantly (as Macs have done for years).You could followGizmo's recommendationand useSophos Free Encryption. This unrestricted freeware program works much like a zip compression program. It seems to have been removed from Sophos's list ofFree Toolsbut, at the time of writing, you can download it directly from Sophos usingthis link. If you decide to try AxCrypt instead, decline all offers to install the other programs it tries to foist on you, especiallyOpen Candy.Sophos provides a free encryption program, which is a rebadged version of Utimaco's PrivateCrypto, which Sophos ownsNote: you may be using a version of Windows that already includes anEncrypting File System. This wasn't part of the Windows XP Home version, but home users can do the job by right-clicking on the folder they want to protect, selecting Properties, clicking the tab for Sharing, and checking the box for "Make this folder private". However, this only works if the hard drive is using the NTFS file system, not the old FAT file allocation table from MS-DOS.Use the cloudBearing in mind the risk of theft and the hassles of travelling overseas — where some official may well demand that you provide access to your PC — it's better to carry laptops that contain little or no personal data. (If you need to work on a flight, keep the data on a USB stick, or on an SD card that you can extract from and then re-insert into your digital camera or similar device.)You can store the bulk of your personal files in password-protected cloud services such as Dropbox and Microsoft SkyDrive, or store them on the PC or server you keep at home. You can get to them remotely using a VPN (virtual private network) or an easy-to-use web-based system such asLogMeIn.Browser hygieneAfter that, you need to take great care with your web browsers. It's very important that you never use a browser to store passwords. If you do, someone who gets into your PC can easily access your cloud services and data.You can also set up your browsers so that they delete everything when you close them down. This means clearing the cache where temporary internet files are stored, and deleting other browser data. WikiHow has an illustrated guide,How to Clear Your Browser's Cache, which covers all the main browsers.An alternative is to use the browser's InPrivate browsing mode, Incognito or (in Firefox) open a Private Window for browsing. These don't save data or clear it automatically when you end the session.Another idea is to run the browser in a separate sandbox using a program such asSandboxiefor Windows. This not only stops data leaking into Windows caches, it helps protect you from malware. This is why Google Chrome and Internet Explorer 10 already have their own built-in sandboxing.CClean and PreyFinally, it's a good idea to keep a copy of Piriform's freeCCleanerinstalled on Windows laptops. This removes temporary files, history files, cookies, logs, auto-complete entries and other detritus from browsers and many common programs. It also includes a Windows Registry cleaner. For best results, run it immediately after a re-boot, with no other programs running.Programs like CCleaner always carry some risk, but I've been using it since at least 2005 (the earliest mention I can find inAsk Jack) without any problems. However, download it from the Piriform site, and do not follow any scam links from adverts on Google. Also, when installing CCleaner, remember to untick the offers to "Install Google Chrome as my default browser" and "Also include Google Toolbar for Internet Explorer". Free software suppliers get paid for installing "foistware" but it should always be provided on an "opt in" basis. You should never have to opt out. That's evil.Finally, you may want to consider installing tracking software on your laptop, to help you find it again if it is lost or stolen.Preyis probably the most popular free option, though it also offers Pro accounts at $5 to $399 per month. Prey password-protects your data and lets you wipe stored passwords remotely. With Prey, you want the thief to be able to access your PC, so remember to install a Guest account with limited functionality.
YouTube has tripled its mobile advertising revenues in the last six months, and the key factor may have been theremoval of the YouTube app from Apple's iOS software.The growth stat comes from aBloomberg interviewwith YouTube's vice president of sales Lucas Watson. "The commercial business has exploded," he says. "It's a huge part of our business, and we know that's where it's headed."Watson doesn't give specific revenue numbers, but the piece uses estimates from Wedge Partners Corp analyst Martin Pyykkonen to come up with a figure: up to $350m (£226.3m) of mobile ad revenues for YouTube in the first quarter of 2013 alone.Here are the workings: Pyykkonen estimates that YouTube ads generate around 10% of Google's overall revenues, and that mobile ads account for between 20% and 25% of YouTube's sales. With $14bn of Google revenues in Q1 2013, that would mean $1.4bn of YouTube revenues, and $280m-$350m of mobile ads.Highly speculative, then, although it's part of a wider bullishness from analysts about YouTube's growth. Witness Morgan Stanley's prediction in May thatYouTube may be a $20bn business for Google by 2020.YouTube's mobile growth has been rapid. The company says that25% of its global views come from mobile devices: 1bn views a day. That's a tenfold increase since July 2010, whenYouTube was generating 100m mobile views a day, three years after its mobile service's launch in 2007.So why was YouTube's parting of the ways with Apple's iOS 6 software in August 2012 such a crucial moment? Because until then, Google couldn't show ads in the native iOS app, as part of its deal with Apple. But when it launched itsstandalone app for iOSin September, it could.The app has been hugely popular. In May 2013,Apple published all-time charts for its App Store, with YouTube the fourth most popular free iPhone app ever – and this just eight months after its release.More recent stats from analytics firm Distimoshow YouTube as the most popular-non-gaming app for iOS based on downloads in May 2013, behind only Candy Crush Saga, Fast &amp; Furious 6 and Iron Man 3 on the overall chart.On Android, meanwhile, YouTube is built into Google's OS, but it's also available asa standalone download on the Google Play store, where Google's stats show it has been installed between 100m and 500m times – the Play Store statistics don't get more specific than that, unfortunately.The bulk of YouTube's 1bn daily mobile views are likely coming on iOS and Android, and since September 2012 it has been able to show ads on both platforms. It's no wonder YouTube's mobile ad revenues are growing sharply.YouTube and its parent company have been working hard to communicate this to brands and agencies. Witnessthis blog post on Google's AdWords Agency Blogon how "Generation C" – younger, connected consumers – are using YouTube."Gen C watches YouTube on all screens, constantly switching between devices," explained Google's advertising research director Gunnard Johnson."We found that that the amount of time Gen C spends watching YouTube on their smartphones is up 74% from last year. In fact, in 2012 the number of Gen C viewers who regularly watch YouTube on smartphones caught up to the number of viewers tuning in on their PCs."
A group of MPs has lambasted the government for risking national security by failing to monitor the widespread use of Chinese equipment in Britain's phone and broadband networks.In a damning report into the potential threats posed by the Chinese telecoms company Huawei, MPs on the parliamentary intelligence and security committee have highlighted the "apparent absence of any strategy" to monitor or react to state-sponsored security threats, saying government oversight is "feeble".The committee is concerned aboutallegations that Huawei has links to the People's Liberation Army in China and the Chinese governmentand so could be involved in spying on UK domestic communications or cyber-attacks. Huawei has been banned from doing business in the US and blacklisted from Australia's critical national infrastructure, but in the UK most emails sent and phone calls made are likely to involve its equipment.It supplies mobile handsets, routers and equipment in telephone exchanges and street cabinets to BT, TalkTalk, O2 and Everything Everywhere, equipment which the report says "permeates the national infrastructure".Around 20% of detected cyber-attacks against UK interests demonstrate levels of sophistication which indicate they are state-sponsored, with China considered a main perpetrator.Huawei's founder, Ren Zhengfei, is a former red army officer, but the company strenuously denies direct links with the Chinese government or military, claiming it receives no financial support and is almost entirely owned by its employees.Committee member Hazel Blears, a former Labour cabinet minister, said: "We don't see any evidence of Huawei's equipment being used for espionage. We cannot prevent trade with foreign companies. The issue is risk management."BT gave Huawei its first foothold in the UK in 2005, hiring it to modernise the broadband network. But eight years later, a security centre in Banbury set up to clear Huawei for use in the UK is still not fully operational, and of the five companies using its equipment, two – both major national broadband providers – are not using the testing facility.The committee has recommended that responsibility for staffing and running the Banbury security centre, which is managed and funded by Huawei, be handed to the GCHQ listening agency.During its investigation, the committee was "shocked" to learn that ministers had not been asked to consider the security implications of BT's decision to hand a contract to Huawei."Such a sensitive decision with potentially damaging implications should have been handed to ministers," said the committee chair, Sir Malcolm Rifkind. "A lack of clarity around procedures, responsibility and powers means that national security issues have risked, and continue to risk, being overlooked."The government says it is now developing a process to assess risks with foreign investment to the UK, although the details of this process have not yet been made public.
Everyone will think of Ico. As the hero of Rain trudges through the bleak shadowy city, his shoulders hunched against the cold and the night; and as the girl he is searching for is glimpsed at a balcony, scared and alone – memories of Fumito Ueda's beautiful PlayStation 2 adventure will flood back. Not that this promising downloadable title from Sony Japan's C.A.M.P studio is a mere copycat. It's just that it captures Ico's sense of constant vulnerability – and it has at its centre a relationship between a boy and a girl, thrust together in an unforgiving world.The story – told at the beginning of the game through a series of abstract water colour images – has the young hero running into the street, following a girl who, in turn, is being chased by a monster. He follows them into some sort of vortex, emerging in a parallel world where all living things are invisible, and it is always raining, always dark. The only time the player can see any character is when they walk beneath an open sky, allowing the shower to mark out their form. It's a strange, almost supernatural effect, accentuating the other-worldly feel.The player directs the boy via simple controls – just one analogue stick to move and buttons to jump, run and interact with objects. The camera is automatic, subtly centring on the protagonist at all times, hinting his whereabouts to you, even if you can't see him. Part of the joy of early exploration is working out how the environment helps you keep track of your invisible charge: if he walks through mud you see his footsteps; if he's inside, the designers have placed lots of physics objects about for him to bang into.The world he walks through is one of gloomy tenements and abandoned factories, bathed in shadow and strewn with rubbish. "We gathered references from many cities and towns around Europe," explains producer Noriko Umemura, who previously worked on the critically acclaimed RPG, White Knight Chronicles. "There are Japanese influences too - we wanted a world in which everyone could find a connection or a similarity to the neighbourhood they grew up in."Inhabiting this sodden distopia are a range of scary invisible monsters, which the boy usually has to avoid by stealth – he's too small and weak to fight. While he's undercover, he can move unspotted, but once in the rain, the beasts can detect him. At one point in the demo, I have to splash in a puddle to get a monster's attention, before running under a balcony to become totally invisible before sneaking off; on another occasion, I get one of them to follow me as I run away, tricking it into smashing into a pillar, which brings down a ledge for me to climb up. It's all about working with the environment and the elements.The creature designs are vague and formless, helped of course by the fact that we only see them as outlines. "We kept it very simple so that players can add their own imagination on to them," says Umemura. The idea is to explore the fears and imaginative processes of childhood. "Were trying to tell an adventure story that evokes childhood memories," she explains. "When you're a kid, you often get lost exploring your neighbourhood - and although you're scared, you're curious - you want to go a little bit further and see a little bit more. It's that mixture of fear and curiosity that want to capture - we want to remind everyone of how that felt."Throughout the early chapters, the girl is seen in snatched moments, perhaps walking along a distant corridor, or high up on a rooftop while the boy is stuck far below. Eventually the two meet, and the boy needs to solve a a puzzle to save her from her monstrous nemesis. He does so, placing himself at risk - and later she returns the compliment. But where will they go from here? Will they work together? It is the wordless innocence of this relationship that conjures Ico; the fallibility of the participants. "We didn't take direct inspiration form any particular title," says Umemura, when asked about influences. "However, our team are all from the same generation and we grew up with the same game - and we all like Ico. The emotional experience offered by games like Eco; that's something we want to evoke."  It will be fascinating to see where it goes.Rain is only the latest offbeat title to come out of Sony Japan's experimental C.A.M.P studio, which pairs creative people from different sectors with experienced development teams. "Japan studio is encouraging us to create innovative titles, they want more diverse gameplay," says Umemura. "We always work with other developers - this time we've been working with Acquire Corporation. We mix that with the new talent at Playstation C.A.M.P and things come together. It gives us new ways of thinking."For Umemura, C.A.M.P is a symbol of how the country's games industry is pulling itself out of a long dip. "It's my opinion that Japanese development is at a turning point," she says. "We have struggled for the last decade compared to the Western industry - now, we are looking for new talent; we're looking to the indie sector as well as people outside of this business, to make games that haven't been done before. Everybody is trying different things. Some studios have attempted to follow the Western model, but at Sony Japan, we're interested in working on games that only we can create. We're in a lucky position, Japan studio encourages us to work in different ways. I feel lucky to be exploring new things - not everyone has that opportunity".The team, which rose to 70 at its height, but started out with a core of just six, is still tweaking the structure of the game, though it will be several hours long. The feel is very different from the studio's last cult hit, the surreal Tokyo Jungle – in some ways it is more traditional, harking back not only to Ico but also to classic survival horror.However, in its attempt to portray the powerlessness and inquisitiveness of childhood, and in its assured construction of a weird gothic world, it also appears to be something much more interesting than a mere collection of well-worn gaming ideas.• Rain is released on PS3  in the autumn
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One, Xbox 360 E3 teaser shows FIFA, Battlefield 4, Dark Souls 2 | Digital SpyAn Xbox One and Xbox 360 E3 teaser trailer has been released by Microsoft.The pre-E3 teaser features a number of current and next-generation games in development for Microsoft systems, including Battlefield 4, FIFA 14, Splinter Cell: Blacklist and Dark Souls 2.Here's the trailer!God, it would be a nightmare to have to fold that thing back up again.Sony Will Show 40 Games at E3 Across PS4, Vita, PS3 | IGNSony has revealed that it is "planning to showcase more than 40 games" across PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita at E3.Ina post on the PlayStation Blog, Sony social media manager Sid Shuman wrote that games seen at the show will include "Beyond: Two Souls from Quantic Dream, Destiny from Bungie, DriveClub from Evolution Studios, The Evil Within from Tango GameWorks, Gran Turismo 6 from Polyphony Digital, Infamous: Second Son from Sucker Punch Productions, Killzone: Shadow Fall and Killzone: Mercenary from Guerrilla Games, The Last of Us from Naughty Dog, Tearaway from Media Molecule, Wolfenstein: The New Order from MachineGames and many, many more."Yes but... Last Guardian? Hello? Please? Anything?Ian Livingstone: Nintendo risks losing an entire generation unless it works on other platforms | PocketGamer.bizNintendo should take its games to "every platform" in a bid to ensure that an entire generation of gamers don't miss out on the Japanese giant's IP.That was the take of industry veteran Ian Livingstone as he opened proceedings at Bristol Games Hub, a non-profit organisation designed to offer space for developers and academics in the South West of England.I can't remember if industry insiders were saying the same thing when the Game Cube failed to make much headway against Xbox and PlayStation 2? Whatever, the thought of Nintendo 'doing a Sega' is both intriguing and disheartening. Super Mario Bros on Xbone?SpyParty enters open beta - GameSpot.comUpcoming indie gameSpyPartyhas entered a paid open beta phase.Players who are interested can register on the SpyParty website and pay $15 for early access to the beta. A secondary option is also available for users who wish to donate $50 or more to the project and have their name entered in the game's credits.If there was any justice in this cold bleak world, Chris Hecker's brilliant asymmetrical strategy game would be commanding acres of space on the E3 show floor. But then, consideringwhat Hecker thinks of E3, this is probably not a compliment. Still, check it out!Humble Indie Bundle 8 breaks $2m barrier | GamesIndustry InternationalWith 6 days left on sale the Humble Indie Bundle 8 has achieved over $2 million in sales, shifting 365,755 bundles since its launch on May 28.The news was confirmed by Humble Bundle's Twitter account last night, and the grand total is now $2,088,229.03 and rising.This doesn't surprise me at all as Humble Indie Bundle 8 is a spectacular collection of truly wonderful games. Dear Esther, Thomas Was Alone, Hotline Miami! Apparently Notch of Minecraft fame paid $5000 for his bundle.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
