"Microsoft Corp is unveiling copyright protection software to allow rented songs or movies to be used on portable players, cellular phones and other devices. The company's latest 'digital rights management' [DRM] software, code-named Janus, was released Monday. It will give songs and videos purchased through subscription services a sort of digital expiration date that works even when the data is transferred from a computer. The technology also protects the content against piracy," reportsAP.Comment: The press release ishere.
The New York Times quotes P. J. McNealy, an analyst with American Technology Research in San Francisco, as saying that "recent sales figures indicate that Xbox will outsell PlayStation 2 in North America this month, by 275,000 units to 200,000, versus 100,000 for the GameCube. If so, it would be the first time any rival has surpassed Sony's console sales in North America in 45 months."The article also mentions id's DOOM 3 and Epic's Unreal Championship 2: The Liandri Conflict as being only available on the Xbox, in console versions, because of the machine's superior graphics capabilities: "That is a crucial distinction, Id and a number of other game developers are beginning to say aloud. Some, like Mark Rein, vice president of Epic Games, say that Xbox is the only console that can serve as an adequate showcase for the artistry and complexity of his company's graphically complex games."SeePlaying Catch-Up on the Console[free reg req'd].Comment: it remains the case that overall, the Xbox is miles behind, and almost invisible in Japan. However, the article suggests that developer support for Xbox technologies could make the battle for the next generation a bit more equal.
Martha Lane Fox, the founder of the online booking website Lastminute.com, has been seriously injured in a road accident in Morocco, it emerged today.Ms Lane Fox, 30, was reportedly taken to a hospital with suspected haemorrhaging and was said to have undergone emergency surgery.The multimillionairess was involved in an accident in the seaside tourist town of Essaouira, near Marrakesh, early yesterday evening and taken to a nearby hospital.She was believed to have been on holiday with three friends when the accident happened.A spokesman for the Foreign Office said today: "We are aware of a British national seriously injured in a road traffic accident near Marrakesh in Morocco. We are offering consular assistance."The coastal resort of Essaouira, founded in the 16th century by the Portuguese, is popular with artists and independent travellers.Ms Lane Fox became one of the faces of the dotcom boom of the late 1990s after cofounding Lastminute.com.Brent Hoberman had the idea for the site after he found he never had time to plan holidays and was always trying to arrange something at the last minute. He and Ms Lane Fox raised £600,000 and launched the site in 1998.In 2000 Ms Lane Fox had a paper fortune of £40m but after the company's share price crashed that was cut to £9m. Now her stake in the company is valued at around £23m.At the time of the business's 2000 flotation, she admitted to working days that finished at 2am but she quit the day-to-day running of Lastminute.com last year.
It may not exactly be music to the ears of the great axemen of rock'n'roll. Hold the riffs and the distortion: the guitar is going digital.Nearly 40 years after Dylan caused a storm of protest by plugging in his instrument, the launch of the first digital guitar may equally ruffle the rock aristocracy.Billed as a traditional electric guitar "on steroids", the US instrument maker Gibson is launching its new model promising to cut out unwanted distortion.Rather like the spoof rock group Spinal Tap inventing an amplifier with a volume con trol that went up to 11, Gibson claims its digital guitar will enable the gods of rock to reach a new level of licks."It opens a whole new palette of possibilities," said Henry Juszkiewicz, the chief executive of Gibson.For 70 years, guitarists have used their electric instruments to translate string vibrations into a noisy electrical signal fed to an amplifier. The new digital guitar uses an in-built microprocessor to clean up the signal.Analog sounds from each of the six strings are converted into a digital file and transmitted from the guitar.Players will be able to control the sound of each string, giving low strings the crunch of heavy metal or ensuring high strings transmit a clean sound.Some in the notoriously finicky world of rock are already converted. "You'll be able to record all these different sounds and textures," said Dave Cleveland, a Nashville session guitarist. "It's going to revolutionise the whole recording part of guitar playing."But many rock purists greet the digital machine with all the derision Dylan experienced when he went electric. "I don't see it taking over the world," said George Gruhn, of US-based Gruhn Guitars. "People want an electric guitar for soul."Mr Juszkiewicz hopes the guitar will be accepted into the rock family tree alongside the iPod. But teenagers may have to wait a while before they can lay their hands on one: only the aristocrats of rock - and Tony Blair - will be able to afford the $2,800 (&#163;1,580) price tag.
"There's been a lot of churn lately over open letters from IBM and others calling for Sun to open source Java. Rather than try to respond to everyone individually, I'll try to respond to a pile of questionshere," writes Gosling.The issues are being discussed onSlashdot. For background, you should also read Richard Stallman's piece,Free but shackled: The Java trap.Comments: seems to me that a lot of this controversy is storm-in-teacup stuff being stirred by the world's biggest computer company, IBM. And like a lot of people, I wonder why, if IBM is so mad keen on open source, it does not open up DB2, CICS, whatever it calls MVS nowadays, SmartSuite and other proprietary products. The world's worst desktop software, Lotus Notes, could certainly use some outside help....
"On May 1, 1964, the BASIC computer programing language was born and for the first time computers were taken out of the lab and brought into the community. Forty years later pure BASIC - Beginners' All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code - has all but disappeared, but its legacy lives on," reportsAP."This is the birth of personal computing," said Arthur Luehrmann, a former Dartmouth physics professor who is writing a book about BASIC's development at the university. "It was personal computing before people knew what personal computing was."
Google's revolutionary $2.7 billion internet auction of its shares has been restricted to US investors. The revelation comes as concern grows over the detail of its offering.A top authority on financial auctions told  The Observer the Google process risked replicating the excesses of late Nineties dotcom boom and bust.Separately, the firm's bypassing of traditional investment banks, its refusal to offer quarterly forecast updates and fears of growing legal and commercial threats are all worrying analysts as the secretive company opens its affairs to close scrutiny for the first time.The world's leading search engine had been expected to offer its army of international users the chance to invest, but details of the auction given in papers filed by the firm to the Securities and Exchange Commission show the only private investors included will be American.'Individual investors located outside the US should not expect to be eligible to participate,' says Google's preliminary legal filing.This will disappoint Britons unable to join in the largest mass participation auction in history. However, influential analysts believe that British small investors expecting a quick profit may be saved from a risky process.Paul Klemperer, the Oxford economist who, in 2000, designed the Government's successful &#163;22.5bn auction of 3G mobile phone licences, said design flaws in the Google auction could lead to a return to late Nineties-style dotcom boom and bust.'In this kind of sealed bid auction only the most optimistic will win, so there may be a new bubble,' said Klemperer a world authority on auction design. This so-called 'winner's curse' risks over-inflated bids to secure the stock followed by a crash as unsophisticated investors realise they have overpaid.Gil Knight, who runs Gart more's US Opportunities Fund, said: 'What they are trying to do is to prevent some of the big after-market gains there have been in previous flotations. But there could be more volatility.'Such auctions have been used before but are 'not popular. I do not know how institutions are going to participate. Some may not get any stock at all,' said Knight.Previous IPO auctions have mainly been in firms with a small number of expert bidders. Klemperer says the auction is revolutionary, but the detail is crucial - particularly given the presence of a large number of US retail investors 'without the knowledge to bid correctly'.'Google needs to do more to anchor price expectations.'SEC papers also revealed that Google is being sued in US courts by a company now owned by bitter internet rival Yahoo! The dispute is over Google's method of selling advertising space.
I am perhaps unique among technology journalists in that I didn't spend a large part of my youth imbibing science fiction. Dan Dare comics were way off limits, and I am sad to say that I spent much of Dr Who hiding behind the sofa terrified that the Daleks might, one day, master the art of climbing stairs.Had I been a little more sci-fi savvy though I would have undoubtedly grown up with the belief that robots are evil and are ultimately bent on world domination. I certainly wouldn't be embracing the new generation of robots that are starting to find their way into British homes. Evil or not, they are now coming thick and fast.One of the big news stories earlier in the year in the white goods sector (i.e. all the not-very-sexy consumer electronics products like kettles and dishwashers) was that a major UK distributor had been found for the robot vacuum cleaner the Roomba.Already a massive cult in the US, the Roomba is essentially a very basic robot (which costs $200 in the US or £300 over here) that can be programmed to vacuum your home by itself. Essentially it uses a three-stage process to clean the floor in a single pass. There's even a rotating brush that cleans right up to skirting boards.The Roomba is intelligent enough to know where the edges of the room are and will switch itself off when the cleaning job is finished.It certainly isn't the most sophisticated of robots, and even its die-hard admirers acknowledge that its owners do occasionally pop round with the dustpan and brush after it, yet its arrival marks what will inevitably be a massive trend of robots undertaking household chores.It'll have plenty of company too. Early in 2003 Electrolux launched its robot vacuum cleaner, the much higher specified £1000 Trilobite. Since then many of the major players in the consumer electronics arena, including Samsung, Karcher and LG, have also debuted their own robot vacuum cleaners.Monitoring the market is Dyson, who unveiled its robot vacuum cleaner, the DC06 in July 2001. Billed as the most intelligent domestic appliance for the home ever, the DC06 had more than fifty sensors feeding as many as three onboard computers. Yet while Dyson seem to have cracked programming the robot, it still feels that there are question marks over robot cleaners' pick up performance and battery life.Earlier in the year a spokesperson told trade magazine Electrical Retailing Monthly (ERM) that it had scrapped the DC06 and was "currently working on a new robot &#91;that&#93; incorporates improved DC06 technology and root cyclone cleaning power to deliver a truly autonomous alternative to manual vacuuming cleaning."It's a view that Sean Hannam, editor of ERM, broadly agrees with."Robot vacuum cleaners are the biggest innovation in the floor care market has seen since the introduction of Dyson's dual cyclone technology," he says, "but whether consumers will take them seriously remains to be seen."I think they are largely seen as gimmicks. They are likely to sell when the price point comes down to below £300. But even then I still see them as rather an expensive secondary cleaner. You still need another cleaner to do your stairs."The living room floor won't be the only domestic arena that witnesses a robot war - there could soon be a battle going on for your lawn too.Electrolux recently unveiled its first robot lawn mower, the £1500 Automower. Targeted at those with reasonable sized lawns, the device borrows some of the robot navigation technology premiered on the Trilobite, though in this instance the robot is cutting grass rather than sucking dust up.Similar to other high-tech mowers, the Automower has an integrated mulching system, which apparently leaves smaller clippings than most conventional mowers. As they decompose very quickly there is apparently no need for the gardener to wander round collecting the grass.Users choose how often they wanted their lawns mown and then basically leave the Automower to do its thing. Once it has finished moving it returns to its battery charger, venturing out again when it has been programmed to do so.Although Electrolux is the most high profile company to deliver a robot lawn mower, it didn't get there first. Robomow has been selling a range of robotic lawn mowers for a couple of years now. The latest, the RL550, is £750 - half the price of the Electrolux - and shares many of its features.There are also likely to be many robots found in stockings this Christmas as the market for intelligent toys continues to explode.Sony pioneered this sphere with its loveable AIBO dogs. It is also promising to deliver someone to walk them soon with its innovative upright robot the QRIO.Yet if you don't fancy waiting a year or so for a QRIO to arrive or, indeed, if you'd rather not shell out the thousands of pounds to own one, budget versions of the upright robot are coming thick and fast.My favourite is the wonderfully named Robosapien. This hard-as-nails upright robot might not be as clever as the Sony QRIO, but it does boast 67 pre-programmed functions including kick, throw and so on, and is fully conversant in caveman. It can also perform some neat Kung Fu kicks.It is available for £80 from Boys Stuff.Finally for anyone with a penchant for robots, Heriot-Watt University is hosting what sounds like a fantastic robot exhibition, ROBOT, in the Callendar House in Falkirk. Running from May 22nd to September 5th, the exhibition promises an interactive journey through the history of robots and also offers visitors the chance to control a giant robotic arm sited at the university.Roomba- or 08701 650044ElectroluxBoys StuffAutomowerSonyROBOT exhibition
By eight o'clock yesterday morning the About Google section ofgoogle.co.ukstill contained no reference to the impending flotation of the search engine's parent company. And yet I'd seen it as a rather frenzied item on the previous night's BBC News at 10pm and read extensive coverage in the newspapers on the tube to work. So much for the power of the information age.In truth, though, every googlista will by now be aware of Google's decision to float, confounding the recent suggestions that it had got cold feet at the thought of the scrutiny and expectations that go with public life. Only four weeks ago I wrote of the silence on the Google float front as a further sign that the heat was coming out of the US equity market. If anything, the overall temperature has dropped further since, but Google will doubtless bask in its own microclimate.When the Google initial public offering was first bruited last October, the Financial Times quoted an unnamed source speculating that the company could be valued at as much as $100bn (&#163;56bn). It did not say whether he or she was an overexcited shareholder, employee or salivating adviser. Then and now, however, most estimates of value are around $25bn. Even at this more modest figure, salivation could be forgiven.It seems pointless to highlight the reasons why the price tag is ridiculous. Valuing any company at, say, 10 times its current annual revenues or 100 times its net profits implies enormous faith in its ability to grow sales and earnings to fit its valuation clothing. The pointlessness, though, is because retail investors will set the price of Google shares, and you can be sure they will set it higher than high.In its first public musings on the possibility of public life, Google suggested it would eschew IPO conventions and sell its shares directly to investors over the internet without the aid of investment bankers. It has kept to the spirit of direct sale, but failed to shake off the bankers.Google shares are to be auctioned online, but bids must be lodged through banks and it would appear that the fees the company incurs will be as large as in a conventional float of this size. There are some things that even a company committed - without its tongue in cheek - to making the world a better place cannot achieve overnight.We are told that shares in this auction will not necessarily go to the highest bidders, in the interests of a stable after market (for which read, to avoid a relentless decline in the share price from an over-hyped starting level). It is difficult, though, to see how this can be avoided given the litigious world which we all - but Americans in particular - inhabit.Imagine the class action that could be created by those prepared to pay top dollar for wedges of Google shares only to find themselves issued with lower amounts at a lower price in the interests of a better world, especially if the share price instantly rises to a higher level than they originally bid in the auction. Apparently one task of the investment banks in the auction is to filter out such chancers. Fat chance. Investment banks have long got rich working for and with the sharp-eyed. They are hardly going to turn them away en masse now.Indeed, the more I think about it, the more I wonder whether the misty-eyed dreamer with a $100bn vision for Google might be right - if only for a fleeting moment in the crazy history of a crazy stock market. Only a fraction of the company is for sale - at least $2.7bn worth of shares, that's all - and it is demand for this fraction that sets the company's stock market value, not the price at which someone would be prepared to buy the whole entity.There is no point, then, standing in front of this runaway train. There will be opportunities to sell the shares short in time, but it could be ruinous to do so too early. Just be prepared, in the meantime, for endless water-cooler chat about what price to bid, how many shares you are allocated, and why you were such a fool to pass up the chance of such easy money.Of more enduring interest is the question of what Google will do with its newfound corporate wealth, and whether the possibilities that it opens up will in any way corrupt the big, shiny heart that it wears so proudly on its sleeve. It is hard to export a corporate culture but, with an inflated value for its shares, Google, and its founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, will surely be tempted to see whether they can do so.Page and Brin cite Warren Buffett, the so-called Sage of Omaha, as an inspiration. He too is long on quirky, homespun, feelgood wisdom. But his has an edge of steel that has guaranteed the durability of his success.&#183;Edmond Warner is chief executive of IFX Groupedmond.warner@guardian.co.uk
Eliza Manningham-Buller, the head of MI5, made a personal appeal for help in combating terrorism yesterday as the Security Service spelled out publicly for the first time the threat posed by al-Qaida.Detailed advice was placed on the relaunched MI5 website advising businesses how to protect themselves from attack, and warning that "supporters of al-Qaida are present in the UK".It also included a secure internet connection for members of the public to pass on information in confidence.A section called How You Can Help has been translated into Arabic in what MI5 said yesterday was a move designed "to build on the cooperation of the Muslim community". It will also be translated into French, Urdu and Hindi.Terrorists were increasingly looking at "soft" targets such as social and retail venues, tourist sites and transport networks, said MI5. The agency has already offered advice to companies in the "critical national infrastructure" - energy, water supplies and communication, for example.Yesterday's move is designed to alert a wider range of businesses to give as much priority to the terrorist threat as to issues such as health and safety or financial competence, sources said yesterday.MI5 listed its top 10 guidelines for "good security practice", which ranged from appointing board members with responsibility for security to "good basic housekeeping" such as keeping "garden areas free from dense shrubbery".The moves are a response to the high-level threat of a terrorist attack in Britain, described by Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, as "inevitable".The threat level was raised at the end of last year to "severe-general", the second highest. MI5 says it is government policy to issue warnings to the public "in response to a specific or credible terrorist threat".It said there were no such warnings in force and there had been no international terrorist attack in Britain since the bombing of the Israeli embassy in London in 1994.MI5 says there is a threat from espionage by foreign governments, with at least 20 intelligence agencies operating "to some degree" against the   UK, with the Russians and Chinese in the lead.Oleg Gordievsky, the former KGB double agent, estimated yesterday that there were about 30 Russian agents, about half of whom were military intelligence officers. They were interested in technological, scientific, military and economic developments, he said.But yesterday's relaunched MI5 website is directed at the threat from Islamist terrorists. "Our aim is to help inform decisions people may need to take about security measures," said Ms Manningham-Buller."We rely heavily on public assistance and support to do our work effectively and by working together I believe we are up to the challenge of responding to today's security threats".The main terrorist threat to Britain and the west is from the al-Qaida network and other groups engaged in "global jihad", says MI5.They operate in loose networks with considerable local autonomy to carry out attacks. As well as al-Qaida supporters "there are also individuals based here who are not directly linked to al-Qaida, but who are sympathetic to its ideology and leadership, particularly Osama bin Laden," MI5 says."Some have received military and specialist terrorist training in camps overseas ... Relationships forged in these foreign terrorist training camps form the basis of loose networks of terrorists who operate outside structured organisations."Counter-terrorism officials say there are about 30 individuals in Britain prepared to carry out terrorist attacks, with more willing to support them with funds, often obtained from credit card fraud, safe houses, and bomb-making material.MI5 says al-Qaida's main methods of attack are vehicle bombs, suicide bombs or abductions."It is possible that al-Qaida may seek to use chemical, biological or radiological material against the west," it said.David Blunkett, the home secretary, praised the work of MI5 during a visit to its headquarters yesterday.The government recently agreed to increase its staff by 50%, the biggest rise since the second world war, from about 2,000 to 3,000 officers.Its annual budget, an official secret, will rise to more than &#163;200m.
Amid all this fuss about the Google IPO, I had never found out why Google was going for a share offering. The company, after all, is profitable, and doesn't appear in any need of fresh capital. I think most people had assumed it was because the staff and founders fancied being paper gazillionaires. But in many ways this is all very badly timed - the company faces proper competition (from Yahoo and Microsoft) for the first time, and its own search is now vulnerable to accusations that it's losing a little of its edge (although it's not nearly as bad as the tinfoil hat brigade would have you believe).But, anyway,the Economist sheds some light today. It says Google "reached a regulatory tripwire that forces firms with more than 500 investors to disclose almost as much information as firms listed on America's stockmarkets do. In Silicon Valley, where firms often pay workers in shares as well as cash, this is common and often prompts firms to go one extra step to an initial public offering of shares."So now you know. The rest of the Economist piece - titled "the weakness of Google" - is cautious about Google's prospects. PayPal founder Peter Thiel warns of the "tremendous distraction" of IPOs and quarterly reports, while the newspaper warns that in areas like online ads and operating system-like functions, Google is less a leader, more a novice. "Google," it says, "is not certain to be an internet winner".
A new website was today launched by MI5, putting its security advice and assessment of the terrorist threat to Britain in the public domain.The information, mainly intended for businesses, was previously only available to government. It describes how best to manage security in the face of an increased risk of terrorism.However, the site is not overly dramatic. It warns that, while much has been done "to thwart attacks and to damage terrorists' capability to conduct terrorist operations" since September 2001, a threat still remains.The advice says the Madrid train bombings in March demonstrated the ability of a group affiliated to al-Qaida to attack a civilian target in Europe.In order to minimise the risk of an attack, it calls on firms to show "security awareness", and to train staff in emergency procedures. It also warns of the perils of dense shrubbery that could result from poor housekeeping around buildings.The MI5 director general, Eliza Manningham-Buller, said details of the agency's operations needed to remain secret, but added that the organisation had a duty to pass on any advice it could."Stopping terrorists is only one part of our collective defences against terrorism. Another part of our work is to use the knowledge we have about these organisations to provide sensible and practical advice on how best to protect yourself against these threats," she said."The threat of global terrorism makes it important for us to extend this advice to a wider range of people."The agency received a 50% budget increase in February, making it a £300m a year operation, in recognition of its growing role combating terrorism.Its top security guidelines for businesses are:&#183;Carry out a risk assessment to see what kinds of risk you may be facing&#183;Plan security measures from the outset if you are acquiring a new building&#183;Make security awareness part of your culture, and give training to anyone you think might have to handle a bomb threat&#183;Ensure good housekeeping around your buildings, keep public areas tidy and well lit, and remove dense shrubbery from gardens&#183;Keep access points to your buildings to a minimum&#183;Install window locks, CCTV and alarms according to your circumstances&#183;Look at mail handling procedures&#183;Follow up references when hiring staff or contractors, check they are who they say they are, and allow staff the opportunity to voice grievances&#183;Look at how you might protect your information&#183;Plan for business continuity in the event of your systems or premises being out of action.The website says Osama bin Laden has named Britain and British interests as a target for his supporters and followers, and that al-Qaida, or affiliated, cells are active in the UK.It also gives advice on how to protect from the risks posed by Northern Ireland-related terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and espionage.
"Already, [RSS] aggregators have swamped some sites, slowing Web servers and eating up expensive bandwidth, according to bloggers and other Web publishers. The end may be near, unless something changes soon, said Gary Lawrence Murphy, whose Linux blog, TeledyN, has been overloaded," saysWired News."Once all the covered wagons show up and an RSS reader is folded into Microsoft's Internet Explorer or Outlook, we're doomed," Murphy said.Comment: RSS is currently integrated into Longhorn, the next version of Windows NT, but that won't be out until 2006 or later.
"The government's first criminal case under a new law outlawing some types of spam e-mails was based on low-tech investigative methods ... Investigators said Thursday they tracked defendants by purchasing a weight-loss product for $59.95 and waited to see who collected the money," reportsAP."The cyber scam artists who exploit the Internet for commercial gain should take notice," said Jeffrey G. Collins, the US attorney in Detroit. "Federal law now makes it a felony to use falsehood and deception to hide the origin of the spam messages hawking your fraudulent wares."
"From April 1 through April 27, several top [Apple] execs sold nearly 3 million shares worth at least $47.8 million, according to government filings. After exercising options, operations and sales chief Tim Cook took home $14.8 million. Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson tallied $10.9 million, followed by hardware maven Jon Rubinstein at $8.1 million. Other sellers include applications boss Sina Tamaddon, Marketing VP Phil Schiller, and Corporate Counsel Nancy Heinen," reportsBusiness Week Online."But does the cashing in mean these execs believe Apple's stock has peaked? A look at past insider selling gives cause for concern. The last time Apple execs sold shares in big numbers was in April and May of 2002, when nine officials sold 3.7 million shares. Over the eight months that followed, the stock tumbled from the mid-$20s to $14. "We can only guess why [the execs] are selling now and whether they know something we don't," says Kevin Conway, an analyst with Thomson Financial."
Google, the world's largest web search engine, marked a coming of age last night when it filed to become a public company, a move expected to raise $2.7bn (&#163;1.5bn) and make billionaires of its two thirtysomething founders.In a filing to United States regulators, the six-year-old business also revealed the state of its finances for the first time, information likely to be seized on by rivals Microsoft and Yahoo!The Californian company is expected to be valued at up to $25bn in the much-trailed flotation, expected to take place "as soon as practicable".According to the SEC filing, the company made a net profit of $105.6m last year on revenues of $962m, up from $347m a year before.Founders Larry Page, 31, and Sergey Brin, 30, plan to retain a controlling stake in the company through a two-tier share structure echoing that of large media companies. Their stake, undisclosed last night, is likely to be valued in the billions.Googlers, the title adopted by company employees, will also share in the bonanza.In a folksy introduction to the prospectus, the founders emphasise the importance of the company's culture, summed up as: "Don't be evil."A letter to shareholders headed An Owner's Manual says: "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one ... Our goal is to develop services that improve the lives of as many people as possible - to do things that matter."The letter combines the wisdom of Warren Buffett, the famed Nebraskan investor, with the accoutrements of a West Coast technology firm.Staff perks such as free meals, doctors and washing machines will be preserved.In a swipe at the scandals that engulfed corporate America, the founders promise not to massage quarterly figures to meet market expectations.The letter quotes the Sage of Omaha: "If earnings figures are lumpy when they reach headquarters, they will be lumpy when they reach you."Other existing investors in the company include members of the Sun Valley gliterati such as Sun Microsytems co-founder Andy Bechtolsheim as well as venture capital firms Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers and Sequoia Capital.Investment bankers led by Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston are expected to share $100m of fees.Last night's announcement had been heralded with the sort of anticipation much more common at the height of the internet boom.Google, which accounted for more than 50% of all internet searches at the end of last year, handles more than 200m web inquiries a day.Figures issued last night show that the company made a pre-tax profit of $155m on revenues of $389m in the first quarter of this year, against $85m profit a year earlier.The filing revealed that chief executive Eric Schmidt received $552,000 in salary and bonus last year while founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page were each paid $356,556 in salary and bonus.Yesterday's release was attended by an extensive health warning outlining the risks to investors if they decide to buy shares in the company. Among the warnings was one about potential copyright violations.Google also said that it was sued in 2002 by Overture Services, which claims patent infringement related to advertisement placement processes. Google said it believed the lawsuit was without merit.Google is going public because new federal rules require companies with more than 500 shareholders and $10m in assets to disclose more information about their business.The company makes money by displaying advertising alongside search results, but it has also recently started a free email service, Gmail.
Police have arrested a 21-year-old man from Lytham St Annes, Lancashire, in connection with internet "phishing", a scam where emails are used to trick people into revealing their bank details.The unemployed man is accused of trying to steal information from customers of Smile, the Co-op's online bank. "It is believed &#91;he&#93; was a copy-cat phisher, and not connected to the organised eastern European crime group behind the global swathe of phishing scams targeting bank users in Australia, New Zealand the UK and the USA," the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit said.A spokeswoman for Lancashire police said the man   was one of five people arrested at four addresses in Lytham St Annes last week. All five are now on police bail. The unit said that three computers and other equipment had been seized for investigation.Smile said that a handful of the bank's 500,000 or so customers had given their details to a "bogus" site but no one is thought to have lost money. "People out there are trying to solicit information from our customers in this way," said a spokesman. "It's something we want to stop, but we have to get the problem in perspective. People are now getting the message about phishing and not responding to attempts to get information."Phishers send emails which purport to be official notices from banks or retailers saying that an account needs to be updated or informing about a new product on sale. A link in the email connects to an official-looking website where the customer is instructed to give account details and credit card numbers.Online banks regularly post warnings on their websites saying that they never email   customers asking them for their banking details.Len Hynds, head of the unit, said phishing accounted for about 25% of the unit's caseload. This month the British email security firm, MessageLabs, which monitors the baited messages sent to internet users, said its figures suggested the number of phishing attempts was rising sharply.
The big Internet IPOs have often been boom and bust scenarios: the underwriters fix a low price, millions of get-rich-quick merchants pile in, drive the price up, then sell out, after which the share price falls through the floor. Google's shares are going to be sold by auction, so the price inflation -- if any -- happens before the sale, and the extra cash goes straight into Google's coffers, not into speculators' pockets.According toInvestors.com, "In a Dutch auction, the issuer and the banker give up their discretion over pricing and allocation. The final IPO price is at least close to the highest price the market is willing to pay, rather than at a deflated pricing level that all but ensures no-risk gains for favored players. Companies that have gone public through the Dutch-auction scheme include Red Envelope (REDE), Overstock.com (OSTK), Salon.com, Ravenswood Winery, Briazz and Peet's Coffee (PEET), one of the top-performing IPOs over the last few years."
Google's SEC filing includes the following two paragraphs:We face significant competition from Microsoft and YahooWe face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, and particularly from other companies that seek to connect people with information on the web and provide them with relevant advertising. Currently, we consider our primary competitors to be Microsoft and Yahoo. Microsoft has announced plans to develop a new web search technology that may make web search a more integrated part of the Windows operating system. We expect that Microsoft will increasingly use its financial and engineering resources to compete with us. Yahoo has become an increasingly significant competitor, having acquired Overture Services, which offers Internet advertising solutions that compete with our AdWords and AdSense programs, as well as the Inktomi, AltaVista and AllTheWeb search engines. Since June 2000, Yahoo has used, to varying degrees, our web search technology on its web site to provide web search services to its users. We have notified Yahoo of our election to terminate our agreement, effective July 2004. This agreement with Yahoo accounted for less than 3% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003 and less than 3% for the three months ended March 31, 2004.Both Microsoft and Yahoo have more employees than we do (in Microsoft's case, currently more than 20 times as many). Microsoft also has significantly more cash resources than we do. Both of these companies also have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers. They can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including by making acquisitions, investing more aggressively in research and development and competing more aggressively for advertisers and web sites. Microsoft and Yahoo also may have a greater ability to attract and retain users than we do because they operate Internet portals with a broad range of products and services. If Microsoft or Yahoo are successful in providing similar or better web search results compared to ours or leverage their platforms to make their web search services easier to access than ours, we could experience a significant decline in user traffic. Any such decline in traffic could negatively affect our net revenues.Comment: sounds pretty much like my Online cover storyGoogle fights for top spotfrom October 30. This was the piece where Jim Pitkow of Moreover told me: "The only thing that Google really lacks is email." "Does that mean we can expect Page and Brin tolaunch an email service?", I asked. "It's a pretty good bet that they will," he replied, "because of the advertising potential. An email service is a great place to post ads: that's why email is still free."
"According to the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company posted a profit of $105.6 million in the year ended Dec 31, 2003, up from $99.7 million a year earlier. The company had revenue of $961.9 million in the recent year, up from $347.8 million in the year-earlier period," says theWall Street Journal[paid sub req'd]."Google also revealed other closely guarded secrets, such as how many employees it has. As of March 31, 2004, the filing says, Google had 1,907 employees, consisting of 596 in research and development, 961 in sales and marketing and 350 in general and administrative."
Almost every financial thing you wanted to know about Google but were afraid to ask ishere. However, there's about two megabytes of stuff, so don't try it on your mobile phone....
"Google Inc, the world's No 1 Web search provider, filed with U.S. regulators on Thursday to become a publicly listed company, saying it would sell as much as $2.7 billion in stock in a widely expected initial public offering," reportsReuters."To counter possible takeovers, Google said it has created a dual-class voting structure that would give its founders 'significant control' over its fate. The structure is common in the media industry, but rare among technology companies."Comment: Well, gee, Google is a media company....
Trouble at the topIt is surprising that, unlike the Democrats in America, not one of the three mainstream UK political parties has its own official weblog. This failure to embrace new technology has meant that all three parties have been pipped at the post by lone political activists belonging to deadly rivals. All three parties now have unofficial blogs dedicated to their undoing. The latest, Tory Trouble, is a catalogue of Conservative Party infighting, misbehaving local councillors, even more infighting and examples of the frequent vocal lapses of its MPs. You can email the site if you have a bit of dirt to dish, although the bulk of the material originates from the local papers.A much slicker affair is the blog dedicated to scrutinising the failings of the LibDems. Apart from berating the party for its unpopularity, the site offers similar content to Tory Trouble but with a heavier dose of sarcasm and a few pictures to help digest the floor-to-ceiling bitchiness. The eldest, and least polished, of these "anti-sites" is Labour Watch, which admits to having "not much to smile about here, apart from John Prescott's frequent mishaps". There is no formal blog, but at least it offers an archive of news stories going back to 1997. Get a blog before someone else does it for you, might be the moral of this story. The left is proving better at it, might be another.www.labour-watch.comwww.libdemwatch.co.ukwww.torytrouble.org.uk/blogDream weaverIf you are lucky and you email Berkeley-based artist Jesse Reklaw with a brief description of your latest dream, he might turn it into one of his wonderful four-panel comic strips that appear on the web each week. Reklaw has been illustrating   the unconscious states of strangers since 1995, and many of his strips have been published in the US alternative press. His archive of dreams - as well as those of the likeminded Dream Project - are as sublime as they are succinct and are often very funny to boot. If you want to know the meaning of having an armadillo as a best friend, a site such as Sleeps.com might come in handy.www.slowwave.comwww.thedreamproject.org/www.sleeps.com/dreams.htmlUgandan relationsMore than 40 years of Private Eye covers, indexed by date and subject, have been painstakingly assembled and published on a website by an anonymous fan. Ugandan Discussions, which includes more than 1,100 covers from the first issue in 1961 to the present day, is run by someone calling himself "Idi", and he is appealing for help to track down the 117 covers he is missing. The gaps matter little as it is already a fantastic website, although the legality of such an endeavour is surely in doubt.By the way, the title of the site is a popular Eyeism for illicit sex. Origins of the term are a little vague, with some attributing the coining to the poet James Fenton and hazy tales of how a famous politician was caught - practically in the act - with his secretary; others say the guilty party was a female journalist whose name we can't reveal for legal reasons. Either way, the excuse proffered is that they were upstairs "discussing Ugandan relations". Sheffield Hallum's Phrase Finder offers a more detailed account of the phrase's origins.www.strobes.uklinux.netwww.private-eye.co.ukphrases.shu.ac.ukOnion charges"For less than a $30 cup of coffee," piped the Onion last week, "America's finest news source is now available in a new, non-free form." In other words, the award-winning satire site now has a premium service offering extra content and no ads. The standard site remains available at no cost.www.theonion.comFamous willsWilliam Shakespeare is not the only famous person to have his last will and testament published on the web. The bard's last wishes now rest alongside those of Jane Austen, Captain Cook and Napoleon Bonaparte as part of the government's Documents Online project, the public-access version of the National Archives' collection of digitised public records. Elsewhere, US site Court TV offers a variety of famous wills including John Lennon, Elvis, Princess Diana and the Grateful Dead's Gerry Garcia.www.documentsonline.pro.gov.ukwww.courttv.com/people/willsNew &amp; notedThe art of culinary disasterwww.burntfoodmuseum.com10th century Japanese blogblog.simon-cozens.org/shonagon/bryar.cgiIllustrated history of 4AD recordswww.fedge.net/~desiderata/4ad20.htmlSix of the bestMusic downloadsSeeking submissionsSupermarket sweepFizzy contenderSheet musicComing soonCurrently sharing
The past 10 years have been cruel to Lego, the famous Danish toy company. There was once a time when its iconic plastic-studded bricks were a part of every childhood. But in the age of Game Boy, Xbox, web chat, texting and fast-burning fads such as Pokemon, Lego has struggled to cut it with generations of increasingly sophisticated young consumers.In 1998, for the first time, the company made a loss. The following year, 1,000 people were laid off (another first). In January, Lego posted another set of dismal figures - this time a loss of 1.4bn Danish kroner (about &#163;140m). A few weeks ago, announcing a plan to stabilise its financial situation, another 500 jobs were cut. And all this during good times in the market for toys, which is growing at around 4% a year, not including video games and electronics.This downturn in Lego's fortunes was taking place just as the scale of its achievements was being recognised. In 2000, when it came to choosing Toy of the Century, the British Association of Toy Retailers, Fortune and Forbes magazines all agreed: the Lego brick was it.It is not that Lego hasn't tried to move with the times. Toy store shelves feature dozens of new Lego products that bear little resemblance to the sets of bricks that were a childhood staple for 50 years. Today, there are familiar licences in kit form: Harry Potter, Bob the Builder and Winnie the Pooh. There have been successful home-grown innovations, too - Clikits for girls and programmable bricks called Mindstorms (as popular with adults as kids).The biggest of the recent hits, and number one Lego product in 2003, is an action figure range called Bionicles, which first appeared in virtual form on the web in December 2000. Today, the epic struggle between Toa heroes and Makuta villains for control of Mata Nui, their tropical island world, features in comics and books, on the web, in CD-Roms and even movies, as well as in millions of snap-together kits sold in the shops. Bionicle may not have sold as fast as Beyblades or Yu-Gi-Oh, but they seem certain to outlast them. Three years old and still growing, Bionicle accounted for roughly a quarter of Lego's turnover last year. But the product's real value may prove to be in showing a company steeped in its own traditions the way out of troubled waters.When the idea for Bionicle was proposed back in 2000, there was resistance from company traditionalists. "The correct term for what we    encountered is scepticism," says Lars Kaae, who has been marketing manager on Bionicle since day one. The company had no experience of creating the kind of story-based, multichannel brand that was being proposed. The Bionicle characters' war-like appearance also ran up against the company's values. Every product decision is checked against the vaunted "Lego values": high-quality products, an emphasis on free play   and encouraging the imagination, and no modern warfare or violence.Internal debate about new products can be intense. The Star Wars range launched in 1999 upset some company traditionalists because the kits came with a story built in. Two years later, Bionicle went far beyond this - it made the story the most important thing that Lego was selling."We started telling the story on the website before the product was   launched," recalled Leah Weston, senior producer for Lego Virtual, the company's web division."Then as the product rolled out, we developed it on the website through character bios and an episodic adventure game." New story elements were also included with the toy figures' assembly instructions. Later, CD-Roms featuring games and movie clips were given away with the toys. Comics and books followed, and last autumn, Bionicle: The Mask of Light was released, quickly climbing to near the top of Billboard's Top Kid Video chart."The main storyline is developed by a team of eight spread around the world who meet three times a year," says Kaae. "And between them, they decide which media gets which bit of the story." With the story being developed across several media, the role of the website is to pull the story strands together. The strategy of making every Bionicle product from toy to toothbrush promote the website has paid off: traffic has averaged at more than a million unique page views per month since last August. The website is promoted in other ways: toy packaging features special access codes and each purchase earns Kanoka points - the Bionicle equivalent of a loyalty scheme - that can be used to play web games.Lego is in the world of Bionicle for the long-term, so things such as loyalty count. A second movie in what could be a long series is due in autumn. "The Bionicle story is planned out for the next 20 years, and we have an outline that maps out the overall direction the product is heading in," said Weston.The success of Lego's first home-grown, story-based product bodes well for the company's future. It says   Lego knows how the world of play has changed in recent years."We haven't been good enough at keeping up with how children's ways of expressing their creativity have changed over time," says Anne Flemmert, senior researcher at the Lego Learning Institute. The institute, which funds research into play and learning, and Vision Lab, an internal thinktank, were recently set up to help Lego evolve in a fast-changing world. Just like our society, children's play is much more complex than it has ever been, and toys are increasingly knowledge and rule-based - like Pokemon, Beyblade and Yu-Gi-Oh." And now Bionicle. "Bionicle is one of the first examples of this company starting to loosen up a bit," says Flemmert.The loosening-up applies not just to products, but also to ways of working. "When we started Bionicle, designers, engineers and marketing people sat down as a team and worked on the concept and developed it sequentially together," says Kaae. "This project-orientated way of working was new for us - it was successful and now all new projects are set up in this way."The latest cuts and upheavals in the company have reached Kaae's team but the mood is optimistic. "We are confident now that we are moving in the right direction."
Britain is in the midst of an intense race to build the most extensive database of recorded family history. As a result, what was once closely guarded by civil servants, librarians and obsessive genealogists is now easy to find online. It includes registers of births, marriages and deaths from 1837, census results from 1871, parish records and thousands of family trees. All have been put on the web in recent years and, in many cases, in recent months.Ever since the government's attempt to put the 1901 census online collapsed under the weight of 3m hits in three hours, a growing band of specialist genealogy websites has sought to make up the lost ground.Ancestry.co.uk, the UK arm of America's fifth-largest paid subscription site,MyFamily.com, rescued the 1901 census and won the right to upload other census material starting with the 1891 census and, most recently, records from the 1871 survey. This coup for Ancestry.co.uk has kept the grandaddy of genealogy websites out in front and able to claim a database of 175m names from the UK and Ireland, with 3.5m images of census, marriage and baptism records and thousands of parish and probate records.However, the recent start-up1837online.comhas been closing the gap. It says it has completed transferring paper records of births, marriages and deaths since 1837 to its website, rivalling US site Rootsweb, which has done the same but without charging customers.Then there is the family tree site Genes Connected, a spin-off from the hugely popular Friends Reunited, which last month claimed its one millionth member.Its efforts over the past year have spurred interest in tracing family history, according to research by YouGov for 1837online. One in eight people are tracing family roots and 70% use the results of their research to create a family tree online.Next month, many of this dedicated band and maybe some of the 46% of people who told YouGov they would like to trace their family tree are likely to attend the Family History Show in London, where expert genealogists will pass on tips on how to trace ancestors back to the Dark Ages.Genes Connected is probably the fastest-growing user site. It is a series of family trees put on the site by thousands of amateur sleuths looking for connections with the past. They compile their trees from a mix of fireside chats with relatives, official data from other sites and, when they can't find what they want, the Family Records centre in London.Steve Pankhurst, co-founder of Friends Reunited, puts the success of the site down to its open, democratic policy and lack of stuffy, academic attitudes. "It's one of those ideas that fits the internet perfectly. Until now, there's not been that many sites in the UK. What there has been are research sites that allow you to access old public records."Where Genes Connected is different is that we are not a research site in the purest sense because our data is not pulled from censuses. The other sites help you get to the information quicker, whereas the idea behind this was to put in the information you know or have pulled from the other sites and share it," he says.The site is free to members who want to find a home for their family tree, but few want to leave it at that. Increasingly, they want to cross-  reference with other family trees. And they can, with a search facility that allows users to check if other family trees hold names they are looking for. The only barrier is the &#163;7.50 annual fee that pays for access to other users' email addresses. In the two years since it started, the site has acquired 1m members (though it won't say how many pay the subscription fee) and reckons to hold 11m names of dead ancestors, with some of the 40,000 to 50,000 names added every day stretching back to AD 1200.Michelle Barker, the site's managing director, says the site has fired up a new generation of genealogists. "Prior to the internet it took so much time to physically track down the records. The only people who could do that were the well-off or people who had time on their hands. What the internet, and specifically Genes Connected, is doing is eliminating those barriers. The interest has always been there, but not everybody   has always had the opportunity."But how do site members know that the information about other people's ancestors are supported by physical records?Jeremy Palmer, of genealogy specialistsAchievements of Canterbury, credits the Genes Connected site with spurring increased interest in family trees and searches for ancestors, but argues web users can be misled."You can't rely on what people tell you. You must have access to original records like the 1901 census. The 1891 census has now been put on the Ancestry.co.uk site and each entry has been indexed as it is put in, which is marvellous, because you can find all the John Smiths with one press of a button. But that is fine provided it has been indexed accurately."For instance, we have discovered omissions and misspellings in the 1901 records, which the government put online. It's easy to make mistakes when a flourished "s" and a flourished "l" can look the same. I would always recommend people search using different spellings. So someone might want to search under Lawyer for someone called Sawyer."His not-for-profit firm, which shares offices with the Institute of Heraldic and Genealogical Studies, offers a service that can trace ancestors, using paper records, to the middle ages and, using DNA, determine whether your forebears came over with the Vikings or have Saxon blood."The main flaw in online searches is that there are few resources compared to the number still in libraries and church records. There are 12,000 parish registers in England &amp; Wales. While much of that has been entered by the Mormon church, there is plenty still on paper." He points to the Family Records centre in London as the main starting point for anyone wanting to trace ancestors, though county libraries should contain similar information, especially births, marriages and deaths.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' (aka the Mormons) websitewww.familysearch.orgalso allows users to build their own family trees online as well as providing many records for people tracking ancestors on a more global scale.But to get at source information such as records of births, marriages and deaths or census results in Britain, the costs start to rise steeply.Ancestry.co.uk charges a flat rate of &#163;29.95 a quarter or &#163;69.95 a year. Charges range from 5p to 10p a search on 1837online.com, with a minimum &#163;5 fee. It holds information held on civil registers, which have been collated into an A to Z index of all births, marriages and deaths from the coronation of Queen Victoria. The site inputs the names from all the pages so you can do a Google-type search for individuals.Like Ancestry.co.uk, 1837online will have omissions and misspellings, but there has always been a cooperative spirit to tracing family history and this seems to have survived into the age of commercial sites charging for the service.Pankhurst admits there may be mistakes in translation, but says his site has attracted few complaints - and these have been mainly from people who have been entered on the site without their agreement. "You are not allowed to enter details about living relatives without their permission."&#183;Family History Show, run by the Society of Genealogists in conjunction with 1837online.com, takes place May 1 &amp; 2 at the RHS New Hall, London. For tickets, telephone 020 7553 3290. Includes lecturers for beginners costing £10.Finding your roots&#183;Society of Genealogistsalso publishes the magazine My Family History.&#183;The Institute of Heraldic and Genealogical Studies(01227 768664).&#183;Genukiis one of the main centres for genealogical records and is supported by Manchester and Newcastle universities.&#183;Familiaprovides a guide to what is available at public libraries, though only the large county libraries that hold genealogy records.&#183;Rootsweb.com(with support from the MyFamily group) provides a forum much like Genes Connected, though with free access to records of births, marriages and deaths&#183;Newsgroupsoffer a way to quiz others building family trees about shared ancestors.&#183;EveryGeneration.comis a resource for people of African, Caribbean or mixed ancestry.&#183;Anyone can search a Commonwealth War Graves Commission web sitewww.cwgc.orgto find details of an ancestor who served in the first or second world wars.&#183;Cyndi's List of Genealogyweb sites has more than 130,000 links.&#183;www.census.pro.gov.ukhouses the 1901 census.&#183;Beginners can find help at the Federation of Family History Societies' First Steps in Family History atwww.ffhs.org.uk/leaflets/faq.htm
"Many adults who download files — which are often pornographic videos — do so on their company networks, according to new studies, consuming sizable chunks of bandwidth and other resources and putting their companies at risk of lawsuits for copyright infringement," reports Elizabeth Armstrong, The Christian Science Monitor,here."In one of the first studies of its kind, Blue Coat, a network monitoring company in Sunnyvale, Calif., reported last week that 39 percent of employees who use file- sharing services do so on company networks. That kind of activity can easily consume a third of a company's bandwidth, according to Blue Coat."Among file-sharers everywhere, the amount of material that is pornographic is high and rising. In the past 18 months, the share of peer-to-peer network traffic accounted for by video files jumped from 12.4 percent to 36.2 percent, according to Big Champagne. And 50.7 percent of all video files being shared are pornographic — up from 42 percent last September."
"An Apple representative on Wednesday confirmed that with the new version of iTunes, the company has "strengthened" the music-sharing feature to make sure that song sharing is limited to personal use and that only another copy of iTunes can access the music stream. Also, once iTunes users have upgraded to the newest version of the software, they are no longer allowed to stream music from computers running older versions of iTunes," saysCNet.
"Results were boosted by stronger-than-expected sales to consumers of its flagship product, Norton anti-virus software. Internet worms including Mydoom and Netsky helped create 'the most serious outbreak environment we have seen yet,' Symantec Chairman and Chief Executive John Thompson said in a conference call with analysts," according to theMercury News."Symantec earned $117 million, or 33 cents a share, for its fourth fiscal quarter ended April 2, up 72 percent from $68 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier. The company posted quarterly sales of $556 million, up 43 percent from $390 million a year ago."Comment: There's more detail in the Symantecpress releaseandconsolidated financial statement.
Hi-jacked!My Internet Explorer home page has been hijacked by a porn site, and I can't reset it in Internet Options.Keith Bernsteinwww.keithbernstein.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Home page and search page hijacking in Windows now make up the largest proportion of queries sent to Ask Jack. Unfortunately, there is no simple answer because several different techniques are used. However, most hijackers can be removed by SpyBotSearch &amp; Destroyor Lavasoft's Ad-awarewww.lavasoftusa.com, so you should start by running these free programs.Aluria's Spyware El-iminatoris another option, but it is a commercial program. If these don't work, read the article on Browser Hijacking at theSpyWareInfo website.After you have your home page back, installJavacool Software's SpywareGuard. You could also consider installing Piotr Walczak's freeStart Page Guard. Remember to keep updating SpyBot and Ad-aware because of new parasites and hijackers. You can support the anti-scumware movement by making donations for programs that are free for non-commercial use.Uncool searchWhenever I start Internet Explorer, my home page is automatically set tohttp://search-town.net. I have tried changing it, deleted cookies &amp; my cache, and run SpyBot to no avail.G Cavanagh&#183;My home page has been hijacked by searchmeup.com, and I've run SpyBot, Ad-aware, and CWShredder to no avail.Paul BlackfordJS:Search Town, Searchmeup and dozens of other hijackers are all versions of Cool Web Search, a very nasty bit of scumware. It can be removed byCWShredderand removal of the Searchmeup/ fake blank variant was added in CWShredder 1.41.0000. However, for it to work, you may have to restart your PC in Safe Mode. Andrew Clover also has a good account ofCool Web Search, with details of how to remove it manually. If you have been caught by Cool Web Search, then you have probably not installed all Microsoft's updates, and I'd guess you have missed the essential MS03-011 Security Update for Microsoft Virtual Machine published on April 9, 2003. Finally, you should also check that you do not have theTroj/StartPa-U virusanalyses/trojstartpau.html, which also changes the IE home page and drops links to pornographic websites.360 degreeWhen I click the 360 degree views on the BBC website, all I get is a white screen with a red X in a box. Could you tell me how I can access them?Peter McGrathJS:You need to have Java installed and enabled in your browser. In Internet Explorer, go to Tools|Internet Options, click the Advanced tab, and scroll down to Microsoft VM to enable it. Although Microsoft and Sun Microsystems are now best buddies (and Microsoft is $1.6bn    poorer), it might be a good idea to install Sun's Java fromwww.java.com/en.Backchat&#183;Last week, John Mitchell found a keystroke logger on his PC. He reports that, after trying numerous programs, the full version of Pest Patrol removed it.&#183;Emails from Yahoo users reveal that its service varies among countries, including the amount of storage and POP3 access. For example, Carlos Perez-Palacio still has free POP3 access using Outlook Express with the Spanish version. "If you don't understand Spanish, you have to try to figure out where to look for the set-up instructions. After that, you don't even have to login into Yahoo.es again." Curiously, I just signed up for a mailbox at Yahoo.co.uk on Tuesday and was given 6MB of free storage with free POP3 and mail forwarding. This compares with 4MB and no POP3 on a Yahoo.com account.&#183;Stewart Boyle wanted to listen to his music files via a decent hi-fi. Stephen Parkinson says: "I now use the NetGear MP101streaming MP3 player. It costs less than &#163;100 and can cope with up to 320Kbps and VBR on my Wi-Fi network." However, Stewart says he has decided on an MP3 player, thePhilips HDD120 recording audio jukebox.&#183;Re Surfing blind, Jon Bailey says: "The RNIB helpline is fine as far as it goes, but many independent local voluntary societies for the visually impaired have trial and demonstration rooms for computer equipment and specialist software, with skilled people (often blind themselves) to demonstrate and teach, free."
If your car had four bald tyres and no brakes, you would not be allowed to take it on the road. But if your PC has no firewall and no anti-virus software, any number of people will be happy to provide you with a broadband internet connection.This is bad for you, because your PC will probably be infected with viruses and Trojans within hours.It is bad for us, because unprotected PCs in homes and businesses are now a major source of spam, viruses, and denial of service (DoS) attacks. They are also used to commit serious frauds, some of which cost companies many millions of pounds.The internet may be a new frontier, but it is turning out worse than the old Wild West.   John Perry Barlow's Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace, published in 1996, always sounded silly ("Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone..."). Today, it sounds hopelessly naive.When cyberspace was inhabited only by geeks and academics, maybe you could claim it didn't need regulation because We Are Smarter Than You. Now, the average internet user is pretty much the same as the average citizen, and very far from being an elite group. Worse, some of the really smart guys are professional criminals.Unfortunately, the internet has no way of stopping criminal activity. If cyberspace is a country, it has no defences, no police force and a rapidly diminishing sense of morality. The best you can get is a CERT Advisory that tells you where the next attacks are likely to strike.Windows is, of course, a large part of the problem, but Microsoft has no exclusivity on security holes. Problems have been found in the TCP/IP, the H.323 telephony and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocols, Cisco routers and Oracle servers. Searching for Advisories and Vulnerability Notes in Sendmail and Apache, the most common mail and web servers, shows that open source code can also contain large numbers of flaws. Whatever IT systems you use, eternal vigilance is required.You can patch your PCs and put a security appliance between   your network and the internet, which helps, but unfortunately, people are an even bigger part of the problem.An amazing number seem to have caught the Gullibility Virus: they don't check hoax emails, click on unsolicited attachments that install viruses, go to dubious websites that install diallers and Trojans, and fall for fake "phishing" sites that ask them for details of their bank accounts.People need to learn - and staff need to be told - that the internet is not cybernirvana, or "the new home of Mind". It is, rather, the new Utopia for liars and thieves who will happily empty your bank account, and who stand almost no chance of getting caught. You can either take these threats seriously or risk becoming a victim.A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspacewww.vex.net/~madmagic/declare.htmlCERT Advisorieswww.cert.org/advisoriesNational High-Tech Crime Unit (UK)www.nhtcu.orgComputer Crime and Internet-Related Crimewww.met.police.uk/computercrimeCybercrime (US)www.cybercrime.govCybercrime (EU)http://europa.eu.int/ISPOCybercrime in New Network Ecosystem: Vulnerabilities and New Forensic Capabilities (PDF file) by Tony Rutkowski, Verisign Inc.http://tinyurl.com/2gyjb
Counter-Strike: Condition ZeroPC, &#163;24.99 Valve/Vivendi Universal Games,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Counter-Strike is the world's favourite online game - it sold 1.5m copies, and introduced the concept of co-operative multiplay to an audience of hardcore gamers. Impressive for a game that emerged from the so-called "modding" community, which took advantage of id Software's decision to make the engines underlying Doom and Quake freely available.Condition Zero is the first major update to Counter-Strike and, although it offers more to those who wish to play it alone rather than online, it should still prove enormously popular. When played online, the primary improvement concerns the graphics. A number of detailed changes to weaponry, new maps and so on have been introduced. Players might find it disappointingly similar to the original.But Condition Zero marks Counter-Strike's emergence as a credible single-player game, thanks to the introduction of AI-controlled "bots". You can play full-blown multiplayer-style games by picking a team of bots and fighting enemy bots, or work through an 18-mission single-player campaign and, as you progress, upgrade your team with improved AI-controlled team-mates.The Counter-Strike theme of counter-terrorists taking on terrorists is so appropriate, and Condition Zero's single-player mode offers a good way of acquiring the skills to prosper in competitive online first-person shoot-'em-ups.Steve BoxerUnreal Tournament 2004PC, &#163;19.99 Epic/Atari,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;You have to hand it to Epic when it comes to value. UT 2004 is packed with so many maps, weapons, vehicles and gameplay modes it makes rivals look threadbare. In the world of online shooters, you can never count on loyalty, and UT's fans have been drifting away.Well, Unreal wants them back and to show how much, it offers around a dozen multiplayer gaming modes, adding ideas such as Onslaught to the more traditional Capture the Flag or Deathmatch varieties. New, too, are around 100 maps mixing stunning outdoor arenas with traditional interior settings, and the long-awaited inclusion of vehicles. So far, only Halo has made multiplayer vehicles fun, and hardcore types may lament their inclusion - but Epic has embraced a future where every hero can shoot from the back of a quad-bike.One other trick is a single-player skirmish mode that puts up a fight. Others have used AI-bots to simulate human players, but this is the first where the result makes enjoyable gameplay. If you own UT 2003, this is hardly a quantum leap forwards. Neither is it a Fifa-style makeover. For multiplayer fans, it provides a massive fix of the turbo-charged mayhem they crave. For the uninitiated, it's the best introduction to what online gaming is about.Mike AnderieszPainkillerDreamcatcher/Mindscape PC, &#163;29.99,&#42;&#42;&#42;Polish developer Dreamcatcher has literally lost the plot. Painkiller throws characterisation and script into the bin and then blows it up with a massive gun. This is an old-school shooter that gives you heavy weaponry, a pile of ammo and an undead horde to obliterate. And that's about it. Reflexes are all you need. Simply enter each area, kill everything and then move on - simple, yet effective.Even the hidden areas - another homage to Doom and Quake - aren't that hard to find. But the action is relentless and not for the faint-hearted or RSI-afflicted. The varied and incoherent levels - from haunted house to industrial complex - betray not so much a lack of developer focus as an unapologetic desire for simpler gaming. In Painkiller, there is no branching non-linear storyline or complex strategy focus - here, you shoot, run and die.Unfortunately, Painkiller fulfils too many PC gamer stereotypes. Its heavy metal music and cliched demonic setting betray the developers love of black shirts and goatee beards. And the anachronistic action does nothing to push gaming forward. But throw in the impressive graphics and popular multiplayer mode and you have a game that will certainly help you de-stress.Greg Howson
Where are the women in IT? The percentage in this male-dominated industry was already low, but has fallen from 30% eight years ago to less than 20%.When Graham Nugent, a European manager with UPS, started his IT career, he was the only man in a team of four. He now works at a Feltham site where there are two women out of 15 IT staff.At Flytxt, a mobile marketing company, there are no women in a team of 20 technical staff. At Oplayo, a mobile video company backed by Nokia and Siemens, there are two women out of 43 technical staff plus two more managing customer services.The number of women applying to study computer science in the UK has also dropped - by more   than a fifth between 2002 and 2003 - and just 15% of IT managers are female, says a survey by the Chartered Management Institute.Does it matter? Yes, because if you are only selecting staff from roughly half the population, you are missing out on a wide talent pool.According to Lars Becker, chairman of Flytxt, the company would like to hire more women because dialogue and decision making would be more balanced and less confrontational.IT products would also be designed in a way that appeals to women, too. Only recently have PCs moved from being boxy, monochrome and sludge coloured.But why are so few women in IT? Some in the industry feel its image has got worse in the past five years. Geeks were briefly cool, then came the dotcom crash.Film and computer superheroes, such as Keanu Reeves in the Matrix, may not help either. Girls may want to go out with Reeves but they don't necessarily want to fight interplanetary wars for a living.Another factor could be the increasing move towards hiring IT staff with computer science degrees. At one time, people who were interested in computing often taught themselves, sometimes after doing a degree in something completely different.The trend means that if girls don't develop an interest in IT at school, they may never find a way in. Even if they do, they are more likely than men to leave the profession.This may - in a kind of reverse Tipping Point - be because there isn't a critical mass of fellow women to encourage them to stay. And having few female colleagues   may make it harder to get the flexible working conditions that help when children are young, and which IT makes possible.But what should be done to attract more women? Special treatment? An end to macho environments?No. The answer is to hire people with aptitude, not just those who have studied computer science. "You have to teach recent IT graduates everything anyway," says Becker, "because university courses are not always up to date."I was once the only woman in an IT department. I transferred to another department not because of the constant talk of football and hangovers, but because the IT department was in the basement and I wanted to see daylight. Another reason was that I was afraid I would not be able to move into other roles if I stayed in IT too long.National Statistics Labour Force Survey 2003www.statistics.gov.ukComputer Clubs for Girlswww.cc4g.netBritish Computer Society mentoring initiativehttp://tinyurl.com/3cnq5
Quick: what's your number? If you are a British adult with the normal accoutrements, you have at least four national ID numbers: a national insurance number, an NHS number, a driver number and a passport number. We're now going to get a fifth.The national identity registration number, in a format to be decided, will underpin the home secretary's ID card scheme when it comes into operation in 2008. It will be the index to all your personal information stored in the planned national identity register. Which, the Home Office says, will also have to store other personal reference numbers, including the existing four.At a time when the government is supposed to be taking an axe to bureaucracy, the decision to create yet another citizen number looks   bizarre. However, it was the only way the Home Office can hope to get a card in place quickly, with a reasonable degree of integrity.To official minds, our existing numbers are all a bit messy.The national insurance number is already used outside its original purpose, including - disgracefully - by financial services companies. However, despite regular cleansing, there are more numbers in circulation than living individuals in Britain, 82m at last count. This is not good for credibility.Passport and driver numbers are better, but not much. Both were allocated for specific populations. The nine-digit passport number relates to the document, not to its holder. The driver number, adopted with batch-processing mainframes in the early 1970s, is flawed, as it consists of a scram bling of name and date of birth. Both registers contain a certain number of "jackal" entries - documents obtained against stolen identities.The NHS number looks a better bet. It was introduced in the mid 1990s and is now issued to everyone at birth. Its 10-digit numerical formula (which includes a check digit to show up mistaken entries) is technically suitable for wider uses. However, when the government introduced the number, it promised doctors it would only be used inside the NHS. It hasn't quite kept the promise - NHS numbers are starting to be used in social services systems - but doesn't like to admit it in public.So, we're all getting a brand new number.This isn't the only duplication on the way. In parallel with the ID   card programme, work is continuing on a separate population database, the citizen information project. This is supposed to contain "basic contact information for everyone in the UK drawn from existing administrative records". Its main purpose would be to run public services more efficiently, by keeping a single record of addresses, for example. What happens if this data conflicts with that held by the national identity register remains to be seen.In the background material to the ID cards bill, the Home Office says it will work with the citizen information project "to ensure coherence and to eliminate unnecessary duplication, including costs". But the whole programme seems to be crying out for rationalisation.This isn't Big Brother, it's Sir Humphrey.
Sender paysIn Second Sight (April 22), Dave Birch writes about "charging for email", but assumes that email is "free", and should only be     charged at 0.0001p. There is an analogy with paper mail, where the stamp is comparatively cheap. He then asks who should get     the money.This is the wrong approach. Paper mail does cost something to produce, (transport etc). Since each junk mail costs up to £1, the     sender will think before dispatching millions of it.      Email is different. The cost of the computer creating it, the bandwidth to transport it, the computers processing it, are all fixed     costs and not attributable to the individual message. The only cost accrues to the receiver, who pays for the connection and the     time to read it.This is what should be reflected in the charge - let us say £1 per email - which ought to go to the receiver. It could also control     junk SMS-texts.While a 0.0001p charge would be lost for the sender, the £1 message is "free" - anyone who gets a message he wanted, will     acknowledge it, thus giving back the cost of the stamp. If he doesn't, people will soon stop sending email, or text messages.      It can be implemented fairly cheaply, if such a charge is only applied where there is a formal ISP-user relationship. Thus, only     ISPs need to tweak their mail software, email within a company could stay free, as could the email where sending and receiving     machines know about each other. ISPs would not accept messages without a stamp.You would have to send a few e-stamps to a listbot when subscribing to a mailing list, and keep acknowledging your messages,     otherwise the bot will run out of money. This also gives you an easy way to unsubscribe.      One thing to solve is how to get the tax man to accept that only the net money from e-stamps is "income", rather than levying tax     on the exchange both ways.Thomas Sippel-DauLondonJoke is on BTI just tried to send the first email of the day via BTYahoo and was told Yahoo was breaking the connection as I had exceeded my     daily quota.The BT helpline confirmed it had received other calls and, after five minutes, connected me to Yahoo help in Toronto. The     person explained they were working on the server and that some accounts had birth dates set to 0, which deactivates the     account. He asked for my birthdate and said it would have been provided when I set up my Yahoo account. I explained I had     never set up one and that BT had transferred my account to Yahoo against my will. He suggested making up a date and said there     was no alternative if the account were to be restored.    BT's email "service" is fast becoming a joke. Does it care?Colin ShawDerbyshireBasic beefI have a beef with BT Broadband. I plan to spend six months of the year at a different address to my permanent one, caring for an     elderly mother. Why, when I pay nearly £30 a month for 24-hour access to the net, which I can't use for half the year, am I required     to take out a second account? BT Basic isn't an alternative as it isn't Mac compatible.H StewartLondonReal's real agendaJack Schofield (Column, April 22) asked if Apple's refusal to let RealNetworks use its Fairplay digital rights management was a     repeat of its refusal to license its operating system for platforms as offered by Bill Gates. He &#91;Real's Rob Glaser&#93; suggested this     could lead to the downfall of Apple's iPod business.Anyone thinking Gates offered to help Apple find hardware partners to allow the Mac OS become a "standard", is living in a     dream world. Gates was out to dominate the OS world and succeeded.      This was not achieved with sincere offers of help to competitors. He twisted Apple's arm, threatening to stop making any     Microsoft software running on the Mac OS, unless Apple gave him a licence to use its Mac OS interface elements for Microsoft's     OS.Schofield characterised Real's Rob Glaser's offer as beneficial. Real's real effort is not trying to profit from sales of online music.     The real game is in the Player-related markets. His service will never make a lot of money, as Apple's does. The only potential     profit is in hardware, not online sales. Maybe he wants to make a portable player for all of Real's player content, including music     limited to iPods. Getting Apple's FairPlay DRM rights would enable him to compete with Apple's iPod. Meanwhile, he can drop his     online music business in the waste bin.Robert BoylinRevenue deniedFor the past two years I have filed my tax return over the internet and found it quick and efficient, but the collectors have now     denied me access.      If I had a Windows operating system - even as old as 98 - I could access the self-assessment site. However, I use Mac's 9.2.2     operating system, which is no good for the IR bods.It is only because I am due a rebate that I am so keen to file. Less fortunate Mac owners will no doubt have to wait to find out that     the IR has disenfranchised them.Barry HughesBrighton
BS: So, what was the business problem you wanted to solve?DS:I think like a lot of owner-managed businesses it was very very successful, very very profitable and James &#91;McAllister, the owner&#93; certainly had a clear view of the sales and marketing function and the operational side of the business. However his financial systems were, shall we say, slightly outdated - which is another way of saying they were virtually non-existent. He appointed me as financial controller seven years ago on the advice of &#91;business advisory company&#93; Grant Thornton.We were running on Sage &#91;accounting software&#93;, which is fairly bullet-proof and again fairly standard for owner-managed businesses, but not particularly flexible.So we set about putting some procedures and controls in, got the in-house reporting up to speed and then tried to develop all of that ... and realised Sage was creaking a little bit. Another problem was that each of the parks had been allowed to almost do their own thing with very little control over them. So four years ago we put Navision financials in, which we bought from Cedilla Systems (cedilla.co.uk).BS: How did you find the system you wanted?DS:We went through the usual beauty parade of software providers - looked at Great Plains, looked at Access, liked Navision, particularly liked Cedilla, who we felt would value us as a client. The financials we put in for about £60,000, which was a very good investment.BS: How long did that take?DS:Start to finish, less than six months.BS: So what benefits have you noticed?DS:In terms of the financials we were able to get management accounts out within eight working days - pretty much when the implementation went in. We went live on February 1, which is the first of our financial year and at the end of each month we're getting management accounts within eight working days &#91;compared to 12 or 13 days previously&#93;. At the same time as putting Navision in we reorganised how we structured the company in terms of departments. We identified key budget holders and gave those budget holders access to the financial information directly online.BS: So did you take the technology any further in the organisation?DS:The success of the financials was better than I'd ever anticipated. The budget holders and of course the board were delighted with the speed and accuracy of the information.We then reorganised the company three years ago, and each of the parks came under the control of one or another operations director who became responsible for everything to do with that. That had proved very successful, but there were a lot of inefficiencies within that structure: at one stage we had two marketing managers. We flattened the whole structure and went to 'discipline directors' - we had a sales and marketing director and an operations director who were responsible for the whole company.We were running on a piece of software written locally for all of our sales and marketing information. It wasn't very flexible. Because of the structure which we were operating under, this piece of software had developed at tangents depending on each of the directors' needs. We thought, right, let's go the next stage and move over to Navision sales and marketing, which will then integrate with our financials. And for the last 12-18 months we've been working on that, going live on 1 March this year.BS: Have you noticed any benefits yet?DS:Huge. The response from the end user has been tremendous. For example if you look at the front desk we were on a Kalamazoo-based system, which worked but had a phenomenal amount of manual input - and not very professional-looking when we were giving little Kalamazoo receipts to our customers, who had spent a lot of money buying a caravan from us.We've now been able to have computer-printed receipts with the park logo, so if they come in and buy a gas bottle on the front desk, the money is recorded, they're given a professional-looking receipt and the money is automatically updated directly into the nominal ledger, so absolutely no manual input at all between front desk and accounts. The beauty of the whole integrated system is that all of the directors, all of the senior managers can access the information at any time from any location.BS: Does that represent a large saving?DS:We've stripped a quarter of a million out of the business, and we're budgeted this year to strip another half a million out. That's because of the system and because of a number of organisational things we've done.So we've been delighted with the implementation and the response from our users - the salesmen, the receptionists and even our groundsmen who are using it for the job system - has been phenomenal. I suppose if I had to put my finger on any one benefit it has been the extremely positive effect it's had on teamwork throughout the whole company.
Running a business has undoubtedly been made easier by email, internet and mobile technology, but in many  cases human contact is still  the most effective form of communication.One aspect of commerce that benefits from the personal touch is the relationship a business has with its bank. Facts and figures will only ever tell a bank part of the story about its client, whereas face-to-face meetings help decisions to be made and explained more clearly and give each side a better idea of where the other is coming from.Business managers are an important ally in making a range of decisions about your company, whether they involve securing new funding, exporting or expansion. When you're looking for a business account, you should consider what is being offered in terms of support as much as charges and interest. What type of banking relationship should you be looking for?The main distinctions are between a service offering a dedicated manager who you will deal with solely, a business advice team and a telephone advice line. The more complex and large your business is, the more likely it is you'll need a dedicated manager. But smaller firms will need personal contact as well. You  must assess how much backup you need.When comparing the different services on offer there are a number of issues to consider. How long have the advisers been doing their job? Have they been trained? How long have they been located at your branch or in your area? How often do staff change? How are they contactable? How much decision-making clout do they have? What resources are at their disposal? Last but not least, ensure you know how much the service will cost. The chances are it will be included in your account tariff, but it doesn't  hurt to check.You should expect a business manager allocated to you to have had some training. Ideally, managers will have completed professional adviser exams through the Institute of Financial Studies or in-house. As for contact, in person, telephone, mobile and email availability are the ideals. You can't expect your manager to be at your beck and call round the clock, but equally you don't want to be having a relationship with an answering machine.Alan Keir, general manager of business banking at HSBC, believes local presence and a degree of autonomy are vital. "The quality of the relationship manager is going to be a key determinant of the success of a small business," he says. Research shows that what businesses want in an adviser is someone based in the community, with a degree of experience and seniority that will enable them to understand their needs."It's also crucial that the manager is empowered to make decisions without having to run off to some far-flung office somewhere and to that end we try to ensure that 90% of all our decisions are made  locally".Needless to say, a range of different services is available. Alliance &amp; Leicester is running a pilot scheme in the West Midlands which combines a more personalised call centre approach, with relationship manager availability. Customers who contact A&amp;L with an enquiry will be given a contact name and number in the call centre that they will deal with solely. If the business requires a dedicated manager, that service will be available as well."We're trying to have the best of both worlds and give the right level of service to the right customer," explains A&amp;L regional manager Stuart Wilson. Not everyone needs a relationship manager but if that's the requirement, that's what we'll provide. If the client doesn't need that we can provide the next best thing, which is a named contact."Barclays is also piloting a telephone contact service that gives business customers immediate access to a team of staff who can resolve simple enquiries. The bank claims this approach will free business managers to deal with more complex issues individually with customers.Abbey business accounts are managed directly through a dedicated business banking centre, which provides standard services and offers free advice and support. Local relationship managers are available to provide face-to-face support where required. The Royal Bank of Scotland and Bank of Scotland both allocate customers a relationship manager based at a local branch.Check the top-rated accounts on independent financial data website Moneyfacts (moneyfacts.co.uk). Arrange to meet prospective managers and assess how comfortable you feel with them. Once you have settled on a manager, find out how long they are likely to remain in the position and whether or not you will have direct telephone access to them.Looking for a personal touchMark Bushell, a curator at the National Football Museum in Preston, switched the museum's business account when their manager at the local Co-operative Bank was moved to London."The Co-op moved our account from a local office to a charities department in London," says Bushell. "Our personal contact disappeared and it became a lot more difficult to communicate with the bank. It took a while for us to understand that this would seriously affect the way we conducted business."Bushell says it was much more difficult to get hold of individuals involved in operating the museum's account and that while the NFM was allocated a sole business adviser, it was impractical to have face-to-face meetings with him and build a relationship.In the end, the museum switched to HSBC. "We looked at a number of banks and invited them to meet us," Bushell says. "We were looking for a more personal approach, with people on our doorstep who we could speak to on a regular basis and who were close at hand if something urgent  came up."It became apparent that HSBC suited us as they are just round the corner. They also understand that we're not like a normal business - we receive funding from a variety of sources at various times of year and sometimes grants come in later than anticipated. But the bottom line is that there's always someone there to talk to, in person."
There are still plenty of small business directors who are sceptical about mobile working. Generally they worry about the security of the devices and are not convinced of the business benefits. But there are striking exceptions, like Newhall Publications which is enthusiastically equipping its sales force with XDAs - combined phone/personal digital assistant devices.The company, which publishes a low-profile monthly women's magazine called Candis (candis.co.uk), generates subscriptions through a door-to-door sales force. The magazine has a healthy readership of about 300,000 but the company was finding it increasingly difficult to get a grip on actual sales figures and the performance of individual reps.After a ten-day pilot where a select number of the sales force tried XDAs, provided by O2, (o2.co.uk) the company decided to roll them out across the country. About 120 XDAs are now being used by the company's sales force and more are being introduced.Chris Harman, Newhall's IT director, explains that the sales reps use their new XDAs to input direct debit information and to check customer addresses. The information is not held on the XDA but is fed via GPRS to a web server and then downloaded by the firm's central office. He says it used to take between 14 to 21 days to process paperwork and send out customers a complimentary copy of the magazine. Now, with the help of the XDAs, it takes between five and seven days. "Customers are getting the product that much quicker so retention has improved," says Harman. "This has helped to keep the flow of the sales going." At central office, they can log the direct debit details and have them confirmed within a few days.The data generated by the mobile devices is also providing the company with a quicker and clearer picture of overall sales results. "One of the drivers was accuracy of sales information. We were being told we would get 2,000 sales a week and we would get 1,800," Harman says. Previously, regional managers would have to spend about half a day ploughing through paperwork in order to validate banking details that sales teams had generated.The regional managers now have access to an online reporting system and they can see how many sales have been put through every day on the XDAs so they can quickly see how many sales an individual has achieved. "They can ring them up and be proactive. Sales management has been greatly improved."The XDA was chosen as the model for the company because of the stylus it offers and the fact that a small amount of keying in is required. But getting staff to adopt them after years of relying on paper processes required a lot of effort. "There were issues," says Harman. "Some of our sales force has been with us for 30-plus years and have never touched a computer. We had to make sure the training we gave them and the system we developed was very simplistic and easy to use."Training sessions were organised in each region of the country and sales team members were given hands-on individual training to help familiarise them with the new devices. To back up the training, the company offered telephone support for anyone who encountered any difficulties.The sales team still uses paper to gather the initial information from customers and then inputs the details into their XDAs usually when they are in their company cars.Harman says they were not sure how customers would react to the data being pumped into the XDA in front of them and they also had concerns about how durable the devices might be if they are used outside in bad weather conditions.The company is now considering making email available through the XDAs and is interested to look at emailing staff details of their sales performances. An idea is that the sales force could be prompted to log on to a site to see where they stand in a performance league of all sales team members.For any company which is considering a mobile solution of this kind, Harman believes a pilot is essential to demonstrate the benefits to the rest of the business. He adds that it's also important to think through the security issues. The XDAs simply act as a mechanism for reporting sales and don't store any data themselves. This means that if a device went missing, information would not be lost. Harman adds that the solution is also cost-effective. He calculates that the monthly line rental for an XDA is less than the cost of one annual magazine subscription.With better sales management, more accurate data and a faster turnaround for customers, Newhall Publications is sitting pretty and wondering why other SMEs aren't mobilising their key business processes.
Of course by now we should all be sitting in our little pods, wearing our wearable technology and operating our telepathic computers by thought control - and when, pray, are they going to release a DVD of unintentionally hilarious moments from Tomorrow's World in the 1960s and 1970s? The ideas were fanciful in the extreme - and nobody mentioned the internet.Not that the claims made by manufacturers of the numerous wireless gadgets designed to help run your business are any less improbable. Wireless hotspots in McDonald's; the death of the laptop because we'll all be using handheld computers; wireless technology in Starbucks; connecting to the net at the airport - was it really such a short time ago that we were connecting one computer to another and thinking that was really nifty?The answer is yes, it was, and a lot of small organisations are still very much at that stage in their use of technology. In real life, a lot of this hi-tech stuff isn't actually happening. Bailey Telecom recently commissioned research which asked 100 senior managers and 100 employees of various sizes of business how likely they were to use wireless hotspots in public. 16% said they were unlikely and 54% said they were very unlikely, with security being uppermost in people's minds as an inhibitor. Those who would use one would prefer doing so in an airport or railway station to a coffee shop or fast food restaurant, and the only ones who wanted to use it in coffee shops were people who were extremely comfortable with the technology.In fact, the idea of sitting down in an internet environment to pick up your emails may not be the thing that brings business to wireless technology in the end.Nigel Derrett, an independent consultant for the Mobile Bristol project, suggests the idea is "not all that compelling". The Bristol project is instead trying a number of different ideas that will work wirelessly, all at the experimental stage. "Our view is that you can't sit around in a research lab or marketing department and decide what people are going to use mobile technology for," he says. "It's like SMS, nobody predicted that, and it will be the same with this mobile technology. We're doing a whole load of experiments, some of which in five or six years' time will seem to have been very stupid things to do and some of which will seem to have been incredibly prescient."Mobile Bristol has allowed a coffee bar to offer its customers games through PDAs, which increased takings when everyone thought it would be a conversation-killer. It's also put sensitive mini-hotspots in tourist areas so you can walk up to them with your PDA and hear about Bristol's history for that particular area, and a school's project has allowed children to use their playing field as a "jungle" - they pretend to be lions and can see the jungle environment through their handheld computers.It's far removed from what people are doing at the moment and makes boring old emails look a bit pedestrian, to be honest. But there are people doing things that could be described as innovative.First Tyre Plus in Cheshire is a small organisation offering tyre and air conditioning repairs to cars. Its managing director Ivor Watson wanted to do things a little differently from the traditional three-depot company. It has been possible for years to get the big guys - the ATS people or whoever - to come out and do a repair, but to get something done by a smaller local business has meant hawking your vehicle around from garage to garage, and people haven't got the time."I want to move away from workshops and employing people and franchise the business," says Watson. "We're putting vans on the road that can sell tyres, do tracking and air conditioning for you when you're at work or at home." To do this he is using Handspring Treo handsets, which are combined phone/handheld computers. "We needed some sort of technology so that I could monitor all the different people and vans."Watson's motivation comes from being tired of employing unmotivated staff. "We have three depots now and we used to have four. It got to the stage where if I wasn't at one depot, nobody was looking after the customers ... I was getting more and more depressed by employing people."The new business model is one he believes will restore the personal touch as his franchisees become self-employed. "I wanted people around 25-35 who'd done things, who wanted their own business and who'd have their own customers to look after." So eight months ago he got in touch with Demopad Software, which demonstrated the benefits of the Treo 600 with Demopad's sales software loaded onto it and a small Brother MPrint printer. This effectively gives every franchisee an office to take around with them."We were looking round for a system that would suit our needs," says Watson. "I need to back up the people who run the vans, I need to advertise for them and to notify their customers there's a new product on the market or there's a special offer." A sales and marketing system that could take input through a Palm screen was available. "The lads download their information at the end of the week or the month, I get the customers on my mainframe and I notify them - if someone has had their tracking done six months ago I'll notify them by email or text that we recommend they have it checked again."Printing invoices could have been problematic. "We wanted to make it look professional but I didn't want a laptop on the van," says Watson. "Basically they use them with dirty hands, they get knocked around - I just wanted something small that encompassed the whole lot."Having remote clients naturally dictates that a company will need to use mobile technology. David Horwood, director of iHotDesk, offers technical support to businesses and although the organisation has a small office "hub" it is out on the road more often than it is on its premises. "We use smartphones, and we've implemented the Treo Orange smartphone, which we use for picking up our email, but also for our helpdesk system which tells our engineers when there's a support call. We can use our smartphone to get to our helpdesk systems to get calls closed down quickly." This is done through the phone's screen rather than by calling in."We use hotspots as well," adds Horwood. "We had a mixed experience with Starbucks - when T-Mobile and Starbucks had their free opening offer we were in there all the time and we even introduced a "Starbucks allowance" for our staff, so they could order their lattes and surf the net. Then the price went up and it suddenly cost a lot more."GPRS is the means by which data is transferred over mobile networks. It can also be done by a standard mobile connection but it's deadly slow.Tony Miles heads up Milestone, a consultancy that offers accounting and other advisory services to small businesses. He is the only really mobile person of the six but has chosen to stick with a mobile GPRS card, to which he upgraded after being able to communicate with the office only late in the evening or early in the morning with his computer. "To an extent that was no faster than the post," he comments. He could upgrade to a faster Wi-Fi connection now but chooses not to. "I've got a piece of technology that works and is extremely useful for me," he says.The "not broke so I won't fix it" ethos is probably a healthy one, and it will continue to hold in check the more fanciful elements of what could be done until some sort of genuinely useful application can be found. If Derrett is right, it won't be sitting around in a cafe drinking lattes while you try to cram your intranet site on to your PDA.That's if it's a PDA - Derrett believes mobile phones will emerge as the medium of choice but it will be the next-but-one generation of smartphone rather than the things we carry around at the moment. They will all have decent cameras on them, he says, and you could use them as barcode readers - so you see a product you want advertised in a magazine and you scan the barcode so that next time you pass a Wi-Fi-enabled shop your phone tells you your product can be bought inside. Retailers will be delighted if it happens. Derrett is keen to stress that it's all at the experimental stage so far."If I wanted the new Harry Potter and WH Smith told me it had a copy that would be nice; if every shop I passed told me it had clothes it wouldn't. We're going to have to do a whole set of experiments about how people want to use mobile technology and what they see as useful ... in the long term, doing your email in Starbucks will be interesting, but it's not where it's at."
Selling sex on the internet is not as straightforward as it might first appear. Richard Longhurst, a former e-commerce editor and writer, has been at it now for about two years but he has eventually learned that you only get the best results if you carry out carefully planned search engine marketing campaigns.Based in Bath with four staff, Longhurst now runs an adult sex toy site called Lovehoney. It's a long way  from editing.net magazine but Longhurst always wanted to set up an online store and he says there was a clear gap in the market for a sex toy site which appealed to women. So what do his former journalist colleagues think about the fact that he's put down his pen and started flogging vibrators and other sex aids over the web? "Most of them find it quite amusing," he says. "It gives them something to chuckle about when we're in the pub."Despite the controversial wares he's selling - special bunny suits were on offer at Easter - Longhurst has had to tackle first hand many of the problems that face any online SME. He says his time as an e-commerce editor  helped to prepare him for what lay ahead."It did in as much as I had seen hundreds of websites and we could pick the best features from each one and mould them into a new site."After negotiating the tricky hurdles of order fulfillment and making deals with relevant suppliers, the business is now starting to flourish. The turnover for the end of the last financial year was £600,000. But to achieve these figures, the company is spending about £8,000 a month on pay-per-click search engine marketing. At Christmas that figure is increased. Longhurst believes pay-per-click search engine marketing has been a sales aphrodisiac and is adamant that every online SME should be doing the same, whatever they are selling. Pay-per-click enables companies to bid to guarantee their position in a search engine's results. Your company appears in a separate sponsored links area alongside the natural search engine results. You can ensure your ad appears when particular keywords are searched for and you then pay an agreed amount to the advertiser if and when a user clicks through to your site."It's such a cost-effective way of getting visitors," says Longhurst. Even if you just wanted people to come and request a catalogue if you're selling double glazing. If no one clicks, you don't pay. You have nothing to lose. You decide which search terms your ad appears alongside so your chances of success are much greater. It's so precisely targeted."Longhurst says that the service on Google is the most effective for his business. "Google ad words has the  best conversion rate of any  of them and the most reasonable cost."It might be cost effective, but this form of marketing does require a fair amount of upfront investment of time. You have to research the keywords you want to bid on and you need to write descriptions for your ads. You also need to track all the individual links you set up and see how well they convert. "You need to know rapidly if you are converting clicks into buyers and how much they spend. You can turn it on and off like a tap. As soon as you see it's not working, you can turn it off. From that point of view, it's low-risk."Longhurst adds that it is important to carefully work out the economics of this method of marketing so you can establish how much you need to spend to buy paying visitors. "Set up a link to your precise product page and do your maths to make sure you are not paying too much for your visitors," he explains. "You need to work out your conversion rate. For example how many sales per 100 visitors and the value of those sales and then you can work out how much you can bid per click."While search engine marketing is a key focus of Lovehoney, Longhurst thinks it's also essential for any site to have consistent navigation and clear product and delivery charge information. "Having a website that works helps. There are still new ones being launched which have too much Flash and the product information is hard to read. Awful basic mistakes are still being made."The experience of being an online entrepreneur rather than just pontificating about it in print has also taught Longhurst the importance of web-based customer care. "Customer service is everything. When people send you an email, try to reply within the hour rather than the week. People will be absolutely amazed. We fulfil our orders through the Royal Mail. Sometimes things don't arrive when they are supposed to so we just send them another one and we sort it out. The customer is always having a good experience and we deal with all the rubbish. If you do whatever you can to make your customers happy, they will become your best advertisement."The majority of Lovehoney's marketing spend goes into pay-per-click search engine marketing but the company produces a printed catalogue which is sent out with orders. Handling sex toy customers does have problems of its own though. Many of them wish to remain anonymous and Longhurst regularly has to deal with issues such as people sending the site to their friends' email addresses. "We get people requesting catalogues for their teachers. We do our best to weed them out so we don't upset people."As the search engine marketing appears to be paying off, Longhurst has other ideas to expand. "We're going to be branching out into non-sex areas," he says. There are plans to set up new e-commerce sites. So what will he be selling this time? He won't be drawn but he quips "it's something that mum can be proud of". Whatever it is, there's a very good chance that the new venture will show up in the sponsored ad words section on Google.
Patak's. Name sound familiar? It should do if you've been reading the business pages in recent weeks. Patak's is the family food firm that grew from a single room operation in Kentish Town, London, to an operation today turning over more than £50m a year. It's also been at the centre of a vicious family feud.Today, Patak's makes curry sauces and other products for consumption in 40 countries - including India - and very good they are too. What's rather less tasty is the relationship between the family members behind it.The company is run by Kirit Pathak and his wife Meena. But Kirit's sisters, Chitralekha Mehta and Anila Shastri, believed they were entitled to a piece of it following the death of their father, and the company's founder, Laxmishanker Pathak, in 1997.They eventually went to the High Court to prove their point, sparking an acrimonious six-week battle earlier this year. Insults flew as merrily as the writs. Only last week was the basis for a settlement reached, with the two sisters likely to win around £8m between them, although negotiations were continuing as Business Solutions went to press.But while the Patak's case is clearly a particularly serious example of what can go wrong in a family business, it does highlight the dangers of such a partnership. Even if you're not in one yourself, the prospect of family feuds might even put you off working with, or supplying, a family firm. How should you approach the area?Perhaps it is with this question in mind that business advice company Grant Thornton has joined with the University of Gloucestershire to form the soon-to-be-opened Grant Thornton Centre for Families in Business. This centre for learning and experience will help families share good practice and come to understand some of the pitfalls (and the positive elements) of working with your relatives.There are many drawbacks. Your directors are quite likely to come in with an understanding that they won't become MD or, depending on your set-up, there may be no question of non-family people becoming shareholders. That can be quite a disincentive for those identifying themselves as high flyers.And you'll have to make up your own mind when "family business" morphs into "nepotism" - that's if you care particularly.   But the positives are many as well. Patrick Hudgell is managing director of Lightbulbs Direct (lightbulbs-direct.com). The staff consists of Hudgell, his wife and his two sons. He founded the business after recovering from cancer."As it started to take off my sons got into websites," he says. Hudgell relishes the way of working. "There are several advantages - the first thing is that you know all the people from the outset, you don't have to develop a relationship. You know each other's strengths and weaknesses and so forth, so you're up and running immediately."The lack of hierarchy also appeals to him. "The way we operate our family is that we're all very much equal and this has moved into the way we do business in the company," he says. "If one of my sons has a good idea then we'll run with it if we all think it's a good idea." This contrasts, he believes, with a more hierarchical organisation."The other thing is that you can turn people on and off as you need them, everybody's flexible - my sons are quite happily working away on the website one day and delivering things the next. We all do what we have to make the business work." So far so good, but if you bring a family ethos into the workplace then isn't there a danger of bringing rows as well?Hudgell hasn't had that, but he says that there can be issues to address when you work with the people with who you live. "You can't get away from it - it's very tempting to talk about work over supper or breakfast, or whatever. We have this joke, we try to separate our work and our social lives and when my wife comes into work in the morning she typically says 'oh hello, did you have a nice weekend?'"For Hudgell it's a matter of keeping different parts of your life separate; it's not always as simple as that, however.Stephen Bagnall is managing director of Bagnalls, a commercial painting and decorating business based in Shipley, West Yorkshire, of which his father was the head before him. With 550 employees it's a substantial company and the pressures are entirely different from those associated with a four-person start-up. He hadn't planned to come into the family business, but his A-Levels dictated otherwise. "I was advised by my father that if I wanted to come into the family business then I would have to have an honours degree in law, accountancy, business or surveying." He read quantity surveying at college and ended up in the company.He quickly discovered that he had different ideas to his father on how to run a company. "It was extremely difficult," he says.   "Although I chose to do it I'd have to say I wouldn't have chosen it had I known what was to lie ahead." The father/son relationship didn't exist for a long while, he explains. "What there was of it has been totally eroded since working under his direct   control since 1993 ... the tragedy of it all, and I would use that word, is that I went away to school at 7, had further education after that, joined the business at the age of 23 after doing it all and never really got to know my father."Stephen became involved in the day-to-day running of the business in March 1998 when his father contracted cancer. "Very suddenly the succession planning had to accelerate pretty damned quickly."Stephen and one of his father's cousins became joint MDs and the business went wrong - an acquisition didn't work, an IT installation was a disaster and the company had its worst financial year ever. His father recovered and eventually so did the business, partly through help from external advice agency TEC. "My father joined in 1996, I joined in 1998 and I'm a great advocate of it. I would say quite honestly that if it hadn't been for that one of us would have walked. The two TEC chairmen who were looking after our respective interests brought us closer together and managed to get us just about to see eye to eye and get us through it all."Over the last month Bagnall senior has taken on a chairmanship role and Stephen, who only now feels he knows his dad, works on the day-to-day stuff. "We're getting on the best we've ever done in our lives," says Stephen, who now believes they share the same values even if they differ in methods.   Clearly a crisis like that suffered by the Bagnall family is going to be difficult to plan for. And if your succession ideas are scuppered there will inevitably be problems. When things are running more evenly, planning is the root of a lot of business success. Leigh Chadwick is one of three brothers who own and run General Clothing Stores Ltd, trading as Wildlife. The company, which recently won the award for best family business in the Orange Small Is Beautiful awards, also took an unusual decision in terms of its structure when the founder, Leigh's father Don Chadwick, died three years ago."We took the decision that rather than appointing one of us as MD we'd run it on a co-leadership basis. That's a fairly common model in the States in the way that family businesses are run ... it demonstrates that leadership doesn't have to be a solo act, which is in the face of conventional wisdom that says it should be."The brothers absolutely  must agree on where they want the business to go over the next five years, and they had to agree on very clear roles and responsibilities - and a salary structure to go with them - early on.Chadwick is an advocate of getting outside help where necessary, which is why his is   one  of  the businesses beating the drum about the Grant Thornton centre. A family  doesn't automatically  have the right skill set to run a company, he points out, so outsiders can be essential. His board has both family and non-family  members. He does believe, though, that a family structure can engender a lot of loyalty from employees.Bagnall  agrees. "A characteristic of the business  is that we have very long lengths of service - our management  team is around  20 people,  and the average length of service in that team is 18 and a half years."Retaining people  from outside the family isn't a problem even when they aren't offered share options, he says. "People are quite genuinely  loyal to the family and very much bang on about the fact that we're now in the fifth generation of a family business - it's a unique card and one we like to play."
&#183;Small business owners were among the hundreds of winners at the Queen's Awards for Enterprise last week.Brisbane Moss Corduroys of Lancashire scooped the award for international trade. The eight-strong company sells clothing and moleskin materials. Another award in the same category went to MET Studio Designs in London, which has 12 employees and services government and private clients worldwide.The sustainable development awards went to Clynfyw Countryside Centre in Pembrokeshire, whose six employees run an affordable arts holiday centre, and Second Nature Ltd, which makes building insulation materials from sheeps' fleece.Small businesses fared well in the innovation category. Five-person company Bridgeclear won an award for its GPS-based system that helps lorries to clear bridges. Other awards went to Curious Software, which makes software to create broadcast quality animated maps, and Dorset Orthopaedics for its work with people suffering from drop foot.&#183;So, are you always meticulously honest about your technology and your assets? Insurance giantDirectline.comdoubts it somehow: it has published a new survey in which over one in 20 people have admitted they claim they have lost a phone, camera or personal stereo in order to get it upgraded (file under 's' for "scrounging"). Single people are most likely to fib in this way (one in ten of them exaggerate a loss to get a replacement) and the figure goes up to one in seven for the youngest age group. We'd tell you more, but your correspondent's Bentley is on the blink. Honest.&#183;Small business directors are at risk from litigation as a result of not being able to keep up with changing employment legislation, according to a HR consultancy.Vizual Human Resources claims that most small to medium enterprises (SMEs) take a reactive rather than active approach to employee management while employees themselves are more and more aware of their rights and their employers' obligations. The company - in a fairly straightforward pitch for business - suggests that the difficulty is that the country's 3.8m small businesses can't afford a dedicated HR resource so they have to learn about employment on the hoof. Further information is atvizualhr.com.&#183;And how small is your business? If it's sufficiently small to be only you and you're unincorporated (ie freelance/sole trader rather than a limited company) then there are moves afoot in Europe to start making your voice heard. MEP Peter Skinner has responded positively to entreaties from the Professional Contractors Group (pcg.org.uk) and has asked the European Commission whether it knows how many freelancers there are, and if not whether a survey should be taken to establish the number. The PCG believes there are around a million freelancers in the UK, and with the economy and business increasingly project-based they are an important group.&#183;Loads of small businesses are buying the wrong IT, according to a survey.Security specialist Via Net.Works has commissioned a survey of some 340 SMEs and a quarter of them blamed the jargon for inappropriate purchases they'd made.The IT and telecommunications market were the chief offenders, with more votes than lawyers, accountants and marketing professionals combined. There's light at the end of the tunnel - 3% of them defined the term 'firewall' correctly, so some of it is sinking in.&#183;Software company X2Net has released version 4 of its Smartboard application. This is a utility that allows you to organise items in the Windows Clipboard in a logical order using a folders and subfolders just as if they were any other sort of file on your computer. It will store and organise multiple items even across a Windows restart. The company suggests it should be the natural repository for boilerplate text, like responses to customer queries or bits of code you need often, and multi-user capability is built in. It retails for a princely £15 plus VAT and an evaluation version is atx2net.com.&#183;The Disability Rights Commission has conducted a study into whose websites are the most accessible to people with disabilities and found only five sites that were particularly meritworthy. The sites singled out for praise wereegg.com,oxfam.co.uk,sisonline.org(a spinal injury site in Scotland),copac.ac.uk(a catalogue of research libraries) and a comedy dialect translator - no, really - calledwhoohoo.co.uk. 1,000 sites went through automated tests and some 800 were identified as poor for disabled people.
Government plans for ID cards depend on the scheme's central component - the national identity register - not becoming the latest in the long line of IT project disasters.According to the draft bill published this week, the register will contain personal information about every individual over 16 in the UK, including data from biometric scans. If the system is to check eligibility for public services, it will need to be instantly accessible around the clock by a huge range of public agencies. The bill promises that the register will be secure and contain an audit trail of every attempt to access data.This is a complex IT system, but not unprecedented. However, as a high-profile government project, the register will face two special challenges. First, its specification will be vulnerable to sudden change, as ministers come up with new ideas. Second, some users will try to sabotage the system - and get wide publicity when they succeed.So, is the project doomed before it starts? The good news for the government is that the success rate for big IT projects has doubled in the past few years. However, the success rate, according to the Standish Group, a US consultancy, is still only 34%.There is also evidence that the government is getting better at IT-based projects. However, last week it received two reminders that things are still going wrong.Andrew Smith, secretary of state for work and pensions, told parliament that "problems with the new computer and telephony systems" were to blame for failings in the   processing of child maintenance payments at the Child Support Agency. He said the department was retaining "around 10-15%" of its monthly fee to IT firm EDS for running the service. Meanwhile, the House of Commons public accounts committee reported that the Inland Revenue's introduction of tax credits was "nothing short of disastrous" because of IT failings.We know why projects go wrong. The National Audit Office and the Office of Government Commerce (OGC) have found eight common causes of project failure.The draft bill and accompanying material suggests that the Home   Office has taken into account several of the lessons of past failures. One is lack of leadership. The documents identify a "senior responsible owner" for the project: Helen Edwards, director general of the Home Office communities group. She will sit on a board chaired by John Gieve, permanent secretary.The Home Office said this week that the identity register project would be kept on track by "gateway reviews" run by the Treasury's OGC. These are independent checks carried out at critical steps in a project's lifecycle. The project has already passed the first of these assessments, a "gate zero", the Home Office said.   The findings of gateway reviews are secret.The programme will also be run in distinct phases. The current phase -"programme definition" - will run until next year. It will be followed by a "procurement phase", which will pick contractors ("delivery partners") in 2006.The contractors will install systems from 2006 to 2007. This will be followed by a distinct phase of volume end-to-end testing, from 2007. Such testing is still a novelty for government IT projects: one reason for the failure of tax credits is that there was no time to test the system properly. According to the schedule, the first   cards will be issued towards the end of 2007-08.The timetable plan reflects that of the NHS National Programme for IT. Widely seen as a success for its ability to complete procurements on schedule, it is also pioneering end-to-end testing of systems before they go live.However, knowing how to avoid disasters doesn't necessarily stop them happening. A report published last week by the Royal Academy of Engineering suggests that a large number of complex IT projects - not just in government - go wrong because of wishful thinking and lack of professionalism. "A striking proportion of project difficulties stem from people in both customer and supplier organisations failing to implement known best practice."The report blames the intangibility of software and the shortage of people who really understand systems, for leading project teams astray. "Software engineers are sometimes guilty of taking on degrees of novelty and risk in excess of the levels typically accepted by other engineers." Suppliers are partly at fault for creating a culture in which bug-ridden software is normal. It calls on the IT industry to "embrace the discipline and professionalism associated with traditional branches of engineering".Overall, though, the report finds room for "cautious optimism": some industries are already following best practice. Whatever government is in power in 2008 will fervently hope that the ID card programme will be among them.&#183;The challenges of complex IT projects. Royal Academy of Engineering.www.raeng.org.uk
Security is not simple, because there are many points of weakness, hundreds of forms of attack and a bewildering range of solutions. The problem is particularly acute for small to medium-sized businesses with limited budgets and often no expertise at tackling the problem. Not surprisingly, some manufacturers think they have the solution - the all-in-one security appliance, sometimes dubbed the "God Box" thanks to its all-seeing capability.Visitors to the InfoSec conference at London's Olympia, which ends today, will have noticed there are more security appliances than ever on show - around a quarter of the 250 exhibitors showed appliances, including vendors such as Cisco, Symantec, Trend Micro, Nokia and dedicated appliance vendor NetScreen (part of Juniper Networks).A few years ago, security appliances just combined firewall and anti-virus functions but, today, vendors are increasingly adding more functions: virtual private networking (VPN) to provide secure remote working; intrusion detection; web content filtering to control web usage; spam filtering; instant message filters that monitor chat services; and monitors to detect downloading of music and games via peer-to-peer file sharing services. For example, the 5400 series from Symantec combines seven functions in one box, while 3Com's Security Switch 6200 combines a firewall, VPN, intrusion detection, anti-virus scanning and content filtering capabilities.Some appliance vendors are particularly keen to target spam. Mirapoint's Razorgate offers anti-spam, anti-virus and email content filtering   for up to 1,500 users. The anti-spam and anti-virus functions are subscription-based with automatic updating.The increase in appliances reflects a number of trends: targeting enterprise class security at smaller firms; ease of use; and the desire by security software vendors to sell a device that is attractive and cheap enough for firms with little or no security expertise. Proponents claim a multifunction device is ideal for coping with the increase in "blended threats", which attack IT systems using more than one technique.But some warn it is dangerous for firms to be lulled into thinking one box will solve the problem. "The appliance is as much a marketing phenomenon as a technical solution," says James Governor, principal analyst with the Red Monk consultancy, "It sounds like a silver bullet but, in reality, it still needs configuration."It is early days. According to IDC researchers, 85% of the appliances sold only include firewall and VPN facilities. But it predicts significant growth in multifunction devices, particularly those that include intrusion detection - normally the preserve of larger firms. But IDC predicts that by 2007, 80% of all security solutions will be appliance-based.Cisco, which has the lion's share of the market thanks to its Pix firewall appliance, is downbeat on all-in-one appliances. "Most of our customers are more interested in using a router with intrusion detection," says Paul King, a Cisco senior security consultant. "We wouldn't try to solve the problem by putting so many functions in one box as we prefer to look at developing security as a network is installed. There is a danger of think ing that security can be solved by a single box."But Cisco is under attack from dedicated security vendors such as NetScreen, which hardwires its software on to a dedicated chip in the box. "Using application specific integrated circuits (Asics) gives a better price/performance ratio," says NetScreen's Peter Crowcombe.Observers believe the SME market is wide open for vendors because most companies are eager for a simpler solution. "One big box is better than a lot of boxes, and the vendors will support all the functions on one box, which means you have one point of contact when there are problems," says Ovum's principal analyst Graham Titterington. "The move from pure software to hardware is significant, and it's partly because security vendors are trying to distance themselves from Microsoft, which is developing security solutions it may bundle into future versions of Windows."Ironically, the success of the appliance may rest on the fact that it allows the security industry to set up relationships with new customers. Many appliances require automatic updates paid for monthly. "Appliances are great for resellers," said one distributor. "They allow them to go back to the customer every three months to sell them new functions."Appliances are also being promoted to internet service providers so they can offer managed services - a form of outsourcing of the problem. Typically, the service provider buys a top-of-the-range appliance, which can bring economies of scale based on a fixed-cost management fee for a range of security functions.Keen to counter criticism that   appliances are less upgradeable than dedicated software solutions, vendors are manufacturing boxes that have growth built in. For example, the Firebox X from Watchguard provides customers with software keys to unlock new functions when they want to scale up the box.Appliances pose an interesting question for the IT security industry. Who can be the best at delivering   security at the lowest price? Will networking vendors such as Cisco become the hub around which software vendors provide suitable products? Or will the software industry move to a mix of software and appliance-based products?"We are seeing significant changes in the way security products are delivered," concludes Bob Tarzey, service director at analysts Quorcirca.
3D everywhereThe 3D Industry Forum has been launched by Intel, Adobe and more than 30 companies to establish a common standard for sharing 3D content over the web, and fast-track it through the international standards organisation. The goal is to ensure that "interactive 3D content can be as widely used online and in business as digital audio, video and photos". The first version of the Universal 3D open format will be released later this year with a sample player and runtime libraries.www.3dif.orgOutsourcing leapsThe outsourcing market is booming in Western Europe, according to the latest figures from IDC. The value of the top 100 deals last year jumped by 74% to &euro;37.2bn from 2002's &euro;21.4bn. Almost half was accounted for by IBM Global Services (&euro;9.7bn) and CSC (&euro;7.6bn). In third place was Capgemini, with &euro;4.2bn. Key growth areas were in the public sector and in the UK market.www.idc.com/getdocInternet threatThe lowering of costs for internet bandwidth is set to trigger an exponential increase in security attacks, according to NTA Monitor, an internet security testing firm. The company says that vulnerabilities such as the recently reported TCP/IP flaw have been known about for some time but, as more people gain access to broadband and easy-to-use hacker tools, the likelihood of an exploit is increased greatly. The TCP/IP flaw could allow denial of service attacks that would bring down sections of the internet. Symantec claims an exploit exists and recommends immediate action to patch routers.http://www.uniras.gov.uk/vuls/2004Test baseFileMaker is offering a free preview of its Server 7 database server. The new version can be hosted on multiple CPU servers attached to high-performance data storage. It can span 125 data tables and supports a range of operating systems. The preview download expires at the end of July but will offer users of FileMaker Pro 7 and its companion Developer 7 package a chance to investigate multi-client applications.www.filemaker.comMass meshBuckinghamshire Chilterns University College is using LocustWorld's mesh networking to provide an extendable wireless network. Mesh technology   allows wireless networks to be created, or WLans to be extended, without a wired connection to each base station. The idea is applicable to rural settings. The BCUC campus coverage involves using four mesh boxes to provide broadband connectivity for academic work areas and 700 student rooms. The system is being installed by Slough-based IPaXiom Communications.www.locustworld.comDesktopsJust 29% of small UK firms take out insurance on their data, compared with 52% that insure office furniture, according to a survey of 1,000 companies by Continental Research. More practically, 24% do not back up data, even though 46% have experienced a loss of data within the past two years, with virus infection, computer theft or loss being common reasons. Even when a back-up exists, it does not always work: 26% of the firms that have tried to restore files say the process did not go smoothly.High tech societyOxford University has appointed its first professor of society and the internet, Helen Margetts, to work at the Oxford Internet Institute. Margetts, who will start in October, says she plans to focus on e-government. "The internet, for the first time, gives great potential to transform citizen-government relationships. That hasn't happened yet, and I'd like to work out how it could." She is also looking at why UK state-sector IT projects have a reputation for failure. Margetts is professor of political science at University College London, but started her career as a computer programmer for Rank Xerox.http://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/news &#91;pdf&#93;Vulnerable Wi-FiWireless access to corporate systems is exploding, but security is not developing at a comparable pace, according to a survey of 1,000 companies undertaken by PricewaterhouseCoopers for the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI). The consultancy found that a third of companies use wireless networks, up from 2% two years ago. However, 8% have suffered from attempts at unauthorised access, and a further 23% said they did not know if they had been probed. None the less, 53% have done nothing to bolster their network security since going wireless. The full research - part of the DTI Information Security Breaches Survey - will be available online next week.www.security-survey.gov.uk
Is the CD coming to the end of its reign as a music format?I don't think so. Obviously people can download so much now but I still think there's something sexy about having that actual CD in your hand. People said CD would kill vinyl but it hasn't gone away. Online downloads are creating a sort of pick'n'mix approach to music where you can get your favourites without the songs you don't like but I think people still want the physical CD.Do you ever play MP3s on your radio show?I don't and I don't know what the score would be about doing that. What about all thelegalities and performing rights?   My main concern would be the sound quality. Other than that you go with the flow and embrace new things.Where do you stand on file sharing?My son's generation is downloading all the time and I read something recently that claimed that downloads aren't making much of a dent in CD sales. But threats to clamp down on file sharers are confusing the public. On the one hand, the record industry is saying they will have to make people redundant, while at the same time you read about Robbie Williams getting an &#163;80m deal. The public has had the "proverbial" taken out of them with the high cost of CDs in this country, so I'm not opposed to file sharing, although the legal aspect is a concern.Is the net a good forum for new bands to get heard?Every night there will be at least five or six bands emailing    links to their music. I usually ask them to send in a copy, though, as the speakers on my work computer wouldn't do justice to anybody's music! In many ways, the MP3 and the website have replaced the demo tape. They can give you a flavour of what a band is about and make you want to hear more. You also have people likePrince, who didn't have a record deal for a while but still sold loads via the internet.What is it about the iBook that took your fancy?This sounds really girly but it's gorgeous. My husband bought me one for my birthday four years ago because when I started with Radio 2, I was still commuting to Birmingham. Aesthetically, it's wonderful and is bound to end up in theV &amp; A Museum. If I could afford it, I'd have every new gadget, although last year I got myself an all-singing, all-  dancing mobile with a camera and then I didn't bother reading past the first two pages of the manual! At the time, there was no one I could send a picture message to so I lost interest..My show's done from computer so it would be handy if I could get voice recognition software that would let me shout "Moby" at the computer and I could immediately get a page with tour dates and information.Do you use Instant Messaging?I haven't got into messaging. Most of what I use the computer for is work-related. I'll Google a band that's coming in so I can come up with questions no one else has asked them. I don't use the net for booking trains: I'd rather pick up the phone, it's much quicker!Visit:/www.bbc.co.uk/radio2/shows/long/biography.shtml
SoftwareOpera for allOpera Software last week released a redesigned version of its web browser software for Windows, Mac, Linux, FreeBSD and Solaris, the first time the Norwegian firm has released versions simultaneously on all these platforms. The first beta (test) version of Opera 7.50 includes a new user interface, an internet relay chat facility and improvements designed to enhance the browser's reputation for speed. The email client adds indexing of email contents, and support for RSS feeds and an external spellchecker. A version showing adverts is free, and the ad-free version is currently 25% cheaper than usual at $29.25.www.opera.com/downloadOlympic securityThe Athens Olympics will use software from UK firm Autonomy to boost security, the firm said last week, as a result of a deal between it and Science Applications International Corporation, which is providing security infrastructure to the Greek government during the games. Autonomy's software, which is used by US intelligence services as well as the commercial sector, will help automate the analysis of data and the identification of potential threats, and can work with materialreceived in Greek. It uses Bayesian pattern-matching to calculate the likelihood of a link between data, allowing it to compare material held in different formats.MobileTV to goTargeted at business travellers, and holidaymakers who don't want to miss a kick of Euro 2004, the Lifeview TV Walker, (right) is a mobile phone-sized TV tuner that connects to a laptop via a USB 2.0 connector. The device covers all three worldwide TV standards so it will work in the US as well as European countries. Also on board is an MPeg encoder that supports MPeg 1, 2 and 4 recording. The tuner comes with PVR software, enabling users to save programmes on their laptop's hard disk. It is available now for &#163;65 plus VAT from ECS.www.ecs.uk.comWireless MP3In Japan, Toshiba has unveiled the latest in a series of Gigabeat hard disk-based MP3 players. The Gigabeat G21 is similar to its predecessor, the G20, in that it is the thinnest 20 gigabyte hard disk player on sale. Only this time around, Toshiba is supplying the player with a Wi-Fi-equipped wireless cradle. Owners will be able to load music wirelessly on to the player from any PC across a network, as well as play the music stored on the G21 on other connected computers/ hi-fi systems. There's no confirmation of a UK launch, although early adopters can buy one via the US websitewww.dynamism.comfor $688 (&#163;385).Smart phonesOrange updatesIt appears that the successor to the Handspring Treo 600 Palm-based smartphone, which is sold in the UK by Orange, is on the cards. A slip by a US bank in a communication to investors confirmed rumours that have been across the web for months that the Handspring Treo 610 is likely to launch in late summer. The device will keep the form factor of its predecessor including its mini thumbpad, but will sport a higher resolution screen, more memory and offer Bluetooth connectivity. Some reports suggest the 610 will also jettison the 600's integrated VGA camera.www-5.palmone.com/ukSamsung's trioSamsung is claiming to be the first manufacturer to offer a trio of handsets that use the three different smartphone operating systems: Palm, Microsoft Pocket PC and Symbian. Already on sale in the US, the i700 is an upright phone (it is like a smaller version of the   O2 XDA 2 ), which uses Microsoft's Pocket PC phone edition software to deliver applications such as Outlook and Internet Explorer. Samsung also claims the phone can access the internet via wireless (802.11b) networks if an SD/IO card is added. The i500 is a smallish clamshell phone with a swivelling screen that runs Palm's 5.2 operating system. It features a 65k colour screen, VGA camera and is compatible with the Graffiti handwriting recognition system.Completing the line-up is the D710, which uses the Symbian operating system with Nokia's Series 60 interface. The phone is like a larger version of the Siemens SL55, in that the bottom half of the phone slides down to reveal its keypad. The D710 is also Samsung's first handset to feature a camera capable of taking megapixel images. Other features include video capture and playback, MP3 and a 65K colour screen. All three launch in the summer.www.samsung.co.ukAccessoriesiPod pouchBought yourself an Apple iPod but not sure where to put it when you go out? The Felicidade Groove Bag Triplet might be the holdall you've been waiting for. Not only has it been designed with a special pouch to keep your music player in, the white bag also sports a pair of speakers to enable owners to share their music. Available with a choice of handles, the bags are on sale viawww.shop21.uk.comfor &#163;104.58. If you prefer something more fashionable, Italian design house Gucci also has a dedicated iPod bag. Featuring a beige and black design, it is available for $195 fromwww.gucci.com.BroadbandBT widens accessOpera BT claims that, next year, 99.6% of UK homes will be able to have broadband access if they want it. As part of this new drive, BT is dropping the requirement whereby rural communities must have a minimum number of applicants before they are considered. Now practically every area will have access to broadband whether they register or not. BT claims that by the summer of 2005, Britain will be a world leader in broadband availability.Stat of the week:The need for speedThe Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project reports that 55% of all adult net users in the US now have access to broadband internet at home or work. As the figures, right, show, broadband users continue to be much more active than those surfing at lower speeds.
Email is no longer peripheral to the way business is done - it's the backbone of many enterprises - and anything that makes it easier for office workers to handle email improves productivity. One obvious way to do that is to provide remote access via a mobile phone. You can read and delete messages with almost any mobile, so you'll be up to speed when you get back to the office. But if you want to reply with much more than yes, no or a voice call, then you need either a keyboard or handwriting recognition.There are plenty available. Nokia has had the Communicator for years and the latest model, due in summer, will have built-in Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and a VGA camera, as well as the Qwerty keyboard. Motorola's MPx will come out around the same time, with similar specifications. It uses Windows Mobile Phone Edition software, and looks different from PDA phones. Closed, it is four inches long. Fold it open one way and it looks like a standard phone, but if you open it sideways, the screen flips to landscape and you can type on the keyboard with both thumbs. The new Voq from Sierra Wireless runs the smart phone version of Windows Mobile, and has no wireless, Bluetooth or camera, but you flip open the keypad to get a Qwerty keyboard.The Treo 600 and the RIM BlackBerry have full, if tiny, keyboards and, if you are used to typing with your thumbs, you can get a lot done. RIM has reports of users who can manage 40 words per minute, and there are plenty of shortcuts, such as adding full stops automatically when   you type two spaces.The XDA looks like any other Windows Mobile PDA, so it has an on-screen keyboard and handwriting recognition. There's a clip-on fabric keyboard for the Orange SPV, but you have to use it on a flat surface. We're going to see many more form factors as manufacturers work out how to provide the screen, keyboard and battery life users want, with variants for the ways the devices will be used.There are disadvantages with mobile devices. It's easy to keep the connection between the device and your network secure; it is a lot harder to stop employees losing devices that hold confidential data. Then there's the cost.Not only are smart phones pricier than standard mobiles, you also need to pay for the GPRS data connection as well as the standard phone bill. Having email on tap isn't going to make everyone productive enough to make the price worthwhile, but if key workers have the information they need to do their jobs better, you will save money.The 200 plumbers, carpenters and electricians working for the London Borough of Lewisham used to go back to the depot to pick up their job allocation sheets at least once a day, which took up to 45 minutes and did not always give them all the information they needed. They now use O2 XDAs to get the details of jobs that need doing daily, and to send back progress reports and an electronic signature from the tenant once a job is finished. As well as saving them time, they can see how much they've earned from jobs, which has to be good for keeping people motivated.Office staff also don't have to transfer details from hand-written notes into the computer system. The borough is saving nearly &#163;12,000 a year on fuel, paperwork and printing plus lower premises costs because maintenance staff effectively work from home.GPRS costs vary and can be unpredictable. Usually, you are charged for the amount of data you send and receive, but it is not easy to work out how many emails and web pages make a megabyte. Matt Millar, of smart phone developers Mobile Innovation, says it is "incredibly opaque. I understand the industry and even I can't tell what is a fair price."Jason Langridge, Microsoft's business development manager, offers some rules of thumb for data usage. With a PDA such as an XDA or a Treo 600, expect to get through around   7MB of data a month. With a smart phone, it is more like 4MB a month, mainly because you can't deal with as many attachments.If you are using a GPRS phone card in a laptop, you will be sending and   receiving much more data - and waiting longer for messages. You will have a bigger screen and all your usual applications so you'll do more, but those applications aren't as efficient as the email client in a smart phone, so they send much larger files for the same information. The BlackBerry compresses data into 2K packets, so the start of each message arrives quickly, and it won't download the rest of a longer message until you ask for it. BlackBerry tariffs are usually higher than the charges for standard phones but the simplicity and speed are what fans swear by.Flat monthly tariffs are the easiest for users, but are expensive for the network operator if you use more bandwidth than they have predicted. Look for deals such as Orange's business tariff, which lets you share the monthly data quota among users.If travelling abroad with a GPRS phone, keep an eye on the networks you use, because GPRS roaming costs vary enormously. It can be cheaper to use GPRS roaming in Europe than to pay the top tariff on some UK networks, but if you end up on a network that isn't partnered with your   provider, the cost will rocket.T Mobile users pay a flat rate of &#163;7.50 for GPRS even when roaming, as long as they are on a network that interconnects with T Mobile. If you are with O2, using GPRS in Germany costs &#163;6 per megabyte with an O2 partner network, but if you roam on to T Mobile, you will pay &#163;18 per megabyte. Orange users usually pay &#163;8.50 a megabyte to roam, but on AT&amp;T in the US, it's &#163;20. You can find out the cost in advance, but few bother: we expect mobiles to make the right connection automatically.In fact, network operators would rather you used their partners for roaming, and most phones are set up to look for partner networks first. However, if another network has a stronger signal or puts a mast closer to the airport, you could easily end up with the wrong connection. Nokia's Niklas Savander predicts that "it's only a matter of time until all devices have software that makes it difficult or impossible to pick an expensive network".Until then, find out who charges what where so you're not paying over the odds to be productive.LinksBlackBerrywww.blackberry.com/ukTreo 600www-5.palmone.comOrange SPVhttp://web.orange.co.uk/yourphoneO2 XDAwww.xda-2.co.ukNokia Communicatorhttp://www.nokia.co.uk/nokia/0,,18190,00.htmlVoqwww.voq.com/site/default.voqMotorola MPX&lt;A HREF="http://direct.motorola.com/experience/GBR/ENG/MPx200/MPx200_homepage"
"Apple Computer Inc. on Wednesday unveiled iTunes 4.5, a new version of the company's music jukebox software that contains many new features. Included in the new version is iMix, Music Videos, Video Trailers, a new lossless audio codec, free weekly downloads and Radio Charts," reportsMacWorld."In the new Music Video Section, which currently has 72 videos online, users can watch the video of a song and below the video purchase the song while they watch. Movie trailers have made their way from Apple's QuickTime to iTunes in the new release, as well."Meanwhile, The Register reports thatApple misses iTunes sales target by 30%, as follows:CEO Steve Jobs had forecast sales of 100 million songs, but in the end ITMS users acquired only 70 million."iTunes has exceeded our wildest expectations during its first year," Jobs said in [a] statement, the infamous 'reality distortion field' kicking in at this point, presumably.
"PalmOne has announced two new handhelds, both in the Zire range. The Zire 31 is a step up from the entry-level Zire 21, while the Zire 72 follows on from the successful multimedia-oriented Zire 71, whose innovative sliding mechanism protects a built-in digital camera," reportsZD Net UK.
"Turbolinux, a Japanese seller of the open source operating system, has bridged a philosophical divide by licensing Microsoft technology for playing digital music and video," reportsCNet."The rationale was that the majority of Japanese Web sites are using Windows Media format. We've had (manufacturing) partners and large customers who have requested us to move that into our product," Jennings said. The technology is available in a plug-in module to the open source Xine software.Comment: Although A'rpi quit because of the GPL problem, the survivors have released a new version ofMPlayertoday.
