Retailers say 2012 will be a "tablet Christmas" as they gear up for a massive surge in sales of products such as the iPad Mini and Google Nexus 7.John Lewis, Argos, Currys and PC World are all expecting strong demand for tablet computers in the next fortnight, with sales at PC World and Currys already up 1,000% year on year.Last Monday – the day the retail industry calls "cyber Monday" because it is the busiest online shopping day of the year – PC World and Currys sold one tablet every second, according to a spokesman for Dixons, their parent company."We are still looking to sell a tablet every two seconds between now and Christmas," he said. "iPads were big last year, but the new devices that have come out this year have really opened up the market to a much wider audience. There is also a much greater price range, which is making a big difference."He added: "Apple products have always been popular, but this year is totally different. More people are cottoning on to the fact that these tablets can make their lives easier in lots of different ways."Four rivals to the iPad have arrived in stores in the last six weeks, starting with the Kindle Fire HD and a new version of the Google Nexus 7 in October. This was followed by the iPad Mini and the Nook and Nook HD in November. Prices across the brands range from £159 to £529.Most retailers said it was too early to say which brand of tablet would sell best, but one online consumer electronics retailer, ebuyer.com, expects Apple to be knocked off the top spot. "We think this year's top-selling tablet will be the 32GB Google Nexus, as Google's competitively priced tablet is trying to take a piece of Apple's market share," said a spokeswoman for the website.John Lewis said sales of tablet computers across its stores were up 250% year-on-year and it expected that figure to grow in the next fortnight. "Sales of Apple's iPad and iPad Mini are very strong, but this is the first Christmas we have seen real rivals to Apple on different platforms, including Android and Windows 8," said Matt Leeser, head of buying for communication technology at the store. "Tablets such as the Google Nexus 7, Kindle Fire HD and Nook HD have all exploded on to the market and are selling very well."Argos said it expected to sell a million tablets by the end of the year. "We definitely believe this will be a tablet Christmas," said Simon Barry, technology trading manager at Argos. "We are seeing more and more that people are wanting 'my' tablet rather than 'our' tablet – with multiple devices going into homes."He added that tablets aimed at children were also expected to be popular. These include the Nabi, which, according to maker Fuhu, is "the world's first and most powerful tablet made just for kids". It launched in the UK in October, priced £149.99. Its rival, the Innotab 2, is aimed at four- to nine-year-olds and costs £84.99.Cheaper versions were also expected to sell well this Christmas, said Barry. The CnM Touchpad, a very basic version of the more sophisticated tablets, is on sale for less than £100.The magazine publisher Future said last month that it was banking on a huge sales surge of e-editions of its titles. Mark Wood, its chief executive, said that  the company was already shifting $1m (£620,000) in gross revenues a month from sales of its 100 digital titles.Some shoppers are so desperate to get their hands on one of the new iPad Minis – there is currently a two-week wait before delivery – that they are prepared to pay out well over the odds for one. At the time of writing, an iPad Mini 16GB Wi-Fi version, which sells for £269 from Apple, was commanding £330 on eBay with an hour of bids left to go. Some sellers were listing prices as high as £399 for the same model.
Microsoft has announced a second season ofKinect Sesame Street TV. It's described as a "two-way TV experience", which means as well as watching Elmo and friends, your little ones will be leaping with them …Releases this week includeAir Conflicts: Pacific Carriers(Xbox, PS3, PC), for fans of launching planes from boats in yet another retelling of the second world war in the Pacific;007 Legends(Wii U) bringing a lacklustre glance back through some of Bond's less interesting episodes to Nintendo's new console;Grand Theft Auto: Vice City(iOS, Android) which makes Rockstar's foray into Miami Vice into a surprisingly fully featured mobile game; andAgricultural Simulator 2013(PC) which delivers all the joy of administering a small-holding as well as "dynamic terrain with real furrows".
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWhile telling the abridged saga of The Lord Of The Rings, the LEGO version retains bits of dialogue from the films, replacing Sean Bean, Sir Ian McKellen et al with small, surprisingly expressive mini-figures. Watching the momentary panic on their tiny plastic faces as everything turns to slapstick chaos makes even the non-interactive elements of the story a delight to witness. For the rest of the time you'll be indulging in the LEGO game staples of smashing everything you see into its component pieces, finding secret collectible treasures and solving neat, straightforward puzzles that give each character their moment in the limelight. Plus, once the story's complete, you can head off and explore the good old Shire and the rest of Middle Earth.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewMario and his cohorts are paper thin in a lightly 3D world, leading to plenty of opportunities for perspective-based puzzles and secrets hidden edge-on in plain sight. Fighting enemies is no longer as simple as hopping up and down on their heads: you need to both find and then peel off stickers to use as weapons in turn-based battles. Featuring a wonderfully dry sense of humour, but also a tendency for a frustrating lack of explanation in some of its puzzles, Sticker Star is a highly engaging RPG-lite.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIt's London's turn to host the zombie apocalypse in this unexpectedly gritty undead outing for the Wii U. Taking control of a lone survivor, you eke out an existence amidst the rubble and small crowds of the howling infected, starting with little more than a cricket bat, a pistol and very few bullets. It takes several thumps of the willow to render a zombie supine, before a final crack over the head finishes them off, but when they arrive in a group your best bet is to run. Exploring is a frightening knife-edge between probing for new materials and staying close to shortcuts to your safe house (which scarily turns out not to be altogether safe). Grizzly and unrelenting, ZombiU is not for the faint-hearted.
You'll be familiar with&nbsp;the Prius. This one is a&nbsp;bit different, though; it has a&nbsp;new kind of battery – lithium-ion, since you&nbsp;ask – to replace the nickel…No? OK, then, think of it as a&nbsp;Duracell instead of the old Eveready, all right? Plus, you can plug it in. It's all about numbers, this&nbsp;car. So here are a few…12.5miles. That's what Toyota reckons the average European urban&nbsp;commute is. So, with a battery range of15miles (compared&nbsp;with about2&nbsp;miles for the regular Prius), this car should get you all the way to work with0&nbsp;emissions.It's still a hybrid, though, so when&nbsp;you've covered those15miles,&nbsp;you're not stuck. No "range anxiety", then, as it's known in the&nbsp;trade, a symptom of pure electric vehicles. In this one, you can carry on, all the way to Edinburgh if you so wish (I write as&nbsp;a&nbsp;London-based media twat, of course). That's the problem with pure electric cars, such as theNissan&nbsp;Leaf: you can't really go anywhere in them, except to work, in an average European way.You want more numbers? I've got more numbers! Toyota claims combined fuel consumption of84mpgif you're not plugging in. And&nbsp;134.5if you are! That's a&nbsp;lot&nbsp;of m&nbsp;for your g. CO2emissions are84g/kmnot plugging in and49g/kmif you are. Again, brilliant. (Weird, isn't it, that fuel economy isn't metric, but&nbsp;emissions are, and that&nbsp;a&nbsp;g is a&nbsp;gallon, but also a gram? It's confusing, they should SORT IT&nbsp;OUT.) Anyway, it all means you pay£0tax and,&nbsp;if you're a London twat,£0congestion charge.It all sounds amazing. Itisamazing. Just the one catch. Actually,&nbsp;two. First, there's a new breed of range-extending electric cars, such as theVauxhall Ampera, that perform better still (the Ampera&nbsp;has a range of50miles before it calls on the petrol engine, and Vauxhall claims235mpgand only27g/kmflatulence). And there's&nbsp;another number, a big one this time:£28,000. That's what the&nbsp;plug-in Prius costs, in pounds, and that's with the£5,000grant the&nbsp;government gives you for being&nbsp;a bit green. That might be a&nbsp;bit&nbsp;less than the Ampera, but it's more than£6,000more than a regular Prius, and I'm not sure it's&nbsp;£6,000better. Nor does it feel like a&nbsp;£28,000car. It's an expensive business, this environmental responsibility.Jeez, I'm so sorry about all these numbers. Next week, I'll go back to&nbsp;writing about my mum.Toyota Prius Plug-inPriceFrom £27,895 (including £5,000 government grant)Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62 in 11.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption84mpg (HV), 134.5 (PHEV)CO2 emissions84g/km (HV), 49 g/km (PHEV)Greenrating9/10Cool rating5/10
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new iPhone and iPad apps, with a change from this week that it includes games, rather than them being collected in a separate multi-platform roundup."Are you biased? Where are the Android apps?" Well, Android gets its own post, so please check outthis week's Best Android Appsarticle before posting an angry comment.Prices are included, but especially for games (Free) often means (Freemium), so check the App Store listings for fuller details on in-app purchases. Here's this week's roundup:Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (£2.99)If you're a gamer of a certain age, say goodbye to your weekend. GTA: Vice City has made it to iOS in a pixel-perfect conversion to celebrate its 10th anniversary. The controls have been tweaked for touchscreens, and you can listen to your own music if you want to.iPhone / iPadThe Orchestra (£9.99)Touch Press is well known for its excellent book-apps on a range of subjects, from chemistry (The Elements) and ancient monuments (Pyramids 3D) to poetry (The Waste Land). Its latest focuses on classical music: the Philharmonia orchestra performing eight famous works, with audio and video, and some clever synchronised score / note visualisation features. A real labour of love, and a showcase for what tablets are capable of.iPadYouTube (Free)After Google's YouTube stopped being a part of Apple's iOS software, the company launched a standalone YouTube app for iPhone. Now it's available for iPad too, offering a slick way to browse and watch videos, and subscribe to channels and access the ones you've already subscribed to online. It also plays nice with AirPlay to stream videos to your larger screen.iPadWhale Trail Junior (Free)ustwo's Whale Trail game has racked up more than 1m downloads across iOS and Android, but now it's spawned a version for 3-6 year-olds. The basic game remains the same: fly a whale named Willow through the clouds collecting bubbles and stars, to the strains of Super Furry Animal Gruff Rhys' woozy theme song. But this time you can't die and there are no in-app purchases. A real treat for children.iPhone / iPadBaldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition (£6.99)If you're a gamer of a certain age, say goodb... Oh, I've used that. Baldur's Gate is one of the most well-loved RPGs in gaming history, so there's a lot of excitement about its iOS debut. Developer IdeaSpark Labs promises 80 hours of adventuring, including a new adventure and several new characters to give the original game a modern twist.iPadKiss Remixer (Free)British radio station Kiss has put its name to this remix app from startup Soniqplay, enabling you to monkey about with a selection of chart tracks, then share the results on social networks. Example, Ellie Goulding, Rizzle Kicks and Tulisa all feature, with tracks paid for by in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadLondon: A City Through Time for iPhone (£4.99)The iPad version of London: A City Through Time is probably my favourite book-app of 2012, but now it's been squeezed down into a separate version for iPhone. The content remains a mixture of maps, encyclopedia entries, photos, videos and audio-tours, but the emphasis is slightly different: this is designed to be used while out and about exploring the capital city. It's marvellous.iPhoneMoving Christmas (Free)The trend of Hollywood animators and screenwriters trying their hands at children's apps is one to watch in 2013, although their success will depend on how they embrace interactivity. Trusted Cape boasts top-tier talent, and Moving Christmas marks it out as a developer to watch. The story focuses on "Frank Duffy, mover of the Impossible" as he helps Santa Claus out from a sticky Climate Change-induced situation.iPadTwitterrific 5 for Twitter (£1.99)Twitter may not like the idea of other companies making Twitter clients, but that isn't stopping some of the good ones. Twitterrific is one of the veterans in this space, and its brand new – as in a new release rather than an update – app is looking very good. Lots of powerful features, a slinky interface and some features that Twitter has yet to include in its official client. The latest proof that competition is good for this area.iPhone / iPadModern Combat 4: Zero Hour (£4.99)Gameloft's military series takes its cues from Call of Duty: Modern Warfare on consoles, with this fourth title doing an impressive job at making the genre work well on touchscreens. The visuals are startling, the storyline is actually pretty good, and the multiplayer mode looks to have long-term depth.iPhone / iPadThe Land of Me – Story Time (£1.99)I'm slightly cheating here, as there are actually three The Land of Me apps out this week, all of which are worth buying if you're a parent. So this is a 32-app roundup if you includeThe Land of Me – Making ThingsandThe Land of Me – Songs and Rhymes. The work of UK startup Made in Me, they focus on encouraging children's creativity as they make their own stories, objects and musical performances.iPadThe World in 2013 from The Economist: Editor's Highlights (Free)The Economist is promoting this year's The World in 2013 print publication, with some choice articles and predictions, as well as video interviews. It's a good, thought-provoking taster of an app.iPhone / iPadMinigore 2: Zombies (£1.49)The original Minigore helped to popularise the twin-stick shooter on devices without any sticks, which was no mean feat. The sequel is even better: a rollickingly-fun action game that sees you laying waste to zombies (including, a first as far as I'm aware, an undead moose) and testing out 20 playable characters. It's fantastic fun.iPhone / iPadAuto Express (Free)Dennis Publishing has launched a new iPad app for its Auto Express magazine. Lamentably there's not a zombie or moose in sight, but there are plenty of cars: news, reviews, group tests and features from the mag, which uses Apple's Newsstand subscriptions system to charge.iPadConran Shop (Free)Christmas 2012 is already shaping up as a very big one for shopping on smartphones and tablets, whether it's presents in the run-up to 25 December or grabbing bargains in the sales afterwards. The Conran Shop app is a neatly-designed way to browse its products, including breaking them down by recipient (Dapper Dad, Troublesome Teenager, Garden Guru etc).iPhone / iPadSweatshop HD (Free)This strategy game is the work of developer Littleloud, working with Channel 4. It's a game with a message, but delivered without a sledgehammer in sight. It sees you running a "madcap clothing factory", but whether it turns into a sweatshop is down to your choices, treating your workers mean or being keen to keep them happy.iPadKindergarten Reading – by Duck Duck Moose (£1.49)The title belies the US origination of this children's educational app, although it's available outside the American App Store. It's a zoo-themed phonics story to help children master their letters. Parents can check in on children's progress too – an increasingly common feature in these kinds of apps.iPhone / iPadPong World (Free)Atari has been busily partnering with talented indie developers to reinvent some of its most famous games. Pong is the latest to get the 2012 treatment, for its 40th anniversary. It sees you exploring "Pong World" while collecting and upgrading five different paddles and unlocking four locations – all this wrapped around the familiar bat'n'ball gameplay.iPhone / iPadBen 10 Comic Creator (£1.99)There have been Ben 10 apps before, but this one helps kids make up their own stories using the characters from the popular children's brand. It involves dragging, dropping, rotating and flipping them into a series of scenes to make digital comics. Its creators promise it has "an amazingly simple interface that even dads can use". I sense that'll be put to the test lots in the coming weeks.iPadFinger Hoola (£0.69)Finger Hoola is a game out of the App Store ordinary: one that sees you tracing shapes on-screen hula hoop-style to the strains of ambient music. As much a way to relax for a few minutes out of sight of your inbox as a game, it's very good indeed.iPhone / iPadFrequency – Tune In, Watch Videos (Free)In the week that YouTube released its native iPad app, you might think it's a tough time for other kinds of YouTube-video discovery apps. Frequency is well worth a look though: it casts its net wider than just Google's video site, and includes some clever customisation features to create your own channels and watch them on different devices. This new iPhone version joins the existing iPad app.iPhoneMy Beastly ABCs (£2.49)The run-up to Christmas is yielding a purple patch of children's apps, with My Beastly ABCs teaching kids the alphabet through 39 pages of interactive monsters and mythical creatures. Voice narration comes from Jim Dale, of Carry on and – more relevantly – Harry Potter audiobook narration fame.iPadBustle (£0.69)It's relatively easy to slap together a "when's my next bus?" app in 2012, so design is becoming a differentiator. Bustle looks very nice: a neat guide to live London bus times, pulling in Transport For London data and offering clear times for nearby bus stops.iPhoneSky Arts: Inspiration Everywhere (Free)BSkyB teamed up with London agency The Other Media for this location-based UK travel app. The idea being that you walk around cities and towns, and get pinged when you're near a place connected to an artist, actor, director, author or musician – or individual works by them – with a mixture of text and videos, as well as links to relevant Sky Arts shows.iPhoneClay Jam (Free)Clay Jam is the latest title from Zynga, through its publishing deal with developer Fat Pebble. It's a claymation-style action game that sees you rolling and bouncing the hero down a series of hills. The visuals make it stand out from the crowd, but the gameplay delivers on this promise too.iPhone / iPadLitRagger (Free)Bookworms everywhere will love the idea of LitRagger: an app that aggregates literary journals and magazines, offers free samples and then sells full digital copies. Prairie Schooner, Salamander and Bellevue Literary Review feature among other titles.iPhone / iPadNumbers with Nemo (£2.49)Disney has released a number of book-apps based on its famous films, but Numbers with Nemo comes out of its Disney Education arm, with more focus on education. That said, it looks very fun too, using the Finding Nemo characters to teach young children their first numbers.iPhone / iPadSoccer Puzzle League (£0.69)Puzzle Quest famously combined match-three puzzling with RPG game mechanics. Soccer Puzzle League adds football management into the mix, as your matches win, well, matches, buying kit and unlocking skills along the way to boost your chances.iPhone / iPadDisney Fairies: Lost &amp; Found (£0.69)The second new Disney app this week focuses on its fairy characters, from Tinker Bell downwards. It's a hidden-object game for children where they unlock parts of a story as they go along. Also, Disney is promising to donate £1 to Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity for every purchase this side of Christmas.iPhone / iPadRise Up! Radio/Alarm (£0.69)Lots of people are using their iOS devices as alarm clocks with the default Clock app. Rise Up! aims to be a smarter alternative with a choice of themes, streaming radio stations, dubstep alarm tones – hopefully this doesn't involve turfing you out of bed with too startling a WUB WUB WUB – ambient sounds and binaural beats to fall asleep to.iPhone / iPadThat's our choice, but what have you been enjoying on your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch this week? Post your recommendations or give your views on the picks above in a comment.
The right to vote appears to be about to be taken away – on Facebook, at least. Users have until 10 December to decide whether future policy changes should be put to the vote. Depending on the result, it could be the last chance users have to express their opinion on changes to the site.For a vote to pass on Facebook, an initiative must get more than 30% of votes from active registered users. This means that unless 300 million people vote in favor of the latest initiative, the ability to vote will likely be lost.The social-media giant is putting the right to vote to a vote because participation in the past has been low. The company said: "To be clear, our goal in modifying our site governance process is to make sure that we receive feedback from you in the best, most productive way possible so that we can be responsive to your input."The site has experimented with user voting for three years. Under the current system, any policy change that receives more than 7,000 comments is put to a vote.In this instance, voting in favor of the proposed documentssupports an end to the current system in favor of a new voting system that would rely on questions submitted to the company's chief privacy officer, Erin Egan, through a Facebook page or during live webcasts.Other proposals include:• Changing how information is shared with affiliates like Instagram by allowing the information to be stored "in a way that is more efficient than maintaining totally separate storage systems".• Adding language to explain how privacy controls work. Specifically, clarifying the difference between privacy settings (which control what is seen anywhere on Facebook) and timeline visibility preferences (which determine what things are on your timeline, but don't change how they are seen on other parts of the site).• Clarifying advertising policies with additional language.• Replacing the "who can send you Facebook messages" setting with new filters.Facebook also said that it was not proposing a change in ownership of its content.Facebook will still own all photos and videos on the siteuntil a profile is deleted (in which case, content might still be on the company's backup servers for some time).The vote closes at 12pm PST on 10 December. By 1pm ET on 7 December, 471,919 people had voted for the existing documents and 68,516 people had voted in favor of the proposed documents.The vote can be accessed here oron theFacebook Site Governance page, where users can access the voting app by clicking on the box labeled "Site Governance" below the timeline photo.
The virtual currency Bitcoin took a step towards legitimacy today as its eurozone wing joined the ranks of PayPal and Worldpay by becoming a registered payment services provider (PSP) under European law.Under a deal made in France with the investment firm Aqoba and the Crédit Mutuel bank, Bitcoin-Central now has an international bank ID number, meaning the network will be able to send and receive transfers to and from other banks and issue debit cards for users.In a post on theBitcoin forum, Bitcoin staffer davout announced: "At Paymium we spent lots of time and energy talking about Bitcoin to our regulating bodies, the Banque de France, the ACP (French equivalent of the American SEC), TRACFIN (AML French supervising body) etc. We engaged all these resources with one goal in mind: get these people to know Bitcoin, advocate our beloved crypto-currency and listen to them, help them think until they finally reach the same conclusion as we did: there's nothing wrong with people being free."There's nothing wrong with people freely exchanging value, we don't hurt anybody, we're not forcing anyone to use Bitcoin, we simply want to see our dream and the future of money become a reality."The virtual currency has seen significant growth since it launched in 2009 with an estimated 10.5m bitcoins currently being traded. One bitcoin is currently worth £8.54, after peaking at nearly £18 in June 2011, meaning the Bitcoin empire represents £89.6m oftrading value.Bitcoin magazine's editor, Vitalik Buterin, told the BBC the deal would encourage more growth and make it more accessible to new users.It will also mean balances held in euros by Bitcoin will be subject to the same protection and compensation laws as cash held in conventional banks."The more we see governments and banks being willing to deal with Bitcoin, the more comfortable a lot of organisations are going to be making the step forward themselves," he said.Despite a fiercely dedicated userbase in the tech community, Bitcoin's ubiquity and the anonymity of its users have also made it an attractive exchange platform for criminals, leading to a call by the US Senate in 2011 to investigate the site for tax evasion and money laundering.The chairman of the non-profit Bitcoin Foundation,Peter Vessenes, said in October that the site was battling against barriers to more widespread adoption."There's a lot to love [but] … there are botnet operators, hackers, and Ponzi-scheme runners floating around our space," he said."As the Bitcoin economy has evolved, we have all noticed barriers to its widespread adoption – [programs] that attempt to undermine the network, hackers that threaten wallets, and an undeserved reputation stirred by ignorance and inaccurate reporting."
Eight years ago, Google bought a cool little graphics business called Keyhole, which had been working on 3D maps. Along with the acquisition came Brian McClendon, aka "Bam", a tall and serious Kansan who in a previous incarnation had supplied high-end graphics software that Hollywood used in films including Jurassic Park and Terminator 2. It turned out to be a very smart move.Today McClendon is Google's Mr Maps – presiding over one of the fastest-growing areas in the search giant's business, one that has recently left arch-rival Apple red-faced and threatens to make Google the most powerful company in mapping the world has ever seen.Google is throwing its considerable resources into building arguably the most comprehensive map ever made. It's all part of the company's self-avowed mission is to organize all the world's information, says McClendon."You need to have the basic structure of the world so you can place the relevant information on top of it. If you don't have an accurate map, everything else is inaccurate," he says.It's a message that will make Apple cringe. Apple triggered howls of outrage when it pulled Google Maps off the latest iteration of its iPhone software forits own bug-riddled and often wildly inaccurate map system."We screwed up," Apple boss Tim Cook said earlier this week.McClendon, pictured, won't comment on when and if Apple will put Google's application back on the iPhone. Talks are ongoing and he's at pains to point out what a "great" product the iPhone is. But when – or if – Apple caves, it will be a huge climbdown. In the meantime, what McClendon really cares about is building a better map.This not the first time Google has made a landgrab in the real world, as the publishing industry will attest. Unhappy that online search was missing all the good stuff inside old books, Google – controversially – set about scanning the treasures of Oxford's Bodleian library and some of the world's other most respected collections.Its ambitions in maps may be bigger, more far reaching and perhaps more controversial still. For a company developing driverless cars and glasses that are wearable computers, maps are a serious business. There's no doubting the scale of McClendon's vision. His license plate reads: ITLLHPN.Until the 1980s, maps were still largely a pen and ink affair. Then mainframe computers allowed the development of geographic information system software (GIS), which was able to display and organise geographic  information in new ways. By 2005, when Google launched Google Maps, computing power allowed GIS to go mainstream. Maps were about to change the way we find a bar, a parcel or even a story. Washington DC'shomicidewatch.org, for example, uses Google Maps to track and follow deaths across the city. Now the rise of mobile devices has pushed mapping into everyone's hands and to the front line in the battle of the tech giants.It's easy to see why Google is so keen on maps. Some 20% of Google's queries are now "location specific". The company doesn't split the number out but on mobile the percentage is "even higher", says McClendon, who believes maps are set to unfold themselves ever further into our lives.Google's approach to making better maps is about layers. Starting with an aerial view, in 2007 Google added Street View, an on-the-ground photographic map snapped from its own fleet of specially designed cars that now covers 5 million of the 27.9 million miles of roads on Google Maps.Penguins in Antarctica. Photograph: Google.Google isn't stopping there. The company has put cameras on bikes to cover harder-to-reach trails, and you can tour the Great Barrier Reef thanks to diving mappers. Luc Vincent, the Google engineer known as  "Mr Street View", carried a 40lb pack of snapping cameras down to the bottom of the Grand Canyon and then back up along another trail as fellow hikers excitedly shouted "Google, Google" at the man with the space-age backpack. McClendon, pictured, has also played his part. He took his camera to Antarctica, taking 500 or more photos of a penguin-filled island to add to Google Maps. "The penguins were pretty oblivious. They just don't care about people," he says.Now the company has projects called Ground Truth, which corrects errors online, and Map Maker, a service that lets people make their own maps. In the western world the product has been used to add a missing road or correct a one-way street that is pointing the wrong way, and to generally improve what's already there. In Africa, Asia and other less well covered areas of the world, Google is – literally – helping people put themselves on the map.In 2008, it could take six to 18 months for Google to update a map. The company would have to go back to the firm that provided its map information and get them to check the error, correct it and send it back. "At that point we decided we wanted to bring that information in house," says McClendon. Google now updates its maps hundreds of times a day. Anyone can correct errors with roads signs or add missing roads and other details; Google double checks and relies on other users to spot mistakes.Thousands of people use Google's Map Maker daily to recreate their world online, says Michael Weiss-Malik, engineering director at Google Maps. "We have some Pakistanis living in the UK who have basically built the whole map," he says. Using aerial shots and local information, people have created the most detailed, and certainly most up-to-date, maps of cities like Karachi that have probably ever existed. Regions of Africa and Asia have been added by map-mad volunteers.'People want to be found'Why do they do it? Manik Gupta, who led the Map Maker project in India before moving to Google HQ, says its a very human thing to want to put yourself on the map: "People want to be found. They want you to know where they live, where they come from." It's a labour-intensive process for Google as well as its army of unpaid helpers. It's also the fastest-updating map in history. Google even maintains a live stream, on which you can watch edits happening in real time."The fact is the real world is changing. Chasing the real world is our measure. It's not how we compare to our competitors, it's how we compare to the real world," says McClendon.It's not just the great outdoors that Google wants to map. The company is increasingly interested in mapping indoors. McClendon was recently in Tokyo's Shinjuku station, the world's busiest transport hub with 35 platforms, more than 200 exits and 3.64 million people per day. Google has it mapped.Once he has his map, McClendon says the real challenge is what not to show. The iconic London Underground map, a design classic that is easy to read if not geographically accurate, is an example of the old-world idea of a map."They reduced it down to the most readable form that still contains all the information. They've done that so everybody can read that. But imagine if you saw the London underground system only as you use it," he says. A personal map would let you know which lines are busy and would change to reflect your working pattern, the time of day or what you do at the weekend. "The ability to remove information allows you space to provide another level of more personalized information," says McClendon. "A map that tries to answer every question for every person is effectively unreadable."Google's domination of the map world has some people worried. The company has run into difficulties over privacy, not least in Germany where Street View was abandoned after clashes with the authorities. Google was fined by US authorities after it was found that its Street View cars were collecting private information from people's wireless networks.Steven Romalewski, director of the mapping service at the Center for Urban Research at the CUNY Graduate Center in New York, says Google has been instrumental in opening up the new era of mapping, but adds that he worries that there isn't enough competition. "I wouldn't want to see one entity controlling the base map," he says.McClendon says: "There will always be multiple providers. I don't see us effectively owning the map. We are making a version of the world, as accurate as we can make it."World domination has never sounded so benign.
It's time for our roundup of new Android apps, and from this week we're making some changes: games will be included in the post, rather than being hived off in their own multi-platform article.That means we should be able to offer a list of 30 new apps every week, while keeping the quality high. This week's is certainly a cracking selection, showing the innovation that's happening on Android at the moment.A warning about prices, especially on games: if you see (free) it often means freemium, as in in-app purchases. Wondering about iOS apps? Check this week'sBest iPhone and iPad Apps post.Here's this week's roundup:Etsy (free)Crafty commerce site Etsy has a thriving community of buyers and sellers online, as well as on iOS. Now its app is available on Android too, providing a window into its catalogue of 17m+ items for sale. A clean and elegant design keeps the focus firmly on the items.Heroes of Order &amp; Chaos (free)Gameloft's Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA – a genre you'll be hearing more about on smartphones and tablets in 2013) game sees you forming gangs for fantasy battling, in a world based on the company's existing World of Warcraft-like Order &amp; Chaos Online game. Expect heroes, monsters and upgrades a-plenty.Finger Hoola (£0.69)Finger Hoola is a different kind of game entirely: one that sees you tracing shapes on-screen hula hoop-style to the strains of ambient music. As much a way to relax for a few minutes out of sight of your inbox as a game, it's very good indeed.Top Gear SSR (free)Top Gear Stunt School Revolution has been a hit on iOS, and now it's available on Android too. It's a driving game based (loosely) on the BBC series, meaning the emphasis is on eye-popping stunts, often with a dash of the surreal.Snapseed (free)Photo-sharing app Snapseed's developer Nik Software was acquired by Google earlier this year, making this (sort of) Google's in-house rival to Instagram. By which I mean taking and sharing photos while applying visual filters and borders, with a strong tie-in to the Google+ social network.Candy Crush Saga (free)King.com's Candy Crush Saga has been a huge hit on Facebook, and recently made the leap to iOS. Now it's on Android too, albeit in beta – so don't be surprised if you spot the odd bug. The gameplay sees you matching sweets over more than 100 levels, with social features high in the mix to compare your efforts to your friends.Clay Jam (free)In what's already looking like another good month for Android gaming, Clay Jam is the latest title from Zynga, through its publishing deal with developer Fat Pebble. It's a claymation-style action game that sees you rolling and bouncing the hero down a series of hills. The visuals make it stand out from the crowd, but the gameplay delivers on this promise too.Zenonia 5 (free)Gamevil's Zenonia has become one of the biggest and best mobile-only RPG franchises over the last couple of years, with this fifth iteration deserving to win even more fans round. It has a huge world to explore, more monsters than you can shake a stick/sword/spell at, and global player-versus-player match-ups for a social spin.23snaps - Family Photo Book (free)More photo-sharing, but this time with a focus on families. It's an app designed to help parents share snaps of their kids with family and close friends, as an alternative to slapping them up on Facebook (although, if you're on top of your group settings, it's possible there too). This beta app works very well though, with its value as much about browsing back through the photos later, as the actual sharing at the time.Falcon Pro for Twitter (£0.64)"The Ultimate Twitter Experience on Android"? That's quite a claim, but Falcon Pro does have the features to convince power users to give it a try as an alternative to the official Twitter Android app. Tuned for the Android OS, it's smooth to use, with some nifty features including in-app preview of links to the Google Play store.PSY Gangnam Style LWP and Tone (£1.49)Normally, I wouldn't look twice at a Gangnam Style live wallpaper on Android, assuming it to be an unlicensed ripoff. But no, this one's official, launched by music startup Bandsintown with the Korean star's blessing. It features the elevator scene from 2012's most viral music video, as well as turning your homescreen into "a multicoloured disco floor with PSY performing his trademark dance moves" whenever a text message or Gmail notification arrives. Yes, that sounds horrifying, but this will probably be popular nonetheless.Slice Keyboard (£3.11)There are a number of popular keyboard replacement apps on Android, so Slice Keyboard faces ferocious competition. But it's an interesting approach to the challenge of touchscreen typing: a blank "home row" to place your fingers on, determining where other keys appear.Splice (£1.86)The original version of Splice is one of the best puzzle games money can buy on the iPad, so its move to Android is big, exciting news for anyone with a Google-powered tablet. The game sees you manipulating microbial cells to create shapes (or "splices") over more than 75 levels. Brain-bending, but brilliant.McAfee SafeKey (free)Something more serious here: a tool from security firm McAfee to help you remember your passwords for various sites. It requires a licence to use the McAfee All Access Security service, mind.Moleheart (free)This is another game from Korean publisher Gamevil, promising "defence gaming on a whole different level". So yes, tower defence – a crowded genre on Android already – but with RPG-style levelling up and skills for your characters to give the action a twist.Yesterday (£1.99)Bulkypix's point-and-click adventure – that should be swipe-and-tap really – is one of the best-looking games released for Android this year, as you investigate a series of murders in New York. It's rich and immersive, and feels like it's been designed for touchscreen tablet play, rather than being in thrall to the PC roots of the genre.NeroKwik (free)A third photo-sharing app this week, this has more of a cloud storage focus: "Snap a photo with one device and have it available immediately across all your devices," as the Google Play listing puts it. Looks like the kind of app Yahoo! should have turned Flickr into long ago.Jewel Quest Heritage (£1.87)Bejeweled may be the premier match-three-gems puzzle game franchise in 2012, but Jewel Quest is another veteran of the genre. This latest version offers more than 175 boards of jewels to clear and three modes of play.Squeebles Spelling Test (£1.49)KeyStageFun's Squeebles apps have been putting a friendly face on education for young children across iOS and Android. This latest app focuses on spelling – you may have guessed this from the title – with a series of tests, and a storyline wrapped around them about rescuing colourful animals. There are no in-app purchases, ads or internet links, to reassure parents.Ink Over Apps (£0.62)Here's an idea: "draw, markup, and annotate any app on your device ... like using a sharpie on your screen, but without the mess and ruined screens". Well, quite. But there's something interesting here: the ability to scribble on top of, say, documents for work or photos for fun, then save the results as screenshots.Spellwood: Word Game Adventure (£1.49)Sega's new word game Spellwood mixes magic with letters, as you fight battles using your linguistic skills. It includes a solo mode, but the real fun is to be had playing asynchronously against friends, Words With Friends-style.World Ark Magazine (free)Nonprofit organisation Heifer International has launched its own digital magazine app this week, designed to highlight issues of hunger and poverty, as well as some of the work it's doing to alleviate them. The stylish app includes infographics and videos alongside the standard text/photo features.iPNP 2012 (£1.87)Portable North Pole is a big deal for many parents: a site that lets them order videos from Santa Claus to their children in a (possibly doomed) effort to keep them behaving well in the run-up to Christmas. This app is a way to create those video messages, but also play with other festive content, including an advent calendar.Raiden Legacy (£3.62)Here's a retro-gaming treat: four of the Raiden arcade games from back in the day bundled into one app. That means vertically scrolling shoot 'em ups with a plethora of ships, game modes and reworked controls for touchscreen devices.Sync.ME -Facebook Contact Sync (Free)This is a simple but potentially useful app to pull down photos and information from your contacts' Facebook profiles, including their latest status updates, which can be handy when calling someone you haven't seen in a while.Insta Moments-Note Everything (Free)Insta Moments makes big promises: "A perfect and beautiful way to note everything &amp; organize your personal notepad ... A step ahead from Evernote." Tough to deliver on, but this has some interesting features, from diary dates to social sharing.Tyype Keyboard (£1.21)Here's another typing app for Android, but rather than replace the keyboard entirely, this merely adds a touchpad-style zone underneath the virtual keys, where you can move the cursor around and manipulate text.Spell Sword (free)Spell Sword is the work of casual games firm Miniclip: "A tale of a sword mighty enough to destroy hordes of minions with a single blow..." Which means a platform-based hack 'n' slasher inspired by the good old days of gaming, with 90 missions to work your way through.Explore 140 (free)OneLouder reckons it's worked out why a lot of people don't use Twitter: "Boring timelines full of lame people." Is Explore 140 the solution though? It's trying to provide an easy way to look up people and lists on Twitter, to find people worth following. A good idea, but one you'd expect Twitter's official app to get better at in time.Freeze! (free)It's been a very good year for brain-taxing puzzles on Android, with Freeze! the latest to hit the Google Play store. It sees you rotating the world around the game's unnamed hero, while using a freeze button to pause gravity when appropriate. Very fun, with an excellent and atmospheric soundtrack to boot.
If you're a veteran gamer you'll remember the golden era of text-based adventures. The Hobbit, Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, Zork… titles that conjured whole worlds out of narrative descriptions and two-word player inputs.That genre never went away, of course – interactive fiction communities still thrive on the web (a good place to look is the hugeIF Archive). Often though, creating your own branching stories can be a complex undertaking; which is a whereStoryNexuscomes in. Billed as an interactive story platform, it allows users to create rich 'storygames' through an accessible point-and-click interface. These works can then be shared and even sold online.Failbetter Games, creator of the intriguing toolkit, started out by making its own adventure,Fallen Londonearlier this year. Operating entirely in browser, the game presents the player with a series of storylines to follow, written out in text and explored through a randomised card system. The game uses four main stats to determine success, and opens storylines to the player based on their stats, their story choices, and the various qualities and items they collect along the way.Alexis Kennedy, chief narrative officer at Failbetter, says: "With Fallen London, the idea was that it was both research and funding project for the StoryNexus tools. We set out to build a tool and found straight away that building an abstract perfect system set us up to fail. Fallen London gave us a place to test things and work out what we needed to build. It garnered revenue, and gathered an audience which meant we could kick off StoryNexus with 10,000 users already in the system. It also meant we ran up against the limitations of the system and could see where we needed to extend and alter our plans."The game launched in beta in October 2009, and since then Failbetter has been writing content for it, extending it and writing hundreds of thousands of words to populate its world and satisfy its avid fans. "We have a team of three writers," says Alexis. "That's half the company, and myself and my co-founder both write too. But players will consume everything we can throw at them with both hands." With that active, hungry player base, the company has spent three years refining Fallen London's system - about 18 months longer than they'd expected, because of illness problems with their technology partner on Varytale, an earlier version of the StoryNexus tools.Now, though, StoryNexus is starting to power ahead. Last month, StoryNexus had 180,000 registered users, mostly inactive, with a core of 20,000 active in a month. Two weeks into open beta, it had 800 worlds with at least a few story elements, and 40 of a playable size. The beta is likely to be a long one but a limited one, lasting until sometime in 2013, but monetisation is already turned on, and creators who make successful worlds can use Failbetter's system to charge for certain stories within them.Kennedy is keen to open the platform up to as many people as possible, to get people experimenting. StoryNexus requires no programming experience, though it does help to have a basic understanding of the principles, particularly how variables work, and the games it creates persist across sessions and can be dipped in and out of at will. "There is lots of really good interactive fiction that you need to download specialist tools to experience, or that takes lots of time to explore," says Kennedy. "I wanted something where you could dive in, something browser based that could be played in chunks over the course of the day. And I want people creating and experimenting with these possibilities, collaborating sensibly with friends."StoryNexus is good at the things that traditional approaches aren't so good at, but not so good at the things they are. Sometimes that's about the detail of navigating a complex space, or that's about combat or detailed timings or managing very specific resources - all of those things it's bad at. It's good at bringing together intuitive elements that coalesce easily into story. It's good at almost any kind of storytelling that wouldn't fit easily into graphic systems. It's also quite good at games where you want to be a bit ambiguous about the space you are in, or experiment with players' relationship with the environment or with characters. There's no direct control over an avatar."Relationships are the best thing - it's really difficult to represent a relationship with a character graphically, but the writers tools in StoryNexus let you respond differently. It's a natural fit for some games. I call these types of games story games. They are a hybrid - they are much less like games and much more like stories than most free-to-play titles."The StoryNexus system is primarily text based, with images to give a flavour of the events, elements and locations described, but it differs from the standard choose-your-own-adventure style branching narrative in a few ways. Small events and decisions - called storylets - are contained within a virtual playing card, and many cards are combined to form a randomised deck of options that can be dealt into the player's hand. Rather than a branching narrative with options that lead you off on different story paths, the card system lets you build a coherent story with many different ways to explore or experience events. It's a more ambient, more emergent, less directed storytelling system - something that has both advantages and disadvantages for creators.Last month, Failbetter ran their first World of the Season awards, aimed at bringing attention to particularly good and interesting games created within their platform that are at least partially complete. The winners were an eclectic mix:Samsara, a tale of dreamwalking set in India in 1757;Zero Summer, a post-apocalyptic American western; andEvolve, an educational game about biology.As with any open platform, quality will no doubt be mixed, and the appeal rather specialist – especially in this niche market of narrative, text-led games. But with awards like World of the Season, and commissioned work such asMachine Carescoming in, the community is starting to flourish."The majority of the games created with StoryNexus will be unfinished, dreadful, extremely specialist interest, or all three," says Kennedy. "But if we promote the good stuff, players will make their way to it. If some monetise, and we can take a cut, then I hope everyone wins. Creators retain copyright and get revenue and we recoup the costs of building and retaining the platform, and we can cross-promote between games on the platform. Everyone benefits."
It's well known that no world event has truly occurred until the mad geniuses at Taiwan's Next Media Animation have done one of their inspired virtual reality mockups recounting the events.Tiger Woods's post-infidelity car crash,Steve Jobs's career– there's really nothing that escapes their blocky gaze.And now, rejoice! Because the barely comprehensible saga of John McAfee's escape, evasion, arrest and possibly extradition from and to Belize have now been rendered in glorious NMAvision. We have to say that we never knew McAfee kept trios of live laydeez in a pull-out drawer, but then again if you've made millions by slowing people's computers down, why not?Perhaps NMA's next move will be to generate 3D print-it-yourself figurines of people in the world news. We have no idea what those would look like, but couldn't be worse than Madame Tussauds.
The Hitman series has always been aimed at the resolutely hardcore. And it's not just that the game's starring Agent 47, the most stylishly dressed killer in gaming, boasted finicky controls and punishing difficulty levels.These titles demanded players give themselves over to its open-ended gaming structure where a combination of stoical patience and creative puzzle-solving were rewarded. Sure, you could blast your way through levels with twin-ballers if you played the games on the easiest difficulty settings. But unless you surrendered to the series' signature stealth gameplay, the Hitman games would prove an ultimately hollow experience.This rule of thumb has been almost completely done away with in Absolution, IO's first Hitman game since 2006. Hints of it remain in the design of a couple of levels and the eye-watering challenge that's presented by the highest difficulty setting. But IO have made a number of design choices aimed at broadening Absolution's appeal beyond the core Hitman fanbase, and while there's still plenty to admire here, unfortunately not all of the changes work in the game's favour.Absolution starts off with Agent 47 being sent to kill his former handler Diane Burnwood, who has betrayed the pair's shadowy employers, The Agency. After a mission that serves as the game's tutorial, Diane lies in a pool of blood and shower-door glass, begging 47 to protect a child named Victoria she has in her charge. He agrees, stashes Victoria in an orphanage in Chicago, and then sets out to find out why The Agency has put such a premium on acquiring her. Naturally, this investigation presents 47 with a ton of targets upon which to apply his death-dealing talents.This rather decent plot setup unfortunately descends into a farcical mess rather quickly. Granted, the stories running through all the Hitman games are uniformly rubbish, but Absolution is silly by even their low standards. The main problem is that the game's outlandish plot developments jar horribly with the way it's presented as a darkly atmospheric thriller. It can't decide whether it wants to be Grindhouse or Noir and its attempts at straddling both camps fail miserably.This is a story about a contract killer caring for a defenceless girl at the behest of the only person he ever formed a human connection with. It's also a story in which the protagonist fights a man the size of a brick outhouse while wearing spandex and a Lucha Libre mask in a barn that just happens to be a short walk from a top-secret subterranean science lab. As Agent 47 marches towards his final quarry, the player encounters a stream of increasingly outlandish characters, each one more depraved than the next.In the past, the main belief players needed to suspend was that no one could see the barcode tattoo on 47's head when he wandered into their midst in disguise. Now, one of their lesser hurdles is to accept that 47 would rely on information given to him by an ornithological fetishist covered in feathers and bird poo.Still, as awful as the plot is, it would be acceptable if it could be ignored completely, but unfortunately, the game's campaign contains several levels that are designed around pushing the narrative forward. This is probably  Absolution's greatest misstep because these levels also strip out the series' traditional open-ended gameplay.In these missions, players do have the freedom to subdue victims, swap clothes and engineer entertaining ways to dispatch NPCs. But the levels themselves are wide, linear corridors and to secure the highest rating here, the player's goal is to make their way to an exit point without being detected. At first, these levels are rather uninteresting, but as Absolution's checkpoint saves become more erratic, some of them become downright frustrating. At the highest difficulty, where no mid-mission checkpoints exist at all, they can transform into tedious wars of attrition.This isn't the rule throughout, however, as Absolution contains a few missions in the traditional vein of the series. You know, where you're plonked down into a map filled with lethal items, accidents waiting to happen and a target (or some targets) that require Agent 47's lethal expertise.A mission early on in the game set in a bustling market in Chinatown is probably the campaign's high point. Here, players are presented with an odious crime lord and a ton of ways to take him out; the range of options extends from poisoning the target's food at his favourite noodle bar, to something as simple as pushing him down a manhole.It's in missions such as this, where tailing a target, learning their routes and then pulling off an intricately plotted execution is as satisfying as a kill initiated by spur-of-the-moment creativity.In the instances in the campaign where players are encouraged to observe, plan and execute, Absolution shines brightest. They're also the most heartbreaking aspects of the game, because they provide hints of what Absolution could have been if IO had just stuck to what made their series great in the first place.The chocolate box of lethal delights that the open-ended missions present is enticing enough on its own, but coupled to the game's swoon-worthy score and gorgeous visuals, it provides glimpses of a game that would have been utterly mind-blowing.Now, before I stand accused of denigrating Absolution for not being Blood Money 2.0, allow me to point out that I think several of its new features improve on 2006's game significantly. I do not, for example, find Instinct – the much-touted mechanic that allows 47 to see enemies through walls and NPC route paths – to be the bone of contention a lot of purists do.Indeed, it's a fantastic new feature offering newcomers the best gateway into the series to date – the mark and kill mechanic even offers newbies an ace in the hole if their best efforts aren't realised mid-mission. Similarly, the scoring system and unlockables are strokes of sheer genius; with leaderboard bragging rights, new abilities and new weapons up for grabs, each mission positively cries out to be replayed every which way is possible.Furthermore, Contracts Mode is a great addition to the Hitman package. In it, players are able to create hits based on the campaign levels and then challenge the online community with their creations. It's true that this is something the Hitman community was doing via internet forums already and it's slightly tarred with the less-than-brilliant design of some of the levels, but it provide players with opportunities to both create and enjoy levels where puzzle solving and a sense of fun work arm-in-arm with 47's business of killing. In short, it feels like Hitman in its purest sense.And that's ultimately what's missing from most of Absolution. The game may look better and play better than any Hitman game before it, but one can only marvel at how IO managed to lose sight of their IP's most appealing aspects so often.The best thing one can say about Absolution is that it's impossible to feel ambivalent about it; players will love and loathe aspects of this game in equal measure. In Absolution, terrible ideas rub up against great ones almost on a moment-to-moment basis, and the end result is a title which is impossible to consider with the same clinical detachment that it's protagonist is known for.
Samsung is unlikely to succeed in voiding a jury verdict that awarded Apple $1.05bn (£625m) in damages for patent infringement – but Apple may see that award trimmed by a judge after post-verdict hearings, experts say.The two companies squared off again in a San Jose court on Thursday in front of district judge Lucy Koh to seek alterations and extensions to the verdict handed down in August by a jury in the California courtroom. But Samsung's assertion that the man who became the jury foreman, Velvin Hogan, was biased against it because of a 1993 lawsuit brought against him by the hard-drive company Seagate – in which Samsung is a large investor – seemed to cut little ice with the judge.However, lawyers for the South Korean conglomerate appeared to be on more solid ground over complaints that the jury had miscalculated the damages for infringement by 26 Samsung products of various "utlity" patents owned by Apple, such as the "tap-to-zoom" function on smartphones and tablets, and of its design patent relating to the cosmetic appearance of the iPhone 3GS.Koh seemed ready to accept some of Samsung's requests for recalculation. The jury said Apple was owed damages of nearly $58m relating to sales of the Prevail smartphone which used the tap-to-zoom system. But she suggested that the sort of patent violation the jury discerned doesn't merit that large an award, and that Apple might instead recover $8m from that item.Apple meanwhile has asked the judge to implement a US sales ban on eight Samsung smartphones.Koh didn't indicate directly whether she would favour Apple's call for a sales ban, nor whether she would agree with Samsung's demand to cut the damages award. At the end of the four-hour hearing, she commented: "I think it's time for global peace", referring to the series of lawsuits between the two companies around the world.She said she will issue a series of rulings in the next few weeks to sort out the legal issues, in effect ending the case – although it is certain to be appealed by one side of the other on the federal circuit, and possibly as far as the supreme court; a hearing there could take years, by which time the products at issue in this case would no longer be on sale in the US. A number of the Samsung phones at issue are no longer on sale.Foreman focusA key part of Samsung's complaint focuses on Hogan, who it alleged was biased against Samsung because of the 1993 suit. That began after Seagate, where he had worked, gave him a loan. Hogan subsequently declared bankruptcy, which he argued at the time voided any obligation to repay. Seagate sued him for its loss.Samsung's lawyer, asked by Koh why he didn't ask about Hogan's past during the "voir dire" element of the jury selection, said: "He knew about the relationship between Seagate and Samsung and he didn't bring it up because he wanted to be on the jury … he has [subsequently] told members of the press that this was the most important moment of his life. The court needs to hold a hearing … this is a juror that had an agenda."Had Samsung's legal team known of Hogan's connection with Seagate, they would have followed up, the lawyer said. Apple's lawyer responded that Samsung had it "precisely wrong" in claiming that Hogan had lied about the events from almost two decades ago, and called the allegations of lying outrageous. Apple has said in post-verdict filings that Samsung should have asked those questions during the selection.Legal experts have suggested that Samsung has little chance of prevailing on that point because it happened a long time ago, and because Samsung did not ask about it at the jury selection process – meaning that Hogan did not lie. "The connection here is tenuous," Christopher V. Carani, a Chicago patent attorney who has closely followed the case, told the Associated Press. "I would be surprised if judge Koh accepted this argument and scrapped the jury's entire finding."In the post-verdict hearings, the two sides traded metaphorical blows that recapped the original trial. Harold McElhinny, for Apple, claimed Samsung wilfully decided for business purposes to copy Apple's iPad and iPhone, and called the jury's $1.05bn award a "slap on the wrist." He said Apple would keep fighting Samsung in court until it changed its business practices.For Samsung, lawyer Charles Verhoeven responded that Apple was attempting to "compete through the courthouse instead of the marketplace." He said Apple wants to tie up Samsung in courts around the world rather than competing with it head-on.Best of frenemiesThe apparently bitter courtroom battle masks the relationship between the two companies: Samsung Electronics is Apple's biggest supplier for parts, while Apple is Samsung Electronics' biggest customer.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, said inan interviewpublished just ahead of the hearing that he hates litigation – but reaffirmed Apple's determination to see the case through: "For us, this is about values … we want people to have their own ideas and invent their own stuff. So after lots of trying [to settle out of court] we felt we had no other choice."Meanwhile, Samsung dominates the smartphone market: in the third quarter of 2012, it sold 55m worldwide, representing 32.5% of the market, against Apple's 23.6m, or 14%. Apple has a greater profit share, though Samsung's has risen dramatically in the past two years.Apple filed a second lawsuit earlier this year, alleging that Samsung's newer products are unfairly using Apple's technology. That is currently set to come to trial in 2014. The two companies are locked in legal battles in several other countries.
Hey, it's Friday. Tell us your plans for the weekend!
Spotify's changes aren't radical, but they cement a few powerful, successful trends in socialising content. With any large volume of content, the holy online trinity of search, recommendation and discovery are de rigeur and, in this case, solve several of Spotify's interface problems.Spotify has always had a dedicated following among the music fraternity, but newcomers and those less technically proficient can be intimidated by the sparseness of the front page.The introduction of collections is overdue, supplementing the more publicly-orientated playlists, which are a good way of sharing clever selections but take a while for users to get comfortable with. Collections, Spotify's founder Daniel Ek says, will encourage album listening, which, if he's correct, reverses the trend for the unbundling that iTunes initiated with its pay-by-track model.More significantly for users, however, the service has always been better for users who knew what they wanted to listen to. A few promoted links notwithstanding, recommendation and personalisation is critical to opening up Spotify, and not a little overdue.The new discovery feature is based on your listening history; an algorithmic, Spotify version of Amazon's 'people who bought Björk also bought Florence'. Recommendation is broader, based around the now-essential follow mechanism which means users can subscribe to updates, including notifications, from their favourite bands.Financially, Spotify has a struggle on its hands, treading a delicate line between having to pay enough to the music industry to keep labels and artists happy, while creating a sustainable business for itself. Its losses increased last year and it is yet to make a profit, though Ek claims this is because the service needs to prioritise investment and expansion.In terms of audience, Spotify now equals the paying subscriber numbers of veteran service Rhapsody with 1 million each, though overall user numbers are still less than Pandora, which had 59.2 million users by the end of October 2012.Its biggest triumph, however, is scoring points – and, it would hope, users – over Apple. The latter's Ping messaging and recommendation system was a rare but emphatic Apple flop, proving that everything it does best is closed, and Spotify has shown them how to effortlessly update and socialise music. With Spotify's currently-in-beta web app also coming into play early next year, competition between the two will intensify.In features, then, Spotify scores well. However, one look at the finances and Apple is in a different league, undisputed king of the content-selling space. AsBloombergreminds us, it started with 99-cent downloads and now sells $455 (£283) annual subscriptions to the New York Times.Apple's revenue for its media sales alone totalled $8.5bn for the 12 months to September – more than the NYT, Simon &amp; Schuster, Warner Bros film and Time Inc combined.Come the day when Apple finally rolls out its streaming service, Spotify's goose may be cooked.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe dream and the myth of the paperless city &gt;&gt; The VergeAmid something of a rambling feature:A Chicago nonprofit group called the Uhlich Children's Advantage Network or UCAN attempted to go paperless a few years back. Walter Grauer, Vice President of Information Technology at UCAN, says the group initially pursued a paperless office because UCAN wanted to "go green." But they quickly realized they could actually save some money if they were more efficient."'Going green' is one thing, but it needs to have an added benefit for costs," he says. "You need to be saving money as well as paper."What they found is that the biggest general wastes in their office were paper timesheets and people clicking "print" at their desktops and then forgetting to pick up what they'd printed from the printer. The answer: Electronic timesheets. And now employees are required to physically stand up and push a button on the printer if they want to print something; they need to click print twice -- once at their desktop, once at the printer itself.With small changes, Grauer says they reduced their printing output by about 300,000 sheets of paper every month. They print a lot of paper -- 300,000 is about seven percent of their monthly output -- but still, he says: "It saved some cash, definitely."How to bypass Instagram's Twitter barrier &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAlthough not optimal, here are couple of tricks to get around the Instagram blockade.Portal's physics engine rebuilt in 25KB -- on a graphing calculator &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaA 20-year-old college student has rebuiltPortal,Valve's 2007 space-bending game, from the ground up, on -- wait for it -- a graphing calculator. In a display that puts the old calculator versions ofMarioandTetristo shame, Alex Marcolina posted to agaming forumandredditon Sunday about his re-engineered version ofPortal.It took three years to build and cannot, due to resource constraints on TI-83/84 calculators, execute more than 16 kilobytes of code.WOW.Rethinking the iPhone lockscreen &gt;&gt; The Tech BlockiOS is boring. It's unconnected. It isn't flexible. It's slow. That's generally the consensus. And while many look to Jony Ive's new role as the answer, it doesn't exactly solve these problems. So I thought I would give it a shot.The ideas are principally about simplifying quick access to apps or functions from the lock screen. One objection: there's a reason why it's a lock screen. More important to iOS's evolution would be "intentions" like Android's, and other functions. (Thanks @Martwah for the link.)Microsoft's #droidrage campaign results in #windowsrage on Twitter &gt;&gt; The VergeGoogle removed27 malware-infected appsfrom its Play Store last year, a move that prompted Microsoft to start its campaign [ in 2011], but despite anupward trendin Android malware, there'sno evidenceto suggest it'sas badas Microsoft makes out. Google is also makingchanges to Android 4.2to include a malware scanner that analyzes "sideloaded" apps for malware threats. With no recent high profile Android malware stories, Microsoft kicked off #droidrage again, seemingly out of the blue, and it has backfired.And how. (Thanks @martwah for the link.)Tim Cook's freshman year: the Apple CEO speaks &gt;&gt; BusinessweekLong, and wide-ranging, from Steve Jobs, to collaboration, to conditions in Chinese suppliers, to maps, to Forstall's firing, and more.Does the Windows 8 hybrid overcomplicate a simple problem? &gt;&gt; PC Pro blogDavid Bayon:I'm not sure exactly when I lost patience with Microsoft and Windows 8 -- most likely when using the Surface for the first time. It's always been an OS with a split personality, but from the start we were promised the hardware would make it all seem natural. It would innovate, the OS ushering in a new era of mobile computing.With a few exceptions - touchscreen Ultrabooks are undoubtedly cool - the new era hasn't started well."It's definitely as good as a hybrid gets right now," proclaims one of our reviews team, of a Dell hybrid laptop with a screen that swivels round within its bezel. The comment was meant as a positive, but it's hard not to see it as summing up the first wave of hybrids."Hybrid" as in "it's a tabletanda notebook." Biology note: most interspecies breeds are sterile.Apple estimated to purchase up to US$5 billion FPCBs in 2013, say sources &gt;&gt; DigitimesApple is expected to purchase at least US$5 billion worth of flexible PCBs in 2013 with Taiwan-based FPCB makers contributing 30% of total supplies, according to industry sources. Apple's total FPCB purchases in 2012 will be close to US$4bn, of which Taiwan suppliers will account for 20-25%.The rollout of iPods, iPads, iPhones, MacBook notebooks and iMac desktops has made Apple the largest buyer of FPCBs globally and also a driving force pushing forward the development of the FPCB industry, the sources noted.Apple's demand for FPCBs is set to continue expanding in 2013, given Apple's smartphone shipments are estimated to top 160-180m units in the coming year compared to 97m shipped in 2012, while its tablet shipments are likely to increase to 75-80m units from 40m units during the same period, said the sources.Those are very big numbers.Stock Android isn't perfect: these are the things I can't stand about Jelly Bean &gt;&gt; Android PoliceRon Mateo:Stock Android isn't perfect either, and that's what we're here to talk about today. Jelly Bean has all sorts of confusing user interfaces, weird bugs, things that don't make any sense, and things that desperately need polishing.I criticize because I care - that goes for Sense, TouchWiz, and MotoBlur too. I want the Android user experience to be good, and this is a big component in making it better - open, honest discussion of what sucks (and, hopefully, receptive developers). If you always think everything is awesome all the time, and that polish, "nit picking," and user experience don't matter, then you turn into desktop Linux. No one wants that.A really thoughtful, user-experience-led piece. Matias Duarte, head of Android's design, consistency and UI team, responds (briefly) at the end.Sprint to offer buy-one-get-one free deal on Galaxy S3, Galaxy S2, and Galaxy Victory this Friday &gt;&gt; PhandroidTurns out some early signage leaked out, showing a nice BOGO (buy-one-get-one) deal on "select" Sammy devices. Let me stop you right there -- the Galaxy Note 2 is not apart of this deal. But, the fully capable (some might even call a Nexus-killer) Samsung Galaxy S3 is up for grabs.A few "lesser" Galaxies also mad the list like the GS2 and Galaxy Victory. The fun starts this Friday, Dec. 7th and lasts all the way until the 24th, giving Christmas shoppers ample time to squeeze in a few GS3?s before the 25th. The best part? This deal is good for new and upgrades as long as you're willing to sign away your life for 2 years. Anyone going to jump on this?Wonder if this is classed as SG&amp;A or marketing for accounting purposes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
What would it take to make you love Apple again?Tim Cook, the company's CEO, is trying to find out. He's on a big media tour that's really a courtship of the American consumer.Listen to his blandishments during a media tour this week: "When you back up and look at Apple's effect on job creation in the United States, we estimate that we've created more than 600,000 jobs now," Cook toldBrian Williams of  NBC's Rock Center. With unemployment at 7.9%, who doesn't love job creators?Or how about an encomium meant to express the idealized, almost religious purity of Apple products? Cook knows that Apple is considered such an icon of design that, to its faithful, it's not so much a company as a public good. Apple can't risk looking commercial. So he reminds people now: "In creating these great products we focus on enriching people's lives – a higher cause for the product. These are the macro things that drive the company. They haven't changed. They're not changing," Cook toldBloomberg BusinessWeek editor-in-chief Josh Tyrangiel.Translation: we're still the same old company you loved under Steve Jobs. In fact, we're not just a company. We're a religion. Please, please, baby, start worshipping us again.Apple, to its faithful, is like President Obama to his: the promise of hope and change, and inspiration, in a world otherwise dimmed by mediocrity and cynicism. The problem with this idealized image is that you cannot climb down from such a high pedestal; you can only fall off it.So the things that other companies do, and that consumers largely accept – outsourcing, paying workers modest wages, occasionally waffling on a product launch – are considered anathema if Apple does them.In the past year, we've found out something very interesting about Apple: the company's hard-won reputation for perfection and its idealized image were not, it turned out, as perfect as the crisp (and patented) rounded lines of an iPad. The perfectly shiny Gorilla glass over the Apple corporate image can crack like a fallen iPhone, and in 2012 it did.First there were the investigations around the working conditions at Foxconn, the massive Chinese manufacturing company that claims a million employees. The company's CEO, Terry Gou, indelicately referred those workers as "animals," the management of which gave him "a headache." The guilt-by-association forced Apple to investigate the factories, and it's still a headache to the company.Then the New York Times suggested that Apple, which pays the average employee around $25,000, was unreasonably chintzy to its retail workers when it could afford to be generous; the company, after all, sits on $123bn in cash – mostly overseas – for which it has few uses; it disdains acquisitions, returns only a little money to shareholders, and produces high-margin technological products.Then, and perhaps most damagingly, a debacle around Apple Maps, far inferior to Google Maps, showed that Apple can do the one thing that it never seemed it could before: turn in not just mediocre, but inferior work. Apple fired Scott Forstall, the executive in charge, and the reason was very Appley – it wasn't because Forstall didn't do a good job, or because he refused to publicly apologize for a notable failure; it was because he disappointed Apple's idealism, its value of collaboration. Cook told BusinessWeek about Forstall's departure: "The key in the change that you're referencing is my deep belief that collaboration is essential for innovation. I didn't just start believing that. I've always believed that. It's always been a core belief at Apple. Steve very deeply believed this."There is no better way to invoke Apple's old image and its old, orderly reputation, than to invoke Jobs.All of these insults to the Apple brand might have been borne, maybe, until the biggest insult of all came: a steady and otherwise mystifying drop in Apple's stock price. If you don't follow the market, Apple's share price is less a stock market measurement than a natural wonder, something like the Grand Canyon of corporate finance. It is a testament to capitalism.In September, Apple stock hit a high of $705 a share. Today, it opened at $528 a share.It's not as if Apple can't take such sharp swings; a year ago, its stock was worth "only" about $393 a share. The company is still swimming in untold riches.Even so, such a sharp drop looks like a pretty clear reproach from investors.And that led to something Apple hasn't had to do for a long time: an image clean-up, a play for more attention, and begging for forgiveness.And now Apple has to scramble back into our affections, just a little. It's a big change for a company more used to standing back and being adored.Cook told Brian Williams that Apple will manufacture some of its computers in the United States. It will apparently cost about $100m this year to move the line to the US from China.It's a good gesture, and it shows that Cook is an able hand at spinning Apple's troubles into its strength.But it doesn't quite go far enough. It's a safe play, and not as radical or as warm an embrace as it could be. Apple's computers are not its best sellers, and haven't been in a long while. Mac desktop sales, in the third quarter, for instance, were down 24% compared to the same time last year. And $100m is a pittance to a company of Apple's size.When asked by Williams why Apple doesn't move all its manufacturing out of China and to the US, Cook said: "It's not about the price; it's about the skills."There's nothing to suggest that US workers don't have – or couldn't pick up – the skills to manufacture these products. But in any case, of course, it is about the price. And Cook, on his media tour, is paying the price now.
With more than 20m active users and 5m paying subscribers, Spotify is the most popular subscription-based digital music service in the world.It's also one of the most lucrative for the music industry, having paid out $500m to rightsholders since its launch in October 2008. Yet chief executive Daniel Ek isn't blind to the faults of his streaming music service."When we look at the product, it's very clear what our users are saying to us: 'Spotify is great when I know what I want to listen to, but not so great when I don't," Ek tells The Guardian on the eve of Spotify's public unveiling of a slate of new music discovery features."Another thing we've heard a lot more recently is that artists are saying to us 'There are 20m songs now on Spotify, so how do I get heard?' We've been really thinking hard about how we solve these problems."They're not problems restricted to Spotify. All digital entertainment services in 2012 are grappling with the discovery challenge, from Netflix to Amazon to Apple and Google's app stores. Ek draws a comparison between music and another media type, though."Music isn't like news, where it's what happened five minutes ago or even 10 seconds ago that matters. With music, a song from the 1960s could be as relevant to someone today as the latest Ke$ha song" he says."So how do you make sense of that and make sure the artist gets heard? We've been working on a new version of Spotify which we think solves this problem."Ek makes an interesting point: that many of today's digital services are becoming "more instantaneous… on Twitter, what was written an hour ago is almost useless now", yet that's not a good fit for music, with its deep back catalogue."With music, rediscovery is a critical part of how you listen to music, but all the internet services are missing it," he says.New featuresSo, those new features, which will be rolling out in an update to Spotify's desktop application in the coming weeks, before making their way to its apps on other devices – and likely to its still-beta web version – in 2013.Discovery is the focus for two new tabs in the desktop app called Follow and Discover. The first sees Spotify adopting a Twitter-style asynchronous following model for people to subscribe to updates and playlists from artists, celebrities and music experts, as well as Facebook friends.This will filter directly into the Discover tab: a stream of updates from the people a user follows, including details about new music from those artists as soon as it gets added to Spotify.Artists including David Guetta, Bruno Mars, Justin Bieber, Paul McCartney and Katy Perry are already signed up, as is US president Barack Obama – well, his office, which already published a presidential Spotify playlist in the run-up to the 2012 election.The Discover tab will also offer improved recommendations of music based on a user's listening history, as well as alerts about concerts by favourite artists, and reviews.Humans vs algorithmsEk says that some of this has been happening organically on Spotify already – one of his own playlists has more than half a million subscribers, and numerous artists have also been curating their own playlists on the service and promoting them to fans."We realised there was a concept there: what if that was the experience for every single user on Spotify?" he saysWhile a lot of Spotify's discovery focus is based on people – whether real friends or big stars – it still has computer algorithms making recommendations too. Ek says they'll be noticeably in the new version of Spotify."If you think about the Internet in general, we're all used to these recommendation engines that say 'if you like this, you'll also like that' and give you 500 recommendations. But if you're with me and ask what music I like, I'm not going to give you 500 alternatives. I'll give you a few, but with a ton of context," he says."We've made the recommendations a lot smarter. The big paradigm of sites within music discovery has been editorial versus the algorithms. But the more we thought about it, actually they're not mutually exclusive. You can marry them together."Artists on boardThe idea of musicians as curators on Spotify is important, and taps into wider trends in digital music. Deezer has just announced its ownDeezer for Artists initiativewith similar features, while the all-new Myspace isbuilt around many of the same concepts.Indeed, Ek mentions US TV music supervisor Scott Vener as one of the inspirations behind Spotify's new follow model – "I was always checking in on the stuff he put in playlists" – yet Vener is also one of the early adopters of new Myspace, where he's creating similar mixes.Artists as Spotify curators also ties in to the ongoing and intense debate within the music industry about streaming payouts for artists and songwriters.While many artists have embraced Spotify and its rivals, others have criticised the company because their income from streams pales in comparison to their royalties from CD and download sales, which they fear may be cannibalised by streaming.Other artists – or often, their managers – have fallen into both camps, making their back catalogues available on streaming services, but holding back their brand new albums to be sold on iTunes and other download stores. Adele, Coldplay, Taylor Swift and Rihanna are the most famous examples of such "windowing".Florence and the Machine's new Spotify profilePay for playsThe most recent controversy around streaming payouts was sparked by anarticle on Pitchfork by Damon Krukowskiof independent bands Galaxie 500 and Damon &amp; Naomi.He claimed that 5,960 plays of one of his tracks on Spotify made him just $1.05 in songwriting royalties, while it would take 47,680 plays to earn the songwriting royalties equivalent to one traditional album sale.This, like previous criticism from artists likeDavid Lowery,Jon Hopkinsandthe Black Keys, caused a stir online. What does Spotify's CEO make of the discussion?"The whole debate about artists payments is slightly misconstrued," says Ek. "We have paid out over half a billion dollars to rightsholders now, and that's doubled in the last nine months. That's a significant amount of money."This is true, but it's not the whole story. First, because Spotify doesn't pay artists and songwriters directly: it's those rightsholders – labels, publishers and collecting societies – who distribute the money.The contracts dictating how much artists and songwriters make from streams of their songs are a can of worms that Spotify has been cautious about busting open, unsurprisingly given that major labels are both its licensing partners and some of its shareholders.Cannibalisation questionsSpotify and its rivals have a trust barrier to surmount with some artists and managers, too, which is not entirely of their making. The last big digital music disruption point – iTunes and other download stores – has led toa number of lawsuits from artistswho claim they were short-changed in royalties by their labels.When those same labels tell managers to trust their promises that the new generation of streaming services will be lucrative in the future when they reach scale, it's unsurprising to see some managers being wary.Rumours of Apple stoking this scepticism behind the scenes with reminders of the dangers of streams cannibalising downloads add spice to the situation too, despite a lack of conclusive proof of this happening – and growing anecdotal evidence that the opposite is the case."We think that all releases should be on Spotify on day one, and all the data we have indicates that they should be. If you look at Mumford &amp; Sons, their album was on Spotify, but it sold a huge amount of copies too," says Ek."They had six songs on the Billboard Top 100, which is the first time that's happened since The Beatles in 1964. And part of that is that Spotify is now reporting [streams] to Billboard. People on Spotify were listening to the entire album."Artist-friendly SpotifyThere have been points in the last year when Spotify has seemed blindsided by criticism from artists, unsure how to respond without angering labels or looking like it's bullying musicians.That's why it often ends up simply citing its latest payout total to rightsholders. A better strategy, though, is to turn attention towards artists who are backing Spotify, while introducing more artist-friendly features on the service."We feel it's natural that this kind of debate goes on early in a platform's life-cycle. We tend to focus on the controversy, but I could be telling you about all the artists who are on our platform, like Red Hot Chili Peppers, Bob Dylan… a ton of artists that weren't originally on it," says Ek.The more Spotify and its rivals can show their services are a way for artists to connect with fans, the less they'll be seen as just digital jukeboxes, to be judged purely by their payouts. Which is where Spotify's new Follow model comes in."This is a way for artists to communicate directly to their fans. If you think of an artist like Bruno Mars, he's using Spotify, creating playlists and listening to music through it," says Ek."People are interested in what he's inspired by, so they can follow him and find out when he's done new stuff: updated a playlist, created a new one, but also when he releases a new album."iTunes comparisonsApple tried something along similar lines with Ping in iTunes, which was a flop. Spotify will be hoping its Follow feature is more successful. But Ek can expect plenty more iTunes comparisons in the year ahead, regardless of when or whether Apple launches its own long-rumoured streaming music service.A subtle change in the new version of Spotify is its introduction of a "collection" for each user, to which they can add albums by clicking an "add" button. A small but important tweak, because it's going to make Spotify feel more like your collection of music – more iTunesy – and less like a giant, overwhelming jukebox.New Myspace has a similar feature called Library, incidentally. Both emphasize the importance of whole albums, which is another artist-friendly point for streaming music."We have over 1bn playlists that people have created, and almost a third of these were people saving whole albums. Whenever people say the album format is dead, we don't believe that at all," says Ek."People do like to listen to the entire album. On iTunes, they might cherry-pick songs because of the [a la carte sales] model, but with the access model there's no additional cost to listening to the entire album, so that's what they do."Future challengesSpotify faces a number of big challenges in 2013, including winning over more holdout artists, figuring out how best to get its new features into its mobile and tablet apps – a year after launch, it has yet to take its desktop applications platform mobile – and fielding questions about its business model.According to figurespublished by the Wall Street Journalin August 2012, Spotify's net losses widened from €28.5m in 2010 to €45.4m in 2011, despite revenues growing from €73.9m to €187.8m in the same period, with €156.9m of the latter coming from paid subscriptions.With Ek indicating that the company has paid $250m to rightsholders in the last nine months alone, questions about Spotify's long-term sustainability are inevitable, although a recent rumoured $100m funding round means it's not in danger of shutting down any time soon."We're feeling pretty good about next year," says Ek. "People are consuming a lot more music, which in itself is a good thing for the music industry. And as more and more smartphones come around, people are starting to pay for music again."But he finishes by bringing the conversation back to that music, and perhaps surprisingly for critics, to one of the most high-profile holdout artists."If you look at Adele, the reason she did so well was she created great music. It wasn't about a clever marketing trick," says Ek."My ambition is we want artists to be able to afford to create the music they want to create, and if it takes them five years to sit down and make the album they want to make, they should be able to afford that. That's my goal."
Streaming music service Spotify has now paid out more than $500m (£311m) in royalties to rightsholders since its launch in 2008, according to chief executive Daniel Ek.He revealed the milestone at a press launch in New York on Thursday, where he also announced that Spotify now has more than 5 million paying subscribers, and more than 20 million active users overall.Ek also sprang a surprise at the event, inviting Napster co-founder and Spotify board member Sean Parker and Metallica drummer Lars Ulrich on to the stage together, despite the band famously suing Napster in 2000.Ulrich also announced that Metallica is adding its entire back catalogue to Spotify from Thursday.The 5 million paying subscribers include more than 1 million in the US, which Ek claimed makes Spotify the biggest subscription music service there, although Rhapsody – which passed 1 million subscribers in December 2011 – may disagree."We're the biggest subscription music service in the US, but also the fastest growing one. We've accomplished in one year what it took others a decade to do," said Ek, who also addressed criticism from some musicians that their income from Spotify pales next to revenues from sales of CDs and downloads."Spotify pays back nearly 70% of all the money that we get in to rights holders," said Ek. "We've now paid out more than half a billion dollars, and that's doubled in the last nine months."Music videos service Vevo recently said it had paid out $200m to labels and publishers, while US streaming radio service Pandora is expecting to pay $250m in 2012 alone.The event's focus was on a set of new features for Spotify, which will launch in the coming weeks with an emphasis on making it easier for its users to discover new music and rediscover old favourites.They include smarter recommendations based on the music people have been listening to, and a Twitter-like feature to follow individual artists, DJs, music experts and other Spotify users' activity on the service, including playlists they create and (in the case of artists) new music that they release."Today we're creating the music graph. Musical influencers come from all different places," said Ek, who said Spotify has been working hard on improving its music discovery features."Users are telling us that Spotify is good when they know what they want to listen to, but not so great when they don't."The new features aim to solve this problem. The event also saw Daniel Glass of Mumford &amp; Sons' US label Glassnote Entertainment Group appear on stage to voice his support for Spotify and streaming music, citing the 600k first-week US sales of the group's ast album, Babel, as proof."I think that it is proving that if music is great, and if artists have passionate, engaged fan bases, this just takes it up another level. It did not cannibalise sales at all," said Glass."I tell artists if you aggregate your catalogue, and we look at it over a period of time, it's going to be very, very significant income," he said. "It's showing up on our statements as something that gets bumped and bumped and bumped every month. You've got to play the marathon game."Ulrich told the press conference he and Parker had recently settled their differences. "We felt that we had much more in common than we realised at that time. Us sitting down together was long overdue," said Ulrich."We were young … younger! Maybe somewhat ignorant to what was going on in the real world, and we certainly got caught up in a lot of things that were going on in that moment," he added, of their legal battle 12 years ago."The control option had been taken away from us, and then it turned into as far as we were concerned a street fight. You fuck with us? We will fuck with you! Let's meet in the back alley over there."Ek said: "I want every band in the world to be on Spotify. I want all the music there. We just want people to listen to more music and share with their friends."Spotify may be the largest digital music subscription service in the world, with increasing industry clout and major label shareholders, but its chief executive still stressed its anti-establishment credentials."At Spotify, we think of ourselves as punks. I don't mean the kind of punks that are up to no good, but the punks that are up against the establishment," said Ek."We're really punks because we're restless, and because we really hate it when people tell us 'this is just the way it is'."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Berlin is poor, but sexy – Mayor Klaus Wowereit's decade-old slogan still describes Germany's capital very well. Unemployment is high compared with other German cities and businessmen in proper suits and ties are a rare sight. But something in Berlin's attitude towards business is changing. Startups are sprouting all over the capital.Some people are already speaking of Berlin as the Silicon Valley of Europe.Most of the firms are just in their infancy. Others, such as the music platform SoundCloud or the social game developer Wooga are well-known even in California or London. "Berlin is punk meeting tech," says Swedish-born Eric Wahlforss, one of the founders of SoundCloud. According to Wahlforss, Berlin is creative, cheap and full of talented people.  And the talents are starting to cluster.SoundCloud is already in the buzzing and expanding tech hub called Factory, based in the fashionable district of Prenzlauer Berg. Others include 6Wunderkinder, wish-list website Toast and Firefox developer Mozilla, and there is space for more. Google wants a hand in the growing startup market and plans to subsidise entrepreneurs with about €1m (£808,000) in the next three years and is offering seminars and mentors."It is all about creating a network," says Factory co-founder Simon Schaefer. He wants to offer a campus, to be ready next summer, based on the one that Google and Facebook have in the real Silicon Valley. Another model is Silicon Roundabout, on the outskirts of the City in London, which home to last.fm, TweetDeck and Livemusic.With an eye to the bohemian lifestyle of urban web workers, Factory plans to offer open space offices, restaurants, a gym, a barbecue pit, basketball court and roof garden with auditorium.Berlin has a particularly good reputation for app developers. Besides 6Wunderkinder, which has developed a task management platform called Wunderlist, there is Readmill, a social app for booklovers, and Amen, an app to share opinions about people, places, things and ideas.The actor and venture capitalist Ashton Kutcher invested in it and has helped burnish Berlin's name as the place to be for startups. "When you are here you know what the trends are," says Mozilla's press spokeswoman, Barbara Hüppe. In just a few years, the German capital has become a magnet for  "creatives", founders of internet startups, and people working in the media. According to the state-owned KfW bank, Berlin's proportion of so-called "founders", measured by the working population, is higher than anywhere else in the country; 2.5% compared with 1.67% elsewhere in Germany."We checked out Vienna, London and Barcelona, but in the end decided to build up our business in Berlin," says Wahlforss, of the early days of SoundCloud, an online music site set up in 2007, which now has more than 10 million registered users.Although his company was backed by the British private equity company Doughty Hanson, others were not so fortunate. "But the situation has improved for everyone," he thinks.Serious follow-up investments are still missing. "Compared to the US we have fewer investors, especially those guaranteeing a longer-term financing with more money," says Schaefer. Even with a first investment it is difficult for a startup to grow in a saturated market.Olaf Jacobi, a partner at Target Partners, leading venture capital investors in Germany, says more than nine of every 10 new businesses do not make it. The ideas need to lead to consistent success, but is often difficult to assess if the business model works. After a while some just disappear, without ever breaking even. Then most of the entrepreneurs just start a new firm.One major advantage of Berlin is the low cost of living."Berlin is like a magnet for talented people. If you can not find people from Berlin, you often find people who are willing to move to Berlin. The good thing is, that we do not have to compete with banks or other big companies like Twitter, Facebook and credit card payment firm Square," said Edial Dekker, founder of event-organiser and city-explorer website Gidsy.According to a study by the thinktank Initiative for a New Social Market Economy (INSM) the percentage of highly qualified academics in Berlin has risen faster than anywhere else in Germany in the last three years. That also makes it easier to find suitable staff.Jens Begemann, founder and chief executive of Wooga – inventor of Monster World and Diamond Dash – and a rival to the US game company Zynga, said: "Compared to other European capitals the costs for food and accommodation are really low. That attracts young and creative people from all over the world who like to work in tech or creativity-related businesses."He knows what he is talking about. He employs 250 people of 35 different nationalities, all based in a colourful, loft-style office in trendy Prenzlauer Berg.SoundCloud recently poached some Google employees from San Francisco, a hint of the interest a Berlin startup can generate further afield. However, although many businesses may move seamlessly between London and Berlin, it is much harder for internet entrepreneurs to make the leap across the Atlantic and compete globally with the established tech companies of Silicon Valley."California is the measure of all things in the internet scene," admits Klaus-Heiner Röhl of the Cologne Institute for Economic Research. According to Jacobi, Silicon Valley is more than 30 years ahead of the German market. "At a particular time most of the startups have to go abroad to become a huge player," says Hüppe. California also offers the best-qualified staff and lawyers.According to a McKinsey study about the internet economy, the United States dominates the global internet supply ecosystem. It captures more than 30% of global internet revenues and more than 40% of net income.But the study found Germany had a lot of potential. In 2011 internet transactions directly contributed 3.2% to Germany's GDP, against 5.4% in the United Kingdom and 3.8% in the United States. That is what drives German startups and makes investors confident. The internet economy has room to move upwards and play a larger role.The Brooklyn-based handmade and vintage marketplace website Etsy recently expanded into the German market with a new office in Berlin. Etsy's manager for Germany, Caroline Drucker, says that besides cheap rents and creative people there is also "a sense of excitement about the future"."The end result of all this is that entrepreneurs do not need so much initial capital as in other cities. That is why they try more and have less fear to fail," said Drucker.GeekettesWomen are still under-represented in the tech world. But theBerlin Geeketteswant to change that. Set up a year ago by Jess Erickson, an American, the Geekettes describes themselves as an organisation for building relationships between women in the technology sector. They concentrate on networking events and mentoring partnerships, where more experienced women act as mentors to budding young female technology engineers and entrepreneurs. They already have more than 300 members.The Geekettes have all had to make their way in a male-dominated world. One is Amélie Anglade, a developer at the online audio distribution platform SoundCloud, who tries to get more tech-savvy women into programming. Erickson works for General Assembly, a global network of campuses for people seeking opportunity and education in technology, business and design. "Working in Berlin's startup world fills my days with adrenaline-packed experiences. The opportunities for me to learn are endless. This space allows me to collaborate with people from many different backgrounds in an international setting. I can honestly say that this is an empowering moment in my life," Erickson said.
Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, has promised to shift production of one of its Mac lines to the United States from China by next year and admitted that the company "screwed up" when it dumped Google's maps for its own in September.In his first media interviews since taking up the CEO post on the death of founder Steve Jobs, Cook said Apple was already sourcing more of its parts in the US, and would spend $100m next year to move production of the unspecified computer line from China.He also said the company was working extremely hard to improve the functionality of its maps feature.The interviews, withBloomberg Businessweekand NBC'sRock Center with Brian Williams, come as Apple has seen sharp falls in its stock as investors fret about intensifying competition from rivals such as Samsung in the smartphone and tablet markets. There are also concerns about the effects of the fiscal cliff crisis on capital gains tax, which could make shareholders liable for high payments on shares.Cook's comments are published on the day that a judge in California began hearing post-trial arguments from Samsung and Apple over the case in which a jury awarded Apple $1bn for patent and design infringements by its South Korean rival.In his NBC interview, Cook noted that the main cost of making a PC or smartphone comes in buying chips, many of which are made in the US. But the issue of where Apple assembles its products has been touchy for Apple: its Chinese manufacturing partner Foxconn has faced significant criticism over  working conditions at its factories, and some politicians in the United States have criticised Apple for not doing more to support the US economy.Cook told Bloomberg that Apple's plans for Mac production in the US would include more than just final assembly of the chosen product line. "This doesn't mean that Apple will do it ourselves, but we'll be working with people and we'll be investing our money," Cook told Bloomberg Businessweek. He did not say where in the country the Macs would be made.The new US-made line is likely to represent only a tiny piece of Apple's overall production – iPhones and iPads form the largest part of Apple's business and will continue to be made overseas.On the maps issue, Cook defended the decision to drop Google maps in principle, suggesting Google blocked the provision of turn-by-turn navigation and voice direction."We had a list of things that we thought would be a great customer experience [on maps], and we couldn't do it any other way than to do it ourselves," Cook told Bloomberg. But he added: "We couldn't do it any other way than to do it ourselves" – suggesting that Google blocked those services to the iPhone.The work began some years before, not in order to cut Google out, but to provide customers with the services, Cook said. "And the truth is that it didn't live up to our expectations. We screwed up." But he added: "We're putting all our energy into putting it right … we've got a huge plan to make it even better."Apple was heavily criticised over some problems in the maps it provided, such as the misidentification of locations, and missing details about public transport compared to Google's. Cook wrote a public letter of apology and in October fired the head of iPhone software, Scott Forstall. It also ousted John Browett, the Briton who formerly ran Dixons and had been Apple's head of retail.Forstall's failure, Cook implied in the Bloomberg interview, was that he couldn't bring enough collaboration to the company. The firings were intended to "get us to a whole new level of collaboration", Cook said. That hints that Forstall, who had particularly been identified as insufficiently collegiate, had become too divisive within the company for Cook's liking."I despise politics," Cook said. "There is no room for it in a company. My life is going to be way too short to deal with that. No bureaucracy … no politics, no agendas. When you do that, things become pretty simple." The converse "sucks the life out of you".Instead, the task of running the stores presently falls to Cook himself, while the software line is the responsibility of Sir Jonathan Ive, who Cook said "has the best taste of anyone in the world and the best design skills".He hinted that Apple has "some really cool ideas" in the field of wireless – perhaps something involving phones.Steve Jobs explicitly told him not to try to second-guess his decisions after his death. Cook said he was told by Jobs:  "I saw what happened when Walt Disney passed away. People kept looking around, and they asked what Walt would have done… I never want you to ask what I would have done. Just do what's right."Cook declined to discuss what products might be forthcoming from Apple's stable. But he did say that a growing amount of the parts used in Apple products are made in the US, including the processor for the iPhone and iPad – by Samsung in Texas.He said that he wants to keep Apple in its unusual format to maximise innovation: "Creativity and innovation are something you can't flowchart out. A lot of companies have innovation departments, and this is always a sign that something is wrong when you have a BP of innovation or something. Everybody in our company is responsible to be innovative."He pointed out that 80% of Apple's revenues are from products – the iPhone 5, iPad mini, and revised iPad – that "didn't exist [in shops] 60 days ago. Is there any other company that would do that?"But Apple still sticks to a number of traditions – such as the "Monday morning meeting" which began under Jobs, which begins at 9am and discusses "everything in the company that's important, every new product".Asked how he feels about suing a company that is also Apple's biggest supplier, he replied: "I hate litigation. I absolutely hate it. For us, this is about values. We tried every other avenue [to settle] and so we'll see what happens in the future."Cook said that being the full-time chief executive, rather than the part-time basis on which he did it when Steve Jobs was ill in 2004, 2010 and then 2011, is "different" and has been "a bit of a surprise" – but equally, he said he loves it. He said that he is a private person, and that "I don't feel famous".Cook also revealed that he gets hundreds of informal emails every day from customers with praise and criticism. Apple, he believes, has always engendered strong emotion in its customers – whether positive or negative. "Customers got angry with Apple and would yell and scream – but they would keep buying," he said. By contrast, they would simply switch suppliers between PC manufacturers such as Dell and Compaq.
In August 1878, when the editors of the popular American magazine Appleton's Journal first encountered Impressionism, their response was one of bafflement and affront. "What new dogma is this," demanded one editorial, "that so long as colour is heaped on in a vigorous manner, a picture must be accepted as complete, however crude and raw it may seem, however absolute is the evidence that the artist stopped before he had done?"To them, and to the French critics who attended the first showing of paintings by Monet, Degas and Pissaro on the Boulevard des Capucines in 1874, these works were a travesty; an insult to the formal skill of the great masters. They were not art, they were incomplete.We can then fast forward, if we must, to Duchamp's great practical joke, Fountain, to Warhol, to the Young British Artists, all pilloried, all questioned, all placed against battered and subjective dogma. Now we can add video games.Somehow, this issue is still being analysed and debated – mostly by those outside of the industry, who have little clue about games. In 2010 the film critic Roger Ebert made himself a few thousand internet enemies by declaring thatgames can never be art. And last week, the Guardian art critic Jonathan Jonesreacted with disdainto Moma's exhibition of14 classic video games. In a piece entitled "Sorry Moma but games are not art" he claimed that games could never qualify as artistic expression because their very interactivity meant that the creator was unable to claim an authorial vision. "No one 'owns' the game," he suggested, "so there is no artist, and therefore no work of art".It is a comment that returns us to that first Impressionist exhibition, where the critic Louis Leroy cruelly lampooned the works on display as uncultured blobs of paint on dirty canvases. "The visual arts world is always ready to defend its turf against interlopers," says Matt Adams, co -founder of interactive art collectiveBlast Theory. "As a games designer and as an artist making interactive work this stuff is a constant."Ironically, the arguments that Jones musters are uncannily similar in style to those used against Duchamp's Urinal or Carl Andre's Equivalent VIII. Those critics also asserted that a ready made was not a valid act of personal imagination, that it was 'just' an object that the artist didn't even own".For Adams, the flaw in Jones' argument is that the insistence on a lone creative voice immediately strikes out all collective practice and every collaboration. "It is facile to assert that it is the solo nature of its production that allows an artwork to speak to others," he says. "So much contemporary visual art is made by teams of technicians and assistants, even before we start on a heritage of amazing collaborators ranging from Gilbert and George to Heather and Ivan Morison. Most games are, in any case, strongly driven by the vision of a single designer. Games connoisseurs would know a Miyamoto from a Wright in a heartbeat".Jones' piece also overlooks the artists already using video games, both as a primary source of inspiration, and an artistic medium. "Among them is game artist Jason Rohrer, a number of whose works have already been shown in NYC MOMA," says Richard Lemarchand a veteran game designer who now lectures at USC. "Rod Humble made a game called The Marriage in 2007 that took an important step to stake out territory for games as art whose meaning arises solely through the ludic systems of its interactivity, rather than through the nature of its content, and an international community of artists like Anna Anthropy, Daniel Benmergui, Jenova Chen, Dan Pinchbeck and Tale of Tales are all doing interesting work".Jones is a little behind on all of this. The central question of whether interactivity cedes too much responsibility to the spectator has been tackled by artists and musicians for over 100 years. Lemarchand, for example, refers to Umberto Eco's essay, Opera aperta ("The Open Work"): "it was inspired by composers like Stockhausen, Berio, Pousseur and their use of aleatoric and ludic methods to introduce dynamic elements of possibility into their music. Eco extrapolated from those works to develop a literary theory whereby texts are not static, in part because of their 'intertextuality', but most importantly, because of the interpretive role of the reader". You could also point to the telematic art of Roy Ascott, who set up the radical and influential Groundcourse in art teaching in the sixties and who has explored the concepts of telepresence and cyberspace in art. When Iinterviewed him for Frieze magazinethree years ago, he was fascinated by the artistic possibilities of games.It is possible to argue, of course, that all art is interactive; it is there in the very act of interpretation. The artist is never the soul arbiter of meaning, and artists, like game designers, build structures through which they communicate rather than dictate. "As someone who has been professionally designing video games for all of their adult life, it's always surprising to me to hear people claim that there isn't, 'the presence of an organising mind' behind them," says Lemarchand. "Games are made up of sets of rules and goals that produce dynamical systems as players begin to use them. Those rules are created by someone - a game designer - and circumscribe a space of possibility and meaning for the player to explore. Sometimes the rules are strict and rigidly constraining, sometimes they're loose and require interpretation - no more or less than a score by Mozart, or a set of conceptual instructions from John Cage, Yoko Ono or Sol Le Witt".Moma has clearly chosen its initial batch of subjects on principles of design rather than meaning; I hope it will expand its parameters. I hope Jonathan Jones gets to playJourneyorThe GraveyardorDear Esther, games that express and explore life, fear and beauty. These are important things. "For a game to qualify as an art work we should ask: can they carry intellectual and emotional sophisitication? Can they move you? Can they express complex ideas?" says Adams. "The answer is yes, yes and yes. It may not be PacMan that does it for me. It isn't Katamari Damacy or Bioshock or any of the other regular candidates. But, as one small example, 911 Survivor is a short mod that puts you into the World Trade Center after the first plane has hit and it's an experience I will never forget. It prompted death threats and was withdrawn. It is as valid a work of art as any piece of ceramics, any ready made, any abstract expressionist painting".What is art? What isn't? It is a fool's errand, really, and when applied to video games, there can only be one true and valid response: does it really matter? The perfect arc of a Mario jump, the iridescent beauty of Rez, the pastoral longing of Flower, even the architectural brilliance of a Counter-Strike map; none of this is belittled if it fails to 'qualify' as art. "Jonathan's piece is the normal half-baked reactionary response that's been wheeled out several times over the last few years," says Dan Pinchbeck, a lecturer in computer games and creative technologies at Portsmouth University and designer of Dear Esther. "To be honest, I don't think its actually a very interesting question. I don't think games need to aspire to being art, like art is an inherently more worthwhile form of cultural expression - people were playing games long before they were making art, so it's certainly not an older one. A more interesting question is, why is it so important to some people that games are NOT art? Why do they feel so threatened by games being art?"And this is the soul of it really; this is what it comes down to. Certain critics will always attempt to barricade themselves against the flood of the new, to fence in what they understand and can safely ascribe meaning to – but new art always seeps through. The next time someone tells you that something isn't art, that it can't possibly even qualify, know that what they're really telling you is that they are bewildered by change. That's okay, it's human, but it shouldn't be mistaken for criticism. Are games art or aren't they? Nobody need answer. Games are beautiful and important, we can leave it there and know that we are right.
My career in the internet industry began in London in 1993 and if you had told me then that the UK would one day be the most advanced internet economy in the world, I would have questioned your sanity. But that is precisely what it is today.According to the Boston Consulting Group, by 2016, 3 billion people will be online and the internet economy will be worth $4.2tn among G20 countries – almost doubling in size since 2010. It's a revolution which is rewiring every part of business and society, from SMEs to multi-nationals, not-for-profits to governments – and Britain is leading the way. In 2010, the internet accounted for more than 8% of UK GDP (a figure I'll come back to), more than any other G20 nation, including the US (at 5.4%) and China (6.9%). We spend three times as much on e-commerce as any other country and double the amount on online advertising – so the impact on retail and media is more profound in the UK than anywhere else. Moreover, the online economy here is predicted to expand more quickly than in the world's two biggest economies.Nowhere is that growth more clearly demonstrated than in Tech City, east London's technology quarter. Over the past two years, the number of internet-based companies located in the Old Street area, has quadrupled to more than 800. Not only is London firmly established as a social media hub – it is the only English-speaking city in the top 10 global cities for Facebook users and the No 1 world city for Twitter – but internet giants including Amazon, Facebook, Google, Skype, Twitter and Yammer have launched operations in the capital.Everywhere you turn, the case for this being London's "moment" grows more compelling. Stanford and Berkeley Universities have long been hailed as one of the key ingredients in Silicon Valley's success, yet three of the world's top 10 universities – Oxford, Cambridge and Imperial College – are nearby, or in the capital itself, in addition to the London Business School, the LSE and Central St Martins. Southampton, a global leader in the semantic web and home to Prof Nigel Shadbolt and Sir Tim Berners Lee, founders of the Open Data Institute, is also little more than an hour away.The UK now has one of the best environments globally for founders and angel investors. Thanks to a campaign by Seedcamp, Britain is the only G20 country with an Entrepreneur Visa, so that if you have £50,000 of accredited investment, you can come from abroad and start your business here. Similarly, the first £10m of an exit is taxed at just 10%, while the Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS) allows backers to invest up to £100,000 in a single tax year, which can be spread over a number of UK companies, offering tax relief of 50%.And perhaps most important of all: London plays host to at least 20-plus category breakout companies - including King.com, Just Eat Mind Candy, Mimecast and Wonga. These are all big businesses, still private and growing fast. Their rise is eye-watering; five years ago there were only four or five companies of that size in London (Asos, Lovefilm, Playfish, Skype). If present trends persist, in five years time there'll be 50. In a decade, perhaps, 100 – or more. If some of the current wave can go public, either here or even on the NASDAQ (and at least two of them are currently preparing for IPOs), then we will start to see companies on the scale of Facebook and Google headquartered in London, which would create tens of thousands of jobs.This surge in growth is only possible because London is now not only the most international city on earth, but the peerless centre for European early stage capital. If a founder, with a promising business, took a 10-minute stroll around Mayfair, they'd have access to €5bn of early stage capital – and that's not just from Index: but from Accel, Balderton and Wellington. Indeed, tech investment is flourishing at every layer: from seed and Micro VC, thanks to Seedcamp and new micro VCs such as Hoxton Ventures, as well as London's traditional strengths in private equity, hedge funds and capital markets. So the cash is here, as are, crucially, people looking for investment opportunities.And that certainly wasn't always the case. When I first returned to London in 2002 – after a decade in the US – I wanted to start an internet business. But Silicon Valley-style investors were thin on the ground back then. The turn-of-the-century internet crash had fostered a sense that the web was a fad and businesses built on it were no longer investable. The prevailing attitude, I recall, from the media, corporates and investors was: 'Thank God this internet thing is over. Now things can return to the way they were before.'But they didn't, of course, and I can pinpoint the precise moment I felt a seismic shift. I had launched the DVD rental company Video Island (which would later become Lovefilm), when I was introduced to a group of Nordic founders, who were thinking of moving their HQ to London. My partner at Index Ventures Danny Rimer urged me to download their product, and aside from the day I first downloaded the Netscape browser 15 years earlier, I'd never seen anything as exciting. Skype's arrival was a genuine game-changer. Outside of the Valley and Seattle, this was the very first time I'd seen something that had the potential to be a global internet brand – and the fact that this was happening in London was truly amazing to me.The years since, and the last five in particular, have seen the total transformation of the capital's technology landscape. Yet for London to retain its position as a world-beater, there's one statistic we should all be repeating, mantra-like, until it seeps into the national consciousness: the internet economy is worth more than 8% of UK GDP. With that in mind, investors of whatever shape or size should look at every company, not just in the FTSE100, but the EU500 too, and ask their CEOs: 'Do you do more or less than 8% of your business over the internet? If you don't, then I'll be shorting your stock. If you do, maybe I should be buying more of it.' Of governments, from the EU to regional administrations and local councils, we should be demanding that at least 8% of services are delivered online. If not, then they are failing tax-payers.8% is what success looks like in the internet age. Anyone who is doing more than that, is growing faster than GDP. It really is that simple. The UK is in the vanguard of a worldwide technological revolution. We have a once-in-a-lifetime chance to cement London as one of the top five hub cities of the internet century. This is our moment on the global stage. Now all we have to do is perform.Saul Klein is a partner with Index Ventures and co-founder of the startup accelerator Seedcamp
My son is into making videos (live and possibly animation) of Lego/Playmobil. I want to buy him a cheapish digital video+still camera that he can use to make them, edit in Camtasia, add audio etc.Zoom and focus would be useful. What are our options? Is there anything nice around £100?Su ButcherNowadays, a lot of different devices can be used to make videos.Movie-making starts with webcams, smartphones, and digital compact cameras, then moves up through increasingly sophisticated types of camcorder costing from about £100 to £10,000. In fact, serious movie-makers sometimes use digital SLRs, because their relatively large image sensors produce film-like results (though sound has to be recorded separately).Also, most devices now use SD (secure digital) memory cards to store video footage. This makes it easy to move files to a PC for editing, since most laptops now have built-in card slots.Flip UltraWith camcorders, there's usually a trade-off between versatility, ease of use, and price. The simplest pocket video cameras often look like smartphones: this upright format was popularised by the Flip Ultra, which was released in the US in 2007. Pocket video cameras don't have many features, so users rarely have to worry about different settings.They are not very versatile, but they are robust and easy to use. This makes them ideal for kids.Like smartphone users, pocket camcorder users rarely plan what they are shooting, and they are unlikely to edit their videos, except for "topping and tailing". They may well upload the results to Facebook, YouTube, or another online service.Consumers who want more versatility – and, often, increased quality – can buy entry-level camcorders that tend to look like big lenses. These usually offer 20x or longer zoom ranges, exposure and focus control, optical image stabilisation, time-lapse recording and animation features. Most but not all can take still pictures as well, which is one way to do stop-motion animation (see below).Toshiba Camileo ClipFor children up to the age of 10, I'd tend to go for a pocket camcorder like the FlipVideo Ultra or (much cheaper) Toshiba Camileo Clip. (TheMustek DV316L, at £25 to £30, is an exception.) However, making videos of Lego/Playmobil parts probably does require the zooming and close focusing capabilities of a more sophisticated camcorder. Since these also have point-and-shoot modes, your son will certainly be able to use one, but exploiting the more advanced features may be a challenge.I'd usually recommend theJVC Everio GZ-E10or GZ-E15 as entry-level camcorders, but these don't have still photography options. If that's important, you should step up to something like theGZ-E200, which does. On paper, thePanasonic V100 Full HDlooks an even better buy, but I've not seen one myself.In this case, however, they all bust your budget, sometimes by a substantial amount. For example, the Panasonic V100 costs £149.99 at Amazon.co.uk. Even shopping around isn't going to close that gap.Fortunately, there is a half-way house between Flip Ultra-style and basic consumer camcorders. Several companies offer "vertical camcorders" that you hold more like a pistol. "Vertical camcorders" are robust and easy to use, can take still pictures as well as videos, and also offer limited optical zooming capabilities.For example, thePanasonic HX-DC2EB-Hhas a 5x optical zoom lens and also takes decent still images with a resolution of up to 4352 x 3264 (14 megapixels). You can get one fromCurrysor Amazon Prime for £99.99, which is right on budget.An alternative is theToshiba Camileo P100, which also has a 5x optical zoom and a still picture mode. It's widely available for£89.99.Toshiba has ademo videoon YouTube.Panasonic HX-DC2Bear in mind that your son will also need a tripod, to keep the camcorder still during filming. Not all small video cameras have a tripod bush, and the spec sheet for the Panasonic HX-DC2 doesn't mention one.Pistol grip-style camcorders tend to encourage "hose-piping" — waving the camera around — which is the worst crime in amateur cinematography. Putting the camcorder on a tripod discourages hose-piping and should lead to videos that are steadier, sharper, and better composed. I also encourage people to plan their shots in advance usingeraser-tipped pencilsto thumbnail their ideas on index cards, which are much easier to shuffle around than one-page storyboards. Planning ahead has educational value.Earlier, I mentioned it was possible to create stop-motion animation movies by taking a series of stills. But if you have a computer, you can do the job with even the simplest camcorder or webcam. The idea is to plug the camcorder into a PC using a USB cable, then use a screen-grabber to capture the images you need. Perhaps your son has already tried something similar withCamtasia. Otherwise, there are many other programs listed at theAnimation Bank, includingStopMotionProsoftware which, according to its website, was used to make Wallace &amp; Gromit.Obviously, more expensive camcorders will usually produce better looking videos, but in this case, even the low-end cameras should be good enough, as long as the subject is in focus and well lit. (You can't expect low-light performance to be very good.) YouTube shows that making an interesting or amusing clip beats technical quality every time.
A key member of the Anonymous hacking group has been convicted for his part in a series of cyber-attacks on Paypal and other major companies.Christopher Weatherhead, 22, who used the name Nerdo on the internet, was described as a leading player in the "distributed denial of service" attacks. He worked with fellow Anonymous members Peter Gibson, 24, Ashley Rhodes, 28, and Jake Birchall, 18, to bring down websites by flooding them with messages and requests under the banner "Operation Payback".Weatherhead was convicted on one count of conspiracy to impair the operation of computers, contrary to the Criminal Law Act 1977.The cyber-attacks originally targeted the music industry in response to its anti-piracy stance. But the group changed its plan after the backlash against Julian Assange and WikiLeaks following their release of classified data in December 2010.Anonymous spent 10 days targeting Paypal, causing losses of £3.5m.London's Southwark crown court heard that PayPal was attacked after it decided not to process payments on behalf of the Wau Holland Foundation, an organisation involved in raising funds for WikiLeaks.Other companies targeted included Mastercard, Visa and the British Recorded Music Industry (BPI). Anyone who tried to visit their websites was directed to a page displaying the message: "You've tried to bite the Anonymous hand. You angered the hive and now you are being stung."A jury of six men and five women deliberated for little more than two hours on Thursday before returning a guilty verdict against Weatherhead for his "integral role" in the attacks, which happened while he was studying at Northampton University.Weatherhead looked at the floor then across to his parents when the guilty verdict was read out.Judge Peter Testar warned him he could face jail when sentenced at a later date with his three co-accused, who pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing."I want to have as much information as possible before deciding what should happen in the case of these four men," he said. "I think these are serious offences to my mind, and I hope the defendant understands that."The trial heard that Weatherhead spent up to 10 hours a day online and dreamed of working for Amazon or Google. He refused to admit that he had been part of the actual attacks, claiming to have been the communications manager for Anonymous and the creator of online chatrooms where the attacks were planned.Weatherhead told the court he was an observer in October 2010 while others carried out their attack on the website of the Ministry of Sound, causing £9,000 damage.Neil Corre, defending, asked him: "Were there times when you were observing attacks while they were happening?""Yes," said Weatherhead, "I was quite interested. I did not believe that what was being discussed was actually possible."The student portrayed himself as an ideological dreamer who had come across the Anonymous group by chance and agreed with its stance against censorship on the internet."I like the freedom of information that is on the web. I enjoy spending a lot of time on Wikipedia reading things. When you can't get information I feel abashed by that," he told the court.Weatherhead was freed on bail until sentencing in January on a date yet to be set.The hacker is banned from using internet chat relays or posting online under the pseudonym Nerdo or any other name but his own.Testar ordered him to be electronically tagged and subject to a midnight to 4am curfew at his parents' home.
Megaupload tycoon Kim Dotcom has won a significant battle in his ongoing war against a US extradition order after a court ruled that the New Zealand authorities must disclose information about illegally spying on him.The high court verdict also means that Dotcom can claim damages from the Government Communications Security Bureau in New Zealand for a raid on his house in January under the instructions of the FBI in the US.The US government is battling to extradite Dotcom from New Zealand on charges of fraud, money laundering and copyright infringement on the popular Megaupload website, part of a file-sharing empire that generated $175m in the seven years it operated. It was shut down in January, with the entertainment industry estimating the site traded $500m of illegally copied material.The new court ruling allows Dotcom's lawyers access to the GCSB files on the surveillance at his home and the police requests for information on his case. GCSB acted illegally by spying on Dotcom, the judge ruled, because they failed to check his residency status. Even though he was a German national, he had been granted New Zealand residency.New Zealand's prime minister John Key has already been forced to publicly apologise for the illegal spying after an earlier court ruled that the search warrants were illegal, and ordered the disclosure of evidential documents.Dotcom has had to sell part of his fleet of collectible cars to supplement his income, while continuing to promote a new music sharing site called Megabox and posting occasional eccentric amateur videos, including details of a panto for Christmas.Last month he also proposedfunding free broadbandfor all New Zealand homes by suing the US government and Hollywood studios for "unlawful and political destruction" of his business.
Revenues at the Taiwanese handset maker HTC has fallen year on year for the 13th month in a row, continuing a downward trend in its growth that began as far back as March 2011 but has accelerated in the past year.Figuresposted on the company's investor siteshow that for November, revenues were NT$21,230m ($729m, or £457m). That is down 31% on the figure a year ago – though it is an improvement month on month.The company does not offer monthly profit figures, but its profitability has been slipping along with its revenues. In the third quarter, to the end of September, it made an operating income of just NT$4.9m ($168,000), down by 80% from the year before, as revenues fell by 50%. With revenues for the fourth quarter likely to fall too, HTC may veer on the edge of profitablity – though the company has not so far issued a profit warning.HTC revenues and year-on-year growth to November 2012. Source: HTC. Click for larger version.HTC is struggling to make headway in the phone market after briefly being the biggest smartphone seller in the US in 2010. In the Android market, it has come up against increasingly fierce competition at all price points from South Korea's Samsung. Meanwhile its newest range of HTC 8S Windows Phone handsets – a lower-end challenger – will not go on sale in the US because of "testing delays", itsaid last week. Instead it will only be selling its top-end HTC 8X Windows Phone device in the US.HTC's fortunes may ease in the coming months after itsettled a long-running series of court battles with Apple over patents, in which the two sides signed an agreement to share some – but by no means all – of their intellectual property. The deal will be the focus of a court battle on 6 December between Apple and Samsung, during post-trial hearings afterApple was awarded $1bn in damages by a California juryagainst Samsung, which was found guilty of infringing a number of Apple's design and utility patents.The HTC-Apple deal relates to utility patents, and Samsung is arguing that the iPhone maker's willingness to license some patents to HTC means that it should not be granted an injunction against Samsung devices claimed to infringe the same patents.Meanwhile, data from ComScore shows that HTC has rapidly been losing share in the US market, the world's richest – though not biggest by volume – for smartphones. Itsfigures for phone ownership in the US in Octobershow that fewer people are using HTC phones: from a peak of just under 15m in use in January 2012, the number now has fallen to just over 14m.By contrast the number of Samsung phones – both smartphones and featurephones – in use in the US has risen during that period from 59.4m to 61.5m, while iPhone use has risen from just under 30m to 41.6m, according to ComScore's data. Together the two companies are now the most-used phone brands in the US, ComScore says.
Twitter took a further step towards localisation on Thursday by expanding its "regional trends" theme to 12 more UK cities.Users of Twitter can now see what is trending in Belfast, Brighton, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Leeds, Leicester, Liverpool, Newcastle, Nottingham, Portsmouth and Sheffield. Trends for Birmingham, Glasgow, London, and Manchester were introduced in January 2010.Announcing regional trends in ablogpost, Twitter pointed to the example of Green MP@carolinelucasand DJ@fatboyslimin Brighton, and Olympian@chrishoyand@edinburghfestin Edinburgh.Twitter introduced tailored trends, based on a user's location and who they follow, in June, while the original trends feature launched in thesummer of 2008.Twitter has been expanding its range of features and increasing its commercial tools, such as promoted tweets, as the service has grown and investors have pressed the company for higher revenue. It has also tightening up on access for somethird-party services, though trends has spawned a flurry of sites including trendsmap, andttchart.co.uk.
Hello, it's Thursday, and I'm celebrating because Bethesda finally released its patch to fix all the bugs in Dishonored.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe family is growing: Nokia Lumia 620 &gt;&gt; Nokia ConversationsNokia's official blog:this is Windows Phone 8, so the Nokia Lumia 620 comes with Live Tiles for updates direct to the Start Screen, PeopleHub for all your address books in one place and a Me Tile to make it easy to post and track notifications across social networks. With Xbox Live, Microsoft Office, 7GB of SkyDrive storage and faster, safer surfing with Internet Explorer 10, it's hard to know what to do first. You might want to start with Angry Birds Star Wars or Words with Friends - just a suggestion.Excluding any local taxes or operator subsidies, the Nokia Lumia 620 will cost around $249 USD and will be available from Q1 2013.To quote a former Nokia head of PR, "survival is in our DNA." (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Abuse of .EU domains by malware gangs continues despite Registrar notification &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityWhat the world really needs is a lot more TLDs and even more registrars. Isn't it?How Lenovo is resurrecting the PC &gt;&gt; TechnewsworldRob Enderle (no, really):The technology market is awash with engineering-driven companies that believe that if they build lots of very different products and throw them into the market, most of them will sell. The expectation is that customers will gravitate to the products they want.Most companies don't seem to understand the power of marketing and that it is this power that has driven Apple's bottom line so strongly. Marketing allows a firm to drive people to a smaller selection of products, which, if done correctly, results in fewer mistakes and much higher sales success.Lenovo has taken a page from Apple's book, largely by using an Apple trained CMO, David Roman, to drive its marketing efforts and by leveraging social media. For instance,this videowas created by some of the folks who do the James Bond films, and it went viral. The product it showcases - the Lenovo Yoga Windows 8 tablets - has been the showcase OEM tablet for Windows 8 as a result.Activity of Apple, Google and other companies in the WebKit project &gt;&gt; Bitergia's blogThis post is the first of a series on different aspects of WebKit development, based on the analytics we at Bitergia are gathering about it. Our take is that WebKit is one of those projects massively used by the industry, and therefore worth studying with the aim of providing quantitative and objective data about it.An insight, though without some way to measure the merit and effect of the changes, it feels like they're just generating statistics from stuff that's easy to measure, rather than stuff that's helpful to know.The mystery of Samsung Electronics SG&amp;A &gt;&gt; asymcoThe company offers a break-down of these SG&amp;A costs and they are also shown (Apple does not provide a breakdown except for advertising in its yearly report). The suspicion that something is not right comes from looking not only at the overall picture but the notion that Transportation, Warranty and "Other" for Samsung are higher than overall SG&amp;A for Apple.Note that Apple's SG&amp;A includes the cost to operate its retail stores. This includes the salaries and operating costs of over 300 stores...I don't have any explanation for this disparity.SG&amp;A is short for "Sales, General and Administrative" expenses.Bomb Sight - Mapping the World War 2 London Blitz Bomb CensusMapped out either by the first night (intense), weekly census (really intense) or aggregate (unimaginable). It lasted from 7 October 1940 to 6 June 1941.Windows 8: Operating Under the Influence &gt;&gt; YouTubeThis video is part of a set of web usability tests, focused on drinking customers, conducted by Three Sheets Market Research. Following the release of Windows 8, we wasted no time in trying out Microsoft's new operating system on a drunken subject.Double interfaces all round!Text Messaging - the phoenix of the digital age? &gt;&gt; OpenSignal BlogFor the first time since text messaging entered general use there has been a fall in the number of texts sent in the UK. Following two quarterly declines the number of text messages sent this year has fallen to 38.5 billion in Q2 2012 from a high of 39.7 billion in Q4 last year. This phenomenon is not simply UK based, with the United States showing a similar decline and the Finnish carrier Sonera showing a fall of over 20% in the number of text messages sent on Christmas Eve 2011 when compared with Christmas Eve 2010. What is clear is that alternative forms of electronic communication are slowly chipping away at the dominant position that text messaging has occupied in the lives of mobile users over the last 20 years.In general, if a headline ends with a questionmark, it can be answered "no".OEMs continue to fail on the Windows 8 Launch &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:I'm baffled by press, analysts, OEMs, and retailers who are complaining that Windows 8 isn't saving the PC industry.  They still don't get it.  Windows 8 couldn't do a damn thing to make classic form-factor PCs so attractive that their sales would explode.  They represent a mature market with a steady to declining replacement rate as some scenarios are addressed by alternate form factors.  It is only by embracing the new form factors, including large screen touch-based devices, that the PC industry can reverse its decline.  And so far, other than Vapor, the PC industry has largely failed to do so.Berenson used to work at Microsoft as an engineer and general manager.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Instagram hasblocked Twitterfrom displaying photos taken on the Facebook-owned service as "cards" inside the microblogging service.Speaking at the LeWeb conference in Paris, Instagram's chief executive Kevin Systrom insisted that although "we will always be integrated with Twitter in a way that you can tweet out from Instagram to Twitter", there were changes being made to the connections between the two services - though he denied it was anything to do withInstagram's acquisition by Facebookearlier this year. He also denied that it was linked to Twitter's blocking of access by Instagram users to the Twitter social graph, used to find friends of people who join the service.The move marks another in thetit-for-tat wars being fought between Twitter and a number of other social networksover the use of tweets and user details in their services, and the use of media created in other social networks in Twitter.It's a standoff in which the two sides wrestle endlessly. Twitter has blocked services such as LinkedIn and Tumblr from accessing its API and especially from getting details about users on its service, which has the effect of preventing rivals from expanding quickly by building on Twitter's social graph.Yet Twitter may need Instagram more than the Facebook-owned service needs the microblogging one. Instagram passed Twitter for daily mobile users in the US in August 2012, and that trend may continue.Twitter benefits from having content from other media-generating services - such as Instagram. In September, the AllThingsD site reported that user engagement from Twitter to Instagram pictures was greater than within Instagram itself.However, Instagram is now owned by Facebook, and is now taking a defensive posture over Twitter.The effect of Instagram cutting off integration with Twitter's "cards" system means that the content doesn't necessarily display accurately, with cropping being used on some photo shapes.  Systrom said in a statement that Instagram previously supported Twitter cards "because we had a minimal web presence" - the app only existed on mobile phones, and it was difficult to find photos via the web.But now, Instagram is developing a more web-based interface - with support for Facebook "likes" - and feels that "the best experience [for users] is for us to link back to where the content lives."Meanwhile, Twitter is reported to be working on Instagram-like photo filters - a move that would let it catch up to Instagram, though it would add a layer of complexity to a service whose principal attraction has frequently been its simplicity - as well as the content.
George Osborne has confirmed that the UK's video game, animation and "high end" television industries will benefit from a 25% tax relief from April 2013.The chancellor had already promised some form of games industry tax breaks as part of his March 2012 budget, but gave no further details at the time. In June the treasury releaseda statementclaiming that these would be, "among the most generous [reliefs] in the world".Responding to the news, Dr Richard Wilson, CEO of Tiga, an association that represents independent game developers, said: "We did push for 30%, but we're very pleased, that's the key point. It's fixed at 25% which means it's going to be simple to understand and implement. It also gives us the most generous tax relief for video games within the European Union. It will be a big boost to the UK industry, and to Europe as a whole really. Global investors will see that our governments take games very seriously".The games industry contributes around £1bn a year to the UK economy, but has been losing staff and development contracts to countries offering generous tax subsidies. Tax relief in Quebec is worth up to 37.5% for creative industries employers."This tax relief puts us on a level playing field and it shows the government has been listening," said Jo Twist, CEO of trade body, UKIE. "We have to be cautious at the moment, though, because the details are still unclear."The legislation for creative industries tax relief is being published on 11 December; this should spell out which sorts of companies and projects will be able to benefit. "As far as we can tell, it specifically supports developers rather than publishers; so the makers of games rather than the funders," said Dave Bailey, co-founder of game developer, Mediatonic."This is really good news for businesses like ours. It will help studios that want to create new IP. Developing games from scratch is a really cash-intensive process, you're taking a big gamble. This provides people with a cash boost if they're not making profits yet, or a reduction on taxes if they are. It incentivises creative risk-taking."Also in the Autumn Statement, the chancellor announced a £6m investment in training for the games, TV and animation industries. According toa press releasefrom the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, this will be used to provide entry-level and professional-level training for up to 3,300 people working in these industries."Combined with the Next Gen skills campaign to get creative computing into schools, this should really help with the talent pipeline," said Twist. "It opens the chance for us to support apprenticeships, internships and more importantly continuous professional development. It should help crack open our innovative industry as a great career to pursue."There were other beneficial announcements for games development. A reduction in the general corporation tax to 21 percent in April 2014 will support the tax relief incentives, while a £50m investment into ultrafast broadband will create a new strata of twelve "super-connected cities" enjoying speeds of 80-100Mbps – perfect for online multiplayer gaming and digital downloads.The message the games industry has taken from Osborne's statement is that the government sees this sector as a decent bet for the UK economy going forward. "The chancellor has said that the economy is taking longer to recover, growth is slower than expected," said Wilson. "Against that backdrop, where you have high levels of government borrowing, its incumbent on any government to look for sources of growth, to support industries where we have some form of competitive advantage."Clearly, there are areas such as aerospace, pharmaceuticals  and the creative industries which are very important sectors - they have the capacity to grow. It's sensible for the government to back them".
Brighton and Hove, Coventry, Salford and Aberdeen are among 12 cities that will share £50m of funding for ultrafast broadband and public Wi-Fi, George Osborne has announced.Alongside a new deadline for awarding rural broadband contracts, the chancellor listed in his autumn statement the places that will receive the super-connected cities grants first announced in the spring 2012 budget. The others are Cambridge, Derby, Oxford, Portsmouth and York in England; Perth in Scotland; Newport in Wales and Derry in Northern Ireland.The latest grants are a second wave of investment, following a £100m grant to improve broadband and public wireless services in a first tranche for 10 UK cities."We urge the government to allocate these funds via a fair and open process that is accessible to those companies that have proven they can efficiently implement fibre technology regardless of their size," said Dana Tobak, managing director of fibre broadband firm Hyperoptic.The projects are part of a national infrastructure plan which has involved an average rise in annual public spending from £29bn between 2005 to 2010, to £33bn between 2010 and 2012.Osborne also set a new deadline for the delayed Broadband Development UK programme, which involves distributing £530m of grants to ensure universal broadband coverage and high-speed access for 90% of premises.Contracts for the work from local councils were originally due to be awarded by the end of this year, but procurement will now complete in "summer 2013", the government said.The delay is due to a tussle with European commissioners who were at first reluctant to grant state aid approval for the project, after complaints that the process of awarding contracts had not been competitive.Only two bidders – BT Group and Japanese firm Fujitsu – were chosen as approved contractors, and Fujitsu has yet to win a contract. Public funds are being matched by industry, local councils, and in some cases by the European Regional Development Fund.Areas expected to have completed procurement by December are Herefordshire and Gloucestershire, Norfolk, Suffolk, Wiltshire, and Devon and Somerset. Lancashire, Rutland and Cumbria have signed contracts and are preparing for implementation. Wales, North Yorkshire and Surrey are through procurement and into delivery.The Treasury said the government was working to prioritise projects with particular delivery challenges, such as Northumberland, which will move to procurement on 10 December 2012.Since Brussels approved the framework contract being used by local councils, "implementation of local broadband projects is developing at demonstrable pace", according to the infrastructure progress report published on Wednesday.As part of the drive to wire up the UK, Osborne confirmed plans to improve mobile phone coverage in rural areas, with a contract expected to be awarded in "spring 2013" and the first mast funded by the scheme to go live by the end of next year.
If you're buried in the technology industry bubble, it's easy to think that every company has a full set of APIs for developers to access its data. Step out into the real world, and it's not true.British startupDatowniais one of the companies trying to tackle this issue. It started life as an internal project for apps agency Release Mobile as a way to make it easier for clients to update data for their apps on different devices.The initial version launched in October after around nine months of development and a "Smart" grant from the UK's Technology Strategy Board.It works thus: companies sign up for Datownia, then connect it to a Dropbox cloud storage account. They can then upload spreadsheets of data to Dropbox, which Datownia then turns into web-service APIs for developers to make apps. Whenever the data in the Dropbox spreadsheet is updated, it's also updated in the apps.The idea is to get more businesses and public-sector bodies opening up their data to developers, while demystifying the process of creating APIs to achieve this."When you ask companies if they have an API, many still ask what it is," says founder Will Lovegrove. "We found a giant gulf between the big companies and technology startups who tend to have APIs, and everybody else in between, of who 96% literally didn't know what API meant."Lovegrove adds that even when these companies know what an API is, they often worry about the cost and complexity of launching their own, especially if it looks like turning into a complex IT integration project requiring outside help."We want to take the IT consultant out of the question for building a good API for a small business," he says. "Why can't we take a spreadsheet, replicate that into the cloud, wrap it around an API and put it into a developer portal?"Users so far include the London Borough of Lambeth, which is building a developer portal of its local authority information; University College London, which also has a developer portal used for its own iPad app and partners; music group PIAS, which is tracking data from its various labels; and Leiths School of Food and Wine, which is using Datownia to update its upcoming iPhone and Android apps simultaneously.Datownia also sponsored the recent UK Parliament Hack Day, building an API full of political data for developers to play with.One resulting hack: MPs Legislative Rainy Day Fun Pack, which scraped weather data from the Wunderground website and compared it to MP voting records data from Datownia to answer the question "Does bad weather affect the voting habits of our MPs?". It hints at the potential.Lovegrove admits there are challenges for Datownia, including teaching some businesses how to create clean spreadsheets for the service to work, and also educating them in how to keep the data updated without causing problems for apps."This is no longer about changing data on your laptop – we have to educate users in what you can and cannot do," he says. "You can't just restructure an Excel doc: you'll kill someone's app!"Currently, Datownia is offering a three-month free trial for businesses to upload up to 250MB of data in Excel spreadsheet form. Thereafter, they will choose one of three pricing plans: for individual use, small-to-medium sized businesses, and heavy API use, costing $25 a month, $120 a month and $190 a month respectively."What we're betting on really is that at some point in time, every single organisation will have an open data API," says Lovegrove. "What we've delivered is a way for very small organisations to get that done without getting their fingers burnt."
A volunteer group of IT professionals hopes to inspire a new generation of software developers by teaching programming skills to children as young as seven.Coderdojoteaches children and young people to build web sites and create applications for desktop computers, smartphones and tablets. From its origins as an informal programming club in an Irish high school, it has grown into a global movement with more than 100 local groups in countries around the world.Craig Steele is the head of one of the newest Coderdojo clubs, based at the Glasgow Science Centre. He said the sessions covered subjects that had been neglected in the school computing curriculum."Pupils spend a lot of time learning to use Word and Excel" he said. "That's important, but it's undermined the underlying science and programming. It's funny to think that we were probably doing more programming in schools 30 years ago [when the first BBC Acorns arrived, with the BASIC language] than we are now."In March,the Guardian called for a "radical reboot" of the ICT curriculum in schools– a call that was acknowledged by swift action soon afterwards by Michael Gove, the education secretary. But even so, introducing coding into classrooms on a regular basis is not a trivial matter.The subject is close to Steele's heart. A computing science graduate, he worked for technology giant HP before joining the Scottish Qualifications Authority – the body responsible for exams in Scotland – developing new science and technology qualifications and curricula.He became aware of the Coderdojo initiative while visiting schools to discuss programming with teachers. The scheme wasonly set up early in 2011when James Whelton – who had earlier achieved some fame by hacking the system underlying the iPod nano – was asked to set up a computer club in his school in Cork; he then met Bill Lao, an entrepreneur, with whom in June 2011 he set up the first Coderdojo event."I knew it was an idea I wanted to see in Scotland," Steele said. "I got in touch with some folks I knew in the industry who were interested in working with young people. We spoke to the Glasgow Science Centre and set up the first meeting in July [2012], and since then we've been running one about every six weeks."Coderdojo's format is open and inclusive. Participants can use the operating system and programming tools of their choice. There is no set curriculum and the only rule is: "Above all: be cool". Steele argues that this level of flexibility allows the group to appeal to would-be developers from a variety of backgrounds."At the Glasgow group we have people from 10 to 17," he said. "There are some with no coding experience and a couple of boys who already have apps in the Apple App Store. Rather than saying, 'This is what you'll be doing', we ask what people are interested in working on and try to help them. We need to balance things out so that there's something for everyone."Games aren't the targetMore rigid approaches, he suggests, can often stifle learners' enthusiasm: "A lot of coding tuition aimed at young people tends to revolve around games," he said. "But that can disengage some young people. Many of them, particularly girls, just aren't interested in gaming."On the other hand, doing something like developing a web site shows them that they can do things they might not have realised they were able to and combines artistic and design skills with an understanding of why things are built in a certain way."Another picture from a Coderdojo session in GlasgowThe approach seemed to go down well with the attendees at the group's most recent meeting.Ten-year-old Ellie was part of a beginners' group building web sites using the web markup language HTML – which dictates how pages appear in a browser - and CSS (cascading style sheets), used to create a uniform look and feel across multiple pages of a site."My favourite site is Moshi Monsters", she said. "I'd like to build a site like that where you can play games and get your own creature, buy stuff for it and have it as a virtual pet. We've been learning all of the tags to do that."Her twin brother William said he hoped to create a site with more of an academic theme: "I came because I was pretty interested in doing stuff with the computer", he said. "I like web sites about facts and history, and I'd really like to build a history one myself."At the other end of the room, more advanced coders worked on personal projects, including apps for Android and iOS devices. Coderdojo mentors including webmasters, financial software developers and PhD students helped them to plan their projects and track down and correct errors in their code.Thirteen-year-old Ted said that he'd become interested in writing software after getting an iPhone."I thought it was cool how all the apps worked, so when I heard about the dojo I wanted to come along", he said. "I'd done some web design as part of computing at school and enjoyed that. Today I'm using [Apple's integrated development environment] Xcode and writing a calculator in [Apple's programming language] Objective-C."It's this sort of enthusiasm that Steele hopes to encourage. Having established itself in Glasgow, he wants to see the Coderdojo project spread further. "In 2013 we're hoping to have groups in Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Inverness and Dundee", he said. "We're looking for technology companies who want to engage with young people, who have people who can acts as mentors. They don't just need to have technical skills, they need to be able to pitch ideas at 12-year-olds with no prior coding experience."It's a really rewarding project to be involved in. It's great to see someone going from having literally no experience to having a working, interactive web site they've built by hand – the look on their face when they see it working is just amazing."The next Coderdojo meeting is on Saturday 8 December in multiple locations includingManchester, Glasgow and San Francisco. You can find a full list of meetings and locations athttp://zen.coderdojo.com/dojo.
Forty five million people are using cloud productivity service Evernote, and the company says that two thirds of them are using it for work purposes. That's the background to this week's launch of a new service:Evernote Business.Aimed at small-to-medium-sized companies (as well as small teams within bigger firms), it's aiming to be a smarter way for staff to store their meeting notes, spreadsheets, presentations and other documents online, while also helping them access notes from colleagues that are relevant to their current task."We build Evernote for ourselves, and that's the same philosophy we've always had," chief executive Phil Libin tells the Guardian."Now we're a medium business with 280 people, we still want to use Evernote for everything. But we started running into the same issues around team collaboration and knowledge discovery that most people do."Evernote Business is an inventive approach to tackling the problem, particularly one "knowledge discovery" feature called Related Notes, which will automatically pop up suggestions of other notes stored in the company's Evernote account that might be relevant to whatever you're currently writing."It's made me feel much more in the loop on what's going on in my company," says Libin. "The shared wisdom and knowledge of the company is something I can now have access to whenever I need to make a decision. It makes me feel like I have CEO super-powers!"It's a sensible expansion of Evernote, not least because of those (roughly) 30 million people already using the consumer version of the service for work tasks. They'll be a big help for Evernote as it tries to convince senior managers and IT bosses to adopt the service on a wider level for their companies.How did Evernote settle on the $10-per-month-per-user price for its new business service? "It's cheap, but our philosophy in pricing is really all about the perceived value of the product," says Libin."How much do you think it's worth once you start using it, and how does that compare to the actual price? We want that gap to be very wide: the perception that it's worth a lot, but people are paying very little. We're not maximising for short-term revenue, but for long-term value."Isn't Evernote Business the sort of thing traditional business software companies should have launched long ago? While there's no shortage of competition in the enterprise collaboration and cloud storage market, Libin has clear views on how Evernote can compete."In travel, the phrase 'business class' means it's nicer, a better experience. In software, it means something completely different: saying something is 'business software' means it's crappy and the experience is not good, especially compared to consumer products," he says."It's really diverged in the last five years. Apple, Google and Amazon have taught employees to have high expectations for quality and beautiful experiences, but it all stops when they get to work. Traditional enterprise software-makers are focused on pleasing buyers, not the users."Evernote Business's Related Notes featureThat should ruffle some feathers. I'm interested in the wider issues raised by Evernote Business though: the idea of a corporate memory, which is rich in information gathered by staff at a company, but inefficient at digging that data out when needed.Libin talks about an articlepublished on the company's blog back in 2010about a man called Patrick Jones to illustrate this idea. Jones suffers from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), which means he has severe short-term memory loss. One way he dealt with this in his everyday life was by using Evernote."For individuals, these kind of injuries are relatively rare, but when you think about a company, it kinda describes the state of the company memory," says Libin. "Your co-workers have all this information, but the company has forgotten what it knows. It knows it's there, but not how to get it."The Evernote Business launch comes hot on the heels of Evernoteraising $85m of new funding, with 75% of it set aside to cash out existing investors and bring in "important new long-term investors who can help shepherd the company to, through, and beyond an eventual IPO".Libin says he was unsure whether to announce the round – "it wasn't really newsworthy, it was just another example of us doing what we've said we want to do" – but opted to publish a blogpost on 30 November to avoid the appearance of secrecy."For any kind of financing, it's going to leak. People talk, and you have to do public filings," he says. "We've always tried to be consistent. The way you build a durable company is to minimise the drama and try to do things as transparently as possible."Libin adds that Evernote has tried to avoid hyping up the company's valuation throughout its history, despite such valuations being a big focus for much of the media coverage in the technology sector."Trying to pump up the valuation is fine if you're trying to maximise short-term value, but it all unravels," he says. "It's not the way to build something durable. Evernote is our life's work, so we don't want to do short-term stuff."Evernote's days of being a scrappy startup looking for seed and Series A funding are long behind it: the $85m round followed a $70m round in May 2012, $50m in July 2011 and $20m in October 2010 – and the latter was already the company's Series C.What advice would Libin have for smaller technology startups, given several recent articles by prominent tech bloggers and venture capitalists about the difficulties companies are encountering moving from the seed-funding stage to larger rounds?"This isn't necessarily encouraging news, but what I say to entrepreneurs is that fundraising is the most fun and easiest part of running a company. It's not going to get easier afterwards!" he says."You have a single unambiguous goal: to raise money, and you can succeed. But the very next day, you realise you don't have a single goal any more: you have a thousand goals. It's not going to get any easier. Take it [funding] as an opportunity to get as many people as possible to go along on your quest with you."Libin has some more general advice for startup founders too, suggesting they should go with their gut feelings about a new service or business."The only way you can survive is to build something for yourself, which sounds trite, but is the best advice I can give," he says."Don't build something because you've done a market analysis and think the market needs it. Build something that you need because it's a great experience, and recruit other people who want the same thing: colleagues, investors, partners. It's all about building something you are knowledgeable and passionate about."
Our parents grew up in the television age; their lives were inarguably shaped by that flickering box in the corner of the living room spewing out increasing amounts of content, asking for little in return but attention and subservience. So what does it mean to have lived a life in the era of video games? How has decades spent exploring virtual worlds affected how thirty-somethings view their own environment, their own loved ones?Robert Florence has been thinking a lot about this recently. The comedy writer and actor, well-known for BBC Scotland's sketch seriesBurnistoun, is about to launch a new online series, This Fucking Amusement Arcade, which he describes as, "a semi-fictional comedy short sitcom that happens to be about video games".  It's follows a games blogger, played by Florence, who has spent a decade writing about and playing games, but who's now getting older and reflecting on what that actually means. "He's struggling with the realisation that he's spent much of his life travelling through fictional landscapes," says Florence. "Now he's having to deal with a transition back into the stuff of real life".In there too, is the pervasive influence of social media. The lead character isn't just a gamer, he's a games writer too – indeed, the series has its own'fictional' blog, which ostensibly records Florence's own views on current games and industry controversies, and which also acts as an accompaniment to each show's narrative. It's sort of semi-autobiographical, then, but in the skewed context of representation and reality in the digital era. "I suppose it's about how, increasingly these days, people have a real personality and then a personality that's an invention, the one they present to people on the internet," he says. "I'm kind of two different people, I would say, in terms of real-life and online - it's a very surreal show and it will probably be a bit baffling. It might look like a mental breakdown..."But then Florence is something of a pioneer when it comes to translating game culture into 'linear' entertainment. In 2004, he and co-presenter Ryan Macleod started the online showConsoleVania, a surreal mix of game reviews and comedy sketches, exploring and parodying life as a gamer. The BBC saw the show, liked it, and commissioned a TV version,VideoGaiden, which once again merged perceptive and amusing reviews with sketches satirising the games industry. It ran on TV for two series' providing a counterpoint to more conventional review shows like Bits and Thumb Bandits. It also proved that the arcane culture of gaming could make for compulsive, funny and accessible material.Accessibility doesn't seems to be the aim this time round, however. In one episode of TFAA, the lead character helps another gamer who collapses during a midnight launch event; sitting by his bedside in hospital the lead character reminisces about games he has loved, but all the while tragedy looms. It sounds sullen and reflective, a long way from ConsoleVania. "There's an opportunity with the internet to do things that are completely out of the mainstream, that are for a small audience that gets it," says Florence. "I'm 35 and I've got this chance to look at what it means to have lived a life that has been coloured and informed by games. I've been playing games my whole life and that's got to mean something - it's got to affect the way you perceive the world".There are no reviews, no sketches as such. But everything comes back to the core subject matter in the end. "Every episode of the show is named after a game," says Florence. "And while an episode entitled, say, Silent Hill, might not feature any footage from any of the titles in that series, hopefully there will be an understanding of why it was called that - in the themes that are covered".It's an interesting time for games, of course. While the mainstream industry is still dominated by retail chart-toppers like Call of Duty and Halo, a huge indie scene has emerged. Now game sites are almost as likely to want to write about offbeat titles by small studios – the likes of Hotline Miami, 30 Flights of Loving and Slender. As gamers are maturing, tastes are widening and the range of game experiences, from console blockbusters to cult PC download titles, is broadening in response. Games used to treat death as a mechanic and sex as a way of selling wares to teenagers. Now the great themes of existence and extinction are slowly finding their way into game narratives and more complex game systems."It feels like a really wanky thing to say, but a show for gamers has never really addressed anything about life or sex or death or ageing," says Florence. "And you may think to yourself, well, why should a show about games cover that stuff? But Woody Allen movies tell their stories while essentially being films for film buffs by a film buff; Dennis Potter musicals are comedy dramas for musical lovers by a musical lover, and I can't see anything meaningful difference – apart from the fact that those guys are unbelievably talented. It's fair enough to attempt a show that looks at sex and death and things like that in a funny way, through the lens of a lifetime playing Mario games and fantasy RPGS".Until very recently, Florence was also writing a column for the respected games site Eurogamer. In october, however, hesubmitted a piecedealing with the perceived complicity between game publishers and game journalists – one of the writers he mentioned in the article threatened the site with libel and the offending section was removed. Florence resigned as a contributor and a huge controversy erupted, forcing many games journalists to question their objectivity and motivations.So what was it like to be in the middle of all that? "I was caught by surprise," says Florence. "I set out to write a column that was purely saying, look, some of the things you just casually say can make people feel suspicious of your motives, you have to be careful. And it felt like I'd kicked a hornet's nest. It was like… wow, what's happened here? It was an incredible period."I loved working with Tom [Bramwell, editor of Eurogamer] and I knew how hard it was for him to get in touch with me and say that things had to change in the column. He understood right away, the minute he said to me that the content of the column would have to change, what I would do. But we parted on totally good terms. It was just one of those things – it was bigger than both of us. Afterwards I felt… I could see so many people circling their wagons, I felt very much on the outside of things. And in fact, it was easy for me to write that column because I knew I wouldn't have to go to some launch event the following Friday and meet PR people. I don't have to do that".And really, it's this sense of being a consumer rather than an insider that has shaped Florence's video game shows. "When we did Consolevania, that came from us being in Glasgow where nothing of any note in a gaming sense ever happened," he laughs. "There were no big shows, no expos, I thought we could have a pop at everything and everybody. It's not about attacking people, though, that's not the point… it's that you don't feel cosy within a world; I've always thought about it as looking from the outside, as a gamer".When you look back at ConsoleVania and VideoGaiden now, that's what comes through. The shows are funny, inventive, anarchic and most importantly irreverent; they treated games as consumer goods as well as – for want of a better term – artworks. The episodes were no less perceptive for it: the reviews of titles like God Hand and True Crime were fantastic, but they were also delivered like a punch to the gut. They were brutal."When you view things from a gamer's perspective, you have the right to play a game and after two hours call it the worst thing you've ever played in your life: you have the right to do that as a consumer," says Florence. "But if you're a games journalist, these things hang around your neck, you can't just change your mind a week later and go, 'you know, I've put in a couple of hours in a better mood and I love this game now!' Gamers are like that.""It's the way people consume all entertainment really. Comedy is a prime example – when a new show launches on TV, people will tune in and give it five minutes; if they don't laugh within that time it is the worst comedy show that's ever been commissioned. That's understandable, punters have the right to behave like that".Florence is steeling himself for negative reactions to the new show - by the sounds of it, there will be a fair few. He's unrepentant though; when we talk, he's clearly relishing the prospect of upsetting people. Well no, that's not quite it – maybe of challenging himself to upset people. "Comedy should always try to be honest - especially when you're out of the mainstream," he says. "And when you're online you might as well be honest because there's nobody saying to you it has to get this many viewers. There's no excuse".There are no plans currently on how the show will be distributed. It may just be a download link from the blog, or from the production company Florence co-runs, Bold Yin. It's all entirely self-funded; he and his team (including lots of the old ConsoleVania crew) briefly considered Kickstarter, but then felt that it would mean being beholden to the donators; it would mean compromise again.Which brings us back to the central theme of our discussion, and the thing that kept coming up during the contemptibly dubbed 'Dorito-gate' games journalism scandal: Florence is outside of all this, outside of the games industry and its machinery. And this will remain. "The minute you start to get inside, you lose that right to make wild swings and to go off something for stupid reasons," he says."If you lose that, everything starts to feel a bit neutered, a bit bland… and suddenly everything's getting a seven out of ten".
Here we are in the middle of the week. I'm going to try and stay off ZombiU today.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApp developers shun Microsoft's Surface &gt;&gt; Advertising AgeDespite offering more lucrative revenue splits for app developers than competitors Google and Apple, many of the largest digital media properties in the US and makers of the most-popular tablet apps have decided that developing apps for the Surface - and the Windows app store in general - is not yet worth their time.The most glaring omission is Facebook, a company that Microsoft invested $240m for 1.6% stake in 2007."That's a bad thing," said Ray Velez, chief technology officer of digital agency Razorfish. "But Facebook doesn't have the greatest track record. They are really hard to work with."Facebook's absence from the Windows app store is even more curious considering many of the Surface's preinstalled apps - Internet Explorer, Maps and Weather, among others-are integrated with Microsoft-owned Bing, the search engine that's integrated with Facebook."We are constantly evaluating our strategy for supporting new platforms ... as the market and consumer adoption evolves," a Facebook spokeswoman said in a statement."Shun" is the wrong word, because it suggests actively staying away from. Windows RT's problem is that app developers have other platforms they're focussing on first. Such as Windows 8, to name one of many.Telefónica fears over Windows Phone &gt;&gt; WSJBen Rooney:Matthew Key, who heads Telefónica Digital, which has been the only one of the giant Spanish telco's four main divisions not to be based in Madrid, expressed doubts over Windows Phone."I think the [Windows Phone] software is interesting," he said. "The devices are coming. Whether it is going to be market moving, the jury is out. Do we see it will help us rapidly drive adoption in Latin America? No. Do we see Mozilla stuff we are doing? Yes."We are over-reliant on [two manufacturers] iOS with Apple and Android with Samsung. For us to have a third OS is an important de-risker from a strategic perspective."The "third OS" isn't BlackBerry or Windows Phone; it's Mozilla's Firefox OS.2012 KPCB Internet Trends Year-End Update &gt;&gt; Kleiner PerkinsMary Meeker's internet trends report is always fascinating. Here she points to a new lifestyle - "Asset-lite". (Any Shockwave Rider readers out there? It sounds like Brunner's world gradually coming true.)Testing Tumblr worm root cause &gt;&gt; janne.isThis morning I tried to find affected Tumblr posts without luck. Viral post attack appears to be resolved. But how about the root-cause? Based on some news, the hackers behind the attackwarned Tumblr weeks agoabout a vulnerability. This would not be the first time: earlier this year Riyaz Walikarreported a serious Cross-site Scripting vulnerabilityto Tumblr. According to Mr. Walikar, it took three weeks to fix the issue.Was the root-cause yet another stored Cross-site Scripting vulnerability on Tumblr and more importantly: is it now fixed? According to my quick testing: Yes and unfortunately noSuffering an XSS vulnerability is becoming like a rite of passage for becoming a fully-fledged social network. Facebook had it; Twitter did; now Tumblr.iPads get IT into the boardroom &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyDeutsche Börse, Standard Life and Resolution are three finance firms that have transformed board meetings through the use of Apple iPads.Using software from Diligent, the companies have replaced hundreds of pages of documents in lever arch files with a system that provides all the information board members need via an iPad. This has not only made preparation for meetings easier but cut costs by thousands of pounds.Traditionally non-executive board members would be sent hundreds of pages of documents by courier weeks before a meeting. They would then have to travel with the documents to the meetings, which are usually in different countries.Big cost, time and paper saving. Not clear why it has to be an iPad, though. Note the point at the end about the Patriot Act too.Google cranks up its patent engine &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoogle has been accelerating its patent production impressively in the last few years, even before it bought Motorola Mobility (MMI) last year for $12.5 billion.That is one nugget in a new report from Thomson Reuters. The report, "2012 Top 100 Global Innovators," released on Tuesday, includes Google. Last year, the first time Thomson Reuters compiled the list, Google did not make the cut.In assembling the list, the research group uses four measures of patent activity as its yardstick of innovation. The four are patent volume, patent grant success rate, global reach of the patent portfolio and citations of patents. The combination of factors seeks to take into account patent quality and the influence of patented ideas. And companies' patents are tracked over a three-year period, with the 2012 list covering applications, grants and citations from 2009 to 2011.Just to reiterate, MMI isn't part of this analysis; this is about Google's own patents.How are Windows 8 sales? Still too early to tell &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:Trying to turn those usage stats into hard numbers is an exercise in fuzzy math, but it's reasonable to assume that at least half of the 40m licenses Microsoft sold in the month after Windows 8's launch are now in the hands of computer users. And many new PC models are just beginning to hit the market. NPD says only 58% of PCs sold in their sample period were running Windows 8, with the remaining 42% consisting of inventory running Windows 7. That means the numbers at the end of December will be significantly more illuminating.Do hobbyists any longer have an effect on Windows Phone adoption? &gt;&gt; ZDNetMatt Baxter-Reynolds:Where we are now in the market is in a position whereby hobbyists can no longer have an effect on the adoption of a mobile platform because the apps they write no longer deliver the right type of value, regardless of how many of them they can build. Moreover platform owners, like Microsoft, have no direct control over what the hobbyists actually do. Together hobbyists bring a lot of energy into a platform, but that energy is very diffuse. It's more flashlight than laser.In short, at this point, a hobbyist developer building an app for Windows Phone is not going to affect the market share of the platform at all. It's too late.Design Utility &gt;&gt; TumblrDesign Patents - protect ornamental design.Utility Patents - protect functional utility.But thats Boring. We're about generating clicks. You can do it too. Follow these simple steps: (a) take a design patent, (b) pretend its a utility patent, (c) rant about it, (3) profit. Declare the patent system hopelessly broken. It's easy.Nice examples from "a website with rounded corners". Did you know Google has "patented the keyboard with arrows"? The patent system is broken! (Via @reckless - a former patent attorney - on Twitter.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Antitrust regulators at the European Commission and the US Federal Trade Commission should either sue Google or drop their cases against the search giant, its executive chairman Eric Schmidt suggests.He also says that the company's relationship with Apple – which has booted Google's Maps and YouTube app off the newest version of its iPhone software released in September – is less like teenagers with guns, and "more like a country - they have disputes, but they've actually been able to have huge trade with each other."Speaking to the Wall Street Journal, Schmidt said that he doesn't know how the competition regulators on both sides of the Atlantic – who have each been investigating the company for more than 18 months over claims that it manipulates search results and limits advertising flexibility – will decide.But he added: "We have been in quite continuous communication with [them] … it's time for them to sort of move to one resolution or another. It's not like they don't have a million documents and so forth." He adds that he remains "optimistic" about the outcome.The antitrust heads of the EC and the FTC, Joaquín Almunia and Jonathan Leibowitz,met on Monday. Although the agenda of their meeting has not been released, it is believed that they discussed the best approach to their respective cases against Google.The possible options would be to sue Google, or to reach an agreement on its future behaviour. Both organisations have been talking separately to the company for some months. FTC staff are understood to have recommended that its five-strong commissioners should move strongly towards a lawsuit, but no majority decision has emerged.The EC and FTC have been considering complaints from a number of companies in Europe and the US about Google's positioning of its own products such as Google Shopping in search results ahead of rivals', and other complaints relating to the use of sites' content in search results, advertising portability and exclusivity.For Google, the possibility of having to yield to government regulation over the ordering of its search results would be the first major incursion into its operation by outside authorities. Supporters have said that such a move would interfere with its free speech.The EC and FTC are expected to decide what to do independently over the question by the end of the year, though no formal timetable has been announced. The two regulators are also separately considering demands made by Motorola Mobility, which Google purchased for $12.5bn earlier this year, to use its ownership of standards-essential patents to block competitors' sales.Apple: 'on and off'Of Google's relationship with Apple, which removed two key Google apps from its iPhone and iPad in its iOS6 software, Schmidt said: "It's always been on and off. Obviously, we would have preferred them to use our maps. They threw YouTube off the home screen. I'm not quite sure why they did that." But he says their relationship is more like trading countries - "they're not sending bombs at each other".He reiterated the view he expressed earlier this year that Google, Amazon, Apple and Facebook constitute a "gang of four" companies which matter in the consumer technology space, disregarding Microsoft's formerly dominant position."We had never in our industry seen four network platforms of that scale," Schmidt told the WSJ.Android monetisationOf thesubstantial gap in monetisationbetween Apple's iPhone and Google's Android-based Google Play, Schmidt says that "the monetisation [of Google Play] just started working well in the last year, maybe the last six months. The volume [of Android handset sales] is indisputable, and with the volume comes the opportunity and the luxury of time."
This week on Tech Weekly with Aleks Krotoski, tech venture capitalist Fred Wilson discusses his latest investment in SoundCloud. Jemima Kiss, the Guardian's digital correspondent talks to Wilson about the audio hosting social site and why the site is described as the YouTube of audio.Jemima also meets co-founder of Lanyrd.com Simon Willison. Lanyrd.com is an events and conferences information and networking site and one of the many exciting tech start-ups based in London's Tech City. Simon tells Jemima how a bout of food poisoning and a great idea on his honeymoon led him and his wife to create the company.Also Guardian Technology editor, Charles Arthur, joins Aleks to discuss the 20th anniversary of the first SMS text, Syria's closing down of the internet and why a geo-tagged photo has added to the bizarre story of tech pioneer John McAfee.
Nokia is selling its Finnish headquarters for €170m (£137m) and leasing the property back on a long-term deal.The struggling mobile phone company has operated in the glass and steel building in Espoo near Helsinki, known as Nokia House, since 1997. The sale is another step towards reducing costs and concentrating on its core business.Nokia has spent almost a third of its cash reserves in 12 months, and in October had about €3.6bn left in the bank to turn itself into a smartphone manufacturer capable of competing with Apple and Samsung.According to Gartner, the market researcher, Nokia slipped to seventh in smartphone sales in the third quarter from third in the previous quarter.The company has pinned its hopes on the newLumia 920and 820 series of smartphones, which run the latest version of Windows Phone software. They have been on sale in the UK for about a month as the company targets the Christmas gift market. "The holiday shopping period will be crucial for Nokia", said a Saxo Banque trader.Nokia, a former leader of the mobile market, haslost almost 90% of its stock market value since Apple introduced the iPhonein 2007. Six successive quarters of losses since adopting Microsoft's Windows phone software have led it to announce10,000 job cuts. Nokia plans to save €1.6bn by the end of 2013.To reach its goal, the mobile telecoms equipment maker Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) said it was selling its optical-fibre networks unit to Marlin Equity Partners. The joint venture between Nokia and the German industrial group Siemens has been a drain on profits for its owners and is undergoing a massive restructuring.
Digital images abound in the modern world. As outputs of hospital scanners, surveillance satellites and countless other devices, they are a vital source of information. Making sense of the copious data that images produce was the focus of the work of Maria Petrou, who has died from cancer at the age of 59. Petrou was a leading authority on image processing – the science of using computer programs to identify important trends or anomalies in data. The applications are wide-ranging; from helping doctors to identify incipient tumours to producing evidence of environmental degradation.Petrou was known for her discovery of the "trace transformation". This was a powerful technique used to encode essential information in an image, regardless of scaling or rotations, and it has had important practical benefits, for example in the development of face-recognition systems.She also developed sophisticated "segmentation" procedures for sharply identifying edges and delineating simple shapes within a fuzzy image. The many uses of this include medical imaging, where a shape within the image, the contour of a tumour perhaps, is significant for diagnosis, and military surveillance, where shapes of objects must be extracted from images to distinguish between, for example, an enemy tank or merely a dummy. She described herself as a problem-solver and enthusiastically took on projects involving the application of general principles of image processing, computer vision and pattern recognition, to medical, geo-scientific sensing and other fields.Maria was born in Thessaloniki, Greece, where she went to school and university, taking a degree in physics. She then gained a PhD in astrophysics from Cambridge University and went on to obtain a post at the university of Athens in theoretical physics before returning to England for a postdoctoral appointment at Oxford.At a time of increased government funding for the applied sciences in the early 1980s, Petrou shifted to technology research, taking up positions at theRutherford Appleton Laboratoryand then at Reading University. Her growing reputation in a range of fields centred on robotics and image-processing led to her first academic post at a British institution in 1988 at the University of Surrey, which led the world in its work on satellite communications and related fields. She remained at Surrey until 1995, rising to the position of professor of image analysis.Moving to Imperial College London, Maria was appointed professor of signal processing. She went on to head the communications and signal-processing group in the department of electrical and electronic engineering until 2009, subsequently taking up a position at the institute of CERTH in Thessaloniki, while retaining a quarter-time position at Imperial.She received numerous honours, including a fellowship of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 2004.An unfailing advocate for women in engineering, she was active in organisations such as Women in Science and Engineering and the Women's Engineering Society.Maria was a clear-minded person. In discussion, any position she took was backed by a fierce logic. She campaigned for human rights and helped to publicise abuses, for example the ill-treatment of servants by wealthy employers.Ingrained rationalism co-existed in her personality with warmth and a sense of fun. On her website, she posed an open challenge to her peers to develop a robot for ironing clothes, to meet the exacting standards of her great-aunt. Her newsletters were often playful and illustrated with her own cartoons. She liked to express her opinions and maintained a Greek language blog in which she shared her views on various topics, from politics and economics to art and film.She is survived by her son from a marriage that ended in divorce.• Maria Petrou, scientist, born 17 May 1953; died 15 October 2012
Thetext message might be 20 years old– but Facebook is now looking to hurry it into the grave. The giant social network, which has now passed a billion users, has just announced that it isupdating its "Messenger" app for Androidso that anyone can sign up using just their name and phone number, and then send messages to Facebook contacts via their data plan, rather than as texts.The app connects the phone number and name to a Facebook account, and validates against that.The move means that a potentially huge number of smartphone users will be able to pass messages back and forth in much the same way as texting, but without incurring the cost of an SMS as long as they have a data plan or are connected to a Wi-Fi network.That, in turn, putsFacebook Messengerdirectly into conflict with SMS and with other "over the top" services such as WhatsApp, RIM's BlackBerry Messenger and Apple's iMessage.Of those established ones, WhatsApp is the biggest – and the only cross-platform one – with an estimated 250m users, but the advent of Facebook Messenger on iPhone, Android and BlackBerry means that the social network could eclipse all of them, as well as working across multiple smartphone platforms.The new version is available on Android today, and Facebook says that "Messenger accounts will become available over the next few weeks". A spokesperson said that "The feature will be available first on Android in Australia, India, Indonesia, South Africa and Venezuela and roll out globally in the coming weeks."
"Technical literacy" is the subject of an ongoing, worldwide educational debate. Some argue that every kid should learn the basics of programming and successfully write a program or two before graduating – just as we expect every student to write an essay or two before leaving school.I think that this is sound. We tend to think of innovative, original software as originating with engineers and computer scientists who come up with better ways to solve problems, such as the breakthroughs that let our digital cameras improve their light-balancing and signal processing. This stuff is important, it's elegant, and it's creative, but it's not the whole story.The other kind of innovation comes from people who identify new problems to solve, new opportunities for automation and computer-assisted processes. These are just as likely to come from information-civilians as professionals. Bakers, cab drivers, and artists are just as capable of proposing novel solutions to interesting problems as skilled engineers. Indeed, some of our greatest automation successes have come from people outside computer science solving their own problems – the showstopper being Tim Berners-Lee inventing a way to share documents among physicists and inventing the world wide web.Historically, a "domain expert" who wants to automate a system will approach an engineer, who will go through a formal process of requirements: gathering, technical design, implementation, testing and refinement. That's fine as far as it goes, but there are huge dividends to be earned by giving people the power to solve their own problems without having to suffer through the inevitable signal degradation from being interpreted by others who've never had to do the job you're trying to improve.So yes, let's expose all our kids to the fundamentals of writing code. Most people will never write code after school, just as most will never write an essay. But much of the important information you receive will be structured like an essay, including the position papers of politicians, the curriculum statements from your kids' schools, and your workplace's code of conduct.Much of the world you interact with, from cash machines to your bank's website to the website where you sign on for disability benefits to the alarm clock that wakes you in the morning to the phone that tracks your location, social network and personal thoughts, are underpinned by software. At the very least, a cursory understanding of the working of software will help you judge the reliability, quality, and utility of the software in your life.But writing code – and essays – is a higher-level skill, the peak of a pyramid composed of innumerable sub-skills that are truly foundational and fundamental. You can't write either without knowing something about spelling, grammar and structure. And these days, you can't do either without knowing a little typing.Knowing how to type is one of those skills that is improbably important these days. Regardless of your professional path, being a good, fast, skilled, accurate typist is probably to your benefit. From doctors to secretaries, from call-centre workers to police officers, nearly every job today involves a little typing, and many jobs require a lot of typing. A once-esoteric skill has become ubiquitous and essential.Which is weird, because typing is fundamentally old-fashioned. There are many ways into interact with our devices today that don't involve typing – everything from voice to gestures. But even as these non-typing interfaces proliferate, computers worm their way into new places, and the keyboard resurfaces. Every day sees devices shedding their keyboards – but every day also sees more devices adding keyboards.There are other skills like this, skills that are notionally obsolete, based on old-fashioned ways of interacting with computers that are vestiges of more technical eras, but that are really, secretly indispensable if you want to get the most out of the modern world. One of my favourites is "regular expressions" (also called regex or regexp). These are short, fabulously useful commands that tell a computer how to tease apart long blocks of text and find words or phrases that match your criteria.For example, if you had a list of names and you wanted to find all the michaels, Michaels, Mikes and mikes, you could use a simple regular expression inside of a search-box to locate all of them at once. You can use regular expressions to find all the files in a directory that end with jpg (or jpeg, or JPG or JPEG). You can use them to find all the street addresses (every string beginning with a number, followed by a space, followed by one or more words, followed by Street, or St, or Road or Rd, etc).Regular expressions are part of the fundamental makeup of modern software. They are present, in some form or another, in every modern operating system. Word processors, search-engines, blogging programs … though it's been decades since software for everyday people was designed with the assumption that users would know regexps, they still lurk in practically every environment we use.I think that technical people underestimate how useful regexps are for "normal" people, whether a receptionist labouriously copy-pasting all the surnames from a word-processor document into a spreadsheet, a school administrator trying to import an old set of school records into a new system, or a mechanic hunting through a parts list for specific numbers.The reason technical people forget this is that once you know regexps, they become second nature. Any search that involves more than a few criteria is almost certainly easier to put into a regexp, even if your recollection of the specifics is fuzzy enough that you need to quickly look up some syntax online.Knowing regexp can mean the difference between solving a problem in three steps and solving it in 3,000 steps. When you're a nerd, you forget that the problems you solve with a couple keystrokes can take other people days of tedious, error-prone work to slog through.Like typing or spelling, regexp is a foundational skill that involves a fair bit of practice and learning by rote. It's the sort of skill that is best taught at an early age. Regexps are easy to teach with games, since each "operator" in a regular expression blocks or matches a different set of characters, so you can easily make tower-defence style games where the player has to construct progressively more complex regexps to block the incoming monsters – there are tons of regexp games online already.So far as I can tell, no school ICT class yet bothers with them, despite the fact that regexps organise so much of our underlying infrastructure and can make such an enormous difference to the lives of everyday people, even those who don't code.If we're going to teach kids to use PowerPoint and word processors as part of their core education, we should be teaching them regular expressions. Very few pieces of technical arcana have their widespread applicability – and the present lack of widespread appreciation.
You've heard of texting, right? Billions of people use text messages, which havejust turned 20. And you've heard of BBM (BlackBerry Messenger), the free system for users of BlackBerry phones where, unlike texts, sending or receiving messages costs nothing because it's done as data that you have already paid for in your contact.OK. But have you heard ofWhatsApp? If you're under 25, the answer is almost certainly yes. It is a cross-platform mobile messaging app that allows you to exchange messages without having to pay for SMS, and has an estimated 250 million users worldwide. That's more than four times as many as BBM, and it has the mobile operators increasingly worried, because it works like BBM – over data – but on any phone that can run the app, including phones running Android, Windows Phone, Nokia's Symbian and S40, BlackBerry OS and Apple's iOS. To communicate with someone, you both have to have WhatsApp installed. (It will recognise your contacts who do have it from their phone number.) That's a potential market of many hundreds of millions of users, and although the company hasn't released any formal numbers, it's safe to say that it's already really big, and likely to become even more so.WhatsApp was started in 2009 by two ex-Yahoo staff, Jan Koum and Brian Acton, and presently handles more than 10bn messages per day. And it's also one of the most popular paid-for apps on any platform. Why a paid app (you have to buy it on the iPhone; it's free for the first year on other platforms) rather than totally free? Koum and Acton recentlyposted on the company blog to explain: "These days companies know literally everything about you, your friends, your interests, and they use it all to sell ads," they wrote."We wanted to make something that wasn't just another ad clearing-house. We wanted to spend our time building a service people wanted to use because it worked and saved them money and made their lives better in a small way. We knew that we could charge people directly if we could do all those things. We knew we could do what most people aim to do every day: avoid ads."Text messaging may still be pulling in the money from pay-as-you-go users, but these days they can get data bundles that let them send endless numbers of WhatsApp messages, and never touch the gold-plated text message (whose per-message cost, especially on PAYG, is miles out of kilter with what it costs to deliver or send).Tero Kuittenen, of the Finnish consultancy Alekstra, says: "I believe we are facing a period of accelerating erosion of SMS volumes – this is not going to be a linear process." WhatsApp, he says, has grown tenfold in a year: "Even though WhatsApp is such a fresh phenomenon, it has already played a major role in pushing Spain's SMS volume into 25% annual decline."So if you haven't heard of WhatsApp, you might soon do. And if you have,  when's the last time you sent a text?
The geographical and revenue differences between the iPhone and Android platforms is laid bare by anew report on the app market from App Annie– from which we've had specific access to extra information.The data shows a gulf in the value of downloads on the two platforms, despite Android outselling iPhone substantially across the world. And compared with January – the index that App Annie uses to measure against – both iOS and Android have increased per-download monetisation, with Android doing far better.In relative value, iOS's app revenues (including in-app sales) as recorded by App Annie have gone from 100% in January to 113% now; for Google Play, indexed against iOS, it has gone from 7% to 28%.That's slow progress for iOS and huge progress for Android, but there's still a gulf between the two that speaks of a wide variance in usage – with iOS users much more likely to buy apps, and Android users less likely to. There's probably a much wider variance among Android users, where those with high-end devices might pay as much as, if not more than, the average iOS user.But the lower average for Android means there's a substantial difference when it comes to monetising the respective platforms; and it's harder to move people from a platform where they have paid for apps than from one where they haven't, especially in a situation where the apps available across the platforms are so similar.Relative value of app purchases from App Store and Google Play by month. App Store in January = 100. (Source: App Annie)(Compared with the index in January, iOS downloads have actually fallen – from 100% to 90% – while Google Play downloads have grown from 63% to 80%, having begun to take off in July.Relative number of downloads from App Store and Google Play in 2012; App Store in January = 100. (Source: App Annie)This also means that you can calculate a "revenue per download" graph, based on the (indexed) number of downloads and the (indexed) revenues. That shows that for iOS, revenue per download has risen from 100% in January to 125% in October, while for Android it has risen from 10.6% of the iOS January value to 34.4% by October. That speaks to better monetisation for Google – which is important: for app developers, that makes it more worthwhile to focus effort there.Relative revenue per download, App Store v Google Play, for2012. Source: App AnnieApp Annie is an analytics system used by more than 150,000 apps, and by 80% of the top 100 iOS publishers, and says it has tracked more than 11bn downloads from various app stores.The headline figures suggest a continuation of a common theme for developers trying to decide between the two platforms: in the west, iOS monetises better than Android, and even in the rest of the world outside the US (where theiPhone gets an artificial advantage in sales).Apple challenged App Annie's figures after they were published on Friday, telling VentureBeat that the figures didn't agree with its own App Store revenue figures. VentureBeat hasposted an update, which employs the same figures used in the top graph (for revenues) and compares them with Apple's officially released figures (which aren't month by month, but occasional) and interpolates them; it calculates that App Store revenues were running at about $300m per month in January 2012, and $333m by October.Country breakdownThe other interesting element from the App Annie data is the country comparisons for downloads and revenues.For Google Play, the US is the top downloading country (21%) – followed by South Korea, home of Samsung (and LG) at 11%. Next is India, where Android is beginning to get a serious foothold, and Japan, both at 6%.For iOS, the US is (as you'd expect) the top download site, followed – surprisingly – by China, at 15%, and then Japan and the UK at 6% each.The China syndromeAt which you're probably asking: why does China show up in the iOS download stats, but doesn't even tickle App Annie's meter at the 2% level for downloads from Google Play (and doesn't even touch the 1% level for revenues)? Android is colossal in China, with research companies such as IDC and Gartner saying that 90% of smartphones being sold there are Android-powered.Well, it's like this: they might be running Android, but they're not connecting to Google Play. Instead those Android phones, where they're used for data and apps, connect to local Chinese Android markets. They may be using some Google services, but Play isn't among them. There are tens – perhaps already hundreds – of millions of Android smartphones in use in China, but so far they're not making much impact on Google's revenues.Revenues by countryHere there are colossal differences. Japan is the highest-grossing for Google Play, followed by the US and then South Korea (with 29%, 26% and 18% of October revenues respectively); for iOS, the top three are the US, Japan and the UK (33%, 14%, 7%). The UK generated 4% of Android revenues, by App Annie's measure.You can also estimate country revenues if you use the estimate from VentureBeat of $333m for the App Store revenue, and plug that back into the App Annie figures for revenues – which are 113% of January for iOS, and 28% of iOS's January figure for Google Play. In other words, Google Play generated (333*28/113) = $82m in the month of October.Estimated revenues per country App Store v Google Play in October 2012. (Sources: App Annie, Apple, VentureBeat) Click for larger version.The breakdown then shows – as you'd expect, because iOS revenues are bigger overall – that iOS revenues outpaced those for Google Play almost everywhere, with the notable exception of South Korea, where the App Annie figures suggest iOS brought in just $4.55m against $14.98m for Google Play.In Japan the revenue margin was narrower – $48.1m for iOS, $23.8m for Google Play – but typically in every country but South Korea the spending margin in favour of iOS was fivefold or more.None of this means anything for companies or organisations for whom just getting their app out there matters, of course:Despite its much-publicised woes, the games company Zynga remains the only US company that is on both the iOS and Google Play top 10 – though France's Gameloft, and Japan's GungHo Online and Gree also share that achievement."If you thought that all the most successful app publishers were based out of Silicon Valley, think again," App Annie notes. "Four of the top 10 publishers by free downloads are based outside the US both for iOS and Google Play." On iOS those are Gameloft (France), Tencent (China), Outfit7 (Cyprus) and Rovio (Finland); on Google Play, Rovio, Go Launcher (China), Outfit7 and Halfbrick Studios (Australia).Big winsBig companies such as Electronic Arts top the paid download charts: "These are large companies whose sheer international distribution is enough to dwarf any independent publisher many times over," App Annie's report notes. "EA publishes 962 apps directly and through its subsidiaries on iOS, Gameloft 259 apps."But it says that app stores are also leading small successful publishers to success even with a handful of apps. "On iOS, Supercell is the most impressive, second only to EA on the back of two apps. Applibot and Kabam also make it into the top 10 with just a few apps each to their names. On Google Play, it's the Korean game publishers WeMade Entertainment and NextFloor which make more money than many of the large multinationals – in the case of NextFloor, on the back of a single app, DragonFlight for Kakao."The full report is available atApp Annie, and has more detail on the sorts of apps that do best in respective territories and platforms.The publication is the start of a comprehensive monthly index that App Annie intends to begin publishing every month to track more than 150,000 apps on iOS and Google Play.
Dishonored is a game about patience. Well, bloody revenge, of course. But also patience. As the betrayed bodyguard Corvo, you must carry out a series of assassination missions, creeping about the decaying city of Dunwall, silently disposing of guards. But if you want to finish with a low chaos score, you need to avoid killing, and that means a lot of hanging around, working out sentry patterns, studying the environment... waiting.Ah, waiting. For so long it seemed that Triple A games had moved on from this quaint notion. Military first-person shooters like Call of Duty and Battlefield bundle you through their narrow corridors of action like hostages, rarely allowing you a pause for thought or reflection. The whole concept of infinitely spawning baddies, possibly the most wretched design trope ever inflicted on games, was brought into being to keep us moving, keep us progressing on the relentless forward march toward the next cut-scene (lest we look about and discover there is nowhere to go and all the lovely buildings are mere facades, like a Western movie set).Meanwhile, as cinematic conventions started to inform action adventure games, the same sense of urgency took over. The Uncharted games, though presenting us with some supremely beautiful vistas, rarely allow us the luxury of true exploration; instead we're pushed and shoved into puzzle areas where, by default, we're given a few minutes to solve everything before a hint is proffered. All that time and effort to construct wonderfully elaborate brain teasers, only to benevolently bully players into a quick answer.Of course, the management of time is written into the very DNA of games. In the arcade era, titles were specifically constructed to process players as quickly as possible: limited lives, limited timers, power-ups that would blink and fade if not grabbed quickly enough – everything was conceived to instil a sense of panic. Because panic meant mistakes and mistakes meant money. Of course, the early RPGs allowed players more freedom to explore and consider worlds, but the tyranny of the random monster encounter meant that you could never fully relax; that no domain was truly yours.The nineties, however, brought the great stealth adventures. Thief, Metal Gear, Splinter Cell, Hitman... Suddenly we were allowed time to stop and think, to mull over the possibilities, to weigh the pros and cons. It took action gaming out of the instinctive and into the cerebral space. Or did it? Because, as a race, humans are predisposed to seek and enjoy patterns, we actively (if unconsciously a lot of the time) look for repetition; it helps us make sense of the world. So video games that allow us to stop and watch, to work out patterns of enemy movement, to make our own mental maps of complex environments, are appealing to very primal instincts of learning and navigation.And this Christmas, it seems that designers have woken up to these possibilities once again. Alongside Dishonored there is Far Cry 3, a narrative shooter set on a luscious tropical island that affords the player freedom to explore, to experiment and ultimately to carve out their own systems of behaviour and reward. Watching and interacting with the natural environment is a great joy; and somehow the designers have loosened the leash while still instilling a sense of threat and urgency – something that Far Cry 2 lost at times with its vast spaces and unclear plotting.Then there's ZombiU, a true survival horror game in the classic sense of the phrase. With limited ammo and a unwieldy melee system, being wary is a survival essential. Every encounter with the undead needs to be meticulously planned, escape routes memorised, health packs at the ready. Ostensibly frustrating elements of the game that have annoyed some reviewers – the clunky inventory, the long loading times, the smeary visuals – all help to conjure the feel of the early Resident Evil and Silent Hill titles, that sense of dread and consequence; the sheer cost of fucking up.The balance between freedom and urgency is a vital one in game design – it is so hard to get right. But I love to wait and to think. I loved the the Surface level in GoldenEye, when you got to creep through the snow, slowly edging toward the guards. I spent many days playing the now largely forgotten real-time strategy title Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines, plotting precise strikes on patrolling German troops and then hiding the bodies. It has been fun to discover that feedback loop of surreptitious violence in Dishonored: stalk, strike, stash. It is satisfying because it encompasses two vital gaming mechanics: killing and tidying.I hope we're on the verge of a new era of game design, in which narrative isn't about corridors of action, and in which players truly contribute to the story as agents of change. Time's winged chariot has hurried us long enough; in the next generation, with processors big enough to generate worlds filled with procedural enemies and dynamic events, we should be given time and space to find our own rhythms of play. If you take the time to build a beautiful and elaborate domain filled with clever enemies, the player must be given the chance to drink it all in. Patience is a virtue in life and in game design.
