..records, obviously. You may not be able to get one in the shops, but the Xbox 360 has become thefastest sellinghome-console in the UK. The previous record-holder was Nintendo's Gamecube, although both trail the handheld market, where the PSP sold 185,000 in the UK in its first week. With numerousreportsabout faulty consoles, Microsoft will be pleased with the figures although the aforementioned stock shortages suggest this record will only last until the next home console launches. Top-selling 360 game was Perfect Dark Zero, with PGR3 not far behind. The other first-party exclusive, Kameo, fared less well.
"Last month, I went to Europe for a session at the Guardian's management offsite. They were just about finished converting the Guardian and the Observer print editions to the Berliner format (halfway between a broadsheet and a tabloid) at great effort and expense and at no small risk. It has been a success so far, but this meeting was not a celebration. Instead, wisely, they came together to start figuring out what their products and businesses would have to become next, now that we have crossed over into the digital age. I won't recount what happened; this was their meeting. I'll just say that they had me in — as a few other media companies and organizations have done lately — as the scary guy: Blogboy does his bugga-bugga about the distributed, post-scarcity, small-is-the-new-big, paperless, unplatform era of citizen control of media. I apparently have found my proper role in life: frightening people," says Jeff Jarvis inThe last presseson his blog, BuzzMachine.
If you weren't able to get your hands on an Xbox 360 last weekend and the proximity to the holidays is making you sweat, you can always join the legions of people buying theirs oneBay.Next-Gen.bizreports that 40,000 Xbox 360s have been sold through the online auction forum since the machine's launch in the US on 22 November. That's 10% of all Xbox 360 retail buyers who have made a tidy profit on the scarcity of a piece of electronic kit.You can, quite literally, buy one for$1,000,000. Well itisbuy one get one free. Ahem.Maybe it's better to wait until stocks come back in.
Yesterday saw the announcement of two new titles for Xbox 360's Live Arcade. There's already a decent selection of 'indie' titles available to download from the online shopping centre – which should (and is) drawing more interest at the moment due to the paucity of genuine must-have retail releases for the system.I like the sound of RoboBlitz, fromNaked Sky Entertainment, which is due on Live Arcade in Spring 2006:"RoboBlitzTM is a fast-paced action game featuring puzzle-solving and unique physics-based weapons. Players blast through 15+ levels of high-intensity action as Blitz, a multi-talented robot on a mission to save its factory from a band of invading mechanical brains."The game uses two trendy pieces of middleware -Unreal Engine 3andAgeia PhysX– and apparently, "offers players a world built entirely from the latest in game technology and robot control theory." Why didn't I get to do robot control theory at school? I feel it would have been more useful than Social Studies.Next,Streamline Studiosrevealed a newwebsitefor its Live Arcade title, HoopWorld, also due in Spring…Image: copyright 2005 Naked Sky EntertainmentFrom the press release:"HoopWorld is a first of its kind 'trick-based' game where players can get their game on competitively or cooperatively with others from around the world. The game features a diverse cast of characters that players can choose from and supports up to six players in a three-on-three multi-player setting. It's all about tricks in HoopWorld the more showboating and tricks you and your team mates pull off, the more you are rewarded. It's all about how cool and skilled you are... or can be! Inspired by the sport of basketball, HoopWorld is an over the top arcade game that challenges players to basketbrawl!"Okay, it sounds a little like NBA Street, but at least it won't have dozens of c-list rap tunes on the soundtrack.
There's been a lot of speculation about the launch of Google Calendar -- or there was, last February. Thehttp://calendar.google.com/address has been live for more than two months, with nothing calendary on it. However,Erick Schonfeldreckons it could appear during tomorrow's (Tuesday's)When 2.0 conferencein Stanford.Support for thevCal standardcan probably be assumed, and perhaps there will be some connection with the slow-movingMozilla Sunbirdcalendar project. But the unofficialInside Google blog raises the more interesting issue: "Will Google Calendar steal some of Microsoft's thunder and supportRSS SSE? If it doesn't, it will when everyone else starts supporting it. SSE is too useful to lose, even if it was Microsoft's idea," says Inside Google.Meanwhile Inside Google has alsopicked up a story from the San Francisco Chroniclesaying that "Google execs have sold $4.3 billion in stock thus far this year, the majority going to co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who pocketed $1.3 billion apiece." They still have shares "currently worth more than $13 billion apiece".Comment:vCal has been around as a standard since 1997, and Yahoo launchedYahoo CalendaronAugust 17, 1998(after buying WebCal Corporation for its EventCal program), but so far the idea has yet to set the world alight. Still, Google has a way of tackling old ideas -- search, mail, maps, instant messaging etc -- in new and engaging ways, so Google Calendar could be the start of something bigger.Google Gmail users might also appreciate it if Google could copy the Microsoft Outlook feature of dragging and dropping an email message to create a calendar entry. (Or you can drag a contact to the calendar and Outlook will trigger a Meeting Request email.)
Web 2.0 mavens should already haveupdated their buzzwords, but here, Kathy Sierra is actually making another plea for less jargon: "Why not rewrite these buzzwords in terms of what they mean for users?"The history of high technology suggests that's one idea that's unlikely to catch on....
Jakob Nielsen, the usability specialist, says in his latest weekly Alertbox column (should we call it a blog?) that"talking head video is boring online". That is, video devised for broadcast purposes (such as TV, where you can safely ignore the set droning in the corner until something more interesting happens) is a real turnoff once it's running 12 inches from your face.There's a fascinating"heat map"showing where viewers' eyes really do wander in a 24-second clip while the person on screen is blathering away: at the sign behind the speaker, at the rolling headlines on the other parts of the screen, and (perhaps longingly) at the pause, stop and volume buttons. (Notably, one place the eyes don't rest is on the advert at the bottom of the screen.)What conclusions does he draw?The eyetracking data clearly show that a talking head is boring, even for 24 seconds. On the Web, 24 seconds is a long time -- too long for users to keep their attention on something monotonous.He reckons that the process of understanding what video works, and whether you can reuse it for the web if it was shot for TV (which perhaps expects a more passive audience), is going to be the same learning curve as for newspapers and magazines, which spent the early years of the web squirting the same headlines onto their web output as their print ones, even though people read headlines differently online.Comment:TV news organisations aren't going to be comfortable with these findings. There's enormous amounts of inertia built into any organisation that has to get a lot of stuff done in a short period; TV news in particular is all about getting the pictures and fitting the story around them. Being told that the web content has to be "more interesting" because people will click away won't please camera crews or journalists, who want to get the pictures done and back to the edit suite.Then again, they could just ignore them, which has been done before, in the hope that inconvenient studies by usability experts will just go away. However, Jakob Nielsen's work has a habit of not going away, and proving more and more true: he has been saying for years that Flash is a pain for standard websites (especially the commercial ones) and that sites should have search built in. And guess what? People have discovered he was right all along.
Wired.com haspostedthe following hypothesis:"Publishing a game timed to a box office release isn't easy - tight schedules and deadlines set in stone usually mean the end product will fall somewhere between mediocre and unplayable. But when the film your game is based on hit theaters years or even decades ago - like The Matrix or From Russia With Love - the result can be a higher caliber of movie game."Journalists love to find patterns, rules and trends - they lead to nice, convenient stories. This one makes sense in theory, but Wired is on shaky ground, basing its premise on just two titles - neither of which has exactly set the videogame world alight.Not mentioned, meanwhile, is the glut of classic movie tie-ins with a whiff of the GTA bandwagon about them - Scarface, Godfather, Reservoir Dogs, Taxi Driver - will these be better titles simply because they don't have a cinematic release to synchronise with? I'm not convinced. The poor quality of film games, in general, is not just down to haste - there is often an element, too, of hiding behind the license, using the allure of the name to sell a mediocre experience. We all know this.Besides, King Kong - based on a movie so new it isn't even out yet - is pulling in some impressive reviews. I've only had a quick go so far, but I've a feeling I'm going to enjoy it more than the two titles in Wired's feature. What appears to have happened here is that Ubisoft has assembled a talented development team working under a real master of game design, Michel Ancel (Rayman, Beyond Good and Evil, etc). Hey, maybe that's the secret of a good movie conversion...So what would beyourideal combination of developer and classic movie tie-in?* I'll go for Q Entertainment doing 2001: A Space Odyssey. Or maybe Team Silent having a bash at Don't Look Now...*We may have asked this before. I can't remember...
Forget the Grand National; the big betting event in the UK is the Videogame Christmas Number One. Er, maybe not, but there has been some movement in the yuletide gaming odds. Previous favourite,The Chronicles of Narnia, has plummeted after a shocking sales debut (in at number 30, outsold by a Bratz game..). Obviously sales will pick up when the film arrives, but for now Narnia seems out of the running. According to the bookies the new clear favourite for the Christmas number one slot is chav-boy "classic" Need For Speed: Most Wanted. Its closest rivals are Harry Potter: Goblet of Fire and King Kong, although, according to Ladbrokes, there is a rather worrying dark horse - Crazy Frog Racer. Other prices include Civ 4 at 33-1 and FIFA 06 at 20/1.Gregory Horror Show, sadly, doesn't have a price.
Well, it can at least tell you the location of a games company where you can apply for one.TheGame Company Databaseutilises the endlessly useful mapping system to give industry hopefuls (and rabid fans) the precise locations of software developers, complete with sattelite imagery.Unfortunately the service is only available for US companies, but hopefully it'll pick up on the hundreds of studios in the UK soon.In other Google Earth news, theindie developmentof virtual RISK using GE's software has been halted because it infringes on the copyright of the game, owned byHasbro, Inc.
Sorry it's taken a long time to get around to this: with more than 120 responses, I needed some time to collate the answers to the question "what's best geek movie of all time"?After filtering the answers, compiling the votes and running through the numbers, we now have a top 25. There's a little bit of fudging - mainly around the question of sequels and trilogies (plenty of those in there) - but in the end, I decided on a mixture of common sense. All of the movies on this list were mentioned at least five times.Read the list as they came in, below, thengo and cast your votes now.Looking closely at this list, two things became clear: science fiction heavily dominates what you guys deemed "geek", and Terry Gilliam is clearly the geekiest film director in history. While others came up with a slew of geek sequels, Gilliam hits the top 25 with three entirely seperate entries - Brazil, Twelve Monkeys and Time Bandits (and that doesn't count other nearly-made-its like Monty Python and the Holy Grail).The shortlist of the top 25, then, as put forward by readers.1The Matrix2Star Wars/The Empire Strikes Back3Blade Runner4=2001: A Space Odyssey  Gattaca6Brazil7Dark Star8=Pi  Serenity10=Tron  Twelve Monkeys  Donnie Darko13Cube14Akira15=War Games  Terminator17=Minority Report  Dr Strangelove  Aliens20=Fifth Element  Weird Science  Silent Running  Ghost in the Shell  Time Bandits  Lord of the Rings trilogyThat's the shortlist. Now we need to make sure we get the right answer, sogo and cast your votes now!.
Eric Schmidt (Google CEO) and Hal Varian (Berkeley professor and Google consultant) have written an article about "getting the most out of knowledge workers" forNewsweek. Nothing really new here ("Of course, we're not the only company that follows these practices. Many of them are common around Silicon Valley.") but it's not a bad checklist. One of the most interesting points:Data drive decisions. At Google, almost every decision is based on quantitative analysis. We've built systems to manage information, not only on the Internet at large, but also internally. We have dozens of analysts who plow through the data, analyze performance metrics and plot trends to keep us as up to date as possible. We have a raft of online "dashboards" for every business we work in that provide up-to-the-minute snapshots of where we are.
"I can't believe you have made it all here today!" says Loïc Le Meur,opening the two-day LesBlogs 2.0 conference in Paris. There are a number of ways tofollow the event remotely, withLes Blogsbeing the best starting point.Curiously, more people have made it from the US (40) than from the UK (31).Update: Also there'sNeil McIntosh on our Newsblog.
Mostly in-jokes for web programmers, I suppose, but what else would you expect from a site calledGo Flock Yourself? It only goes up to 7, but in a comment, someone has added: 8. You get someone else's gift in an RSS feed.
You're the Man Now Dog!ViaBoingBoingcomes this great animated Gif mash-up of Indiana Jones and Katamari...Run, Indy, run!
I would share thoughts of the Xbox 360 release games with you (Perfect Dark, Project Gotham, Kameo), but the E74 error message Ireportedhad been fixed with some power-supply jiggery pokery last Thursday reared its ugly head on Friday and hasn't gone away.How's everyone else's 360? Any problems?
Motorbikes and mobile phones may not have much in common, but today they are among the products of eight British companies honoured as global "technology pioneers", an accolade recognising groundbreaking work in the fields of IT, renewable energy and biotechnology.Among the British winners of the annual prize, awarded by the influential World Economic Forum, were Stem Cell Sciences, a Scottish firm producing stem cells for medical research, and Intelligent Energy, maker of the world's first hydrogen-powered motorcycle."The creative innovations produced by our technology pioneers hold the promise of significantly affecting the way business and society operate," said Peter Torreele, the managing director of the World Economic Forum.Alastair Lukies, founder of mobileATM, whose winning company offers a mobile phone-based management system for bank accounts using the same encryption and security procedures as financial institutions, said: "It's a lovely feeling, and great recognition for the team. It opens plenty of doors for us."It is the sixth time the forum - best known for its annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, of the world's "most powerful people" - has made these awards. Each year a number of companies are chosen for their pioneering ideas and given a two-year invitation to the meeting, an offer which puts them in contact with some of the world's most important movers and shakers.This year among those attending the event were the prime minister, Tony Blair, Microsoft founder Bill Gates, and the investor George Soros.Almost half of the 36 companies in the list are based in the US, but the UK provided the second largest number of success stories."This must tell the world that there are a lot of great minds in Britain," added Mr Lukies."Maybe this decade is really one where the UK can be seen as a technology leader."
Tour operators and tourist boards are fighting to cash in on an entirely new type of holiday - the gay honeymoon. Same-sex marriages become legal under the Civil Partnership Act tomorrow, with the first ceremonies possible a fortnight later, and holiday companies are rapidly creating new packages and marketing campaigns.South Africa, which announced last week it would also legalise same-sex marriage, is already targeting gay couples in marketing campaigns, while the Australian tourist board says it hopes it will prove a popular gay honeymoon destination.'The Bill will open up an entire market for us,' says Lebohang Mokhesi, UK manager of South Africa Tourism. 'Cape Town has long been one of the hottest spots for the gay visitor.'Specialist tour operators including Man Around Group and Pink Passport have launched honeymoon holidays, and tip America, Canada, Australia, Cura&ccedil;ao in the Dutch Antilles, Germany and South Africa as the most popular destinations.Trendy American hotel chain Kimpton has launched 16 gay honeymoon packages, and Rainbow Tours, a specialist African adventure operator, has already taken bookings for South Africa and Namibia.'South Africa is the ideal destination,' said Roger Diski, owner of Rainbow Tours. 'But we don't recommend Zanzibar, where gay relationships are illegal, or Zimbabwe.'However, conservative attitudes towards homosexuality may hinder the gay market in many other established honeymoon spots. The tourist boards for Mauritius and the Maldives say they 'have no plans' to promote gay honeymoons. A spokeswoman for the Maldivian tourist board said it would be a 'sensitive issue' in the Islamic country.
After reading Miles Brignall's article in today's Guardian, I have added ZoneAlarm to my default Windows XP Professional firewall, just to be on the safe side. Should I turn off the latter, or can they work together? I got no warning messages when installing ZoneAlarm, so I'm assuming it's OK. TaliaMiles Brignall's article,Broadband ... danger in the fast lane, appeared in the Money section of the Guardian on Saturday December 3, 2005.Gnerally it's not a good idea to have two firewalls or two anti-virus programs running, because they tend to monitor and lock files at quite a low level, and can get in each other's way. The built in Windows XP firewall is a very limited beast and may not give Zone Alarm any problems, but neither does it add anything worthwhile, so I'd turn it off.Ny current recommendation is to run the freeKerio personal firewallandAVG Free.Both are also available in paid-for versions as well as free versions for non-commercial home users. In addition, I recommed doing regular online scans atHousecall. ZoneAlarm is a good alternative free firewall.If you want increased online security at a reasonable price, make your broadband connection via a router with a built in firewall, or via a NAT router. In any case, a router is a much better network connection than a so-called USB modem. A four port router makes it dead easy to connect another three PCs to the net. Also, a router should stay permanently connected, so it won't matter if you plug/unplug or reboot any of the connected PCs.
"The program has been a complete failure, resulting in exactly zero terrorists caught. And even worse, thousands (or more) have been denied the ability to fly, even though they've done nothing wrong. These denials fall into two categories: the 'Ted Kennedy' problem (people who aren't on the list but share a name with someone who is) and the 'Cat Stevens' problem (people on the list who shouldn't be). Even now, four years after 9/11, both these problems remain," writes security expert Bruce Schneier inWired News."I know quite a lot about this. I was a member of the government's Secure Flight Working Group on Privacy and Security. We looked at the TSA's program for matching airplane passengers with the terrorist watch list, and found a complete mess: poorly defined goals, incoherent design criteria, no clear system architecture, inadequate testing. (Our report was on the TSA website, but has recently been removed -- "refreshed" is the word the organization used -- and replaced with an "executive summary" (.doc) that contains none of the report's findings. The TSA did retain two (.doc) rebuttals (.doc), which read like products of the same outline and dismiss our findings by saying that we didn't have access to the requisite information.) Our conclusions match those in two (.pdf) reports (.pdf) by the Government Accountability Office and one (.pdf) by the DHS inspector general."
"Sir Richard Branson, the billionaire entrepreneur, is set to transform the British TV and telecoms landscapes by merging Virgin Mobile with NTL, the cable company. The move will create an entertainment and communications giant worth £4.5bn and with more than 9m customers. The deal will see Branson swap his 72 per cent holding in Virgin Mobile for a 14 per cent stake in the enlarged cable and mobile group. He will be the largest single shareholder in the new company," reportsThe Sunday Telegraph."NTL will be rebranded Virgin following the deal. The transaction, which amounts to a reverse takeover, will extend Branson's business empire into the sitting rooms of an additional 5m British homes."Comment:This is not a done deal.
I drum my fingers on the steering wheel as the elderly man on the zebra crossing in front of me hesitates and then grinds to a stop. Peering at him from the vast height of my Jeep Grand Cherokee, he seems to jut up from the front of the bonnet like an oversized mascot. He's anxious, wrestling with some inner demon. After a moment, he gives in and walks briskly towards me. The giant V6 throbs menacingly in the background. He raps a signet ring on the tinted glassand I slide the automatic window silently down. He looks me in the eye and says: 'You should be ashamed of yourself.' I might be being obtuse, but I think his comments were aimed at the car and not my myriad other shortcomings.Like smokers and Aled Jones completists, 4x4 drivers are having to get used to being the pariahs of society. I've tested off-roaders before with no ill effects, but the anti-SUV movement has now gathered such force that you feel the most hostile environment you're going to have to negotiate is the social consciences of your sandal-wearing neighbours. But it's important to bear in mind that every vehicle should only be judged in its correct context. If I was tackling an icy slope with a pair of freshly killed moose strapped on the back, then I wouldn't get far in a Nissan Micra; equally, the Grand Cherokee is hopelessly overqualified for lugging a Barbie karaoke set back from Toys R Us.Anti-SUV campaigners have attacked the 4x4 on the grounds of size, fuel consumption, CO2 emissions and pedestrian safety. But the truth is that there are bigger, thirstier, more dangerous and even more-environmentally harmful vehicles out there - though, yes, off-roaders do score alarmingly highly in all these areas. But the 4x4's real failing is in how it's marketed. Soccer mums do not need to heft three kids and almost three tonnes of steel to the playing fields on a Saturday morning. The words sledgehammer and nut spring to mind.I have to confess I didn't 'offroad' in my Jeep. If I had I would have discovered a prodigiously gifted performer which would make molehills out of mountains. I did, however, use the 4x4 for what most owners will use it for - city driving. And its weight, size and lumpen clumsiness made me feel like one of the dancing hippos in Fantasia. As your teacher might have said, 'It's big, but it isn't clever.'The latest version of the Grand Cherokee is a huge improvement on the last. The Mercedes-sourced three-litre V6 diesel that replaces the old 2.7 CRD is smooth and responsive. It'll do 28mpg - a drinking habit which is not in the same league as an Asbo's - but it is a diesel and it should therefore be far more abstemious. It's not cheap, either - &#163;32,895 - but then no one is going to make a status-setting vehicle with a down-market price. Internally, the fixtures and fittings seem a little low-rent - a wobbly handbrake doesn't inspire confidence and the instrument panel is cheaper than one of Simon Cowell's putdowns. But then, this is one act which doesn't need the X-factor.
"According to eBay president and CEO Meg Whitman, a staggering 40,000 Xbox 360 consoles have been sold on eBay. As reported by Dow Jones last night based upon a presentation at the CSFB Annual Technology Conference, the 40,000 unit figure has left pundits flabbergasted. If launch supply estimates from American Technology Research are accurate, that would mean that 10% of all Xbox 360 consoles sold in the US were either sold or resold through eBay," saysNext Generation.Comment:Or possibly one Xbox 360 was sold 40,000 times ;-)
Nothing new about redesigning the famous map (or diagram) of London's tube system, but Oskar Karlin found a particularly interesting way to do it for one of his final projects at the London College of Printing (now London College of Communication).He writes:I started thinking what's different in the world now from when the map was designed and one thing that are different today is time. No one has any time left any more. Time is money. Time is everything and so on. Today you never tell anyone how far away in miles you live, but in minutes or perhaps hours if you're unlucky. So I decided to create a re-design based on time instead of distance (normal maps) or simplicity (tube maps). By combining geographically accuracy with simplicity and time I started out with measuring the time it takes to travel between each station in the whole system.You can download pdf copies of the redesigned map with and without zones.
"Although networks are still in their infancy, experts think they're already creating new forms of social behavior that blur the distinctions between online and real-world interactions. In fact, today's young generation largely ignores the difference. Most adults see the Web as a supplement to their daily lives. They tap into information, buy books or send flowers, exchange apartments, or link up with others who share passions for dogs, say, or opera. But for the most part, their social lives remain rooted in the traditional phone call and face-to-face interaction," saysBusiness Week."The MySpace generation, by contrast, lives comfortably in both worlds at once. Increasingly, America's middle- and upper-class youth use social networks as virtual community centers, a place to go and sit for a while (sometimes hours). While older folks come and go for a task, Adams and her social circle are just as likely to socialize online as off. This is partly a function of how much more comfortable young people are on the Web: Fully 87% of 12- to 17-year-olds use the Internet, vs. two-thirds of adults, according to the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project."Comment:It's not just MySpace, of course: the article also mentions Facebook.com, Xanga, Buzz-Oven and similar sites. And it's not just an interesting social phenomenon for Busienss Week and its readers: the main interest in any cumulation of hard-to-reach teens and young adults is how it can be used to sell them things.
First there was the hype. Then came the queues. Yesterday, within hours of its launch, came the inevitable shortages - and auctions on eBay.Microsoft's new videogames console, the Xbox 360, disappeared from the shelves of some of the big retailers when stores opened at midnight yesterday, suggesting it will live up to its prelaunch publicity and become a Christmas bestseller.The company warned yesterday that shoppers might struggle to find the Xbox - a rival to Sony's PlayStation - and suggested gamers look in less obvious places when they go hunting for it this weekend. "We're encouraging people to look for Xbox 360 at more obscure outlets, places where they might not think about buying games consoles," a Microsoft spokeswoman advised."We don't want to be seen to be favouring particular retailers but we are advising people to look in places such as Toys R Us, Comet, CostCo and small Tesco and Asda stores."Hundreds of customers - most of whom had already ordered in advance - braved bad weather to queue until the early hours yesterday to get their hands on Britain's first batch of Xbox 360s at the official launch at the flagship Game store on Oxford Street in London.Microsoft is expected to sell about 300,000 Xboxes across Europe this weekend, but demand is already outstripping supply. The buzz around the product has been amplified by frenzied talk of stock shortages and warnings from high street retailers. Neil Thompson, head of Xbox in northern Europe, said: "Everybody is saying that they are selling out very, very quickly. The rush to store was as big as everyone thought it would be." He said fresh supplies would be available in the UK next week, but warned fans: "I think it will be tough finding one tomorrow."Nate Elliott, a technology industry analyst with Jupiter Media, said she did not think the shortages were contrived.The Xbox 360 is being marketed not just as a games console, but also as a multimedia device, offering the ability to play CDs and DVDs, and connect to iPods and other digital music players. It is also internet-enabled, allowing players to compete against other people over the web, as well as giving it the potential to be used for telephone calls and instant messages.It is the videogames industry's biggest console launch yet, with Microsoft expecting to sell about 3 million machines in three months. With the product being launched in quick succession in America, Europe and Asia, stocks are running low around the world. Experts believe such an ambitious launch could hamper the company's plans to overthrow the PlayStation's domination of the games market.The original Xbox proved an expensive entry into the market, and has cost the company $4bn (&pound;2.31bn) since it was launched four years ago. But with a new design and enhanced features, Microsoft is hoping that it can become the market leader second time around.How it's rated"The influence of the iPod is everywhere, and it's certainly evident here - the plastic finish on the console, controllers and all the little widgets feels expensive. The interface is very slick, and neatly separates all the game stuff from the media stuff."Adam VaughanStuff magazine"The graphics are incredibly detailed, lifelike and vivid, far beyond anything conceivable in the current generation of game consoles ... The big picture is that the Xbox 360 is Microsoft's statement about the future of home technology. And it is an attractive, powerful statement."Seth SchieselNew York Times"Multimedia functions add to the appeal ... However, with the games lineup lacking a real must-buy, there is a solid argument for not rushing in. The Xbox 360 has bags of potential and is a delight to use, but the gaming revolution is some way off yet."Greg Howson and Steve BoxerTechnology Guardian"It's certainly a sleek piece of equipment, with enough technological oomph to make even the most casual gamer raise their eyebrows. But when it comes to must-have games, the Xbox 360 falls short. Ultimately, if you consider yourself a core gamer, you've probably already pre-ordered a 360 ... If you're a more casual fan, it's probably worth waiting a bit."Chris MorrisCNN.com
Now that the Xbox is finally hitting its stride with classics like Halo 2, Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath and Far Cry: Instincts appearing this year alone, Microsoft has decided to kill it and start again. Xbox 360, while compatible with some of its predecessor's games, is a new system entirely, bringing multimedia hub style features like photo storage, music libraries, online chat facilities and much-vaunted high definition output. That most of this (including compatibility with your old Xbox games) vanishes without the hard drive underlines once again the paucity of the "Core System" versus the fully featured version, which comes with additional hard drive, wireless controller, high definition cables and a redesigned Xbox Live headset. In the presence of only hot air from Sony and Nintendo, a shiny new console is tricky to ignore in the run up to Jesus's birthday and if playing videogames makes you happy, Xbox 360 has an interesting, if not quite arresting, launch lineup.Kameo: Elements Of Power (Microsoft Studios)Shape-shifting elf Kameo transforms into an expanding range of beasts, whose abilities you combine to defeat foes and solve simple puzzles. Coming from English uber-developer Rare, Kameo is alive with their trademark charm, with glorious vistas and beautifully detailed textures abounding. Featuring a gradually unlockable co-operative mode and the capacity to upgrade the abilities of your portfolio of inhabitable monsters, Kameo is for the most part a delight, even if its constant handholding and insistence on sticking to every videogame convention will irk seasoned players.Quake IV (Activision)Playing like a slightly low budget Doom 3, the most recent Quake release emerges from its PC incarnation graphically fully intact with lights glistening off the slightly moist-looking exteriors of the mutant cyborg Strogg as they charge you. Multiplayer is where this really shines.Perfect Dark Zero (Microsoft Studios)The flagship title for the Xbox 360 was unavailable for review at the time of going to press. In preview events the game's looks have impressed less than the feel of actually playing it, and this certainly isn't as clear-cut a winner as Halo was for Xbox those scant few years ago.Call Of Duty 2 (Activision)War, as is well established, is hell. Simulated war, by contrast, is great fun, and Call of Duty 2's chaotic take on selected campaigns from the second world war is particularly well-balanced for ease of use. Nixing boring health points in favour of simply finding cover and lying low for a few seconds when injured creates a far more even flow than fellow Nazi-annihilator Medal Of Honour. It also looks and sounds beautiful, with smoke grenades filling the world with an utterly believable fog of war while the roar of the German menace surging towards your position in Dolby Surround increases the white-knuckle effect. General simplicity and absence of tactics is counterbalanced by all-out action for living room second world warriors.Ridge Racer 6 (Electronic Arts)Having pioneered 3D racing on PSOne, the Ridge Racer series has since strayed deep into the wilderness as typified by PS2's polish-free Ridge Racer 5, and again with this competent but unimpressive power slide-'em-up which looks crude and old-fashioned.Project Gotham Racing 3 (Microsoft Studios)It's yet another racing game, only this one's delivered in eye-melting high definition and comes with an in-car view that communicates a completely unprecedented sensation of speed, with your car rattling over bumps under neck-snapping acceleration. Doing away with Gran Turismo's nerdy slowbuild car development and track unlocking, Project Gotham gives you everything straight out of the box, letting you scream round its detailed and well-designed tracks to a wildly eclectic soundtrack that takes in rock, classical and bhangra. Silky smooth vehicular action that gets even better played online against real human opponents.&#183;Microsoft, Core System &#163;210, Top End Bundle &#163;280
Bored of your diet? Here are a few ideas: The Turducken (tinyurl.com/wpm4) is like a Russian doll in meat form - a chicken inside a duck inside a turkey, all roasted together for full-on poultry power. Some idiots stick lobster inside the chicken for a bit of subtlety.If that sounds too healthy, maybe the 30,000 Calorie Sandwich (nanbelegorn.com/sandwich) would be more appealing; judging by Weight Watchers Recipe Cards Circa 1974 (candyboots.com/wwcards.html) it's still more appetising than the opposite end of the spectrum. Celery Log, anyone?Alternatively, likeorangeman.commo.de, you could try turning yourself orange by eating only carrots or become a food extremist like the guy attinyurl.com/3owts, who has road-tested, among other delights, dog food and his wife's breast milk.
Michael Robertson -- famous for launching MP3.com and for pitching Lindows (a version of Linux) against Microsoft Windows -- has returned to the music business with Oboe, a $39.95 per year "virtual music locker that enables customers to store and access their entire personal music collections online," reportsPC Magazine.Oboe Sync software works by scanning the user's computer for supported music files (including MP3, WMA, AAC and OGG formats) and then automatically loads those files to the Oboe locker. "You can run the same software that moves the files to your online locker and it will sync those online tracks to a second or third PC so you can have all of your music on all of your different computers," Robertson said.Once users sync their music to the Oboe locker, the service provides a Web page for access to the collection. The site interface displays artist, album and track information and has streaming capability, enabling the user to listen online at up to 192K bps.The story notes that Robertson "helped to create a service similar to Oboe in 2000. A user of My.MP3 would insert a purchased CD into the computer and the service would transfer the tracks into the user's e-locker, via an online database in which the tracks were stored." Robertson says: "The difference here is that the user is actually uploading their own file."
According to the ThinkSecret blog, as sued by Apple, "Apple is planning to unveil a robust new content distribution system in January at Macworld Expo alongside its revamped media-savvy Mac mini."In an effort to appease media companies wary of the security of digital rights management technology, Apple's new technology will deliver content such that it never actually resides on the user's hard drive. Content purchased will be automatically made available on a user's iDisk, which Front Row 2.0 will tap into. When the user wishes to play the content, robust caching technology Apple previously received a patent for will serve it to the users computer as fast as their Internet connection can handle. The system will also likely support downloading the video content to supported iPods but at no time will it ever actually be stored on a computer's hard drive.This method, which will be every bit as simple and straightforward for consumers as the iTunes Music Store is now, poses a number of advantages over Apple's current pay-once-download-once system, including saving users' hard drive space and essentially providing a secure back-up of everything purchased. iTunes Music Store customers at present are charged 99 cents every time they download a song, regardless of whether they already bought it, and must back-up purchases themselves. A customer who experiences data loss and loses purchased songs is effectively out of luck as far as Apple is concerned.Comment:The "Mac mini" project code-namedKaleidoscopewas rumoured to be an Intel-based "TiVo-killer" with Front Row 2 software upgraded to offer the sort of PVR functionality of Microsoft Media Center PCs.
MondayHandheld gaming is good for youGems of this generationTuesdayXbox 360 catch-upGamesblog cupMMOrgy3D Java games explosionRevolution is comingHistory Channel turns to gamesWednesdayPostal finds a loophole and gets releasedPSP gets RSS and WMV via 2.60Anyone not got a PS2?ThursdayMeeting with Microsoft UK boss Neil Thompson on the eve of Xbox360TechnologyFilm critic dismisses videogamesXbox error E74 on my retail machine!FridayNeil Thompson and Stephen McGill - the Xbox 360 interviewGames industry to make $58.4b in 2007 - but PC gaming in freefallAn Xbox 360 MiscellanyLaunch stories
So, 360 launch day? How was it for you? Manage to get one? I hope you had more luck than a friend of mine. He pre-ordered from Game in early September - plenty of time, he thought. Not so. He got an email last week saying that his order couldn't be fulfilled - cue expletives as he resigned himself to a month or two without Perfect Dark Zero et al.Then, yesterday, hours before launch, he received a mail saying that he had been lucky and would be getting a 360 from Game after all. Brilliant. Except, it wasn't. When he called today to arrange collection he found out that there had been an administrative cock-up. He wasn't getting a 360 and had instead received one of 2000 emails sent out in error. Spare a thought for the 2000 people who thought they were getting a 360 today, but weren't. I don't know who I feel more sorry for. The misled punters or the customer service staff who have to clean up the mess.
Feedster has started aFeed of the Year countdownand will announce one finalist each day until December 31. Then it will bring in the New Year by announcing the Feed of the Year winner and two runners-up. The decision will be made by a "panel of independent judges [rating] blogs across a range of criteria, not just number of links or traffic," says Feedster.Feed of the Year Finalist #31: is Tropolism, "an architecture blog with attitude, pictures, point of view, good writing."
Launch lunacy: Oxford Street last night. Photograph: John Stillwell/PAOn my way home at about 11.30 last night, I was meandering down Oxford Street on a bus when I noticed a couple of hundred people standing around. Of course, it was thequeuefor the launch of theXbox 360at the Game store.I'd not initially intended to go along and watch the action, but since I was passing by anyway, I stopped for a while to talk to various people in the line.First off, it was interesting how many other media organisations were there (most of them far more organised than me, by the way). Camera crews, radio crews and photographers were all out in force as the eager gamers trickled into the store and emerged.I worked my way down the line, talking to some of those who were waiting to get their hands on a 360. And do you know what the most interesting thing was? Nearly all of them said that they wanted one to tide them over until another next-generation platform arrived. Of course, these are serious gamers - believe me, to queue up at midnight on a cold and wet December night means youarehardcore - but most of them seemed to be looking forward to other platforms more. "I'm just buying this to last until PS3 comes out," or "I'm really waiting for the Revolution, but this will do in the meantime" were phrases used with regularity.This, I suppose, isn't terrible news for Microsoft. After all, they'll be hoping that by getting people to buy the platform in the first place, they've done some of the hard work. Those who buy now might not actually go and purchase a PS3 if they've had a chance to get hooked by 360. And one reason people are looking forward to other systems is that they don't yet know exactly what those systems are about - the unknown is always more exciting.But it could also signal a warning: come up with the games to make the platform great, or else. That's one gamble of being early into a generation battle, asJack pointed outin this week's Technology Guardian.In then end, after a chat with some of the policemen who were hanging around to make sure nobody got mugged two minutes after getting their Xbox, I spent an hour or so with the men - and women - in the queue, and got home at about 1.30 this morning. Tiring, but very informative.
If your appetite for Xbox 360 tittle-tattle is yet to be satiated by all those exciting launch reports, there are a few more offbeat stories floating around at the moment. For example, Gamesfirst.com has apainstaking comparisonof King Kong on Xbox and Xbox 360, using several screenshots from the two formats. The writer is somehow less than surprised to discover that there are quite a few similarities...Better still is alittle nuggetwhich seems to have originated from obscure blog, It's Got To Be Fluff, concerning a gamer who pre-ordered two copies of Perfect Dark Zero from Blockbuster and then tried to change his order for a hard-drive, only to be called an idiot on his till receipt. Harsh but fair.Finally, Kotaku.com brieflymentionsa new Xbox 360 video which may or may not be a new 'banned ad' for the console. Ah the wonders of rumour-based viral marketing...
Photo: CVG (computerandvideogames)Spong went to theXbox 360 launch partyin London while CVGhit the streetsfor the midnight sales frenzy. (Sorry I didn't go: it was my wife's birthday.)BBC News didX-appeal turns on UK gamersandGamers wait hours for Xbox launchandGamers in a frenzy over Xbox 360andXbox 360 wants to be your hub, plus a hardware review (Xbox 360 put to the test) and some games reviews (Microsoft banks on Xbox 360 games).Meanwhile, over on our Gamesblog,Aleks Krotoskihas posted apodcast interviewwith Xbox marketing men Neil Thompson and Stephen McGill.
Yes, according to a new report from industry analyst,Informa, the global games industry is set to hit a peak value of $58.4 billion in 2007. And while next-gen consoles like Xbox 360 (I still haven't got one) and PS3 (ditto), will contribute considerably to this figure, Informa reckons they won't be the only big money generators:"Although the console sector will continue to dominate the games industry worldwide, the growth of broadband, mobile &amp; interactive TV gaming is starting to remove some of the cyclical nature of the business. These three sectors are forecast to contribute significant revenues by the end of the decade."And elsewhere:"The highest growth will come from broadband, mobile and interactive TV, which are together forecast to generate revenues of $20.6 billion by 2010 - up from $3.8 billion in 2004."But things won't look quite so rosy for the PC sector..."PC gaming will continue to decline - with revenues falling to half the 2001 total by 2010 - due to factors such as new generation consoles boasting the same functionality traditionally associated with the PC"Oh dear.The point about casual gaming technologies such as mobile and interactive TV breaking down the cyclical nature of the business is an interesting one. After thirty years of barely controlled chaos, is the industry finally ready to grow out of its boom and bust childhood?You can find more info on the 'Dynamics of Games' reporthere.
Dr Douglas C Engelbartis famous for inventing the mouse and for givingThe Mother of All Demos. As Wikipeida says: "At the Fall Joint Computer Conference, Engelbart demonstrated to the 1,000 computer professionals in attendance the first mouse the public had ever seen, as well as introducing the paper paradigm, teleconferencing, email and hypertext." Modern computing, in other words. The thing was, this was in 1968....Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble has just posted a 30-minute video interview with Engelbart in a noisy cafe. You can view itonline at Channel 9but it's a better idea to download it (112MB of WMV) and play it from your PC.
SNARF, the Social Network and Relationship Finder, "a complement to e-mail programs such as Outlook, filters and sorts e-mail based on the type of message and the user's history with an e-mail correspondent. The result: a collection of alternative views of your e-mail that can help you make sense of the deluge," says theMicrosoft Research site."We often say, 'Your dog knows the difference between strangers and friends who visit your house; why shouldn't your e-mail client?' "The process on which SNARF is based is called social sorting. The concept has been around for a while; in fact, Microsoft Research's Eric Horvitz worked on a similar project called Priorities a few years back. But what's new about this implementation is its simplicity. The tool, which has been deployed within Microsoft for a field study, simply counts e-mails, sorts them by sender, and draws conclusions about their relative importance from the intensity of the correspondence relationship.SNARF is a free download.CNet has just posted a story.
Dark mutterings fill the land - or at least those parts of it most densely populated with electronic gaming fans hotly anticipating the launch of the new Xbox 360. Rumour has it that Microsoft is creating a "calculated shortage" of the hardware by allowing shops only a limited amount of stock (accompanied, allegedly, by large "sold out" signs and instructions to display them prominently as soon as possible) to ensure a launch-day sell-out and consequent ratcheting-up of consumer desire and media interest. Microsoft, meanwhile, reckons it is just ensuring a steady supply of the goods over time.Who to believe? After all, the most obvious way of maintaining a steady supply of Xboxes would be simply to make enough of them to meet sales forecasts and retailers' advance orders. Could someone have failed to do this? Does the phrase "calculated shortage" in fact have a slight hint of desperation about it, the faintest whiff of an arse-covering manoeuvre, perhaps? "It is often used as a surface or retrospective explanation for production problems," says Dr Jonathan Reynolds,director of the Oxford Institute of Retail Management. "Companies can cock up in their eagerness to get ahead of rivals and secure Christmas sales."This was held to be the case with Apple's original iPod, whose subsequent status as a desirable item grew accordingly. But Dr Simon Bell, senior lecturer in marketing at the Judge Business School, sees no conspiracy. "They may genuinely not have the production capacity or supply," he says. "Response to product take-up can be quite clunky because you can't build a factory overnight or work more than 24 hours a day."On the other hand, common sense tells us that the lure of the unattainable can exert a powerful and commercially exploitable hold over the human mind, as H&amp;M will doubtless attest once they finish counting the profits raked in by the "limited edition" Stella McCartney collection (now, strangely, back in the shops after a further batch was somehow sourced in response to the huge demand)."Deliberately withholding goods is a risk," says Dr Reynolds. "There is the danger of hacking off the people you can't supply who will then go elsewhere. And bad word of mouth can damage a brand far faster nowadays than it could a few years ago." But, he points out, any risk for Microsoft is limited at the moment because competitors Nintendo and Sony aren't launching their new consoles until next year. Further evidence that the shortage is intended is, he says, the fact that it is worldwide - in cases of genuine scarcity, it tends to be just Europe that goes without.No doubt the truth of the matter will remain more elusive than an Xbox 360. Still, at least the competing cock-up-versus-conspiracy theories will keep frostbite at bay in the queues.
The free firewall business has been suffering a bit recently. Sygate has been taken over by Symantec, which is the end of the Sygagte Personal firewall, and Kero said it was dropping its free firewall at the end of the year. Regular readers may remember I've been recommeding Sygate for some time, so I've been looking for a substitute. The Kerio Personal Firewall is the best I've found so far.The good news comes fromCNet:Sunbelt Software, best known for its CounterSpy anti-spyware product, said on Thursday that it has agreed to acquire the Kerio Personal Firewall from Kerio Technologies, saving the popular consumer desktop firewall product from the chop. The terms of the transaction were not disclosed.Sunbelt will continue to offer a basic, free version of the firewall for home users and plans to announce reduced pricing for the full version of the product and a variety of special offers after it closes the deal, according to the statement.CNet says Kerio has been downloaded "more than 2 million times," which is some sort of "popular" but it frightens me. There are more than 700 million Windows machines out there. Admittedly many are behind corporate firewalls, and many people must be using Norton, Zone Alarm etc, but there must still be a lot of undefended PCs on the net.Keriois quite sophisticated and does a good job of blocking adverts that are on pages, not just pop-up ads. It can filter cookies and also block JavaScript and ActiveX components -- and it's easier to vary these settings in the firewall than in the browser. Finally, you may well find it easier to use Kerio than Sygate: it's less geeky.I also tried and quickly uninstalled the latest Zone Alarm (not free) suite: I accidentally blocked my own net access and couldn't figure out how to get it back. Reading the help files didn't help. It also failed to deal with a bit of adware that I knew I had. I've nothing against ZA in principle and I used the first firewall-only version for a long time. I've run into problems with later more complex versions, but it seems to work for a lot of people. On that basis, I wouldn't discourage anyone from trying it.
Yes, the media has gone Xbox 360 mad! After a gruelling day of being interviewed byRadio 1andBBC World Service, I managed to sneak in a bit of interviewingwith Xbox's Senior Regional Director, Northern &amp; Eastern Europe, Home and Entertainment Division, Neil Thompson, and the head of Xbox UK Marketing, Stephen McGill (both very affable chaps) on the eve before the launch of the next generation - before they they went and celebrated the release of the 360 with Greg and the other official party-goers.Unfortunately, I didn't get thelistof your excellent questions before I quizzed them; next time I'll ask you folks for suggestions sooner.I did manage to get in a few about their vision of the future of user-generated content (from ownership to economics), how they're gunning for the non-traditional market (even though most of the casual gaming applications require the 20GB hard drive add-on), how they intend to educate disinterested parents in their children's gaming habits and their top tips for maintaining a stellar Xbox Live digital identity.You can check out the podcasthere.Podcast fans can subscribe to theGamesblog Podcast Feedto get the interview automatically.
Before I podcast the interview with the head honchos at Xbox, I may have a solution to the reportedXbox 360 error message E74(and E79 and various other E numbers).Much to my dismay, the retail machine that arrived this evening, when plugged in and ready to go, threw the error message which has been plaguing many of the Xbox 360 consumers in North America over the past 10 days. While my machine hadn't even had the chance to overheat (with its enormous controller - believe the hype) and many of these messages appear in the middle of a heavy gaming session, the E74 message came on when I turned the thing on for the first time.Woe woe woe. I took a snap for proof.After searching around on thevariousforumsfilled with a distressing gaggle of dismayed consumers, I unplugged the machine's power supply and stuck in the review machine's power supply. Voila! The retail machine booted and is now on target.So perhaps the problem isn't with the Xbox 360 hardware, but with thepower supplyinstead.
As I wrote intoday's Technology section, internet telephony ubermeistersSkypehave publicly unveiled a beta of their 2.0 client - which includes video calling.I went to the company's London offices last week and played with the new version last week and was pretty impressed: clean interface, good features and the video (connected over an unfortunately intermittent Wi-Fi network) was reasonably sharp.Still, though, I'm sceptical of video calling as a concept. We've seen it tried so many times before, that I wonder whether there will ever be anything more than a tiny minority of users who are interested in it.However, as an added feature to a very popular piece of free software, it's hard to see what the harm is. Definitely one to watch - especially if it becomes possible to make video calls to 3G mobile handsets...
"Cedric the Entertainer, one of the hottest actor/comedians working today, called for an end to the hassles of holiday shopping, declaring today national Shop in Your Undies Day. Cedric appeared in New York's Times Square to demonstrate that by shopping on the new and improved MSN Shopping, consumers can dress in whatever they want, even their undies," says aMicrosoft press releasepromotinghttp://shopping.msn.com.No expense spared, MSN Shopping commissioned a poll from Harris Interactive, which reveals the astonishing factoid that "31% of US online adults have indeed shopped online in their undies" (with 95% certainty plus or minus 4 percentage points).However, the release provides no data on how many online shoppers shop in their pyjamas (US: pajamas). No doubt this will be discussed by thepajamahadeenin the blogging fraternity.Meanwhile Nathan Weinberg on theInside Microsoft blogpointed out that, in the publicity stunt, all the participants were coincidentally wearing boxers with MSN Shopping logos:Memo to Microsoft: It won't seem politically correct, but if you had real people in their real underwear, you'd get a lot more publicity. Pay pedestrians to strip down to their undies, and you make every local newscasts. Where's the bold thinking in Redmond?Erm, they're probably thinking "Don't call us, Nathan...."Fact:most people shop in their undies, whether online or not. Usually they wear other clothes on top....
As the situation in Iraq gets bloodier and more uncontrollable, who would take on the task of promoting the idea of enlistment to America's youth? Step forward Colonel Casey Wardynski, who is deploying perhaps the most cost-effective recruitment method presently available to the US army - a war game.Whereas television advertising costs between $5 and $10 per hour to get the US army brand in front of each viewer, the program Colonel Wardnyski is supporting costs an average of 10 cents per hour - based on the $2.5m annual running costs for the website where the game America's Army is available for free download.And people are playing: 29 million have grabbed a copy, and there are 6.1 million active users.But that's only the start. The whole purpose of America's Army, a first-person-shooter simulation of army training and combat whose development began in 1999 and which was launched in 2002 (on July 4, Independence Day, of course), is to recruit more soldiers."Players can download it free from the internet, and use it to try the role of soldier, virtually, and see if it's something they want to do in real life," said Wardynski, who has a doctorate from Rand and is a professor at West Point Academy, the US's pre-eminent military tuition college, at the first Serious Games Summit in October last year.In fact, between 20 and 40% of new US army recruits have already played the game. The strapline on the console version, just launched in the US and due to be in the UK by Christmas, gets to the point: "Our game developers don't rely on imagination," it says.So is the marriage of war and games inevitable? After all, humans play games for wonderful, enriching reasons - and sometimes for no reason at all. But they have always played games to prepare for war. Some of our earliest and most enduring board games, such as chess and Go, began as teaching tools for the children of kings and emperors. Through such games they understood strategy, imagined the battlefield and saw the consequences of attack and defence.Art of warIt should be no surprise that a walk down the aisles of any computer games retailer can seem like a visit to your local military academy. From Rome: Total War Barbarian Invasion to Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, whether the scenarios are fantastic or grittily realistic, the arts of war are represented and celebrated.But we should be aware that this link between digital gaming and the military is more than just the latest expression of an enduring human tradition, or the populist instinct of a highly commercial sector. These links are explicit, current and increasingly overt. As Heather Chaplin, co-author of Smart Bomb, a new book on the games industry, says: "I spent four years walking into the offices of upper-echelon games developers, and can't think of one who hadn't accepted an invitation to work for the CIA, the FBI or the Department of Defence. It is amazing how willing the people in the industry are to give their talents and time to military purposes."Figures detailing the success of America's Army were presented at the summit - sponsored by the US army - in Washington last month, and as one journalist put it, "the army's experiment in serious gaming is starting to look like a franchise".As industry veterans will readily tell you, games don't get to be a franchise if the gameplay isn't very good. America's Army is the result of an intense embrace between the best talents of the game business and the recruitment and training imperatives of a military superpower. In addition, the Department of Defence has spent $100m creating an entire campus, the Institute for Creative Technologies at the University of California, which turns games intended for soldier training into marketable products: Full Spectrum Warrior is the most notable example. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa) - the US government's powerful military laboratory - has a range of projects that blur the line between online gaming, virtual worlds and military performance, employing counter-culture game gurus such as JC Herz, the New York Times' first videogames critic.Military rootsBut this should not be so surprising. Computer games, like any hi-tech industry, have roots in military technology: there is a direct line from the first air force radar screen to today's pixellated hyper-real images. The first videogames were made in the 50s and 60s, by scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) funded by the Department of Defence. Until the mid-90s, the department was funding its own, clunky, game tools such as Simnet (for training tank drivers).But people such as Mike Zyda, a computing pioneer who was a co-creator of America's Army and is now director of the University of Southern California's Viterbi School of Engineering's GamePipe Laboratory, noted some time ago how compelling games were becoming - in terms of realistic graphics, inventive brio and sheer cost-effectiveness. His 1997 paper, Linking Entertainment and Defense, gave the initial rationale. A meeting in 1999 between four-star general Paul Kern and the head of Disney's Imagineering division Bran Ferren lit the policy spark.The spark has started a fire that has burned through the industry, and few seem untouched by some degree of military service provision. As Chaplin says, younger gamemakers' sanguinity in the face of this is worth some comment. She profiles the designer Will Wright, responsible for seemingly thoughtful and relationship-based games such as SimCity and The Sims, and who is about to launch the new god game Spore. Yet Wright turns up for meetings sporting his CIA-embroidered flight jacket, a thank-you for work he did for the agency.The chapter closes with Wright accepting the "fun" challenge from Darpa to create a robot car that could drive to Las Vegas by itself. Why did he think it was sponsoring the event? "Well, I think that should be pretty obvious," says Wright. "They want to be able to build land-based cruise missiles."So why is the US computer games industry, as compared to, say, music, movies or television, so explicitly gung-ho?Partly it is the lure of "problem-solving" projects for a class of digital expert. They are so compelled by the challenges that they bracket out any distracting context, often involving wider ethical or political questions. Steven Johnson's recent book Everything Bad Is Good For You made a case for the cognitive benefits of computer games. Though the content may be violent, the mental gymnastics involved in negotiating these complex worlds had to be recognised, and not demonised, he argued.What's intriguing is that this is exactly what senior military games people such as Jeff Wilkinson, a program manager at the US army's Simulation &amp; Training Technology Center, want. In return for their investment, they want a higher level of cognitive performance. "We are frequently looking for 'first-person thinker' environments and not 'first-person shooter' environments," says Wilkinson. "This provides a significant opportunity for gamemakers to focus their resources in new ways." He says the benefits of investment will accrue mostly to education, not entertainment. Science-fiction visionChaplin quotes Michael Macedonia, a major mover in army simulation circles, recommending the visions of science-fiction writers such as Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game, a novel in which six-year-olds unknowingly fight remote wars through their gaming consoles.Greg Costikian, a designer who recently left Nokia to start his own company, Manifesto Games, is agnostic about the relationship between games and the military. But unlike many, he has a strong opinion on America's Army. "Given that we have a volunteer military, the military needs to recruit. And if it's legitimate for them to use TV and print advertising, what's wrong with doing so through a game?"This position is shared by Sheldon Pacotti, the scriptwriter for the forthcoming America's Army console game, Rise of a Soldier. His experience on AA, working closely with special forces soldiers, was that their "nuanced ideas about the role of an outside military force" in foreign interventions was much more subtle than the understanding of either American politicians or citizens. "The truth about terrorism," Pacotti told me, "is that it is much more complex than any plot you could dream up for a game or any other type of entertainment. The virtue of Rise of a Soldier is that it doesn't set out to demonise the enemies, their culture, or their worldview."The gamemakers have a point: we shouldn't automatically damn each product that bears a military title, given that the actual gameplay may be subtler than the blood'n'guts marketing. And it's not as if there isn't a small counter-movement in the game sector.The same Washington conference sponsored by the US army featured serious games that were about non-violent conflict resolution in the Middle East, and distribution of food by the United Nations. And the rise of modding and machinima allows a wider and more subtle range of world-view and aesthetics, hopefully similar to independent movies and music.But Heather Chaplin was inspired to write Smart Bomb from the anthropologists' old saw: show me the games of your children, and I will show you the next hundred years. "Maybe there are people who are not frightened by the idea of an increasingly militarised culture. But I am."&#183;Pat Kane is the author of The Play Ethic: A Manifesto for a Different Way of Living. For more information, visitwww.theplayethic.typepad.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It is Microsoft's latest weapon in the war of TV video games. But shops believe they may not have enough supplies of the Xbox 360, and gamers are expressing their frustration. All this before the console goes on sale tomorrow."This is the most unpleasant console launch ever," said one angry fan at the official Xbox.com website. "Whenever I hear the words Xbox 360 I feel the bad vibes tingle down my spine." Another wrote: "We're just pawns in Microsoft's media machine at the moment."The maker has suggested that 300,000 consoles, priced between &pound;210 and &pound;280, will be ready for retail across Europe, but Amazon has contacted customers who have pre-ordered to warn them they may not get hold of units. Other stores are similarly cautious. "Xbox 360 is the hottest gift this Christmas and will be hard to find, but we're working hard to ensure there's a regular replenishment of stock to retail," said Neil Thompson, UK Xbox director. The launch is expected to be one of the biggest in video game history, with an unprecedented near-simultaneous unveiling across the US, Europe and Asia.Microsoft hopes to break the record set this year by Sony's PlayStation Portable. With powerful multimedia capabilities, internet access, and lifelike, high-definition graphics, the Xbox 360 is heralded as the next step forward in gaming. But, with Christmas, many customers could face disappointment.In America, where the Xbox 360 was launched last week, stock in most outlets sold out on the first day, and units were on eBay for as much as $1,200 (&pound;700).
Broadband internet connections are increasingly priced on speed. What checks are there that you get the speed you paid for? I have a 1Mbps cable connection, and it's more like 100kbps on average. Dick SmithBroadband connections are priced on the maximum possible speed, but there is no guarantee that your line will ever reach it. The connection also comes with a "contention ratio", which is the number of people competing with you for a fixed amount of bandwidth. With a business service, the contention ratio may be 10:1 or 20:1. With a home service, it is usually 50:1Normally, the contention ratio does not make a lot of difference, because most people are not surfing the net all the time, and when they are, they do a mixture of downloading and reading. However, if you are contending with people who are trying to achieve their maximum download and upload speeds 24 hours a day -- keen peer-to-peer file sharers, say -- that could have an effect.But even if you had your own dedicated line, the rest of the internet is still contended. All the cables and routers in the system, including the ISP's backbone lines, carry limited amounts of traffic, and bottlenecks are common. If thousands of people hit the same site at the same time, it doesn't really matter what your download speed is: you won't get it.Having said that, I'd expect most users to get something approaching their nominal speed, especially when downloading from a fast server at an off-peak time. The simplest way to find out is to run one of the many broadband speed tests. The best, in my experience, is Dan Elwell's Broadband Speed Test, atwww.broadbandspeedtest.net. This is the recommended speed test for Telewest's Blueyonder cable service, and should give a fair reading for your cable connection. ADSL Guide also has a useful test atwww.adslguide.org.uk/tools/speedtest.asp.Note: a worthwhile test will usually involve downloading a Java applet. Tests that rely on downloading a large web page, probably from the US, will not tell you the speed of your connection. At best they give the speed across a congested internet to what could be an overloaded server.You can also check the speed to a particular site by using the Traceroute command. This will tell you about all the hops between your PC and a remote server, with the time taken in milliseconds, so you can spot any bottlenecks. SeeRobin Walker's sitefor an explanation, and many good tips for troubleshooting cable modems.Backchat:Ed Colley writes: "I'd wager dollars to donuts that Dick Smith's internet connection is 1 megabit per second, and he is seeing download speeds of 100 kilobytes per second; ie he is getting close to the quoted performance." Terry Bloomfield, Ian Brown, James Dingwall, Dominic Forbes, Rob Lightbody, Peter Osborne and Matthew Turner made the same point. There are eight bits in a byte, and 1024 bytes in a kilobyte, so a million bits per second translates into 122 kilobytes per second, assuming no overheads. Seehttp://lyberty.com/encyc/articles/kb_kilobytes.html
Can the new Xbox 360 be used as a computer to run Windows XP applications? Frederick Omo-OsagieNo. The Xbox 360 uses a version of Windows NT Embedded, based on the same code as Windows XP, but it's not designed to run XP software. In any case, the Xbox 360 uses a processor based on IBM's PowerPC, as used in Apple Macs: this is not compatible with standard XP software written for Intel chips. However, Free60 is attempting to hack the Xbox 360 to run GNU/Linux and Darwin, the Unix code on which Mac OS X is based. Seewww.free60.org.
I've lost the icon displayed on the Taskbar as two computer screens communicating. As this was the icon I use to disconnect, I am now forced to close down the PC to go offline. Owen StaleyGo to the Control Panel and select the item for network connections. Right-click the icon for your connection, select Properties and, under the General tab, put a tick in the box where it says: "Show icon in notification area when connected". Searching for this phrase will provide links to Microsoft help files and various illustrated guides. Also, if you have a desktop icon for your network connection, right-clicking that will give you the option to disconnect, while the Windows Task Manager (press Ctrl-Alt-Del) will close any application.
