AFP Photo: Japan's computer giant Fujitsu unveils the new humanoid robot HOAP-3 playing soccer."Robots from 31 countries went head to metallic head Wednesday in football and other competitions with a goal of triumphing against human soccer champions -- after 50 years or so of practice. Researchers in ties and people in uniforms matching their machines stood alongside the robots which vied for titles in the weeklong RoboCup 2005 being held in the western Japanese city of Osaka," reportsAFP."By 2050, a team of fully autonomous humanoid robot soccer players shall win a soccer game, complying with the official FIFA rules, against the winner of the most recent World Cup of Human Soccer," a statement by organizers said."A longer and better report inAsahi Shimbunpoints out that "The 'beautiful game' is just one of the events in a week-long international robot competition. More than 330 teams of automatons from 31 countries will be trying to outdo and outfox one another in soccer matches, search-and-rescue exercises and even dance at the RoboCup 2005 Osaka."
"A bum in a Google cap. Now there's a sign of the times, I think as he shambles toward me. He looks pretty much like any other tattered street person in San Francisco - long, windblown dirty-blond hair with a beard to match. Unbuttoned shirttails flapping in the afternoon breeze."AtWired News, Paul Boutin writes about meeting Jorn Barger fromRobot Wisdom.Update:Wikipedia says: "Barger has publicly denied that Boutin accurately described his financial or housing situation" but provides no link or other visible evidence.
There's a little controversy spreading around the blogosphere over the past week, for the usual reason: somebody's said something bad about blogging.It originates in the response to the London bombings, and some people worrying that some weblogs have been a little too self-congatulatory. First up was Shelley Powers, whowarned"don't used this event to promote weblogging". Seth Finkelstein continued the theme bysaying"there will always be a certain percentage of the population that will take self-promotion over solemnity".Then, and probably most importantly, The Register's Andrew Orlowski stirred the pot witha pieceheadlined "For ambulance-chasing bloggers, tragedy equals opportunity":No human disaster these days is complete without two things, both of which can be guaranteed to surface within 24 hours of the event. First, virus writers will release a topical new piece of malware. And then weblog evangelists proclaim how terrific the catastrophe is for the internet. It doesn't seem to matter how high the bodies are piled - neither party can be deterred from its task.He puts the boot in fairly strongly. And hey, the Guardian even gets a slating along the way (a reference tothis piece, I think). The response has been varied, and there's been a fair bit of it. But is this genuine disgust, or just a fuss over nothing?I certainly share these feelings of awkwardness about the immediate backslapping which sprung up as events were taking place. Thankfully, I couldn't navel gaze too much as people big-upped themselves because we were working like crazy here to try and cover the events themselves.Some blogging conversations in the wake of the bombings felt a little like a frat-house pep rally."DUDE! Isn't it amazing! I just saw a picture of somebody crawling out of a blown up tube train""DUDE! Blogging is the best!"I was interested in the Flickr group which sprung up on July 7, but only if it could show me real experiences. A lot of people seemed more interested in posting screengrabs - perhaps fulfilling a desperate need to feel closer to a news event that, actually, had a direct impact on relatively few people in this city.Here is, perhaps, where Orlowski is strongest. The bloggers he dislikeswant to become the story, when in fact the story has nothing to do with them. They feed off other people's reports because they want a piece of the pie, a little bit of fame, or a connection with an event which might as well be a million miles away.However, I think some of Orlowski's argument is disingenuous - and takes a salient point but inflates it to reflect his long-running emnity with weblogging in general. Beat reporters - those who patrol a subject day in, day out - are paid to look at the wider impact of an event. They wonder "how did the media manage at a time of crisis?" or "how did the financial markets do?". Does that make them callous? And if so, what of Orlowski's piece? After all, it was written the following day, and it's a meta discussion that's far from solemn. Saying that somebody's done a good job in a crisis is not callous by definition, and I don't think bloggers should necessarily be taken to task for doing the same thing.On the other hand, the response from objectors has been fairly weak, and fairly typical. He's been taken to task for not linking or fully attributing quotes. He's been sneered at for using a word ("burble") which is certainly far from unknown in British households. And he's been moaned at as a serial bullier of bloggers. While these might be good arguments, they're red herrings to distract us from the main show.The problem here is actually that he lumps them all together... blogging becomes shorthand for "self obsessed bloviator", when in fact it is just a small group of weblog evangelists who, like evangelists of any kind, only look to further their own agendas. On the other hand many bloggers were, in fact, bringing us exactly the kind of first-hand reporting that was lacking elsewhere. That's important, because it's what blogging does best and what it deserves to be lauded for.In the end, I think the problem is all a matter of distance. It's easy to feel very close to something, but in fact be very, very far away from it. And there's no greater tool for distancing than the internet.Thatis something we should be wary of, no matter where we write, who we write for, or what we write about.
"Don't call it a comeback yet, but Sony has a new line-up of digital music players that are slicing into the popularity of Apple Computer's iPod device in Japan," reportsReuters."While Apple remains the top seller of hard drive players in Japan, there has been a decisive momentum swing in the Japanese market, with Sony securing the top position for memory-type players in both May and June, knocking Apple and its iPod Shuffle device into second place."Sony's gains in the Japanese market have come primarily from one line of flash memory players that have won over consumers with a long-lasting battery -- it can play up to 50 hours on one charge -- and a stylish design.Resembling a small perfume bottle, the players have a rounded body that strikes a sharp contrast with the Shuffle's rectangular shape and flat front. Sony's players also feature a display to view what music is playing, while the iPod Shuffle does not.Comment:Great for Sony that it has produced one model that outsells the second-rate Shuffle in one market. Outselling the iPod and iPod mini on a global basis is a whole different ball game....Comment from Bobbie:I'm putting a Sony NW-E407 through its paces as we speak --- and, once you get used to the popcap navigation, it is a fantastically usable piece of kit. The design is clever, it's robust and has a display, though Sony's software still stinks. We reviewed the little beasthere.
Sales of bikes and scooters have soared since last week's terrorist attacks on London. People nervous about getting back on London transport, or prevented from getting to work using their normal route have been turning to these alternative methods of transport.The London branch of Evans Cycles says sales have quadrupled, while the east London branch of Scooterden reports 20% to 30% more enquiries than in a usual week. Steve Compton, ofRon Compton Motorcycleshas also seen an increase in interest. "People are being put off public transport," he says. "Lots of Londoners were already fed up with the tube and I sold bikes this week to people who said they had thought about it before, but this pushed them into buying."Why buy?Two-wheeled vehicles hold plenty of allure, especially in cities. Scooters are comparatively cheap to buy, parking is usually free and relatively easy to find, the fuel costs very little - according to consumer group Which?, running the most fuel-hungry 125cc costs under &#163;420 a year for 150 miles a week - and the environmental impact is much less than that of a car. In addition, motorbikes, scooters, and bicycles are exempt from London's congestion charge, which this month was increased to &#163;8. But perhaps the best thing about riding a scooter is weaving through traffic jams while motorists can only sit and glare.It's not all positive though - city roads can be pretty hairy and, with no outer shell for protection, cyclists and bikers are vulnerable in the event of a collision. Matthew Collins, senior road safety officer at the city of London safety unit, part of the Corporation of London, says that as the number of scooters and bicycles in the city has risen over the past week, so has the number of accidents. And the chances of a collision are higher with more bikes on roads, especially in spring and summer with "fair weather riders" around. "People think they can jump on the scooter, stick an L plate on, and ride into the sunset," says Mr Collins. "And if you have a car licence, of course, legally you can, but it's dangerous and you should take the compulsory basic training (CBT) course first."There are CBT centres in most cities and the one-day course should cost around &#163;150. Motorists holding a full driving licence issued before February 2001 don't need the CBT, but it's recommended that new riders sit it, as riding a bike is different to driving. The CBT certificate lasts for two years, after which you need to pass a full motorbike test, and only at this point can you take a passenger. But learning to ride the bike isn't the end of it. "Also, consider what to wear," Mr Collins warns. "Don't ride a bike with shorts and flip flops. It's important to wear protective gear, boots, and especially gloves, because if you come off the bike, you'll put your hands out, and if you're travelling at speed, you won't have much skin left afterwards."The costFor commuting, most people buy a 50cc or 125cc scooter. The 50cc bikes often have gears and two-stroke engines, requiring a mix of oil and fuel. They have a top speed of around 35mph which means if they're run near top speed, they'll wear out sooner than a more powerful bike. On the other hand, they're cheaper to buy and use less fuel.When Which? tested 50cc and 125cc scooters it recommended the Aprilia SR 50cc (&#163;2,000) and the Honda FES125cc (&#163;2,500). But for many, the retro chic Vespa holds more attraction. The Italian-made bikes have something of an iconic status, ridden by Audrey Hepburn in the 50s and these days, apparently, Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin. But, says Steve Compton, Vespas offer more than just looks. "They're steel, robust and go on forever, and if you need parts, they're much easier to get for a Vespa," he says. The 50cc models cost &#163;1,799 new, while a 125cc costs &#163;2,399. Mr Compton says the resell value is good for Vespas too: "If you buy one for &#163;2,000, chances are you'll sell it for &#163;1,400 a couple of years later because they hold their value well." There are lots for sale second hand, so it's possible to pick up a decent model for around &#163;1,000.Finance and insuranceMany dealers offer finance packages and these do not necessarily represent bad deals. Comptons, for instance, offers loans with interest rates of around 6% on used bikes, repayable over six months to four years. But make sure you shop around for before you sign up for a deal - a competitive personal loan may be a better bet than some of the finance packages on offer - and set a budget before you go shopping. That way you won't find yourself leaving the shop on a Harley financed with over-priced credit.Once you've got your bike, you'll need to insure it, bearing in mind that, as well as accident cover, scooters tend to be very stealable. According to the Home Office, more mopeds and scooters are stolen each year than other types of motorbikes. It has awebsiteoffering tips on securing your bike, and recommends some anti-theft devices, which may also lower insurance premiums.Insurance is fairly cheap for scooters, but as well as anti-theft measures, there are things you can do to lower costs. A spokeswoman for Churchill insurance says that advanced motorcycle qualifications, locking the bike in a garage, and avoiding pillion passengers all reduce premiums. Costs vary dependent on experience, age and so on, but as an example Churchill says a 45-year-old living in Essex could get fully comprehensive cover for a 50cc bike at &#163;94.88 a year. Bennetts Insurance offer discounts for female riders, those who have owned a bike for over a year, and motorcyclists who ride a maximum of 3,000 miles a year.
Thisnostalgia-packed Flickr gallery is filled with images of 1970s American videogame arcades - apparently the creator of the page found most of photos in a dumpster. Who could possibly throw them away? You can have hours of fun:1. Trying to identify the cabinets (it's tough, they're mostly late-seventies machines) 2. Admiring the clothes. These are the seventies outfits that current retro-obsessed fashion mags choose to forget. No floaty skirts or hipster flares here. This is the geek seventies. Awkard men in polyester and extremely tight t-shirts. And sometimes cowboy hats.I love the design of these arcades. They're utopian visions of 'family amusement', like hyperreal Disney movies but with faintly sinister echoes of THX 1138. People look at the machines with unselfconscious amazement.Of course, these could all have been taken yesterday at any Middle American mall.ViaUK:R
The NHS in England will continue to test free-to-use "open source" software, despite paying to run Microsoft software on some 550,000 desktop computers.A response made yesterday under the Freedom of Information Act by Connecting for Health, the Department of Health agency which manages the &#163;6.2bn national programme for IT, said that none of its prime contractors were providing solutions based on Linux, the open source operating system which competes with Microsoft Windows.However, the statement said that this was "likely to change in due course," and that some NHS organisations already use Linux with software provided by Oracle.Open source software can be free to use and open for anyone to improve or modify. The programme code is open for people to change as they see fit, so that the entire user community can be expected to benefit. There is an assumption that open source software is free, however providers may charge for installation and technical support.Connecting for Health said that its tests of Sun's StarOffice, which incorporates an open source core and competes with Microsoft's Office suite, had produced "a number of concerns about its limitations".However, the agency added that "a small number of selected NHS sites will be using the next version &#91;of StarOffice&#93; on a volunteer basis". Microsoft Office and StarOffice both include word-processing, spreadsheet and presentation software.It pointed out that its contract with Microsoft includes "break points" every 36 months: "Should it become sensible to either reduce or remove our use of Microsoft we are able to do so at these break points. Accordingly our review arrangements for open source software will continue."The agency said that approximately 550,000 desktop computers in the English NHS are currently running Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office, and that no figures are kept for other kinds of software.It said the prices charged by Microsoft were "lower than those obtained by any other comparable organisation anywhere in the world," including other parts of the UK public sector, under a nine-year deal announced last November. This deal covers up to 900,000 desktop computers, with estimated savings of &#163;330m over its lifetime.However, Connecting for Health refused to disclose the cost, citing section 43 of the Freedom of Information Act which allows commercially sensitive information to be withheld.The agency said that withholding the cost "will reassure the specific contractor in this instance, and others more generally that business partnership with NHS Connecting for Health will not automatically lead to their commercial and market-sensitive information being made public.This in turn will make it more likely that the Department of Health, and other public authorities, will in future be able to find enough willing bidders to promote real competition for commercial contracts".As well as being free to use, open source software's lines of programming can be examined and altered, unlike proprietary software sold by firms including Microsoft. Last December, the Office of Government Commerce said open source represented "a viable and credible alternative" to proprietary software in the public sector.Government policy is to choose software on overall value for money. Despite being free of licence payments, open source can cost more that proprietary software in implementation and training. A group of local authorities, including Birmingham, Bristol and Cheshire councils, are evaluating open source software for usability and value for money in large-scale trials in a &#163;1.3m research project.Research released in May by the Society of IT Management found that 60% of 99 local authorities surveyed expected to increase their use of open source.
When Tony Blair spoke yesterday of the need to confront the "perverted and poisonous" doctrines of Islamic extremism, he was concerned mainly with the clerics and ideologues who promote them but, increasingly, the internet now stands by their side.Once there were tapes, videos and leaflets used to bring in new recruits or keep the old ones on message. For extremists, jihadist websites are a step up since they allow all these elements to be combined and accessed by anyone with an internet connection.They also allow the extremists in the field to communicate with their friends and enemies outside. The Iraq war has seen statements and videos, such as that of the horrific execution of British engineer Kenneth Bigley, quickly dispatched to the wider world.The addresses change as security services or individuals chase them from one service provider to the next, but the sites - a mix of articles, photographs and message boards - are as eagerly followed to their new homes by the devotees. Most are in Arabic, large numbers are hosted in south-east Asia, but some are springing up in Europe.There are rumours and suggestions - often unsubstantiated - that the websites are used to pass messages and plan attacks. Sarah McBrien, an intelligence analyst who monitors jihadist websites, disputes this reading, arguing that they mainly serve a propaganda function."Because a lot of these forums and chatrooms are open access, I'd say one of their main roles is propaganda and incitement to new recruits. They are not asking new recruits to join them because that is just asking to be caught, but they are there trying to radicalise people."Some statements on the London bombings were posted on closed forums, where the audience are people who are more involved in jihadist movements. But on the open access sites any young boy in the Arab world or in Europe can have a look at them."She says the content can range from ideological articles to sections on how to attack people, or how to survive, eg, by trapping wild animals, for jihadists who might have to live in the countryside for a while. "In a way it is trying to draw young recruits in by making it exciting."The propaganda potential is such that there are competing organisations (not just the monitoring departments of national security services) that seek to suppress them. The Israeli-basedInternet Haganah(haganahis the Hebrew word for defence, a name given to the Jewish paramilitary force that became the Israeli army) follows and records the latest developments in the jihadist online world. It then tracks down the service providers and tries to get the websites taken down.Qal3ah is one of the most recent to go. The site claims to be a discussion forum for religious and political views, but it is also known as a place where Islamic extremists go to put themselves in the public domain. Decapitation videos of hostages captured by forces loyal to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi were posted there, as was a claim of responsibility for the London tube and bus bombing on July 7. Qal3ah has been down since July 9.The website may, however, go up again at a different location. Tracking down extremist websites is not a matter of typing keywords into Google. Ms McBrien admits that makes her job more difficult. "I have to find where the websites have been moved to," she says. "They put it on a message board but a lot of the time you have to search quite hard to find where the new ones are going to be."The Middle East Media Research Institute, a US-based group, illustrates some of the dead links associated with the jihadist internet with a July 2004reporton the main websites and their hosts and service providers. Most addresses divert to pages offering the site name for sale, and advertiser links for Jewish singles sites on more than a few of them suggest they are now in different hands.None of this is new. The jihadist websites move to fresh locations and, suggests Ms McBrien, are becoming more and more media savvy, even taking on board techniques more often associated with marketing. She uses the example of the Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades, who have claimed most of the major jihadist attacks outside Iraq, as well as some events that were not even attacks - such as the 2003 power cuts in Canada and the north-east United States. Yet no one knows if the group exists or, in a very contemporary sense, is simply a brand."It seems that it is a promotional thing, a marketing thing, to say we're here and we're active," she says. "In the last statement they said the attack had been planned over a long period of time, which is purely aimed at frightening people. It is about an aura of threat."
I've booked my flights, made hotel arrangements and am set to storm Scotland the second week in August for two of this year's UK-based games-related events: theWomen in Games Conferenceand theEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival. Today I'll give a glimpse into the inner-workings of the WiG, and you can expect some of the same for the EIEF in tomorrow's post. (In the interest of full disclosure, I'm involved with both of these conferences, but promise this is not an advertorial. The conferences are happening, they are part of the game culture scene and I'm covering what's going on.)The Women in Games Conference is in its second year, holding the proud title of first conference of its kind in the world. Don't let the "W" word in the title put you off – this isn't going to be a bunch of rabid feminists gnashing their teeth about the male-dominated games industry (and the culture that surrounds it), nor will it be a bunch of booth babes sharing their harrowing experiences as scantily-clad games promo pin-ups under the strange gazes of camera-wielding punters and journos at the various industry trade events. Of course, the body of work that's going to be presented at this year's eventwilltouch lightly on some of these issues, but the real questions that will be answered are how can the industry create a demand for computer games beyond the traditional demographic of males between the age of 14-24, and what role can women play in this seemingly-epic task. So for those men terrified of the "W" in WiG, don't worry about it: there will be plenty of stuff to discuss that's relevant to broader issues of inclusiveness across the IT industries.I grabbed three of the speakers (two of whom are male) for their expectations of the event:Ernest Adams, games designer extraordinaire, co-founder of the IGDA andauthor, James Woudhuysen, futurologist and Professor of Forecasting and Innovation, andMelissa Federoff, User Research Engineer atMicrosoft Game Studios. They each think that this conference has a very important role to play in challenging the current conceptions of computer gaming in contemporary culture."I think we have a chance with computer games to defeat both the social constructionist and biological accounts of sexual differences," explains Professor Woudhuysen. "The media and the Government are summing up all the wrong worries about computer games and women in computer games, from violence to employment, and I think we have a chance at the conference to clarify the theoretical issues and have a more fertile debate about the nature and the culture of computer games in general."That debate is expected to span topics as varied as employee rights, game design techniques, IT consumption patterns, demographics, marketing and the role of women across the IT industries.Adams is a veteran of the games industry serving terms at Electronic Arts and British legendary software company Bullfrog before diving into a freelance career. In the 1980's he spent seven years in software engineering and argues that other IT industries have an important lesson to learn from games: "So far as other IT industries are concerned my key advice would be, 'avoid our mistakes'. Pay your people a decent wage, give them decent work hours and some job security. Avoid business models that promote a boom-and-bust approach to things, which unfortunately is how the game industry tends to do it." Insight into the broader IT industry will be offered byAphra Kerr, another keynote who's contribution to theStrategies of Inclusion: Gender and the Information Societypaper explored companies who made games specifically for a female audience.Federoff's background in Usability will supply the cornerstone for her talk, "Researching your Target Audience: How to Give the Player the Experience you Intend". Like most of the other keynotes, she'll be focussing the non-gaming "other" – both the men and women who currently don't identify themselves as gamers, and the reasons there's such a perceived difference between those who do and don't play. (Edit:Federoff comments, "This isn't exactly true. I won't be explaining the differences between those who play and those who don't play, but rather – how game companies can get information from the audience they want to reach (whoever that might be – male, female, expert, novice, etc.). My position is that designers often make the games they want to play, not the games that a large audience wants to play – which results in games that aren't enjoyed by very many people. This mistake can be made by any designer who mistakenly thinks that they can personally represent the opinions and desires of a broad group of people. A female designer can no more easily satisfy all potential female gamers than a male can satisfy all potential male gamers. Both hypothetical designers need to get information from the people they are targeting in order to ensure that the game is going to satisfy that population.") "From my personal experience playing and testing games, I would argue that consumers in general (male and female) demand a closer look by game developers. Many games are frustrating, aren't fun, and most games fail commercially and critically," she says. "Some people believe that simply hiring women into game development will make games better for women to play – and it may help, but more than likely it won't be enough. Male designers have been making games for other males, yet they still fail more often than not. The one sure way to know how your audience is going to respond to your game is to test them during development using reliable methods. I think that testing games with women participants will provide better results than just assuming that women can design for women. At the Women in Games conference, I'll be discussing ways that you can assess a game once you determine the audience you want to succeed with."Adams agrees:"It is not enough just to get more women making games. Game developers have long tended to make games for themselves, and the problem is that they are an atypical audience. This will be true of women too," he explains. "The kinds of women who want to make videogames are rather different from the kinds of women whom I hope to attract as consumers. I'd like to reach out to female consumers who don't have any interest in making games, and just want to play them. That means thinking beyond the female developer to the female customer."Woudhuysen will be expanding on the bigger picture theme with his talk, "Computer Games: Play and the Politics of Difference". His intention is to explode some of the currently-assumed ideas about women in contemporary society, what that means for IT, and what it says about culture in general: "What's unique is that feminine values are afforded to women, and are taken as a matter of course. I think that both women and men would be well-served by querying what feminine values actually are. Do women have them? Should men have them? Where do they come from? If computer games are arguably about violence, and computer games are socially afforded to men, masculine values are violent: is that what's being said here? The Women in Games conference could perform a service here by questioning this."Other talks I'm particularly looking forward to areTerra NovansConstance Steinkeuhler's keynote "Gamer Chicks: How a Generation of Young Women Inhabit Virtual Worlds Online" andT.L. Taylor's panel "Thinking Past Pink: Critical Considerations of Women and Gaming", recruitment consultantMaryMargaret.com's sponsored panel session about getting into the games industry, Martin Kane's "Cultural Variations in Game Publishing" and Susan Wilson's "Designing for the Future". The Day 3 Student Form, including workshops, master classes and sessions on presenting yourself and tips on how to be successful in the games design competitionDare to Be Digitalshould be great too, as well as seeing the results of themarketing competitionWiG ran with Channel 4's IDEASFactory and having a hearty discussion with professional PR and marketing professionals on the scope of broadening the face of computer games at the panel I'll be presenting.I have to say that the team at theUniversity of Abertay at Dundeehave done a tremendous job putting the conference together, balancing enough industry with cultural criticism to appeal to as wide an audience as possible, from the bonny banks of Loch Lomond to the Congo.Tickets are still available. The conference runs from 8-10 August.Frag Dollsmay be there...
It's all about killer7 in thereviewsthis week, and not just because I covered it. This is easily the game of the week, although its stylised shooting is not for everyone. I predict it will, "become an Ico-style badge of honour for snobbier gamers." The PS2 is clearly the format of the moment, withGod of Warand now killer7 showing that Sony's venerable platform still has plenty of life left. The nextreview, Cricket 2005, is, as you'd expect from EA, a timely release. Unfortunately it doesn't play too well, with Steve Boxer bemoaning the fact that it "favours leather so much over willow". I've no idea what he means, but anyone interested in cricket will do. Last up is Bomberman on Nintendo DS, the latest in the long-running series.
With the incredibly lovelyShadow of Colossuson the way, here's aninteresting opinionon the game's stylistic predecessor, Ico. Scott Miller, CEO of 3D Realms and the man behind Duke Nukem, thinks that the game failed commercially because it just wasn't cool enough."The game was poorly positioned, both from a branding perspective and from a game concept perspective. Ico's main character, generic setting and kid level story did not lay a compelling foundation for a game."Ico fans, already probably feeling slightly queasy, will find it hard to stop their mouths from foaming when they read what else he has to say. But - as far as the mainstream market is concerned - he is dead right. An interesting debate follows in the comments section too.Thanks toJon Jordanfor pointing this one out to me.
Technology was vital to the emergency response. Photograph: John Stillwell/PAThis week's edition ofGuardian Onlineprint supplement is out.We look at the role technology had to play in the aftermath of thebombings in London last week- in organising, communicating and carrying out the emergency response, as well as the government's plethora of resilience groups. On a related note, we examine the possibility ofdistributed surveillance, look at the growth inblogging from mobile phones, and wonder whether this attack will change the course of the debate overnational identity card.Elsewhere, as Apple announces a huge boost in profits, we look at thetop iPod accessories, as well as talking to Skype and Kazaa co-founderNiklas Zennström. Ben Hammersley takes a trip into the world ofpersonal outsourcing, Jack wonders whether Yahoo and Googleshould offer blog search, and Peter Judge discover justhow many radiosyour mobile phone can carry.And of course, that's not all. Justclick herefor the full list of this week's contents.
Ouch. Bernie Ebbers, the former head honcho at Worldcom, was yesterday sentenced to prison for his role in the $11bn fraud that led the company to collapse so spectacularly.And not just given any old prison term, but one of 25 years. Quoth our man in New York,David Teather:Ebbers, a former milkman and basketball coach, started WorldCom as a telephone reselling service in 1983, building it into one of the leading players of the technology boom as he went on an acquisition spree with Wall Street acting as cheerleader. At its peak in 1999, WorldCom was valued at $180bn and Ebbers was one of a new breed of celebrity chief executive.Things quickly started to go wrong. As the market began to disappear in 2000, WorldCom began fudging its books, wrongly classifying expenses and inflating revenues, to ensure it met Wall Street targets.Ebbers resigned in March 2002 amid an accounting investigation. In July of that year WorldCom made the largest ever bankruptcy filing, wiping out billions of dollars of investors' cash and costing thousands of jobs.Twenty five years is a heavy sentence - and if Ebbers, 63, served it completely, he would be almost 90 by the time he got out of prison - but it does show that there's an increasing judicial strictness towards white collar crimes.
'I don't argue that ID cards would prevent any particular act," home secretary Charles Clarke told Radio 4's Today programme last Friday, the morning after the bomb attacks in London. "I doubt it would have made a difference." Clarke said the question to be asked instead was: "Does a particular measure help or hinder? I actually think ID cards do help rather than hinder."TheHome Office's impact assessmentfor the identity cards bill says the scheme will "help disrupt the support networks of terrorists and organised criminal operations, which rely extensively on the use of multiple identities to make it more difficult to monitor their activities". It adds that the audit trail on how all adults use their ID cards would be utilised to make the lives of terrorist suspects harder, forcing them to find round-about ways to stay in hotels, hire cars and buy mobile phones.However, criminals already steal cars and mobile phones to cover their tracks. Furthermore, if perpetrators are unknown to police, such an audit trail would help only after an attack, not before."The robustness of the proposals as they are presented still needs further examination, but if they make it very much more difficult to get multiple identities, you would provide some lever to making these things less likely," says Brian Collins, professor at Cranfield University and an adviser to last summer's home affairs select committee report on the plans.The impact assessment also mentions benefits such as swift access to personal and biometric information, and greater police efficiency.However, campaign groupNo2IDclaims that searching the biometric database for crime-scene fingerprints or faces on camera footage would make police less efficient. "You would end up with thousands of suspects, a fishing boat of red herrings," says general secretary Guy Herbert.No2ID says biometric technology is not up to the job, citing the UK Passport Service's recently releasedtrialof the three biometrics to be used in the identity database, involving more than 10,000 people. Facial recognition had a failure rate of 30% in recognising those already on its database, using cooperative individuals in booths rather than security camera footage. Fingerprints had a failure rate of 17%, using electronic samples of all 10 prints rather than crime-scene prints. The trial used a sample database of 1m fingerprints, far smaller than the hundreds of millions that would be built by the ID card plans. Iris scanning was more reliable, with a failure rate of 3.3%, but it requires high-quality cameras and the individual's cooperation.Professor Collins says that despite the Passport Service findings, there is potential for scene-of-crime fingerprints to be used with the biometric database. However, "if it's a suicide event, it doesn't help at all".Some believe the plans could have a negative effect on policing. "My biggest objection, &#91;and the objection&#93; of many to this scheme, is the impact I know it will have on racial minorities," Shami Chakrabarti, director of civil liberties group Liberty, said. "It won't be the home secretary, or his family, or people that look like him, that get hassled for their ID card in a doctor's surgery, on the street, at every port and call. It will be people who look like me."She said this had been the experience of every European country with compulsory ID cards, and with UK stop-and-search powers.A recentreportpublished by the London School of Economics (LSE) claims the government's identity plans could, in fact, create new opportunities for terrorism. "A fully integrated national system of this complexity and importance will be technologically precarious and could itself become a target for attack by terrorists or others," it says.The authors say the plans for a single identification number could increase identity fraud, citing the experience of the US social security number, which has become a popular starting point for those seeking to hijack someone's identity.The LSE report suggests a decentralised alternative, with the central database slimmed to little more than a checklist of applicants and individuals backing up their card data with organisations they choose. Applicants would be endorsed by those in certain professions, as with UK passports and Sweden's ID card. The authors say it would be less intrusive, less open to abuse and cost about a quarter of the government's plans.The LSE report gained most publicity for its estimate of cost: between &pound;10.6bn and &pound;19.2bn, compared with the government's &pound;5.8bn. Opposition MPs have said the money could be better spent on policing.And the introduction of the ID card scheme is set to take up police time in itself: No2ID intends to mount legal challenges when the plans become law, followed by a refusal to enrol. As of Tuesday, 9,600 peoplepledgedonline to refuse to enrol and to pay &pound;10 into a legal fund. (The pledge only becomes binding once 10,000 people have signed up to it.) They include George Galloway, the Respect MP. "I will not have an identity card, and I vow millions of people in this country will not have one, either," he said.LinksHome Office ID impact assessmentwww.homeoffice.gov.uk/comrace/identitycardsNo2IDwww.no2id.netPassport Service trialshttp://www.ukps.gov.ukYouGov pollwww.yougov.com/archivesLSE reporthttp://www.lse.ac.uk/collectionsPledge Bankwww.pledgebank.com/refuse
"People across Europe have been invited to pause at 1200 BST today in remembrance of the dead and injured from last week's London bombings. City mayor Ken Livingstone wants people to come out onto the streets to pay their respects to the fallen. Every bus in London will come to a halt, he said, and a book of condolence will be opened in Trafalgar Square," saysDowning Street.The mayor has also opened a book of condolence online,here.It's OT [off topic] for Onlineblog but there is nonetheless a discussion taking place in the comments to an earlier post,We are not afraid.
Apple Computer last night reported a fourfold increase in profits as sales of the iPod music player continued to soar.The third-quarter figures should go some way to allaying fears on Wall Street that the digital music market had begun to cool.The success of the iPod had caused Apple's shares to al most triple in value last year but they are now off their peak.Apple reported profits of $320m (&#163;182m), compared with $61m in the same period a year ago. Revenue rose 75% to a little over $3.5bn. Chief executive Steve Jobs said it was "Apple's best quarter ever". He promised further "amazing new products in the pipeline".The iPod has revolutionised the music industry, becoming the first handheld player to capture the public imagination and kick-starting the market for legal digital music distribution.The device has had no less of an effect on Apple itself, re-energising the company after years of dwindling business. During the quarter, Apple shipped 6.2m iPods, an increase of more than 600% over the same period a year ago. In the previous quarter this year, the company sold 5.3m iPods."They've blown away the expectations," Robert O'Donnell, an analyst for researcher IDC, told Bloomberg News. "It's great news for Apple."There was also further evidence of what analysts are calling the "halo effect" of the iPod. Satisfied iPod owners are looking at Apple's traditional computers in increasing num bers. During the third quarter Apple said it had shipped 1.2m Macintosh computers, a 35% increase in sales over the same period in 2004. Apple shares rose 11 cents to close at $38.35 in the regular session and added 74 cents after hours.Analysts are now waiting for the latest product innovation. The last launch was the iPod Shuffle in January, a low-priced alternative which plays tracks at random. Since then, the company has cut prices of its standard models to maintain its stranglehold on the market.The iTunes music service, offering songs for downloading at around 79p each, generated sales of $241m, up from $73m.Apple has appealed to the mass market in computers with the January debut of the Mac Mini, a stripped-down version of the Macintosh for just $499.Sales were also boosted by the April launch of the latest version of Apple's operating system, called Tiger. The software is installed for free on all new machines or costs $129. It generated $100m revenue during the quarter. The company said it was the strongest performing software release it had experienced.
Contracting out work to offshore companies has been the Victorian underwear of e-government - unmentionable in polite society. But the new season's fashions are showing daring flashes of lace.The IT world knows that much new software underpinning e-enabled public services comes from overseas, mainly India. Without the Chennai software industry, the NHS national programme for IT would be doomed. The assumption, however, is that offshoring stops at code-cutting. Anything involving processing data about citizens stays within national boundaries. This fiction comes from the same people purveying the myth that computers can cut the cost of government without making public employees redundant. Neither story can be maintained for much longer.One taboo fell last month when the Office for National Statistics confirmed it intends to digitise records of births, marriages and deaths in India under a contract with Siemens Business Services.To the bureaucratic mind, the deal must have seemed uncontroversial. Computerising civil registration is an essential step towards efficient electronic government. The first step is to create an electronic index to millions of existing birth, marriage and death certificates - a large, but straightforward, 30-month exercise to be outsourced to the lowest bidder. The winning bid was a fraction of the nearest contender, because it involved capturing data in India.What looks straightforward to the bureaucratic mind looks less so to others. In response to "much misinformed comment", Len Cook, registrar general, rushed out a statement stressing that no original certificates would leave these shores and that strict security would surround the exercise. The PCs would be configured as dumb terminals, unable to run Windows software or connect to the net.Some of the fury about the move suggests xenophobia. There is no evidence that Indian subcontractors would be more likely than British ones to steal personal identities. (The ONS once gave the prison service a contract to capture data from old census forms. This generated numerous anomalies, including a tendency to transcribe the occupation "prison officer" as "screw".)But the protests have done a service by bringing the topic into the open. Government needs to carry out several large data-capture exercises over the next few years, of increasingly sensitive personal records. The IT industry's assumption is that it can get away with doing this work offshore, so long as it doesn't shout about it. Contractors are also suggesting offshore call-centres and back-office processes as a logical conclusion to the government's efficiency drive.Somewhere, we need to draw a line, and I suspect it is closer to home than many contractors would like. To maintain citizens' confidence, we need to be open about offshoring. Perhaps the information commissioner and the Cabinet Office e-government unit could set up an independent body to approve every application to process government data offshore. As transparently as possible.
High-speed internet connections have outpaced dial-up access for the first time - a fact that prompted industry regulators to herald a fully broadband Britain yesterday.Some 8.1m households - or nearly 30% - had signed up for broadband services by last month, more than double the number just 18 months before, according to figures released by the industry regulator, the Office of Communications (Ofcom). This compares with some 7.5m homes that have slower dial-up connections.In its second annual review of the communications market, published yesterday, Ofcom predicted that virtually all British homes - 99.6% - would have access to a broadband connection by the end of this year. By 2010, it suggested that more people could be watching television over the internet than via analogue sets.Ed Richards, Ofcom's senior partner in charge of strategy and market developments, called the fact that broadband had overtaken narrowband "a very, very significant step".The government and Ofcom have backed the switch to a digital Britain in order to increase competitiveness in industry and support the communications market."This report shows that UK households are now accelerating into the digital age," said Mr Richards. "In parallel, industries formed over decades are being reshaped by digital broadcasting and broadband with every month that passes."Rapid take-upSeveral changes are expected once a majority of users adopt a new technology. Broadband consumers are more likely to download music and videos and to play games online, for example.Yesterday's report suggested a rapid take-up of new digital technologies among British consumers as broadband gets faster and cheaper. At the end of 2002, a 512 kilobytes per second connection cost an average of &#163;27 a month in Britain. By early this year, a connection that is twice as fast - 1 megabyte a second - costs an average of &#163;20.Other services are also getting cheaper. In telecommunications, the number of broadband connections doubled last year but revenues increased by just 6.8%.More than 60% of all households have also opted for digital television. More than 250,000 new users each month sign up for services such as Freeview, Sky or cable - a figure equivalent to a city the size of Sheffield switching over to multi-channel television.The government aims to start switching off the analogue television signal to British homes from 2008. Four years later, under government proposals, all homes in the country will have switched to digital.Freeview, the BBC-backed digital terrestrial service, was responsible for 70% of the increase in digital television. Yet Freeview is only available in 75% of British homes. The corporation has proposed a similar service using satellite dishes and set-top boxes."Whether it's Sky, cable or Freeview, the more we can make that choice available, the better," said Mr Richards. "Do we think the free-sat proposition is emerging more strongly as a good thing? Yes, because it will add choice."Some 8% of radio listeners were tuning into digital-only channels with a fivefold increase in the number of digital audio broadcasting (DAB) radio sets to 1.5m.Healthy marketMr Richards supported the BBC's role in encouraging digital radio adoption. Amid much commercial criticism of the corporation's mobile and broadband ambitions, Mr Richards indicated that the regulator was simply monitoring the situation."I am not going to stand up and attack or criticise the BBC for wanting to develop their services to the licence-fee payer. But we need to make sure that as a society ... they are consistent with a healthy market." Ofcom would have a "particular interest in the market impact" of any new services, he said.Total revenues for all British communications - telecoms, television, radio and press - rose by almost 4% to &#163;55.9bn in 2004, a faster increase than for the economy as a whole. As a proportion of all consumer spending, it was stable at 4.1%.By far the largest proportion of that revenue was from telecoms, which has also grown faster than others in the sector.While average household expenditure on all communications has increased by a third since 2000 to &#163;20 a week once inflation is stripped out, spending on mobile services - both voice and text - grew by 78% in the same period.More money - &#163;36bn - is spent on mobile phones than fixed-line calls. Ofcom partly attributed this to falling prices in the fixed-line market, with almost &#163;500m saved from price reduction. "Competition in the market is now working," said Mr Richards.In the four years to 2004, the total number of minutes spent talking on mobile phones almost doubled to 62bn as the number of minutes spent on traditional calls fell by 6%.Ofcom argues that new technologies are being adopted faster by the mass market than older technologies were. Television took 30 years to reach a mass audience while mobile and broadband are reaching saturation point in a far shorter time.
The humble voice recorder, whose turf is being invaded by MP3s and mobile phones, has responded by re-inventing itself. The Olympus WS-200S, the latest in a number of stylish new models, hangs from the neck like an iPod Shuffle yet has room for 55 hours of ordinary recording (though only 13 hours on a single file).During a fortnight's trial, it performed well in recording everything from birdsong in the garden to a press conference at the top of the BT Tower, though background noises were sometimes a problem. I left it on for most of one day including (accidentally) during a visit to a theatre, where it recorded the play quite audibly. Like an iPod Shuffle, you can pull half of it off and plug it into a computers's USB port to store or send a file.It is designed for Windows Media Audio but there is web software (egwww.EasyWMA.com) that can convert it to MP3 or other formats. I emailed an audio file to my Gmail account. In theory, you could keep it on all the time (on voice activation), storing each day's file to create an audio archive of your life. Finding time to play it back is the problem.Drawbacks? Navigating the menu-driven folders was tricky and the battery spontaneously fell out of its slot more times than can be explained by user error. Otherwise, a very smart piece of equipment. It costs upwards of &pound;68 depending where you buy it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Apple calls it the "iPod economy". The hundreds of accessories that can be bought to adorn and adapt your white icon are driving a business market in themselves. Apple supplies a wealth of wonders, but a cottage industry of suppliers has also developed, many of whom have a presence on the web, while major manufacturers are getting in on the accessories act, too.But with a plethora of purchases on offer, how do you separate the best from the rest? Here's our guide to the top 10 iPod accessories.1 Bose SoundDock, &pound;249.95This digital music system, one of the Apple store's top sellers, works with third generation and later iPods, providing good room-filling sound, despite being quite small, while charging your iPod at the same time. It comes with a credit-card sized remote control and aesthetically fits in with Apple's trademark style. An additional adapter is needed for iPod photo models, and it is not compatible with the Shuffle. Buy before July 31 and you can take the edge off the price with 30 free Apple iTunes Music Store downloads. Or opt for the much cheaper, space age-looking JBL Creatures system, which is going for &pound;69.98 on the Everything iPod accessories site.http://store.apple.com/Apple/WebObjects/ukstore/www.bose.co.ukwww.everythingipod.co.uk2 Logic3 i-Station, &pound;59.99If you want a more portable purchase for summer outdoors listening, Logic3's i-Station is a reasonably priced dock and speaker set, which, again, allows you to listen and charge at the same time. Its 6 watts, 2.5in sub woofer might not sound a lot, but it gives good sound, helped by the 3D sound processor. It is powered by a supplied AC mains adapter or four optional AA batteries. Weighing 400g at an A5 size, it is easy to carry around. It is compatible with the 3G, 4G, mini and photo iPods, but be sure to shop around online as there are often cheaper buys out there.www.logic3.com3 Belkin headphone splitter, &pound;5.99If you don't want your iPod to turn you into an anti-social soundster, then grab one of these - the ultimate in romantic accessories. The white device allows a single iPod to connect to two sets of headphones, so you never have to listen and be lonely again. For those with a Shuffle, get the compact XtremeMac Audio Splitter from the Apple store for &pound;12.95.www.belkin.com/uk4 Logitech Bluetooth hands-free headphones, &pound;99.99If you have wireless at home, you'll know the joy of getting away from the ball-and-chain of electrical lines. These made-for-iPod headphones come with a Bluetooth adapter that plugs into the top of all models, offering you fuss-free listening. You can control song selection and volume from a dial on the headphones - so if you are now embarrassed by your colourful choice of pink mini iPod, keep it tucked away in your bag and listen on. Available from the end of this month.www.logitech.co.uk5 Bang &amp; Olufsen A8 earphones, &pound;90In the words of Fischerspooner, "looks good, sounds good, feels good, too". Yes, it's ironic that while MP3s have lower sound quality than CDs, manufacturers can feed our audio insecurities with these high-quality beauties. Bang &amp; Olufsen's earphones are perfect if you want to get away from the white-washed look without compromising on style, and they'll also make the most of any recent podcast-ready iPod purchases. They might hurt your wallet, but your ears will thank the fine frequency range and adjustable earphones.www.bang-olufsen.com6 Griffin iTrip, &pound;27.99The original FM transmitter is still the best, says iPodworld.co.uk, an accessories extravaganza site. Griffin's iTrip, like all the copy-cat devices out there, allows you to play tunes stored on your iPod through any FM radio. With no batteries, no wires and no power switch, the iTrip simply plugs into the top of your iPod, allowing you to tune into any radio station for the most crackle-free sound. The mini size, however, means they're easy to lose - or maybe that's just me. For those with poor-quality radios, try a cassette adapter, such as Monster's iCarPlay.www.ipodworld.co.ukwww.griffintechnology.comwww.monstercable.com7 Griffin iTalk, &pound;26.70iPod Lounge, a comprehensive accessories site, also rates Griffin as the best maker of a digital voice recording device. Pitted against Belkin's Universal Microphone Adapter, the iTalk comes top because of its ability to use a built-in microphone as well as connected external input and output devices to record sound up to 30 feet away. Compatible with 3G, 4G and photo iPods, the iTalk's automatic gain control records the best sound without you having to fiddle with controls. After recording a lecture, song or conversation, play it back on your headphones or the integrated speaker (although the quality is not as good on the speaker), or download it on to your computer.www.ipodlounge.com8 Apple armband, &pound;19If you went to the Silent Disco at Glastonbury last month, you'd know that you no longer need to listen to the same music as your mates to have a good time in a tent. Armed with a pair of provided headphones, Silent Disco types could tune in to one of two DJ sets offered by the on-stage turntablists. But if you want to make the party even more personal, slap an iPod mini on your arm with this cool-looking Apple armband, available in blue, grey, pink, yellow or orange. If shuffling on the dance floor is more your thing, get a white one specifically designed for the iPod Shuffle.9 Apple iPod camera connector, &pound;19The hype is right - an iPod is about more than just audio. This device lets you transfer digital photos from your camera to your iPod so you can carry them with you. However, it requires iPod software v1.1, and is only compatible with the iPod photo and certain cameras (seewww.apple.com/ipod/compatibility/cameraconnector.htmlfor those that have been tested by Apple. Other cameras may work, but it is not guaranteed). Although pictures can take a while to transfer, and thus drain the battery, it is still a good device for photo enthusiasts and cheaper than other options.10 Apple World Travel Kit, &pound;29What's the point in having all this gear if you arrive at your holiday destination only to find you don't have the right adapter plug? Problem solved with this set of six AC plugs that support outlets in North America, Japan, China, UK, Ireland, continental Europe, Korea, Australia and Hong Kong. Use the white portable power adapter that comes with all iPods, and you're sorted. For the less Apple-obsessed, buy an adapter from your local market for about &pound;2.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Warped geniusKiller7PlayStation 2, GameCube, &pound;39.99Capcom, ****Normally when you receive games for review the instructions are not included - the correct assumption being that you will have played hundreds of the genre and so won't need guidance. Not so Killer7.Included with the disc is a letter imploring reviewers to read the instructions. "Killer7 is a unique game," it says. "Reading the instructions will really help." It is true. Killer7 is warped genius that will repel as many as it attracts, though those that fall prey to its stylish charms will talk about it for years. The obvious initial attraction is the shaded visual design, which gives the game a unique look.Generic military shooter this ain't. Instead, you control seven assassins charged with deciphering the plot, and possibly killing things. Come to a junction, such as hallway or lift, and it is simply a case of pressing a button to move on. When you hear the maniacal laughter of your assailants, a quick scan is needed before you can fire at them. Sounds simple? It is. But such is the pull of the visual stimuli and pretentious, yet engrossing, plot that you will often forget the relatively straightforward action.Sadly, the same can't be said for the loading times and occasional typos.Killer7 is an acquired taste and is likely to become an Ico-style badge of honour for snobbier gamers. But don't let that put you off. Killer7 may not reinvent gaming but it has a visual style all of its own. In these days of identikit videogaming, that is more than enough.Greg HowsonTimely arrivalCricket 2005PC, PlayStation 2, Xbox, &pound;39.99EA Sports, ***Cricket's greatest strength - its sheer complexity - is a weakness when it comes to turning the sport into a videogame. In the virtual world, complexity inevitably transforms into fiddliness. Cricket 2005's arrival, ahead of what promises to be the most competitive Ashes series since 1981, is timely. And the game struggles manfully to provide an experience that feels real, yet doesn't require superhuman manual dexterity. Sadly, it only partially succeeds.The batting and bowling mechanisms are as straightforward as any encountered in a game. The bowling mechanism - in which you select the type of ball and where it will bounce, then fill up a power meter while imparting swing or spin with the left joystick - feels smooth and intuitive.Annoyingly, batting is much harder. The problem lies not in the control mechanism (in which you select the shot by positioning the left stick, then execute it by hitting one of three buttons for front foot, back foot or advancing down the wicket), but in the need for split-second timing.A Batsman Confidence meter helps slightly - if you build this up, your timing improves. But without lengthy practice in the (exemplary) nets, batting seems impossible. What is required is an indicator of the ideal time at which to play the ball.Otherwise, Cricket 2005 impresses. It has all the international and county teams and venues, you can model cricketers and play Twenty20 games to your heart's content. Fans with above-average reserves of patience will grow to love it, but it is a shame it favours leather so much over willow.Steve BoxerFast and franticBombermanNintendo DS, &pound;29.99Ubisoft/Hudson, ****Yet another retro franchise gets a second wind, or third in this case, as we have just had the somewhat disappointing Bomberman: Hardball for the PS2 last week. This incarnation, however, is much more akin to the original SNES version, with a few concessions to the touch- and voice-sensitive features of the DS.The gameplay is largely unchanged, with the cuddly protagonist planting bombs to vanquish enemies and blast his way through maps.The game features an amazing number of power-ups to aid this mission, including the ability to kick bombs, plant landmines, walk through blocks and upgrade the strength of your charges. As these powers are uncovered, they congregate on the lower half of the DS screen, allowing you to pick and choose them at leisure.Although single-player mode can get tiresome, multiplayer is where Bomberman really shines, because you can play the game with eight players and you only need one cartridge. It's fast, frantic and - since you can voice-activate your bombs in battle mode - often noisy.Rhianna PratchettTop 5 gamesBudget price1.Halo 2 Multiplayer Map Pack2.Pro Evolution Soccer 43.Star Wars: Battlefront4.Smash Court Tennis Pro Tournament 25.The Simpsons: Hit &amp; RunLeisure software charts compiled by ChartTrack, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Printer catchI have had two Dell computers and been very satisfied. However, I could kick myself for buying a Dell All-In-One printer that will take only Dell print cartridges, because I did not consider the high cost of replacement cartridges. Do I investigate refills/cartridges from other sources or just cut my losses?Gail H&eacute;bertJack Schofield replies:All the main manufacturers are playing the same game, which is to sell printers at low prices and make their profits on the consumables - so you can expect very cheap printers to need very expensive cartridges. Before buying a printer, it is therefore advisable to get a good idea of the cost of printing a typical page, possibly from a magazine or website review. You also need to know how many pages you are likely to print per week, then work out the cost over, say, two years.Either way, inkjet printing and colour printing are fundamentally expensive, and Dell's high-yield cartridges look competitive with other branded products in cost-per-page terms. Whether it is worth switching depends on how much printing you do, and whether you print mainly in monochrome or colour. If you print 25-30 pages a week in mono then you'd probably save quite a bit by buying a laser printer, rather than economise on cartridges. However, cheap lasers don't print colour to the same quality as inkjets, and when printing colour, may not be that much cheaper to run. Also bear in mind that there's a dramatic increase in the real cost per page when you start throwing away unsatisfactory prints.There are companies that supply refilled and/or remanufactured cartridges for most popular printers, and it is certainly worth investigating these. Dell cartridges are "chipped", but one company suggests you can use the equivalent Lexmark by slicing the cap off the old Dell cartridge and gluing it on to the Lexmark version. Seewww.printcartridge.net.Losing my edgeWhen I print web pages, I often find that words to the extreme right are cut off. Is there an Internet Explorer setting to correct this?Ian TannerJS:Internet Explorer for Windows is terrible at printing, and it still does not have the "shrink to fit" option that is in IE5 on the Mac. This won't be fixed until IE7 appears for Windows. Fortunately, Visiontech Ltd has written a little add-on to do the job. Download the control fromwww.visiontech.ltd.uk/software/#IEPrintand this will give you a new printer icon with a small W next to it. It may also be worth making IE's page margins narrower, as they can sometimes be overgenerous. To do this, go to the File menu in IE and select Page Setup. Of course, another solution is to use a different browser: Opera is much better at printing, but you'd be hard put to find anything worse than IE.AnimationIs there a cartoon-making program for Windows? This is for a 12 year old who probably doesn't want to spend a lot of time reading fat manuals.Tom FoxJS:There's Kids Animation Maker, which is billed as "a beginner-level animation tool that allows children to create their own computer animations quickly and easily". However, it's only available for the Mac (http://vse-online.com/kids-animation-maker/). You could try one of the graphics programs that has some animation capabilities, and the free 3DPlus 2 from Serif (www.freeserifsoftware.com/software/3dPlus/), looks a better bet than Corefx (www.core-learning.com/pt_core fx_info.asp). However, I'd go for Anim8or, a 3D modelling and character animation program being written as a personal project by R Steven Glanville (http://anim8or.com/main/). Readers' suggestions are welcome.Name changeI have taken over a PC and want to change the name of "the owner".Nigel WardJS:The usual way to do this is by editing the Windows Registry. Microsoft explains how, with all the usual warnings, athttp://support.microsoft.com/?kbid=310441. Paul Menard has written a Visual Basic script to do the job: it is number 23 of the tweaks atwww.paulsxp.com/tweaksxp.html.Backchat&#183;Last week, William Dodds asks for a program to monitor his internet usage. Rob Stanton recommends a free utility called Net Meter, which "lets you see how much data is being moved in real time (both up and down) in a nice resizable graph window, as well as providing daily, weekly and monthly summaries". Seehttp://readerror.gmxhome.de.&#183;Following comments on the ABI Network and similar adware Trojans, Ed Boeing says: "Best answer: if everyone refused to do business with any company that advertises with these slimy X?$Xs, their revenues would dry up and most would go away." He's writing letters to companies whose ads he has seen in adware pop-ups. I've put a couple on my list of companies that I will never do business with again. A boycott movement sounds like a good idea.&#183;Send comments and questions toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
Minutes after the explosions in central London, a quiet room inside the ambulance service headquarters on Waterloo Road became the heart of the capital's emergency response. A chamber usually used for low-priority calls was transformed in a short space of time into the "gold control room" - the communications centre for hundreds of ambulance workers rushing to help the victims.Saving lives is always the top priority, but the unprecedented scale and impact of the blasts meant that being able to coordinate and contact large numbers of personnel was more important than ever before.Coping with the terrorist attack was a test of years of preparation. Some of the first respondents to the scenes of the explosions across the capital were officers of the British Transport Police, who are responsible for law enforcement on the underground system and the nation's railways. They were able to rely on a new communications system, Airwave, which was rolled out late last year.Airwave handsets work like a combination of a digital two-way radio, mobile phone and data terminal. This means that officers can talk to each other, make phone calls and potentially tap in to information from local, regional and national police databases - all from a single device. The system, which is also encrypted to prevent sensitive information being heard by criminals with radio scanners, has been deployed across the UK at a cost of almost &pound;3bn in partnership with mobile network O2. It was heralded as "a 21st century tool to fight 21st century crime" by home office minister Caroline Flint - a theory that was certainly put through its paces last week."We've had Airwave for quite some time - and we think it's one of the best pieces of kit we've ever had," says Andy Trotter, deputy chief constable, British Transport Police."Airwave vehicles were sent out to Russell Square and Kings Cross, and they dropped so-called 'leaky feeders' down into the tunnel so that Airwave could be used underground. Searchers said it was a massive help to be able to talk to each other."The Airwave system was always intended to link up the emergency services through the same network, but it has not yet been fully deployed. The Metropolitan Police's system is not yet rolled out, and the equivalent arrangement for the ambulance service is not due until 2007. This meant that other workers had to rely on more traditional communications devices - but even then, there was technological assistance on hand.In response to the attacks, and under instruction from the authorities, a procedure known as Access Overload Control was swiftly put in place - shutting down the mobile phone network to give priority to more important calls, such as those to 999 or between emergency workers.While many people across the capital struggled to get their calls to connect thanks to the sheer volume of traffic, only authorised calls were allowed through at incident hotspots. The system, which was a secret protocol until several years ago, grades callers by at least 15 ranks of importance: high priority personnel have special codes embedded in the Sim cards of their mobile phones, allowing them to make calls when the overload control is put in place.When it was invoked last week, telephone networks closed their systems to ordinary traffic, leaving bandwidth clear for calls that mattered.The grim task of clearing the crime scenes and collecting evidence also required technological assistance. British Transport Police lorries loaded with hi-tech equipment and breathing apparatus, including battery-operated trolleys for moving rescue workers along the damaged tunnels between Kings Cross and Russell Square stations were deployed in the crisis zones."These trolleys can carry up to 1,000lbs, running backwards and forwards along the track," says Trotter. "When you're down there wearing two layers of protection, it's incredibly hot and when you're lugging kit - or a stretcher - 600 metres along the tunnels, you won't last long."Metropolitan police officers, meanwhile, are painstakingly entering information gathered from the crime scenes into Scotland Yard's investigations database, Holmes (Home Office Large Major Enquiry System).The system, built in the wake of the Yorkshire Ripper case and now in its second revision, allows large numbers of officers to contribute and analyse complex cases. Despite its age, Holmes lets every single piece of data in a case be entered and then evaluated, allowing it to be sifted, sorted, prioritised and catalogued. It is not only Metropolitan Police investigators who are contributing - information from the public was also fed into Holmes by officers in other forces. After last week, about 200 call takers outside London were employed to glean evidence from the public, and then remotely enter it into the Holmes database to take some of the pressure off Met officers.Pito, the Police IT Organisation, is responsible for the development of Airwave, Holmes and the Police National Computer - a centralised cross-country database that is seen as critical to the future of policing. It also works on systems to protect access to police computers: thanks to a service called Browser Access Control, each police officer needs only one login for multiple systems, which means that passwords are less likely to be written down. Thanks to the critical nature of the work it does, Pito has to ensure that its systems are resilient and secure - and it recently upgraded its disaster recovery under a contract with Siemens in 2002.But experts remain concerned that becoming reliant on technology can hold inherent risks, especially when the threat of terrorism is involved. Agencies responsible for protecting the UK's "critical national infrastructure" have warned against complacency, and security experts warn that public services will become more vulnerable as they increase their dependence on web-based technologies. Such concern has led to an entire industry dedicated to ensuring the nation's most important infrastructures remain solid at times of crisis.While emergency services responded directly to the attacks, workers elsewhere swung into operation to make sure the wider network remained safe.In government terms, this means protecting the resilience of the national infrastructure, including services which, if compromised, could cause large loss of life, have a serious impact on the economy or carry grave social consequences. Such plans cover sectors such as communications, the emergency services, government, public safety, energy and water.There have been concerns about the government's plans to protect these vital services, with much of the worry revolving around the sheer number of organisations involved.That is no surprise - the number of crisis management teams inside Whitehall is astounding, and one of the leading groups is the Central Sponsor for Information Assurance (CSIA). This is a small unit of the Cabinet Office, which employs some 20 civil servants to draw up "business continuity" plans for individual departments that could fall foul of an attack, and to fill gaps between them.At the top of the tree is Ian Watmore, the government's chief information officer. Apart from looking after government, he is supposed to tackle vulnerabilities in public sector and commercial telecommunications systems, as well as those in the financial and banking sector. Watmore is also responsible for ensuring that local government systems, usually seen as a weak point in the infrastructure, come up to standard.But CSIA is not the only organisation dedicated to protecting the country's networks in times of trouble. The National Infrastructure Security Coordination Centre is another interdepartmental organisation set up to defend the national infrastructure against electronic attacks, while the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit investigates and tries to prevent electronic crime. The Department of Trade and Industry runs its own information-assurance efforts - mainly ensuring that the privately run parts of the infrastructure remain secure.All these agencies draw on the resources of the Communications Electronics Security Group, part of the secretive Government Communications HQ in Cheltenham. This huge organisation, managed by the Foreign Office, describes itself as the national technical authority for information assurance. It has a reputation for independence and being unwilling to bend its standards to suit political convenience.Despite fears over the problems surrounding infrastructure resilience, the government's electronic infrastructure was staunch in the face of possibly its biggest threat to date. Official websites and communication networks didn't even flicker as they handled sudden unexpected patterns of demand.The central government web portal,www.direct.gov.uk, had a rush of hits after news of the bombings broke. However, a more modest figure of 80,000 visitors arrived at the site that day - though it did mark the site's biggest ever audience.Last Thursday marked a watershed as emergency workers rushed to make sure people were safe, and the country's systems were secure. But whether they were behind the scenes or in front of the cameras, the grisly reality will not be forgotten quickly.
The government's digital revolution is in danger of leaving the public behind as it pursues targets such as universal broadband access, an influential thinktank warns today.A report by the Institute for Public Policy Research says political and ethical considerations have been sidelined by a fixation with technological benchmarks, such as the aggressive roll-out of high-speed internet services. "We have been trying to get this infrastructure in the ground, on our desks and in our schools and homes, but we didn't think too long and hard about why we wanted to do it," says William Davies, author of the report.The IPPR's "manifesto for a digital Britain" points to the unintended consequences of the government's campaign to bring broadband "to all who want it" by 2008. Quoting a recent survey, the IPPR says that over 50% of respondents cited downloading music or adult content as their motivation for signing up to broadband. Music downloading remains tainted with illegality while the act of viewing pornography speaks for itself, says the report."This raises questions as to whether policymakers ought to be celebrating this technology to the extent that they have done."Mr Davies says the government can intervene by supporting new approaches to digital rights   management, which protects copyright. It could also encourage legal peer-to-peer services, whose illegal counterparts have created a generation of music pirates, he adds.The report also questions the strength of the link between broadband and education. A study by British sociologist Neil Selwyn has found that educational use of the internet is "far lower" than the government thinks and a lot of online learning tends to focus on IT skills.A lack of technical support for would-be users is also inhibiting take-up, says the IPPR. The report says that this, as well as a perceived lack of useful content, could explain why 40% of people in the UK rarely if ever use the internet. "Quality, legal broadband content isn't being produced to encourage uptake of the technology."The thinktank cautions that in departments such as the e-government unit, whose remit includes putting all government services online by the end of the year, too much focus can be put on " how one achieves innovation, at the expense of the question  why  one wants innovation". The report also cites forecasts that e-government initiatives, intended to cut costs, will spend more taxpayers' money than they save.A cabinet office spokesperson said the government would unveil an IT strategy for delivering "quality public services" this autumn.
BooksRead all about itThere are so many books about Google that you would need a search engine to do them justice. But Google Power, by Chris Sherman (McGraw-Hill/Osborne, &pound;14.99), is one of the best. After explaining that Google doesn't actually search the web live (it relies on its own - regularly updated - full-scale saved version), Sherman gives numerous tips, including how to translate from foreign languages and what the tilde symbol (~) in an academic web address can tell you about the status of the writer. It brings together lots of things some users already know but others do not (such as the words in blue to the right of the results bar can be clicked to get a definition of the words used in a search request). There is a chapter on the art of Googling people, including using it in conjunction with other search engines such aswww.clusty.comand also finding personal blogs. This book will soon repay its purchase price.InternetGoes to showTwo British broadcasters confirmed this week that they intend to make a selection of their TV shows available via the web. The BBC is to offer broadband users the chance to view new BBC3 comedies before they are transmitted on digital TV, and the first programme, the Mighty Boosh, will premiere online on July 19. Sky is also expanding its online offering, and the company plans to deliver both movies and sport over the net to its premium TV service subscribers. Channel 4, meanwhile, is rumoured to be planning to stream all its programmes over the net at the same time as it shows them on digital TV.www.bbc.co.ukwww.sky.comHardwareOn the mapSony is to enter the GPS (Global Positioning System) satellite navigation market with a product aimed mainly at car owners. The Nav-U is a smallish portable unit that features a 9.5cm screen capable of displaying 3D maps. It includes a two gigabyte hard disk pre-loaded with maps of most of Europe, and is supplied with a cradle and cigarette lighter power socket. The Nav-U also provides turn-by-turn directions via voice through its integrated speaker. Sony will launch the Nav-U in September, but has not announced a price.www.sony.co.ukSharp has the edgeSharp is claiming to have produced the first LCD TV specifically designed to make the most of the UK's Pal broadcast standard. The Aquos P50 series, which will be available in 26, 32 and 37in widescreen sizes, captures the 960 x 540 resolution of Pal broadcasts line for line. According to Sharp, rival LCD TVs have either VGA (640 x 480) resolution, which loses some picture detail, or WXGA (1366 x 768), which uses processing circuitry to add the extra lines. The sets, which are available this month, also include an HDMI input to ensure they are compatible with the High Definition TV broadcasts from Sky, slated to begin next year. There's no word yet on price.www.sharp.co.ukKey to speedBuffalo Technology has unveiled a range of USB-based mini storage keys that it claims offer the fastest data transfer speeds available. The FireStix USB drives are available in 512MB and 1, 2 and 4GB. They all feature a read speed of 32Mbps and a write speed of 27Mbps. The company will also launch an 8GB USB drive - the largest capacity so far in the format - in the autumn. The devices are available now for &pound;74.99 (512MB), &pound;122.99 (1GB), &pound;199.99 (2GB) and &pound;399.99 (4GB).www.buffalotech.co.ukHear and nowArchos has launched a portable media player that is also designed to work as a digital video recorder for the home. The AV 700, pictured above, which features 100GB of storage and a seven inch widescreen, is accompanied by a docking pod that plugs into a TV, VCR or a digital TV decoder. Users can then make a timed recording from their TV to their AV 700. The device automatically switches the VCR or cable/satellite decoder on and finds the right channel. The player can also archive DVD and VHS movies. The AV 700 is compatible with MP3, WMA (including copyright-protected files) and WAV audio files, as well as MPeg4 and DivX videos. It is on sale for &pound;600.www.archos.comStat of the week - heeding the messageThe warnings over spyware may finally be getting through, according to new research. Figures show that 90% of web users have changed their behaviour as a result of concern over malicious programs - often because they have fallen victim in the past.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Wherever you were in London last week, you could not have avoided the snap of people taking pictures with camera phones. From the joyous moment when those in Trafalgar Square heard the Olympics were on their way, to the sadness of those coping with the aftermath of last Thursday's bombs, many poignant images were captured by mobile phones.While it is likely that the majority of those pictures will never travel further than the phone's memory card, a small but significant number have been uploaded to mobile blogs.Unlike traditional blogs, which tend to be text-based, most moblogs are image-oriented, with users displaying the latest pictures they have captured with their camera phone."People can log every detail of their life, or just use them to place their high-quality images of family and friends on an interactive online photo album," says Mark Squires, Nokia UK's director of corporate communications.Uploading pictures to a moblog is simple, and the immediacy of images being available seconds after they have been shot accounts for its appeal."Some of the first pictures showing Londoners reacting to the bombs were displayed not on TV, but on mobile blogs," says Moblog UK's Alfie Dennen, whose site received so many hits last week that it struggled to cope with the traffic.While moblogging has developed a strong cult following, however, it has achieved this without any help from the networks - only 3 in the UK offers a moblogging service."The networks are worried about money spent on it eating into their revenues for other services such as multimedia messaging (MMS)," says 20six's Max Niederhofer, who has a mobile blogging service called phlog.net. "Also, there are likely to be copyright and privacy issues in setting up mobile blogging services, which the networks are wary of tackling."On some networks, however, sending a high-quality image to a blog is cheaper than sending a lower-quality one via MMS, though this is arguably still too expensive for many users. Nevertheless, many in the mobile industry are convinced we will be hearing a lot more of this phenomenon."Virtual behaviour mimics real life," says Julian Swallow, the chief executive of Mobrio, a mobile web services company. "When you take a great photograph, you don't just show it once. You share it, with everyone and anyone who'll look. Mobile blogging isn't just a service, it's an extension of human nature."www.nokia.com/lifeblogwww.typepad.comwww.moblog.co.ukwww.phlog.net
Our commonly held fears about Big Brother, brought into focus by the government's drive for a national identity card, are genuine and deserving of informed debate, but they may not be a useful guide to rational discussion and planning. I'm not sure that worries about government surveillance should be keeping privacy campaigners awake at night.Any conversation about ID cards or road-use charging soon incorporates Big Brother. Yet the implicit mental model of Big Brother is curiously old-fashioned because it is Orwell's vision that has become so dominant. This vision is rooted in a post-war perspective on the future, where technology is used to create giant databases so the government can exercise centralised control of society.However, if technology continues to evolve along current lines, then Big Brother will end up being far more powerful than Orwell envisaged (in the sense that we will have far less individual privacy). In a world of matchbox-sized MPeg4 camcorders and cameraphones, of always-on broadband and RFID, your next-door neighbours will be the nemesis of privacy.Thus it is interesting to note the police appeal for photos, video and cameraphone media in the wake of the terrorist outrage. It could be these, rather than CCTV, that contain the key clue to the identity of the bombers: confirmation that Big Brother is "us", not "them".A terrific word for all of this, invented by Steve Mann, a professor at the University of Toronto, is "sousveillance". The reason sousveillance is such a concern is that it is not under control and there are no transparently obvious ways it could be brought under control.If a major retailer were to abuse customers' privacy, customers could at least look to a watchdog to do something about it. If a government department does something silly with your personal data, I imagine there is an ombudsman to whom you could complain. But if someone with a cameraphone snaps you going to a sensitive business meeting and then emails it to a competitor, it is hard to imagine what could done about it.Sadly, human nature means that the temptation to do this sort of thing will be overwhelming. If you could put a Trojan horse on your neighbour's TV or in your daughter's mobile or your manager's PC, you would. You don't have to be a blackmailer or a tabloid journalist to fancy a quick peek at a celebrity's medical records or a politician's itemised phone bill.This is hardly a far-future speculation. It is already going on, because the state of PC and internet security is so poor that it is easy to do (Sophos say that 50% of unprotected Windows machines connected to the internet are infested within 12 minutes).Look at the scandal emerging in Israel, where a number of businesses - including a TV company, mobile phone operator and car importer - apparently used a Trojan horse to spy on rivals. Police found file servers containing thousands of stolen documents.The internet democratises and decentralises Big Brother, just as it democratises and decentralises everything else.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Offshoring, or sending work to countries where a workforce charges less for the same thing, is big business. In recent years, large companies have been hiving off departments - call centres, engineering plants, research and development labs and so on - to countries such as India, where an educated workforce costs a fraction of the price in a fully industrialised country.For big companies it can make a lot of sense. A fully trained Indian programmer, for example, costs perhaps a quarter of her/his UK equivalent. And while there are issues regarding the management of the process, and the need for extremely clear communication between the two parties, the majority of these offshoring deals are successful. So much so that IT professionals in the west are increasingly nervous of being replaced, at least in day-to-day tasks, by their cheaper subcontinental counterparts, or the newer businesses from China, south-east Asia, and South America.Personal offshoring has been done before - it was good form in the Russian Tsar's court to send shirts to Paris to be laundered - but what was once the the preserve of big business is now available for the individual. A combination of the internet and the universal acceptability of credit cards means that although you might not need a call centre, there are an increasing number of things that can be moved offshore that would otherwise be prohibitively expensive or outside one's skillset.The first is computer code. The idea of hiring a programmer to make that little widget you are desperate for might seem decadent, but it is very good value for money and remarkably easy. I needed a selection of little programs to do things with my email. But I'd never had the time, or the patience, to write them myself. After a visit toRentACoder.com, I was able to file a request for bids from programmers around the world.Prospective coders can view all the requests on the site, and bid for the ones that interest them. Once I'd accepted a bid - it was less than &pound;200 for a fortnight's programming work - I paid the money to the site, which placed it in escrow. My coder, a young man in Belorussia, completed the work, and once I'd checked it was up to scratch (it was), I instructed the site to release the cash.I got something I needed for a fifth of the price I would otherwise have had to pay. Indeed, the UK price was always too much: I wouldn't ever have spent that much money. But via the web, I could get what I needed for a price I could afford. That it was written in Belorussia, and not Brighton, made the difference between having it or not.This sort of auction and escrow arrangement is commonplace with personal offshoring sites. Both you and the business at the other end are protected from fraud and non-payment and, by off-loading the credit checking and banking systems to the credit card companies, the offshoring marketplaces can be very efficient.With my coding done, I needed a webpage built. Web designers are everywhere, and web hosting is cheap. It is just much cheaper in India. So, &pound;30 paid via PayPal.com totemplatekingdom.comgot me a website design, an hour of the designer's time for changes, and a year's hosting for good measure. In 24 hours, and for less than the price of a few rounds in a pub, I had a new, uniquely designed website up and running. For small businesses needing a home page, why spend hundreds of pounds on a domestic designer, when something just as good can be commissioned from designers in India or Bangladesh?I should also note that I'm not actually writing this. I'm dictating it. Like many journalists, I interview a lot of people, and find that transcribing the interviews afterwards is the least fun part of the job. So I don't any more. Like many legal firms and large hospitals, I have found a company that will do it for me. Mine is in New Zealand, where the time difference works in my favour. At the end of the day, I email the recordings of my interviews to my contact, and by the time I wake up in the morning they are Word documents in my inbox. For a few pounds per hour of recording, this is the working writer's idea of bliss.CareerLauncher.com, also based in India, offers maths tutoring over the internet. For between $10 and $40 an hour, secondary school and university students can have maths graduates tutor them over a live web chat.There's the future for you: schools online, teachers offshore.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Most mobile phones already have at least two radios inside them, and some have three or four. In the future, they could have nine or 10. That will be a headache for the handset makers, the silicon vendors and the operators - and perhaps for you.Phones have a cellular radio for the phone connection (GSM in the UK), and a Bluetooth transceiver for the headset and other short-range applications. 3G phones add another radio, to use the faster 3G service where that is available.The next radio will be Wi-Fi. Operators want us to use more data on our mobiles, and Wi-Fi offers faster wireless data than even the best 3G technology - as long as you are at a hotspot. "Wi-Fi connectivity is a new business opportunity to any operator," says Kari Tuutti, director of communications for Nokia multimedia.Some phones have Wi-Fi built in, and you can add Wi-Fi to chunky PDA/phones, such as the Palm Treo and the XDA, by slotting in a Wi-Fi card. Some converged GSM/Wi-Fi business phones will appear this year, but won't hit the mainstream until next year.This Christmas, Nokia's iPod-style N91 will reach the shops: this is a hard-disk phone with Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, 3G and GSM to get music where you want it. Next year's converged Fusion phone from BT will also have a Wi-Fi radio to handle voice calls when you are indoors, or at a BT hotspot.Tuutti reckons the fifth widespread radio to appear in phones will be a DVB-H chip for receiving broadcast video. "It will start commercially next year, and in three years time, it will be as commonplace as Bluetooth."The sixth radio - which is just a receiver - could be one for global positioning system (GPS) satellite location. This is already available in some phones, such as HP's 6500 series. As prices come down, car navigation systems are becoming a popular application on PDAs and smart phones, so it makes sense to build that in.And if we're counting receivers, an FM radio takes us to seven.Number eight could be a breakthrough: wireless USB, provided by ultra-wideband technology. This has a much higher bandwidth than any of the others - 480Mbps - which is fast enough to transfer music easily. The same UWB radio technology will also be marketed as the next generation of Bluetooth, but it won't replace current Bluetooth radios. "We're very closely following UWB, but we haven't yet announced any timetables," says Tuutti.Number nine is WiMax, the emerging wireless broadband standard. The first version of WiMax is for fixed equipment, but mobile WiMax is on the way. "We're looking at bringing it to our devices in 2008," says Tuutti.There is also another frequency band used for Wi-Fi (802.11a), and multi-antenna versions based on technology called Mimo.The big issue for chip makers is whether the radios need to be used simultaneously, and whether they interfere with each other. "There's a lot of interesting problems to be sold from the RF spectrum management perspective," says Henry Samueli, chief technical officer of Broadcom, which makes radio chips for phones. "The trick is to do it cheaply, using low cost CMOS (complementary metal-oxide semiconductor) technology as much as possible. The beauty of CMOS is it gives us the freedom to do all these things, and potentially put multiple radios on a single chip."Ultimately, it may be possible to use one very smart radio that communicates on all frequencies in small time slices, but that's a long way off.For handset makers such as Nokia, the issue is to not frustrate the user. Tuutti wants applications on the device to hand over smoothly when one technology or another is available, and to operate without draining the batteries. Wi-Fi, for instance, has been kept out of phones because of its demands for electrical power, which would slash talk time, and the difficulties of roaming between cellular and Wi-Fi systems.But the technology may be the easiest part of the problem to solve. "It's just one challenge to be managed. The biggest challenge is to maintain the ease of use - and that means understanding how consumers behave," says Tuutti.Therefore, operators ought to understand how the radios will go together, and how customers will be billed for infinite combinations of mobile email, video and various kinds of voice communications. But they are still working on it."You could have all these radios on one phone, if you want it to be huge, and costly," says David Hytha, head of terminals at T-Mobile. "But one size does not fit all." Phone companies have gone overboard on features in the past, he says, but even the Japanese only use 25% of the functions on their phones, while Europeans use 10%. "We need to get better at finding out what users really want," he says.The industry's practice of subsidising handsets, so users don't "pay" directly for any feature, makes it hard to know what they want, says Hytha.Samueli says: "This will be a huge challenge for 20 years. These problems will last for a couple of decades before we understand how to integrate all these things into one device that is easy to use and pervasive round the world."
Printer powerWith the modestly named Big Bang 2005, Hewlett-Packard has announced a scalable inkjet technology that cost $1.4bn to develop, and that will enable a 6 x 4in photo to be printed in about 14 seconds - roughly twice as quickly as current technology. The new system is based on a large print-head produced as a single unit using a photolithographic process, and HP claims the result will be more accurate, faster and cheaper. The print-head will appear first in consumer products such as the Photosmart 8250, with business systems, such as the HP Officejet Pro K550, appearing later this year. HP expects it will make inkjets more competitive with colour laser printers.www.hp.com/go/bigbang/2005New filteringThe Internet Content Rating Association (ICRA) has launched a new self-labelling system for websites, based on the widely supported RDF (Resource Description Framework) standard. If widely used, this will make it simpler for users to filter websites to block access to inappropriate content, whether by children or, for example, office workers. The new system includes short-cut buttons to "quickly generate labels for XXX and gambling sites". The ICRA previously launched a system called PICS (Platform for Internet Content Selection), which failed to catch on.www.icra.org/systemspecificationPower playIBM has finally announced its long-awaited dual-core power-saving versions of the 64-bit PowerPC 970FX processor at its Power Everywhere exhibition in Tokyo. The PowerPC 970MP (code-named Antares) runs at speeds of between 1.4GHz and 2.5GHz, and each core can be put into a doze mode or shut down when not required. The low-power version of the 970FX runs between 1.2GHz and 1.6GHz. IBM uses PowerPC chips in a range of systems, including blade servers and the Blue Gene supercomputer, and Apple uses them in its Macintoshes. IBM already had dual-core offerings in its Power range.http://www-1.ibm.com/press/Cost of changeA report on e-government initiatives claims that many recent local authority projects have delivered marginal improvements. Hewson Group's Public Sector Bearing quotes e-government site developers as blaming the situation on spiralling costs over the past four years. Nick Hewson, Hewson Group director, says: "The main problem is that politically attractive and easy- to-address areas have attracted the most attention. Big spending departments such as social services have remained largely untouched and delivery mechanisms, other than online and call centres, have not been subject to any real change." The monthly report concludes that lessons can be learnt from the private sector to show where real savings can be gained.www.hewson.co.ukShared servicesThe Cabinet Office is pushing ahead with plans to develop a shared human resources facility across government departments. The new Shared Services Centre will also embrace the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Treasury. The Cabinet Office is procuring IT services that it hopes will reduce operational costs by 40% over 18 months. According to the tender, the system will include the HR information system, case management applications, workflow, document management and integrated telephony. Access will be through the Government Secure Intranet.http://ted.publications.eu.intOpera in concertOpera Software is adding BitTorrent's open source peer-to-peer technology to its browser to improve downloading speeds. BitTorrent uses a swarming approach where any computer containing a file can be used to supply data to a downloading machine. This increases the availability of files and allows the downloader to source different parts of a file from multiple sources to reduce download times. BitTorrent is particularly useful when large files are required. The move follows Microsoft's announcement of a similar technology, Avalanche, which could be used in Internet Explorer. Mozilla has also announced an interest in BitTorrent.www.opera.com/bittorrentBlade agreementLenovo is broadening its product lines by reselling ClearCube Technology's PC blades and cages. Lenovo entered the international PC sales arena when it bought IBM's PC division last year. The blade systems agreement allows Lenovo to fulfil its commitment to provide PCs to IBM's customers worldwide and mirrors a deal between ClearCube and IBM Global Services. ClearCube's cages concentrate PC processor motherboards, or blades, in a single unit, reducing the amount of space used on people's desks, and simplifying hot-swap PC replacement. Lenovo says it will be selling the cages into trading room and healthcare environments.www.clearcube.com/controller/hardware.php&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
How did the Skype software evolve?In 1991, I was involved in a project called Tele2 (www.tele2.com), the first competitive phone company with services in more than 25 countries in Europe. Janus Friis worked with me and we decided to start our own business. The original internet was person-to-person and not centralised; it was only during the second half of the 1990s that media companies used the internet as a broadcast medium. With more people getting broadband connections we thought it made sense to build a network technology that would enable people to connect directly with each other - it would be the most robust and cost-effective way for people to communicate. We didn't know what would be the best sustainable business model and that's why we came up with the FastTrack technology (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FastTrack).And the basis of KaZaA?The KaZaA file-sharing system was our first product; the motivation was to experiment with different products on top of that technology. We didn't know VoIP would be the killer application, we only knew it was powerful. We then started AltNet (www.altnet.com), a secure file-sharing network where content owners promote their content with ad-words. Files can be encrypted and protected, then the rights owner decides if the files can be sold or used for demo purposes.How did that lead to Skype?About four years ago, with so many Wi-Fi networks coming out, it made sense to use the internet for phone calls. When I was at Tele2 in 1997, we did trials with the first generation of VoIP and concluded the net wasn't good enough. We hoped that as broadband penetration improved and phone lines would be converted to DSL, it would allow us to use VoIP on a broader scale. Existing VoIP solutions didn't work and we found the peer-to-peer technology we had was well suited to solve problems such as being able to connect to people behind firewalls and routers.Are traditional telecoms companies less than enamoured with Skype?There are more than 42m people using Skype. Over the next 10 years, there will be little revenue for companies for voice-traffic. The good thing is that Skype needs broadband, so we are helping phone companies sell more broadband connections.Video calls?Not yet, but last year we launched an application programming interface and a software developer program so that software developers can create software that works with Skype.Does the net community expect everything to be free?I think charging for calls belongs to the last century. Digital products and services that cost nothing to reproduce are difficult to charge for. We'll always have our software and communications free but we need to find ways to create money, so we sell additional services, such as voicemail or calls to normal phones. Google is an example of a company that understands the dynamic of the network - only about 2% of all searches generate revenue. It's only when you click a sponsored link that it makes money.Visit:www.skype.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Blogger Jason Calacanis has started a petition pleading with Google and Yahoo to launch blog search engines. "These two companies represent the bulk of the search activity on the internet," he writes. "When they add a dedicated tab to allow - and encourage - users to search blogs they will forever change the media landscape. They will promote individual bloggers to the same level as mainstream media companies, which have top-level billing in the news sections of these services."It's easy to understand Calacanis's frustration: blog search is terrible. Google and Yahoo do it badly, of course, but that's nothing new. The problem is that the sites bloggers have come to rely on - Technorati, Feedster, Blogdigger etc - are being outpaced by the massive growth of the blogosphere, and its associated spammers.Commenting on Calacanis's plea, Technorati's Dave Sifry says: "We're now tracking an average of 850,000 posts every day, up from 500,000 just three months ago. On the day of the &#91;London&#93; bombings, we saw more than 1.1m posts. We're also seeing more than 25,000 pings from spammers each day above and beyond this - spam blogs that we pull from the index."Like the Red Queen, Technorati has to run as fast as possible just to stay where it is.Unfortunately, this may not be enough. Blogging is becoming a big business, and many bloggers want to reach mainstream audiences that have never heard of Technorati. They also want Google-style levels of accuracy and reliability, so the "best" blogs rise to the top.Although Google isn't delivering, there's the expectation that a Blog search option, alongside Google's Web and News tabs, would provide the kind of service bloggers need. And this would probably be more like its automated News service than its standard web search.Popular blogs are often updated several times a day, so it's no good indexing them on a monthly or weekly basis, as though they were ordinary sites. It doesn't need to be done every 15 minutes, like News, but every 6 hours would be a start.The problem with blogs is that there are now at least 20m of them, which leads to a much bigger job than processing 4,500 hand-picked news sites. But there are obvious ways to make the task more manageable. Google could, for example, ignore all the blogs that don't have a predefined number of daily visitors.Also, most serious blogs have RSS (Really Simple Syndication) or Atom feeds that automatically send some or all of the content of new posts to those who subscribe. So blog search engines don't actually have to keep visiting sites, just wait for the information to come in, and index the feeds.The tricky bit is trying to work out which blog posts are relevant and/or interesting. However, some mixture of page-rank (based on content and cross-linking, as now) and clustering by topic (which Google does with its news feeds) certainly ought to be an improvement on what we have now.Calacanis petitionhttp://calacanis.weblogsinc.com
Overworked IT departments need to get away from firefighting and find the time and budgets to develop new systems, but buying in support isn't as simple as it used to be. Open source technologies are appealing, but unsupported software isn't. Meanwhile, consolidation is transforming the IT marketplace, and making familiar products and platforms obsolete.All is not lost. A new generation of support services and technologies is arriving to help IT departments handle these changes. Royston Seward, from Deloitte's Technology Integration Practice, sees this as a shift from application support to support services, where organisations buy support with the service levels they need for their core businesses.Open source software is becoming increasingly important to business, and new support organisations have spotted the business opportunity. There is more than one way to support open source applications and infrastructure. You can support yourself with help from Usenet newsgroups and online forums (assuming you have the expertise in your business); you can purchase a support package from the product developer, which is the model used by JBoss, the open source Java application server; or you can pay a third-party open source support specialist.One third-party approach, from support start-up SourceLabs, is concentrating on supporting a set of certified stacks of software and tools. Its first release is intended to help companies with their web applications: the AMP stack, composed of versions of the Apache web server, MySQL database and PHP, has been tested on various hardware and operating system platforms. SourceLabs makes its software stack freely available, offering a subscription service for tested and validated updates and patches.SpikeSource, now with industry veteran Kim Polese at the helm, takes a similar approach, offering a range of open source components in its core stack, including a J2EE Java application server. SpikeSource's vice-president, sales and corporate marketing, Nick Halsey, describes the company's goal as making "open source safe for the enterprise". The intention is to help companies and organisations that don't want to use their scarce internal resources on supporting their IT infrastructure, when they could be supporting business needs more directly.Meanwhile, UK open source consultancy Sirius Corporation has launched a fixed-fee unit-based support package for open source installations. Instead of purchasing support on a per-server basis, you buy units in advance and call up Sirius when you need help with a specific problem. One unit will buy a phone consultation; six units gets you either on-site consultancy or training. When you run out of units, you just buy more.A key component of any open source support service is links with the open source community. SourceLabs has hired well-known open source activist Bruce Perens to help with community relationships, and staff are encouraged to contribute to open source projects on company time. This includes adding patches based on bug-fixes that SourceLabs finds for customer problems. SpikeSource has similar relationships, and runs its own open source projects focusing on component and code management.Changes in technologies mean that the traditional outsourced support model is also changing. In the past, for example, the V&amp;A Museum had different support contracts for its many different IT systems, from desktop PCs to storage arrays. As part of a programme to refresh its IT systems, the museum's head of information systems services, Ian Croxford, looked for a long-term partnership to handle much of the support requirements.The resulting deal with Bull, now two years old, involves a permanent on-site support presence, backed up by a central technical support team and area field service staff. It is a mix that allows the museum to handle its everyday IT needs internally, while proactively managing risks so it can operate seven days a week, when its own IT staff may not be in the office.Changes in the way businesses deliver enterprise IT mean changes in the way support is delivered - and changes in the tools used to help with support. NCR's Managed Services group has taken advantage of the data-warehousing and business intelligence tools developed by sister division, Teradata, to improve the way it captures and manages information from its support clients. When you are supporting massive ATM networks, where high-availability operations are critical, it is important to understand patterns of failure so you can find their root causes.Even giants such as Microsoft are changing the way they support their partners. One of the biggest headaches for any IT manager is desktop support. How can they manage thousands of desktop PCs from many different vendors with many different combinations of software - and keep them all upgraded and patched? Rolling out an operating system across a whole organisation is a complex task that can take many weeks, and even months.Microsoft's UK headquarters in Reading is home to a Deployment Centre of Excellence. This training centre shows organisations and support teams how to use Microsoft's system management tools to improve the way they deploy patches and upgrades across their networks. Using Microsoft's infrastructure tools alongside best practices and tools that can be downloaded from Microsoft's website, the centre has helped support teams dramatically improve upgrade times - reducing the time needed for a complete desktop OS upgrade from hours to minutes.Keeping track of complex infrastructures can be a major support headache, even if a business has finished IT consolidation and moved its core IT systems back into the data centre. Managing arrays of servers and network equipment is a complex task, especially when you need to provision new services or change the network topology without affecting operations.Opsware, founded by Marc Andreessen of Netscape fame, has developed a suite of tools to help automate systems management. Using its tools, support teams can automate systems management, including handling compliance issues. The Opsware suite can work with many different operating systems and network hardware vendors, tackling the complexities of the data centre without forcing users to buy racks of the same hardware and software.Another problem is ongoing support when key vendors change direction. For example, EMC's recent acquisitions have turned a hardware company into one of the top 10 software vendors. As a result, it has had to increase the strength of its consulting arm, to help customers and partners implement increasingly complex storage arrays, and the software needed to manage their information.It is worse when company mergers mean the end of a product line. While vendors can stop product development, they have to carry on supporting users for a long time. Customers cannot migrate existing services to a new platform overnight, and some won't want to move.Promising ongoing support is a key part of any takeover deal, as illustrated by Oracle's promise to look after Peoplesoft users for longer than Peoplesoft.
Detectives trying to gauge the scale and make-up of the network responsible for last week's attacks will not be confining their investigations to door-to-door inquiries on the streets of West Yorkshire. They will also be probing a plethora of extreme Islamist websites which disseminate anti-western and anti-Jewish views, and which frequently shower praise on acts of terrorism.Although police do not yet know exactly where those responsible gained the expertise to make the bombs used last Thursday, they know there are any number of websites that could have pointed them in the right direction and put them in touch with similar-minded people.Islamist groups often post instructions and videos on websites telling sympathisers how to make bombs from everyday materials. They also provide tips on which materials are hardest to detect and how to carry out a suicide bombing.Last December, a 26-minute video was posted in a militant Islamic chatroom which showed how to construct a suicide bomb vest. It also gave details of the device's effective range.Concern about such sites is not confined to the west. Earlier this year, the Saudi Arabian authorities set up an online service to counsel young people against joining al-Qaida. They also provided a hotline for families who fear their sons are thinking of enlisting with terrorist groups.A campaign to force the main internet service providers to find and close down such sites has been going on for some time.Beth Cox, head of counter terrorism at the Royal United Services Institute, said: "Just as we use the internet to improve mainstream communications and the performance of the economy, extremists use it to increase their communications and knowledge. There is no real way to regulate it and I can't see how there will be in the future."Among the sites causing concern is Jihadunspun (JUS), a highly professional website which claims to present "a clear view of war on terror". It has been widely criticised in the US by agencies including the state department.The site tells readers: "JUS translates al-Qaida statements daily in order to bring readers the other side of the war of 'terror'." It questions claims that al-Qaida was involved in the London bombing."The previously unknown group circulated a claim of   responsibility shortly after this morning attacks, a copy of which was received by JUS," it says. "However this statement has some glaring errors in it that indicated to us that this material did not likely come from al-Qaida."Also causing concern are the internet publications of the Party for Islamic Renewal. The site has uncritically published translated speeches by Osama bin Laden's presumed deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, including one entitled "The Freeing of Humanity and Homelands   Under the Banner of the Qur'an."The al-Muhajiroun site has also been scrutinised. Its leader, Omar Muhammad Bakri, has spoken of his ambition to see the "black flag of Islam" flying over Downing Street. It is understood that at least one of the suspects killed after the London blasts had links with members of al-Muhajiroun in Bedfordshire.However, Massoud Shadjareh of the Islamic Human Rights Commission warned against placing too much   value on the role played by extremist websites."There are a lot of websites I would like to see an end of, but we are a free society and we need to be careful before we curtail freedom of speech."He added: "I don't think websites are creating the problem. What is creating the problem is the alienation of our youth &#91;and&#93; what is happening internationally. We don't have any arenas in our mosques for them to discuss these issues. We are pushing it underground."
The Knoppix live CD has started a mini-revolution in computing by putting an entire GNU/Linux desktop system, including major applications such as browser, email and office suite, on a single CD that configures itself automatically when you put it in a PC and switch it on. Its success has led to the creation of hundreds of live CDs, in all the leading languages, and serving dozens of specialised fields. The latest version of Knoppix goes even further.Knoppix 4.0 is a live DVD, rather than a live CD. It offers more than 4GB of compressed free software, a six-fold increase. Since Knoppix decompresses files on the fly, this means that once it is running on a PC it offers instant access to 8GB of software - 5,300 programs - without the need to install a single file on your hard disk.This allows an even more generous selection of free software. Alongside several browsers (Firefox, Konqueror, Epiphany), email clients (Thunderbird, Evolution, KMail) and even office suites (OpenOffice.org 2.0 and KOffice), Knoppix 4.0 also lets you choose from 11 distinct desktop environments, ranging from the mainstream KDE and Gnome to RatPoison and the minimalist FluxBox. More importantly, it offers thousands of programs not previously available from Knoppix, including hundreds of games - an earlier weak spot.Knoppix comes with all the main server programs that have made GNU/Linux so popular with businesses - the Apache Web server, the MySQL database, the PHP Web page scripting language, and so on - already installed. Knoppix 4.0 literally has it all: on a single DVD you can find practically every important free software program that is available, with no further downloading or installation required.Some may fret that the applications are frozen on the disc, doomed to obsolescence, but Knoppix has this covered. It takes advantage of a system for installing, removing and updating software devised by the developers behind Debian (the version of GNU/Linux underlying Knoppix) that is so easy it makes Windows' approach looks positively ham-fisted in comparison. To install or update a program under Debian, users just need to select it from a list of software available online and then let the operating system do the rest.The fact that Knoppix comes on a read-only CD (and now DVD) might seem to pose a problem. But a clever piece of software called UnionFS, which overlays new software, held in the computer's memory on top of code burned on the disc, means you can still upgrade old programs and install new ones even when running from a live CD/DVD. A USB memory stick is all you need to make such updates and installations permanent, as well as to save your configuration and data files.As the price of storage per megabyte tends to zero, so the cost of providing a near-complete set of free software also diminishes. There is no reason why such a collection could not be supplied with every new computer - or even built in. No need to get rid of Windows or Mac OS X, either: all you would require is a button on the computer that brought up GNU/Linux and the 8 or perhaps 80GB of free software included.On the other hand, when you have instant access to 50,000 free programs, why bother paying extra for a proprietary operating system that only comes with 50?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Give bloodThe horrific attack on London last week can easily leave you with a sense of powerlessness. One humble way to overcome the shock is to give blood. The National Blood Service needs approximately 2.5m donors every year, and while it assures us that stocks are "currently healthy", a quick glance at the level of supplies, which is available online, shows a deep decline since the start of this year. You can find your nearest donation point online by simply entering your post code. Remember, just one pint of blood can save up to three lives.www.giveblood.org.ukwww.blood.co.uk/pages/stocklevel.htmlWar chartsThe Iraq War Fatalities chart is a map of US and coalition forces' casualties since the onset of the war in Iraq, "mapped across the dimensions of time and space". The casualty data is taken from the Iraq Coalition Casualties website and map data fromGlobalSecurity.org. The resulting animated map runs at a speed of 10 frames a second with one frame per day, placing a single black dot at the geographic location of each death. Of course, Iraqi fatalities are not represented in the same way. As the site points out, reliable data on them is "formally documented" by no one.www.obleek.com/iraqwww.icasualties.orgwww.globalsecurity.orgEasy artIt might sound like a playground refrain, but the new site Artyfarty.com is an "art portal" that aims to demystify the creative industries. It features listings of local and national events, directories of art-related businesses, and showcases work by up-and-coming artists in a refreshingly neutral and straightforward way.www.artyfarty.comSearch continuesDespite what you might think, the mighty Google doesn't hold information on everything in the universe. Now a cute new site hopes to fill in many of the gaps in the "big G" database by drawing attention to web pages that are hard, or near impossible, to find. Frustrated searchers (or maybe just inept ones) can post queries to the site or merely note which items seem to be missing or obscured by spam results. (Have you ever tried to use Google to find a hotel's real website?) But there is more to this than utilitarianism, and the statement on the homepage says: "Because the things Google can't find is more interesting than the stuff Google can find." So what, exactly, are people missing? Items range from footage of Bill Clinton denying sexual relations with "that woman", for instance, to the location of missing online Marvel comics.www.cantfindongoogle.comwww.google.comRelive 8One of the nicest things about the Live 8 concerts is that most videos of the performances are still available on the old interweb. Ian Daye and Laurie Sawler, a couple living in Canada, recently indexed on AOL almost the entire set of concerts, and arranged links to them on a single web page. This makes it a lot easier to find, say, Bjork in Tokyo or Peter Gabriel and Geoffrey Oryema in Cornwall.www.sonician.com/live8/list.htmlwww.live8live.comwww.makepovertyhistory.orgCheap flightsA new site called 2london2 offers to help you find the cheapest budget airline fare. However, it is not as comprehensive as the excellent SkyScanner, which provides data on virtually every departure destination in Europe . The site's selling point is that it includes information and booking facilities for 55 airlines serving 150 destinations, and you can buy a flight in a very simple four-click process. Let's hope it extends its useful service to the rest of the UK soon.www.2london2.comwww.skyscanner.netSix of the best- The AshesAshes historywww.334notout.comStat centralwww.cricinfo.com/ashesEnglish Cricket Boardwww.ecb.co.ukwww.baggygreen.com.auBradman digital librarywww.bradman.sa.com.au/bradmanGreat all-rounderwww.guardian.co.uk/sport&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Fee for survivalSome of the points Ben Hammersley raises (Second sight, July 7) need attention. I run a small commercial film archive, licensing clips to broadcasters on behalf of several independent film-makers. Many of these exist in some form in the BBC's archives, having been shown on programmes such as Top of the Pops. Because the BBC does not own the copyright, it cannot exploit them.When these films were made there was no idea that years later they would still have any value - and film-makers charged very little to make them. When my company licenses their work, their share of the licence fee is the nearest thing most will have to an occupational pension, often for decades of work.So I resist strenuously the idea that the BBC should make the work available to the public at no charge: licence fees for repeat transmissions are necessary for the survival of a healthy independent production sector. The fact that the BBC is a public service broadcaster is not relevant in the case of independently owned intellectual property.Jennie MacfieDrumnadrochit, Inverness shireThink creativeBen Hammersley is spot on. Rights management is a nightmare, but the BBC has huge teams of people working in that area. It should just get on with it and release stuff in the Creative Archive. Anything for the time being - just put your money where your mouth is.Frankie RobertoNot a failureChristopher Roper (Feedback, July 7) said the National Land and Property Gazetteer had failed. The NLPG aimed to improve information management across local government, specifically focusing on address information. Its standards have been adopted by 366 of the 375 local authorities in England and Wales, and it is already used in well over 1,000 of their internal databases. Although it is true to say that some of the wider licensing issues are still unsatisfactory, the NLPG has been identified as a vital component of the proposed National Spatial Address Infrastructure... hardly the picture of a "failed" initiative.Michael NicholsonLondonArt of conversationWe started our corporate blog last year and it has already become a major component of our corporate communications. I agree with Justin Hunt (Loosen the shackles, July 7) that openness is the key. But it is not just about communication with customers: we are working on some new technologies and blogging is an excellent way of "having a conversation" with people at the cutting edge.Ken ChadBirminghamNot so seamlessOne benefit that traditional cellular communication enjoys over Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) that was not highlighted in your article (It's your call, July 7) is roaming on the move. We expect seamless connections when moving around with a mobile: but this is not the case as you move from one wireless hotspot to another - the connection drops, and you may need to log in again.Stef CoetzeeSeattleCross-network dealPeter Judge's comparison of three VoIP services (On the line, July 7) was of great interest, but might have mentioned the Gizmo Project (www.gizmoproject.com), which claims to deal with the problem of cross-network calling.Alistair KilgourEdinburghOffer a drawJohn Colenutt (Feedback, July 7) wondered "What happens if one chess computer plays another one?". Well, if they are both good enough, after due deliberation, and without moving any pieces, white will offer black a draw, which black will accept.John GilderCheadleBlogbackSo a man in America has been arrested for using somebody else's Wi-Fi (Onlineblog, July 7)? I'd have thought it was obvious that the man had implicit permission to use the access point. He did nothing illegal to gain access, his computer simply requested a connection for the access point and it was granted. If the owner didn't want people to use the access point, he should have employed some form of restriction.MichaelWhether or not the man turned encryption on or not, it is illegal to steal bandwidth in this manner.The English GuyIf you don't want people in your house, you lock the door. If you don't want people looking in your window, close the curtains. Don't want people stealing your bandwidth? Lock them out.BasculeSo if you leave your door unlocked it's OK for anyone to wander in and use your electricity? I don't think so.Tony&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
For those struggling to give their house a technology boost, there is now a viable, if somewhat drastic, alternative: move. Deputy prime minister John Prescott is calling for 32,000 homes to be built every year from next year, and it seems many of these will come with hi-tech features either as standard or as an optional extra.After years of turning their backs on integrating technology in the home - thinking it largely the preserve of geeks - virtually all the major housing firms are offering hi-tech options in much the same way they would a kitchen or bathroom. These range from basic multi-room audio systems, comprising in-ceiling speakers and in-wall control panels, to home automation systems where you can control the heating, lighting, and even the curtains via your mobile.According to David Hyman, chairman of the trade organisation Cedia (Custom Electronic Design in Installation), there are two reasons for the growing interest among builders."The price for whole house installation of CAT5 structured wiring - the backbone for any custom installation project - is low. At the same time, consumer interest in custom install technology is growing with the rising use of broadband, digital systems and wireless communications."Sohan Perera, managing director of Link Media Systems, which recently fitted a &pound;75,000 home entertainment and networking system in a &pound;750,000 penthouse for Kings Oak, part of Barratt Homes, thinks the market will be increasingly important."This is something house builders can't sidestep any more, especially in such a difficult housing market. Many companies are now looking at new technologies and saying to themselves 'can we afford not to put them in?'"Some housing firms are even spending money on developing state-of-the-art show homes where all the latest technology can be road tested over time. Take David Wilson Homes' Project:Life showhouse on the outskirts of Sheffield. Rather than the usual "home of the future", which is often little more than a PR exercise, this hi-tech showhome has a serious purpose: to find out how people use technology in a real-world environment.A family of four moved into the property last month and over a period of six months will use all the hi-tech features. These include a remote control lighting system, multi-room audio/video system with plasma screens and in-ceiling speakers, and data and telephone points in each room. Using radio frequency identification tags attached to the wrist, scientists at the University of Nottingham are able to record the movements of each occupant.Nor is it just hi-tech show homes where the latest technology is being introduced. In conjunction with custom installation specialist Armour Home Electronics, David Wilson Homes is planning to offer home entertainment packages as an optional extra for all 5,500 properties it plans to build over the coming year.Customers who decide to buy a new home will be offered a choice of three packages ranging from a Systemline Modular multi-room audio system to a full 5.1 channel surround system with video distribution. Prices start from about &pound;2,500 and rise to &pound;10,000. Paul Slater, the company's technical director, reckons it is cheaper than if you were to get it installed in your existing home.While home entertainment is the focus for David Wilson Homes, the company is considering adding technologies such as home networking. "The homes already use CAT5 cable for the entertainment system so it wouldn't be technically difficult to provide additional home networking functionality," says Slater. "The most important thing for us is that we don't want to give people gadgets you have to be a geek to use. We want to provide functionality rather than technology for technology's sake."Custom installation company Home Tech Integration, which is working with Antler Homes, Taylor Woodrow, Bett Homes and Stewart Milne Group, takes a similar approach. "Rather than pushing specific products, we focus on offering tailor-made solutions. If we don't think the site is right, we won't do it," says Chris Stewart, the managing director of Home Tech Integration. According to Stewart, up to 80% of new home owners take some of the hi-tech options, even if it's just a basic home entertainment set-up.But if it is hi-tech bells and whistles you want from your new property, there are several housing firms that will meet your needs. High-end custom installer SMC is talking to Obbard Properties about introducing a concierge service where homeowners can talk directly to a florist or a pizza delivery company by pressing a touchscreen panel built into the wall.Bellway Homes has partnered Siemens to provide the latest in home entertainment, networking and automation in some of its developments. Thanks to the Siemens Instabus system, those living at Bellway's Wynyard Development in Teesside or the Ochre Yards development in Newcastle can control their home system via their mobile phone."If your wife leaves her curling tongues on when she goes out it's possible to switch off the socket via your mobile," says Stuart Hylton, of Park Systems Integration, which installed the control systems for Bellway. "We have one customer who has the temperature of his fish tank monitored. If it falls or rises to an unacceptable level, he receives a text message."The hi-tech home has finally arrived - and the fish are grateful.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Investigators from the European commission and national competition authorities in several European countries, including Britain, yesterday mounted a series of dawn raids at premises of Intel, the world's leading chip maker, as part of an inquiry into alleged anti-trust activities.The raids are linked to lawsuits and complaints filed by Intel's smaller rival, AMD, about the US group's allegedly illegal practices in maintaining its monopoly in the microprocessor market.Officials from the Office of Fair Trading took part but the OFT refused to say which premises had been raided. Intel's operations in Swindon are understood to have been inspected along with others in Munich, Germany.It is understood that the commission, which began investigating Intel in 2001 but almost closed the case because of lack of progress, is acting on complaints filed by AMD last year. The US company welcomed the raids.AMD, which last year had record sales of $5bn (&#163;2.8bn) compared with Intel's $34bn, last month filed two suits in courts in Tokyo and a further one in Delaware, alleging Intel used worldwide coercion to dissuade customers from dealing with its competitor.Accusing Intel of "seven types of illegality across three continents," AMD named 38 companies, including Dixons in Britain, as victims of its rival's alleged coercion into accepting exclusive deals.Dixons has said it is considering legal action against AMD and has denied allegations that it had agreed to keep AMD's share of business below 10%. It said the allegations were "poorly researched and false".Intel said it was fully cooperating with the EU. Its chief executive, Paul Otellini, last month declared that his group "has always respected the laws of the countries in which we operate" and has competed "aggressively and fairly".Mr Otellini said: "We firmly believe this latest suit will be resolved favourably - like the others." Every previous action "has been resolved to our satisfaction".In its Delaware suit AMD, stung by Apple's decision to switch exclusively to Intel processors for its Mac operating system from 2006, said its rival enjoyed 80% of the global market by volume and 90% by value.It claimed customers such as Dell, Sony, Toshiba, Gateway and Hitachi had been forced into Intel-exclusive deals in return for cash payments, discriminatory pricing or marketing subsidies.
"Apple today announced financial results for its fiscal 2005 third quarter ended June 25, 2005, reporting the highest revenue and earnings in the Company's history. Apple posted a net quarterly profit of $320 million ... and revenue of $3.52 billion. These results compare to a net profit of $61 million ... and revenue of $2.01 billion in the year- ago quarter, and represent revenue growth of 75% and net profit growth of 425%," according to Apple'spress release."Apple shipped 1,182,000 Macintosh units and 6,155,000 iPods during the quarter, representing 35% growth in Macs and 616% growth in iPods over the year-ago quarter."Comment:Sales of iPods exploded from 860,000 in the same quarter last year to 6.2 million, pushing Apple's quarterly revenue above what it was a decade ago. Desktops did well with sales growing from 416,000 to 687,000 units with the impact of the Mac mini. Portables didn't do very well, with sales up from 460,000 to 495,000 units.Sales of iPods and related services (including iTMS) brought in $1,344,000 in the quarter, which is 38% of Apple's total sales. In fact, sales of iPods alone are now worth more than sales of desktop or portable Macs, but not both combined. Yet.
I'm 32 years old - should I still be playing Nintendo games? I've loved their in-house titles for years. Where other companies are criticised for rehashing franchises, I can't wait to play the next Zelda or (proper) Mario game. But a gaudy advert section for their"All Star 05"tour in this week's MVC trade mag - primary colours, tie-ins with a milkshake company and comics - really summed up who Nintendo make their games for. It's time for me - and any other 20/30 something Nintendo fan - to finally admit it. Nintendo games ARE actually aimed at children.Maybe I'd never really thought about it before. Maybe it didn't matter? But when you see a game that is top of your anticipation list -Zelda: Twilight Princess- cross promoted withThe Beanoit does finally hit home. Don't get me wrong, I fully intend to spend this December in Hyrule. But will anyone older than 20, who isn't already a fan of the series, want to do the same? Will a GTA-loving teenager want to admit to playing with an elf in a pointy hat? I doubt it.There's no doubt that Nintendo still make good and, crucially, different games. There's still a buzz surrounding the bigger titles. The promotional tour this summer is obviously tied in with the school holidays and will allow kids to try out upcoming Nintendo titles like Zelda: Twilight Princess and Nintendogs. Lucky them. These titles look fantastic, and I can't wait. But I've - belatedly - realised that I'm not the target audience anymore. I've accepted that. I'm happy. I'll still be playing. Will you?
Cache crisis: could surfers see search engine changes? Photograph: Chien-Min Chung/APJack mentioned the possible legal threat to search engine caches in a post at the weekend (Adult site sues Amazon over sexy images) - and now other threats are appearing.Internet archivehas been sued for the same thing in a trademark action between two similarly-named companies. Here's aCNet articleon the subject:In preparing the case, representatives of [law firm] Earley Follmer used the Wayback Machine to turn up old Web pages--some dating to 1999--originally posted by the plaintiff, Healthcare Advocates of Philadelphia.Last week Healthcare Advocates sued both the Harding Earley firm and the Internet Archive, saying the access to its old Web pages, stored in the Internet Archive's database, was unauthorized and illegal.It's the kind of thing that Guardian Unlimited's dark overlord Simon Waldmannoteda while ago... we seem to be at the start of a (potentially long) process of deciding just how responsible search engines are for the material they keep.Of course, information seekers don't mind about caching: it's useful. But many companies are now starting to worry about it - for various reasons. The easy way for balloon-poppers like Healthcare Advocates to stop caching would be to find a case where the actual contentsinsidea cached page turn out to be illegal (libellous, for example). But who would that really help?
"Traipsing around the Internet is the most popular form of loafing on the job. The insurance industry is particularly rife with goofing off, and Missouri is the top state for time-wasters," reportsCNet.Those are among the conclusions of a study on wasted time at work released Monday by compensation specialist Salary.com and Web portal America Online. Through a Web survey involving more than 10,000 employees, the report found that personal Internet surfing ranked as the top method of cooling one's heels at work. It was cited by 44.7% of respondents as their primary time-wasting activity, followed by socializing with co-workers (23.4%) and conducting personal business (6.8%).The average worker admits to frittering away 2.09 hours per day, not counting lunch, according to the report. That's far more time than the roughly one hour per day employers expect the average employee to waste, the report said. The extra unproductive time adds up to $759 billion annually in salaries for which companies get no apparent benefit, the report said.
Further tosomeearlierdiscussionsonthe gamesblog about the nature of being a gamer, the brand new gaming magThe Escapisthas kicked off with a couple of notable articles by notable writers on the very topic. What happenswhen the mainstream becomes the purchasing force? How come Jennifer Buckendorff, a 20-hour per week girl,isn't considered a "gamer"? From the latter:Maybe the whole concept of a "gamer" is outdated, a remnant from five years ago. It seems like a concept from the era when PC titles were the only game in town. Once the console - with its wonderfully pre-configured set-up - entered the picture, the masses flocked to it. PC players played consoles, too, but stayed involved in PCs, retreating into a world of ever more complicated gaming, where learning the basics of an RPG or a flight simulator could reasonably take 24 hours non-stop.Hurrah! My sentiment exactly!Thereisa fascinating - and contradictory - division between PC players and console kids. The mainstream accessibility of tv-based games machines has meant that a larger demographic (still primarily boys and their Dads) owns a console. Many of them play accessible or mainstream games, which PC hard-core players poo poo. If they don't denigrate the latest consoles, they certainly don't have time for the vast number of players who still kick around on their last generation machines.The PC gamers seem to fall into two camps - the poo poo-ing hard-core (eloquently described by Jennifer in her article) and the casual browser gamers who fiddle with gambling, backgammon, Flash products, and the occasional visit to Sim-land. No prizes for guessing which one's considered a "gamer".However, I fear even Jennifer's definition is too restrictive:I'm not talking about the person who picks up a PS2 to get some aerobic exercise with Dance Dance Revolution, and then tries another game here or there. I'm describing the kinds of enthusiasts who can talk about Beyond Good and Evil with as much passion as a film-school grad discussing Truffaut.If it continues to be that elitist, the mainstream will push gamers aside, ignore them andmisunderstandwhat's really going on in these newfangled interactive entertainments until tragedy strikes and games get the blame.Ah, if only it were that simple.
It's been a long week, but thanks for all your letters and emails to the Online Dungeon. Most of them were actually directed in a general sense towards the paper in response to the bombings in London last week. You can get an idea of what they saidat this post.But ahead of ourletters pagetomorrow, it's time to look through of some of this week's comments. If you see anything on the site that you want to talk about, email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukor leave a comment below.Creative conflictThe biggest talking point this week was ourlead comment piecein which Ben Hammersley took the BBC to task for not making its Creative Archive available yet. "Why are the creative industries in the UK allowed to take public money without fulfilling the obligation to deliver publicly accessible value?" he wrote. "Why is this even an option? We have paid for it, now let us use it."Several readers dropped supportive notes, including Bertil Gralvik from Sweden, who said "important pieces of culture should, at some point in time, be made available to the public, no matter who paid for the production". Frankie Roberto, meanwhile, told us it was "spot on": "Rights management is a nightmare, but the BBC has huge teams of people working that area, and they should just get on with it and release stuff."However, not everyone agrees. Jennie Macfie, who licenses material through her company's film archive, says that not paying the owners of older films could seriously damage the industry. "When these films were first made there was no idea that 30 years or more later they would still have any kind of value or interest," she wrote."Film makers charged very little to make them, sometimes making little or no profit in order to make a particularly interesting film or work for an unknown but inspiring band or artist. None that I know of ever had enough spare cash to contribute to pension funds! When my company licenses their work, their share of the licence fee is the nearest thing most will have to an occupational pension, often for decades of work. So I resist strenuously the idea that the BBC should make their work available to the public at no charge which would inevitably decrease their commercial value."Chess chase continuesJohn Gilder got in touch to answer the question put forward by John Colenuttlast week: "What happens if one chess computer plays another one?"."Well," came the answer. "If they are both good enough, after due deliberation - and without moving any pieces - white will offer black a draw, which black will accept."Any other businessFinally, a reader request. Roy Chiverton lost his rag with BT after they managed to install some non-working BT Yahoo dial-up software onto his desktop - particularly as he could only solve the problem by calling one of their premium rate help lines (rather than one of the cheaper numbers)."Happily, I haven't gone to broadband yet - though I plan to," he writes. "Recommendations, anybody?"That's all for this week. Remember, if you want to talk about anything, email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukor leave a comment below.
Digital set-top box maker Pace Micro Technology is developing a pay-TV iPod-style device as it battles to stay ahead of consumer demand and competition for digital players.Dubbed "PVR to go", the device allows pay-TV subscribers with personal video recorders to download programmes then watch them on a mobile unit.Pace is trying to persuade its big set-top box customers - Sky in Britain, Comcast in the US and Foxtel in Australia - to order the "PVR to go" but they are waiting until a sufficient number of consumers own personal video recorders and the retail price of the "PVR to go" is below &#163;200.Sky recently reported that 10% of its customers own PVRs. Pace is confident it will be able to offer "PVR to go" by the middle of next year.Yesterday Pace reported a 37% rise in underlying profit to &#163;8.1m. Turnover grew 6% to &#163;253.3m as it delivered 3.4m units, up from 2.2m a year ago.Pace will expand its business in the US this year, after securing a three-year contract worth between $375m and $550m (&#163;310m) to supply Comcast with set-top boxes. Pace expects the US, which is the biggest set-top box market in the world, to account for 40% of turnover within a year, up from 10% last year.It has spent &#163;35m to break into the US market, and has sold 500,000 set-top boxes there. Analysts believe Pace is counting on signing another US contract worth at least &#163;100m this year.It needs to increase its American business since UK revenue is forecast to "gradually keep reducing" as the market reaches saturation and the price of set-top boxes continues to fall.Pace gave a warning that it would show a loss in the first half of its financial year, but should return to the black in the second half. Analysts expect Pace to book &#163;340m revenue this year, and make &#163;9m operating profit.
I've been playingkiller7for review this week. Wow. This is the ultimate love/hate title and is likely to be one of those games likeIcoand Rez that get ignored upon release only to be worth a fortune on internet auction sites in the future. My tip - get a copy.
"A new phone privacy service was launched by BT today aimed at people who are sick of nuisance calls from salesmen," reports the Press Association.The company is offering to register customers for the Telephone Preference Service (TPS), which bans companies and charities from contacting them with offers and information, as part of its free BT Privacy service."Consumers are fed up with being bothered by nuisance salespeople cold calling during the precious few hours they have to relax in the evening and at weekends. "Our customers are telling us that they don't want silent calls and some of them don't want to receive marketing calls."As someone who's been on the sharp end of countless spam phone calls - particularly since moving home (and phone number) - I appreciate the offer. But I won't be taking it up...Because people can already do most of this themselves in seconds at theTPS website. Log your phone number on the website and it should be lodged with the authorities - the number of unsolicited calls I've been taking has dropped to almost zero as a result.
Some of London's telephone networks were shut down in the immediate aftermath of the bombings last week - it's part of an existing emergency planb which we wrote abouton Friday. Those lines were back up and running normally within a short space of time, but it seems that America is taking a slightly tougher approach. In today's Washington Post, Robert MacMillan has this (registration only, so no link):New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey cut cell-phone service last Thursday in the tunnels that link Manhattan with New Jersey, Brooklyn and Queens.Security was the reason. The MTA runs the Brooklyn-Battery and Queens Midtown tunnels. The Port Authority supervises the Lincoln and Holland tunnels. We're talking a lot of vehicles and plenty of opportunities for terrorist mayhem... the Port Authority's Lou Martinez told me that the outage will continue, either for as long as the Orange Level endures or until the authority decides otherwise. "We feel it is the proper decision" for security's sake, he said.In London, there was little suggestion that the phone switch-off was to prevent terrorists from detonating bombs using mobile phone signals - indeed, since the explosion between Kings Cross and Russell Square was in a signal-less deep line, such an occurence looks to have been almost impossible. Instead, the procedure is intended to make sure priority calls can get through when lines might otherwise be congested.So is the switchoff of the subway signal just jitters?
A campaign for mobile phones to be used to help identify victims of accidents and disasters has gathered momentum in the wake of the London terror attacks, its instigator said today.Mobile users are being urged to enter a number in their phone's memory under the heading ICE, standing for "in case of emergency".Paramedics or police would quickly be able to find the number and use it to contact a relative or friend who could identify the victim and give vital information such as details of any medical conditions.The idea has come from Bob Brotchie, a paramedic in the East Anglian ambulance service."I was reflecting on some difficult calls I have attended, where people were unable to speak to me through injury or illness and we were unable to ascertain who they were," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme."In trying to establish their identity, I discovered that many people obviously carry mobile phones, and we were using them to discover who they were."It occurred to me that if we had a uniform approach to searching inside a mobile phone for an emergency contact, that would make it easier for everyone."The campaign was launched in May and, in the wake of last week's bombings, an email campaign has sent it around the world.Mr Brotchie said that, since the attacks, the idea has spread as far as the USA and Australia. He urged mobile manufacturers to add ICE headings to phones before they were sold.
