"Dude!" exclaimed last week's Fortune magazine cover, "Dell's No 1". The PC manufacturer named after its 40-year-old founder, Michael Dell, has become America's most admired company, ahead of General Electric, Starbucks and Wal-Mart.It's a remarkable story. Dell started building PCs while in college, dropped out, and built a world-beating corporation from nothing.At the time, way back in 1984, IBM and Hewlett-Packard were America's most admired companies: they were first and third, according to Fortune. The personal computer industry's giants were IBM, Apple and Tandy, while Commodore and Atari dominated the home market.As we know, Dell was a huge success. At 27, he was the youngest chief executive to take a company into the Fortune 500, and today, Dell has 33.1% of the US PC market, ahead of HP (19.5%), Gateway (5.3%) and IBM (4.7%). This is remarkable when you consider the consolidation of top five players - HP now includes Compaq, while Gateway includes eMachines - and that IBM has sold its loss-making PC business to China's Lenovo.What's even more remarkable is that Dell builds most of its PCs in the US, rather than using contract manufacturers in Taiwan or China. Indeed, Dell has started building another new factory in the US, in Winston-Salem, North Carolina - an area hit by the decline in RJ Reynolds' cigarette business.And Dell feels the company still has a long way to go. It sells one in three PCs in the US but only one in six of the PCs sold worldwide, so there is room for expansion. Most Dell PCs are sold to businesses, with less than 10% going to consumers, so that's another opportunity. Dell is also expanding into new areas.Until recently, Dell was mainly a desktop PC manufacturer, but is now doing well in notebooks, and it can build you a supercomputer. It has also added servers and storage systems, services, printers, handheld computers, MP3 players and flat screen TV sets, among other things. As Dell's chief executive Kevin Rollins told Fortune, Dell is the underdog in all these areas and this keeps everyone motivated: "Gotta struggle, gotta change, gotta do things for the customer."This is bad news for many companies, and especially for HP, which dominates the printer market and, thanks to Compaq's ProLiant range, leads in server volumes. But Dell is growing its PC server business, and claims it already has about 20% of the US ink-jet printer market. That probably puts it ahead of Lexmark, Epson and Canon in this area.Dell doesn't make its own printers - most are rebadged from Lexmark, an old IBM spin-off company - and it also outsources the manufacturing of other products, or buys in known brands. As a result, Dell is changing. It has been an amazing manufacturer, but now it needs to become an amazing retailer with excellent ordering, fulfilment and support.If you thought of Dell as just a PC manufacturer with a website, try thinking of it as being more like an Amazon with super-efficient factories.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
When a technology wanders off the pages of New Scientist into the Economist, it is generally a sign something is afoot. Such is the case with quantum computing, which is complicated, but essentially uses quantum mechanics to do lots of things at the same time instead of one thing after the other, as conventional computers do. Simple quantum computers that seem to work have been built.So what? A decade ago, Peter Shor, a Bell Labs scientist, discovered a way to use the property of quantum parallelism to efficiently solve a specific mathematical problem. The problem was finding the factors of large numbers. The difficulty of finding the factors of large numbers using classical methods is the linchpin of modern cryptography: it is the technology behind the padlock that shows up in your web browser.As far as I 'm aware,the biggest number factored with a quantum computer is 15. Since we knew the factors (three and five), this does not tell us anything new about 15.It does tell us, however, that we need to think about finding a new way to encrypt data. One place to look to defend data from a quantum computer might be quantum cryptography. This works by using the law of physics again, taking advantage of the fact that it is impossible for someone to observe quantum particles (eg photons) without being detected: thus, you could be sure no one was listening to your conversation with a bank.Last year,a quantum cryptography link was used to transfer money between Vienna City Hall and the Bank Austria Creditanstalt. This was a first step, but being able to send photons down a fibre-optic cable from A to B is of limited use. A network is needed, so groups are trying to build one. The Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Agency (Darpa,the original home of the internet) has already built one comprising six servers: it is called Qnet.Qnet and similar efforts use quantum key distribution to securely transfer cryptographic keys between nodes. The nodes use those keys to encrypt the data being transferred. However, I may send data to the bank securely, but how do I know it is the bank? That problem is solved using public key cryptography. Hmm.Quantum computing will, in perhaps a generation, render classical cryptography useless. However, people will still want to keep things secret, so they will need quantum cryptography. But limitations in the way it works (if I have understood it properly) mean it depends on classical cryptography to be useful. Back to square one.This isn't a futuristic topic. Just as one of the first uses of the modern computer was to break symmetric key cryptography, so one of the first uses of a quantum computer will be to break the public key cryptography used by military, government, bank, pharmaceutical and other systems in place today.Breaking the codes will not mean simply that banks won't be able to use it to exchange messages in confidence, but that all data ever encrypted using public key cryptography will become visible. Keeping information secret is running into the laws of physics.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
A giant model of a BlackBerry phone outside the T-Mobile pavilion reminded visitors to last week's CeBIT fair in Hanover, Germany, of the growing importance of mobile email. Inside the communications hall, a "human" BlackBerry walked the aisles shaking hands with somewhat wary visitors.Research In Motion's (RIM) BlackBerry, with its popular "push" email facility, was high profile partly because it is being promoted to small businesses and the self-employed who can use it via the BlackBerry Internet Solution (BIS).In the UK, T-Mobile, Vodafone and O2 are increasingly promoting BlackBerry devices and, notably, the new BlackBerry 7100 smartphones - the first to deliver BlackBerry "push" email to individuals on a phone as opposed to the well-known blue-and-black BlackBerry devices that have a tiny Qwerty keyboard.The BIS is an important development because most BlackBerry users have been working for big firms who install the BlackBerry Enterprise Solution software to push corporate email to the firm's staff.BIS, formerly known as BlackBerry Web Client, is a stripped-down version of the BlackBerry Enterprise Solution. BIS can be set up within minutes of buying a phone, and managed from a web client. However, BIS doesn't have encryption and the synchronisation is more limited.Compared with a minimum of about &#163;4,000 to set up a basic enterprise service, the internet solution is cheap. For example, Vodafone, which has 10 tariff options, charges &#163;85.11 for its BlackBerry 7100v and a monthly fee of &#163;31.49 for email and voice charges (exc VAT). The charge includes all email up to a maximum of 6MB (which you are unlikely to breach) and 100 inclusive voice minutes. Extra mail is charged at &#163;2 per megabyte.You can have emails from up to 10 web, POP3, and IMAP4 accounts sent to your phone. As with the enterprise service email, attachments are only sent if requested. You manage your account via a web client created by RIM for BlackBerry users.There are four BlackBerry devices available in the UK - the 7230, 7730, the 7290, and the 7100, whose Qwerty keys are arranged over a simplified keypad and include a speakerphone.BIS users appear as satisfied as the hordes of corporate enthusiasts dubbed "CrackBerry" addicts."The big benefit is that there is no longer a need for separate mobile phone and Outlook address books; the two are merged. Phone number and email in the same contact is fantastic," said Ben Ferns, of Brighton-based web consultancy North Laine Solutions, who uses a 7100v.Bob French, inventor of Bigfoot, a landmine disposal robot, says he opted for BIS so he could dump his laptop: "Carrying a laptop was inconvenient and risky in some countries so I tried the BlackBerry 7230. It has been invaluable as a means of quickly checking on important emails while on the move."It also has the added attraction of needing less expertise to sell. Paul Stonadge, a data solutions executive with Vodafone, says: "You can connect to the service as you leave the shop: other forms of email on mobile phones are quite complex. People understand 'push' email and are asking for it now." RIM says operators also like the fact that BlackBerry users are heavier data users than the average mobile user.Most analysts agree that RIM is in a strong position to build its base by going beyond the corporate sector but warn that the market is soon to be crowded with competing options."This is a huge opportunity for the mobile operators," says Andy Brown, programme manager, European Mobile, IDC, "but RIM faces a big challenge in this space because there are other solutions that are platform agnostic. RIM spent a lot of time developing the corporate business but at the lower end, it is the relationship with the operator that is crucial. If you look at the mobile middleware market, there are few 'pure plays' that stick around. The operators only want to be device agnostic."Competitors include Sproqit, Visto, Siemens, Good Technology and Intellisynch.Meanwhile, Nokia plans to use Microsoft's Exchange Server ActiveSync technology to synchronise email, contacts and appointments on to Series 60 and Series 80 phones.But the success of the BlackBerry is driving a small army of developers who are providing a plethora of niche applications. Most recent is a service that allows BlackBerry users to be able to print emails, texts and attachments on the move. Called ThinPrint, it entails sending data directly to dedicated public printing terminals.RIM will be depending on such developers to help it grow into the small business market and increase loyalty and usage. There are more than 2m BlackBerry users worldwide, but RIM does not give a separate breakdown of the number of BIS users.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
"Hello. I wish to register a complaint." "I'm sorry, we don't handle complaints at this counter." "Who does, then?" "Dunno, really. You could go to head office, if you can find it. You'll probably find a complaint form somewhere. Mind you, there's no guarantee anyone will read i t...".No one outside a comedy sketch would tolerate this level of customer service nowadays. Yet, according to a study, this is roughly what we can expect from government websites if we try to complain about a public body. A National Audit Office report published last week suggests that, at best, webmasters don't make it easy for citizens to complain online. At worst, they make it impossible.The study, Citizens Redress, studied the websites of 277 central government organisations for information on what citizens should do when they're unhappy with services. Just over half provide this in an accessible way. One third give no information at all. The rest publish the information as a PDF document - daunting to download and not easily searchable. It is the online equivalent of making complainants wait in a long queue.When officialdom tries to help, the auditors detected a certain amount of linguistic innovation. Organisations use phrases such as "putting things right", "getting things right" or, more often, simply discuss their customer standards. Departments are "very coy" about saying anything about how people who have been messed around by officialdom may feel. Few acknowledge that people mak ing a complaint may be worried, frustrated or confused. Only one in five sites talks about apologising or making amends. Even fewer say compensation might be available.Among organisations that do put a redress channel on their website, the extent of information varies sharply. Two thirds provide a dedicated complaints address or phone number or email address. But only one in five name the official to whom complaints can be sent.Only half the organisations with information on the web mentioned the parliamentary ombudsman.So much for the great e-government hope that the web would act as "dis-intermediator" between official bodies and taxpayers.To be fair, the NAO reports that some sites do a good job. However, the good news "only serves to highlight the many sites where either   no information is available or it is stored in obscure PDF pages ... often containing very formal and unwelcoming text".Some will say it is unrealistic to expect government to change: providing easy channels will merely open the floodgates to complaints. The NAO says there is an incentive to do better. Processing complaints soaks up a disproportionate amount of administrative costs. A 5% improvement in efficiency would save &#163;25m a year, not to mention the boost in public relations.The report's appendix suggests that certain arms of the state have some way to go before shedding their Yes, Minister culture. Among the organisations that didn't meet a deadline for getting responses back to the NAO were the Government Car and Despatch Agency - and the Post Office.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Good news for householders in low-lying parts of the country. Ordnance Survey, the national mapping agency, is creating a database that will allow insurers to calculate whether individual homes are at risk of flooding, rather than slapping prohibitive premiums on whole floodplains.Land-Form Profile Plus is a digital terrain model showing the height of any point of land to an accuracy of 50cm. Ordnance Survey is compiling it from aerial surveys using stereoscopic cameras and height-measuring radar. The model, five times more precise than its existing database, will help plan the siting of wind turbines, water pipes and mobile telephone masts.The first data will be available next month and it will be "keenly and competitively priced", says Stuart Pretty, senior product manager.Commercial businesses already in the market, however, are not so delighted with the innovation. Intermap Technologies, for example, says it already offers nationwide coverage with an accuracy of one metre, and data from most of England at half-a-metre precision. Last year, Intermap rattled Ordnance Survey by being picked to supply height data for local councils.Ordnance Survey's decision to ramp up its offering raises questions about the behaviour of government-owned agencies in markets for electronic data. Squabbles over the licensing of data created with taxpayers' money are already hampering the development of crucial e-government systems.Ordnance Survey, originally set up to help fight French invaders, now has an ambition to become the "content provider of choice for location-based information in the new information economy". As a government-owned "trading fund", it is required to cover its costs and make an annual return to the Treasury.The agency is proud of responding to market demand rather than civil service memoranda. For example, no decision has been made about whether the new height profile service will cover the whole country. "We may not take it everywhere if there are no customers to pay for it," says Pretty. This would be a novelty for an agency that prides itself on mapping the Outer Hebrides to the same standard as Chelsea Harbour.In government, Ordnance Survey is seen as a case study of a fusty government office becoming a feisty competitor in the new economy.The problem is that trading funds have to behave like commercial enterprises when protecting intellectual property. This leads to the bizarre situation of agencies squabbling over their rights to own data, such as addresses. To create Land-Form Profile Plus, for example, Ordnance Survey had to license data from the Environment Agency: one government-owned agency will solemnly pay another agency royalties collected largely from sales to other public bodies.When it comes to selling maps to local authorities, the area of government most reliant on Ordnance Survey data, the situation becomes farcical.For the past year, a body represent ing state-funded local authorities has been locked in negotiations with Ordnance Survey over arrangements to supply mapping data on which councils depend to plan their services. A contract to supply the "mapping services agreement" was supposed to have been signed last year. Ordnance Survey was chosen to supply the bulk of the work. Two commercial businesses, Intermap and Intelligent Addressing, won small slices of the business. One year on, Ordnance Survey and local government have yet to sign. James Brayshaw, Ordnance Survey's director of sales and market development, would not reveal what the sticking point was, and the Improvement and Development Agency, acting for local government, would not comment.Another development stalled because of arguments over ownership is a national database of addresses. This is seen as crucial to modernising government. At least three self-funding government bodies have rival proposals. Last year, a company called Acacia, set up to try to resolve such arguments, collapsed after spending &#163;1m on consultants and other resources.As a result, says Michael Nicholson, managing director of Intelligent Addressing, "a turf war about ownership is getting in the way of progress in something we believe is absolutely fundamental".Brayshaw says trading fund status gives Ordnance Survey - and taxpayers - the best of both worlds. Trading allows it to maintain its crown jewels, the digital "Mastermap" of Britain, at no direct cost to the taxpayer. The database contains 440m uniquely identified objects; keeping it up to date requires 5,000 changes a day. "We would cost more as a vote-funded agency," says Brayshaw. "We run a far more efficient organisation."There is an alternative model: require agencies such as Ordnance Survey to give away public-funded data free or at marginal cost, and allow private industry to exploit it.So-called "open access" is favoured by the US, in contrast to the European "cost recovery" model. In a recent research paper, Peter Weiss, of the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, argued that recovering costs generates income in the short term but stifles innovation and availability."The consensus of recent research is that charging marginal cost of dissemination for public sector information will lead to optimal economic growth in society and will far outweigh the immediate perceived benefits of aggressive cost recovery," he says.Tristram Cary, managing director of Getmapping, which three years ago lost a court action against Ordnance Survey, says the trading fund system is flawed: "It puts the Ordnance Survey in a nearly impossible position."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
If you're an unsigned artist who has put some sounds together at home, it is now both easy and cheap to share them with the world. And you don't have to fall into the clutches of a major record label to do so.Finding and buying music on the internet is becoming increasingly popular, as music fans realise the potential of online distribution and a growing number of MP3 players.Recent research from Nielsen reveals 46% of all 12 to 17 year olds in the UK visited a music website in December. With the British Phonographic Industry saying in January that digital downloads had overtaken sales of CDs and vinyl for the first time, this increased traffic can only be a good sign for online artists.And after jazz composer Maria Schneider became the first musician to win a Grammy in February for an album released only on the web, digital musical adventures could well be the best format for the future. There are four main ways for unsigned artists to release their music online.Option 1 - MP3 hosting sitesMany websites will host your digital audio for you, and while some of the larger distributors will charge a fee for not discriminating in terms of music quality, many are still free.Tune Tribe, a "democratic" music download site backed by Groove Armada, is still in beta testing and expects to do a full launch by May. It offers UK-based artists and labels up to 80% of royalties, and bands set the download price of their music. It is free to join, and at this stage, they say anyone can get involved.Tom Findlay, from Groove Armada, says: "We're keen to be as democratic as possible but at the same time we are not going to put up dreadful music. It has to have creative merit and be well recorded ... Eventually, we want to branch out to become an online record label. Then we can really find and nurture new talent."Total Band offers "total solutions" as well as simple MP3 hosting services. Different packages, ranging from &#163;1.99 to &#163;4.85 a month, offer features including a free domain name, website builder, online gig book, band email address and ongoing hosting support.Similar sites that offer free hosting services include Internet Archive, Soundclick, Morpheus and My Space.Option 2 - Digital record labelsIf you feel your music is of good enough quality, try to get signed by an online record label. The ethos of digi tal labels is often very different from traditional record labels - you should end up with more money, more creative control and more rights.Magnatune is an open music record label that hosts artists from genres including classical, electronica, jazz &amp; blues, metal &amp; punk, new age, rock and world. "We're a record label, but we're not evil," says its site, so artists get 50% of each sale, and keep all the rights to their music.The main difference from other music sites is that consumers choose what to pay for each album, from a minimum of &#163;3. Fans are generally being charitable, paying an average of &#163;4.20 for each album. Apple's iTunes Music Store - rated by Nielsen's survey of UK teenagers as being in the top five most popular music sites - also recognises Magnatune as a traditional record label, so your work will be sold there, too.Artist Share, home to Maria Schneider, makes fans part of the creative process. Artists sell "participant offers" to fans, through which they fund the recording of an album while building a strong fan base. And they get 85% of each end sale. Artist packages cost between $900 and $7,000.Brian Camelio, founder of Artist Share, says those keen to sign up should "start working on cultivating an email fanbase" and "create a personal relationship with each of your fans", as they are the ones who are going to make or break you.Karma Download charges artists who pass their "quality control" test &#163;10 a year, for which you get your own MP3 hosting section on the site, 50% royalties from each 99p per track sale, and a chance to be incl-uded in its weekly unsigned chart.Option 3 - Your own band websiteA website is one of the best ways to reach a wide range of fans, but you have to make yours stand out from the crowd. Important things to include are: biography; photos; contact details; gig listings; message board; reviews and links; and MP3s of your songs. It is also vital to regularly update your site.You have to convert your audio files to MP3s to upload them and use an FTP (File Transfer Protocol) program such as Queue FTP or Filezilla. So people can listen to your tracks before they buy, convert them into a streaming file using a program such as Windows Media Player, Windows Media Audio 9, Real Audio or Flash.It is also important to secure the correct form of DRM (digital rights management). Creative Commons is a non-profit online organisation that offers flexible copyright for creative work, with a range of licences that can be tailored to your needs.You then have to set up an online payment process, through a service such as PayPal or WorldPay, which will take a percentage of each transaction. For fans who don't have a credit or debit card, however, you may want to provide a way for them to send cheques or postal orders.Option 4 - Remixing sitesAnother way to reach a wider fanbase and possibly improve on the quality of your work is to enter songs on to a remixing site, such as CC Mixter. This legal community music sharing site features songs licensed under Creative Commons, where you can listen to, sample, mash-up or interact with music however you want.The trend for buying music online is growing, says Gabrielle Prior, European internet analyst at Nielsen. "When today's young adults use the home PC, they are not just using the computer to help with their studies and homework," she says. "They are also listening to music &#91;and&#93; downloading the latest music tracks."So selling music online is a wise move for unsigned artists. John Buckman, the chief executive and founder of Magnatune, is optimistic about the future of digital releases, and offers advice to those choosing to go it alone. "If you are going to go with a large service that doesn't discriminate, assume you are going to have to generate the sales yourself," he says.On your own website, he says, have the album artwork as a printable form, and offer bonus or free tracks.Digital music releases often offer a fairer and more experimental alternative to traditional record label formats, but their future lies in the willingness of fans to carry on downloading music. "Generosity is encouraged," Buckman says. "People respond well to that."Linkswww.tunetribe.comwww.totalband.comwww.archive.orgwww.soundclick.comwww.morpheus.comwww.myspace.comwww.magnatune.comwww.artistshare.comwww.karmadownload.comwww.creativecommons.orgwww.ccmixter.orgIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
One to rememberSplinter Cell, Chaos TheoryPC, &#163;34.99Ubisoft Montreal/Ubisoft &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Having become used to Tom Clancy games getting steadily less original, I wasn't expecting much from this. And with tough guy Michael Ironside once again voicing the hero, joined this time by Dennis Haysbert (President Palmer in 24), it sounded like another routine mission for Sam Fisher. How wrong we were.Ubisoft Montreal has pulled out the stops, crafting a stunning new 3D engine and adding new routines, moves and even playing modes at every turn. The result is a 3D extravaganza that finally settles the debate about who's the daddy: Sam Fisher or Solid Snake.Sam is no longer confined to neon-lit corridors, and now sneaks through sweeping 3D exteriors, towering lighthouses and rain-splattered shanty towns - all meticulously designed to accentuate the difference between light and shadow, Sam's traditional stalking ground. This time, he can say goodbye to his foes from above or below, break open doors and shoot while hanging upside down from a pipe. He also has new weapon attachments, a new goggle mode that can pick out electronic signatures in a darkened room, and a new acoustic HUD (head-up display), which lets him time his footsteps with background noise.On top of this, there's a co-op mode for you and a friend to tackle parts of the single-player game, and a brilliant Multiplayer Deathmatch that has teams of Mercs and Spies using different hi-tech gear to outsmart each other. Rather than resting on its laurels, Ubisoft has reinvented the franchise and given Sam a future in both games and movies. Let's hope, when we're rounding up the games of the year, no one forgets about this one. It may be early and out of the blue, but Chaos Theory is a little cracker.Mike AnderieszEra definingMetal Gear Solid 3: Snake EaterPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99Konami, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The third instalment of the original sneak-'em-up franchise is, according to creator Hideo Kojima, the final part of a trilogy - although there will be more Metal Gear Solid games for the next generation of consoles, Kojima will take a back seat.Kojima is signing off with a flourish - Snake Eater is a very impressive game. It has moved from the concrete interiors of its predecessors into a Russian jungle full of crocodiles, snakes and fruit, which can be thrown to distract enemies. The 1960s cold war setting, among other things, helps it feel more true to life than before. The plot also makes sense, for once, even though rapid twists occur at times.Snake Eater is a prequel in which Snake's origins - along with those of several of his deadliest rivals - are explored, and it benefits from a lack of over-advanced technology. Snake, indeed, must eat snakes to survive, and if he is injured, must patch himself up with the aplomb of a surgeon. And then there is camouflage: Snake must choose it carefully depending on his surroundings, along with face paint - the European version of the game, which is packed with goodies for MGS fans, even allows him to daub his face with a union flag.In the latter stages of the game - conducted in more typical interior areas - Snake has a number of disguises and outfits he can don, and while dressing up may not seem like the most obvious gameplay mechanic, it works in this context. While the basic gameplay is familiar - periods of rigorous sneaking around, punctuated by shooting or tranquilising enemies, leading up to big, tough boss battles - in general, Snake Eater has gone backwards in time to generate a new sense of immersion.And, as ever with a Kojima game, the attention to detail is outrageous. Beset by leeches? Light a cigar to burn them off. Surrounded? Grab an enemy for use as a human shield. If you're looking for instant action, you can hunt monkeys in a mini game that shows hitherto unsuspected humour in the franchise.If you are stuck - which, as ever, is likely - the wonderful Piggyback Interactive has printed the definitive official game guide. It is a must-buy if you own a PlayStation 2: it's both the start and end of an era.Steve BoxerA quick fixProject RubNintendo DS, &#163;29.99Sega, &#42;&#42;&#42;Unlucky in love? Maybe it is because you haven't tried hard enough to impress your prospective partner. The female star of Project Rub - one of the more bizarre videogames   released in recent times - sets high standards.To win her affection, you will need to ride a monocycle around a precarious path and fight off a herd of bulls armed only with a stylus. As one of the launch games for the new Nintendo DS handheld, Rub offers proof that the clumsy look of the console belies some innovative titles.And Project Rub is certainly one of these. Essentially a series of amusing mini-games, the aim is to win the heart of the female character.Most of the games are simple, but all offer something a little different. One has you blowing into the microphone to propel a yacht towards your stricken ladyfriend; another involves rolling a human bowling ball across busy traffic.Clearly this isn't your run-of-the-mill racing game. But while it's easy to pick up and play, the short-lived and ultimately repetitive action makes it unlikely that Rub will take up long-term residency in your DS.But it is a good game for showing off the capabilities of the machine, and people unfamiliar with gaming are likely to be interested. Sadly, both they and more experienced players will be frustrated by some of the tougher sections later in the game.However, for a quick 10-minute go on the bus, this fits the bill better than more traditional in-depth titles.Along with the similarly inventive WarioWare Touched, Project Rub highlights the kind of unique gaming that can be found on the Nintendo DS.Greg HowsonTop 5 gamesDownloaded mobile games1.Pub pool2.Connect 43.Colin McRae Rally 20044.Tetris5.Who Wants to Be a Millionaire&#183;Source: (C)2005 Elspa (UK) LtdIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
For a games industry expert, Trip Hawkins has had a bumpy career. He was one of Apple Computer's first employees and one of the founders of Electronic Arts in 1982, before leaving in 1991 to initiate the ill-fated 3DO console, which eventually slipped into bankruptcy. But Hawkins is not the type to mope, and, after being inducted into the Academy of Interactive Arts and Science's Hall of Fame last month, he has resurfaced as chief executive of Digital Chocolate, a developer and publisher of mobile phone games.The mobile phone sector, with its huge potential market and relatively low development costs, is the fastest-growing area of the games industry. Typically, though, Hawkins has a different vision from his rivals."A lot of our competitors are approaching mobile as though it's just like console videogames, but our reference point is the internet," he says. "Entertainment products on the internet ... tend to be used as social communities, like Habbo Hotel, Neopets and fantasy sports. We're trying to use Java games as a starting point and quickly move towards more ambitious lifestyle applications."Hawkins thinks mobile gamers are not looking for powerful handsets with console-like gaming, but want to enjoy their built-in network abilities. "That's a huge advantage that mobile phones have compared to   other media," he says. "They are always with us, they are ubiquitous and they are hooked up to all the server power in the universe. We've made more than 30 games so far, many of them casual. But we have also started to build our Mobile League, which allows our whole family of games to talk to a server .... That's the first step towards social gaming. We want to continue to advance that with features like head-to-head play, chatrooms and instant messaging."But Hawkins also concedes his vision will involve "smart-casual" gaming. "The next step is to have the actual program logic on the server and to try to shift the model," he says. "With server games, you'll define your strategies, pick your players ... and then check in to find out how you're doing. You could have alerts that tell you when things are happening that you need to respond to. So it   could be smart-casual, but still a very deep, compelling form of gaming."Personalisation is one of Hawkins' buzzwords, and he believes it will give the next generation "more elaborate applications, all the communities you hook into and how you define relationships with other people"."That leads to a big dream of mine, which is to put the DNA patents to work," he says. "The concept is that you'll be able to buy packets of digital characters. If, say, you bought a Batman character, it could unlock an exclusive ringtone and a screensaver. Then, suppose you have an avatar that represents you in a chatroom, you could apply your DNA characters to that, and each of them would change the avatar's appearance."But Hawkins still believes the royalties console manufacturers charge publishers are too high. And he acknowledges the games industry has changed beyond recognition in the 23 years he has been involved. "It has become a lot like the film business, which is accused of a lot of the same things," he says. "I think it's a shame the whole industry has wound up that way, and it's related to the high costs of production and distribution."Hawkins is happy, however, to have found a new niche in mobile gaming. "If you look at human history, the different millennia each featured a different primary tool that you would carry around," he explains. "Initially, it was the rock, then the sword, then the gun and now it's the mobile phone. And the phone's primary function is to help you to be socially connected, not to go and kill, so we are making some progress."If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Why aren't we on Sega's viral marketing list? This is excellent guerrilla footage of "The True Adventures of Chad, The Guy Who Was So Into Super Monkey Ball Deluxe He Decided To Live In A Ball".Genius.CheersGGA.
Microsoft's MSN division has started testing a Web-based RSS aggregator, a move it's making to stay with rivals like Google, Yahoo, and Ask Jeeves. The new Start.com page is clean and advertising-free, includes categories of pre-set RSS (Real Simple Syndication) feeds, and lets users enter both RSS- and Atom-formatted feeds to customize the aggregate," reportsTechweb News."The Web aggregator is tied to MSN Search, and also saves search histories."In January, MSN added RSS aggregation within the My MSN personal home page, and a month later, followed that by allowing MSN Search results to be saved as an RSS feed."
Yahoo is stepping into social networking and blogging, with a new service that promises to offer a simpler way to keep in touch with people. Dubbed Yahoo 360, the new service is accepting invitation-only beta testers for now, the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based Web giant said Wednesday. The test will be opened to a broader audience on March 29." reportsCNet."Yahoo 360 combines a new blogging tool along with several longtime Yahoo products, including instant messaging, photo storage and sharing, and Internet radio. It also offers tools for sharing recommendations about places to eat, favorite movies, music and so on."'It's really about keeping connected to people you know,' said Julie Herendeen, vice president for network services at Yahoo. 'Yahoo 360 allows consumers to conveniently connect with the people they care about by creating and sharing blogs, photos and other content across Yahoo'."Comment: Sounds a lot like MSN Spaces....
MP3 or not MP3?What do you think of the quality of MP3 files compared to audio CDs? To me, the MP3 sound is "thin" and this would persuade me not to buy an iPod or other MP3 type. However, this kind of format seems to be dominating the audio world. Are there better formats for downloads?Michael KayeJack Schofield replies:MP3 isn't hi-fi, but it works well enough in the contexts in which it is used by the people who use it. If you play MP3 and similar compressed files using a hi-fi system they do sound inferior to CD, but if you're listening via good quality headphones (or Etymotic earphones) on a train or plane, the quality is higher than almost all cassette players and small portable radios. The MP3 files also have advantages in terms of portability, convenience and (usually) price.MP3 files vary dramatically in quality, and anyone who downloads them from a peer-to-peer file-sharing system is likely to get lots of awful ones. However, MP3 files that have been encoded at 256kbps using LAME sound as good as CD audio to most users, and lossless audio file formats may be indistinguishable from CD. There are about a dozen usable lossless systems: seemp3.radified.com/lossless.htmfor an introduction. I lean towards FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) because it is open source. Seeflac.source forge.net.Relatively few people have heard their favourite music reproduced as well as it can be, and most are therefore not aware of the limitations of what they hear. As someone who still plays vinyl on a decent turntable and invested in an SACD (Super Audio CD) player, I also notice that audio CDs can fall short of hi-fi quality. But given their convenience and price, they are usually good enough - in context - to satisfy most of the people most of the time, including me.SP2 or not SP2?I am concerned about installing XP's SP2 as I run various programs, some of which are now not supported. After reinstalling XP Pro four times when I got this PC two years ago, I am rather concerned.Ben CowellJS:XP's Service Pack 2 brings significant improvements in security, particularly for the Internet Explorer browser. An unfortunate by-product is that it breaks some programs. However, in the long run, this is a good thing. More than 150m users have installed SP2, and by the end of the year it will be the dominant operating system version, so software houses have to fix programs now or lose business. My advice is to install XP2 and look for alternative applications. However, take a back-up and create a restore point so you can roll back the installation if something goes badly wrong.Unreadable DVDsBefore re-installing Windows XP, I backed up important files on to a few blank Rivision DVD-Rs (4x) and a Verbatim DVD-RW (4x). When I try to copy the files back to my hard drive, it is slow and I always get a Cyclic Redundancy Check error message: my files are not being transferred! Other DVDs which I have used before work fine.ArvindJS:I don't know of a reliable solution (if you do, please let me know). Reinstalling the operating system can solve the problem, but in this case may have caused it. The simplest approach is to try to copy the DVDs using different machines, which can include PCs running Mac OS X or   Linux. If you checked that the DVDs worked when you wrote them, they should work in a different system.Preserving historyIs there a program that can prevent my internet history from being erased in Windows Me? I am looking for something that would work for all users and could not be disabled.Michael BeecherJS:You can set the number of days that history is kept, but this won't stop someone from clearing the list. Reading between the lines, it sounds as though your best bet would be a password-protected "parental" spyware program such as CyberPatrol, WatchDog or Nanny. These can be used to monitor all sorts of actions, including visits to websites.Smart adviceI am looking for a smart phone and cannot find a site giving comparison advice. Any ideas?Mike CoxJS:I can't find a good phone comparison site. The best of a very bad lot iswww.fone-deals.co.uk. This has tables and specifications, but you can't do a proper specification search. Can anyone suggest something better?Backchat&#183;Mike Pigott asked about mp3downloading.com and I advised against it. James Cameron says: "This is a scam as it charged me something like &#163;14 to get access to Limewire, which is freely available. How legal is Limewire and the songs and films that can be downloaded with it?" The answer is: there are no open file-trading networks for the legal exchange of copyright music tracks. Limewire isn't illegal but downloading copyright songs and films is.
Make a standI would like to thank Glynn Moody (Second sight, March 10) for an excellent article on the critical European software patents issue, which has unfortunately not seen the light of day in many major newspapers around Europe. The software patents issue affects a much broader spectrum of products than people might think: everything these days uses software, from DVD players to iPods and PCs. All the software these devices use will now be subject to patents if the software patents act is passed by the EU. Before long, makers of all sorts of devices and software will be hit with patent infringement lawsuits, and smaller companies will be forced out of business. I ask the people of Europe to make a stand for what is right.Conor MulveyDublinTop summaryI was impressed by Glynn Moody's article. I have been following the process closely and this article is by far the best summary of the issues.Corrin LakelandNew ZealandEnd to innovationThe history of the patent row is a scandal. Far from helping innovation, as enthusiasts would have it, this issue could ruin innovation.Barry MahonSkibbereen, IrelandMusic for allThough Natalie Hanman's article (Mix and match, March 10) is aimed at "budding electronic artists and DJs", guitar bands, folk groups, classical musicians or anybody with an interest in making music can access computer recording technology.Pro Tools is widely used to record rock music, country, etc, and a variety of software packages are aimed at guitarists, composers and vocalists. Similarly, universities and colleges around the country have been offering music production courses for some time (like Doncaster College, or the Confetti School in Nottingham).Rob McMinnBuckinghamSimilar linesSurely Kiss is not the first with a PVR programmable over the internet or mobile (What's new, March 10). TiVo does it in the US and a visit to TiVo's UK community shows the technology being adapted for the UK and upgrades available from a UK supplier.James WattersLondonMore controlIn your review of Super Mario 64 DS (Games watch, March 10), you mentioned there was an issue with the control scheme in that the four-way directional pad was much less precise than that of the N64's eight-way control stick. Using the stylus or thumb strap for three-dimensional games such as Mario 64 (as recommended by many players and Nintendo) gives more control than on the old N64.Eliot GardnerWicken, BuckinghamshireBreak or bustYou were scathing about the appearance of the Nintendo DS, but I gather it is a lot more robust than the PlayStation Portable, with the clamshell design offering built-in screen protection that PSP owners may well regret not being incorporated into Sony's design. That large screen looks nice but it probably won't take much to scratch or even break it when on the move.Richard BarnettFelixstoweDark art no longerDIY technical support goes both ways (Feedback, March 10). A friend recently signed up to Wanadoo UK's broadband service, with a funky Wi-Fi router with a design that is very heavily Mac influenced. When her boyfriend tried to connect his Mac wirelessly, it proved problematic. Wanadoo's tech support line passed him around with the "we don't support Macs" line.However, Wanadoo's French website gave full information about connecting Macs. (Go to "other" in the AirPort menu and manually enter network name and WEP key.) Are all tech support departments full of people who last touched Macs (or PCs) in the mid-90s when interoperability was a satisfyingly dark art? What happened to ongoing professional development?Andy WilliamsonLondon&#183;Online used an out-of-date picture of the Nintendo DS last week, as many readers pointed out. Apologies.BlogbackChris Alden (Looking back on the dotcom crash, March 10) covers the story of the fifth anniversary of the day the Nasdaq hit its peak. The stories cited as dotcom successes invariably end as "the internet incubator Antfactory was sold in 2002 for &#163;77m" or "First Tuesday was sold ... to an Israeli internet company, Yazam, for &#163;26m". None end with the founders turning a profit and continuing to grow their businesses. The bottom line still seems to be "Make money fast, and get out".shikantaza.blogspot.com
Net gainsPay is improving for freelance web developers, according to research by the Association of Technology Staffing Companies (ATSCo). Last year, developers received 30% more, with pay rising from &#163;20 to &#163;26 per hour. Since the dotcom bust five years ago, pay has been flat but now the good times may be rolling again. ATSCo accredits the improvement to the high profiles given to successful internet companies such as eBay, Google and Amazon. The report emphasises that web businesses are now mature companies and pay growth should be more moderate in future. Full-time web developers salaries only increased by 10% from &#163;23,575 to &#163;25,900 over the same period.www.atsco.orgDigital leadershipThe Conservative Technology Forum, a Tory party thinktank, is launching its Plan for a Digital Britain, detailing actions to shape policies for the digital age for any incoming administration. The forum says the UK must move up from its middle ranking as an exploiter of digital technology. This would be done by stepping up broadband to provide a network capable of delivering "interactive video for all" by 2020. Other recommendations covered in the report include how government ICT programmes should be managed, further development of e-government strategies and the rationalisation of private citizen databases.www.kam-online.com/ctf.pdfTime for crimeThe All-party Parliamentary Internet Group (APig) is recommending higher penalties for hacking and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. On April 5, a motion will be debated to increase the penalties incorporated in the Computer Misuse Act. A report compiled by APig points out that the illegal DDoS attacks would be taken more seriously by police and courts if they were given status as an explicit offence. The ensuing publicity could deter potential attackers. The changes would also increase the status of hacking attacks by raising the maximum jail term to two years, making offences extraditable to comply with the European Convention on Cybercrime.www.apig.org.uk/CMAdft1.pdfGroovy MicrosoftMicrosoft is to acquire Groove Networks, whose Virtual Office allows distributed workgroups to collaborate online. Groove bases its flagship product on Microsoft Office providing a secure peer-to-peer network across the internet without the need for virtual private networks. Groove was founded in 1997 by Ray Ozzie, the inventor of Lotus Notes, and Microsoft has invested heavily in the company's development. Virtual Office technology will be integrated into the next release of Microsoft Windows next year and into future editions of Microsoft Office to provide an "anywhere, anytime" collaboration environment. Ozzie will join Microsoft as a chief technical officer.http://tinyurl.com/3l7k8Tag teamIntel and SAP are forming an alliance to encourage wider take-up of wireless tracking of products using Radio Frequency Identification Tags (RFID). The tags are small transmitters that can be attached to pallets or individual products to track them through production lines or distribution processes. The collaboration aims to encourage and allow hardware developers to integrate their RFID data directly into backend systems based on Intel's server platforms and the Auto-ID Infrastructure module in SAP's NetWeaver suite. RFID implementations can become expensive because of the need to integrate disparate hardware and software. Intel and SAP hope to offer a set of standards to reduce these costs.http://tinyurl.com/62fhjSweeter suiteOnline business management company NetSuite is moving its enterprise resource planning and customer relationship management package into web services provisioning. The company will introduce an initiative called NetFlex to break down the "service on the web" into a collection of web services. Subscribers will still be able to accept the service as it stands or personalise it with company logos and colours, only displaying features relevant to a user's role in the company. Using the web services interfaces will enable integration into existing and new applications. NetSuite is already introducing personalisation and plans to have the web services exposed by early next year.www.netsuite.comPalm readingFujitsu is lending a hand in biometric recognition systems by developing a system that will read palms. At the CeBIT exhibition in Germany last week, Fujitsu was demonstrating a prototype that uses the vein structure of the human hand. The hand is photographed by an infrared-sensitive digital camera and the image is securely stored. People are identified when they hold up their hands for comparison with the original picture. The advantage, Fujitsu says, is that no physical contact is required, thereby avoiding any health risks arising from groups of users touching the same ID plates, as with fingerprint recognition.&#183;Contributions from Eric Doyle
The internet is a scary place, populated by criminals of all types. We all pride ourselves on not being taken in by a scam, but cyber crime is growing all the time. What's worse, your computer is pretty dumb and - if you aren't careful - it will be talking to criminals even when you're not. In many ways, the internet is still like the Wild West - a vast, lawless wilderness populated by a range of bandidos and chancers. But you can act to stop yourself being overwhelmed by cyber criminals by following a few easy steps.1. Set up a firewallThe very first step in making sure your computer is safe is to set up afirewallto shield you whenever you connect to the internet. This is especially important if you have an always-on broadband connection, but should be done whatever the case. Recent research has said that a totally unprotected computer hooked up to the web will be knocked over by viruses and hacks inside12 minutes.If you don't put a firewall in place, it's the equivalent of parking your car and leaving the windows open: you're asking for trouble.Most operating systems have the ability to set up their own basic firewalls - and this is as good a place as any to start. If you run onWindows XP,Microsoft's guidewill take you through the process, whileMac OS Xusers might want to look atthis page. Usually it is simply a case of altering some system preferences to get your firewall to kick into action.If you use a separate modem to connect to the internet, or have arouteracting as a gateway for your network, it is also likely these will have a built-in firewall. Read the manufacturer's instructions very closely to discover how this works with your system, and if it offers you an increased level of protection.The ultra cautious may also want to install a separate, non-OS based firewall such asNorton Personal FirewallorZoneAlarm. Products like this will add an extra layer of protection for those wanting to monitor everything that comes in to, or out of, their system - and many also include virus-checking software.2. Get some virus protectionOnce you've got your firewall sorted, you've eliminated the biggest external threat to your security. Now the biggest danger is actually from inside your own network - in other words, on your computer itself. Avirusis a piece of malicious code which attaches itself to other programs, though the term is often used to describe a whole range of invasive software - also known asmalware. Other examples include theworm(a virus which does not need a host) and aTrojan, which is a program that disguises itself as something more innocuous.Malware usually works by getting you to actively - but unwittingly - download it onto your computer. Sometimes the process is automated by other tasks you may undertake, things you would usually do without coming to harm. The best way to avoid viruses is to watch what you download extremely carefully: if you are not entirely sure that a file is legitimate, then don't download it. Email can prove particularly dangerous if you don't look closely, so never, ever open an attachment from a spam email.The best way to protect yourself from this threat is to have some goodanti-virussoftware. There are a number of options, but some of the most popular include the free version of Grisoft'sAVG,McAfee, or Panda'sshareware download.These should be able to scan your system for viral intruders, putting your mind at rest.3. Keep on the lookout for spywareFirewalls and anti-viruses will work to protect you in the main, but sometimes software sneaks past them and gets onto your desktop. Usually this is by accident - clicking one of those annoying pop-up adverts by mistake, for example. But however it happens, these invasive begin downloadingspywareonto your computer...These include software which tries to discern your credit card details from purchases you make online, programs which track what you've been typing in order to work out your passwords, and even rogue diallers - automated snafflers which make you secretly call  up premium rate phone lines.Keeping an eye on spyware involves running checks periodically on your system using a recognised piece of kit. Usually these will scan your entire computer system and warn you of any untoward software on board, giving you the option to remove it: try Lavasoft'sAd-Awareor theSpybot Search and Destroydownload. You could also look at theSpyware Warriorwebsite for more options.4. Watch out for scammersMany people think that if they have received aspamemail it means they have been targeted. That's not true: there are several ways a spammer can find your email address. If your address is published on the internet, it can be easy to pick up for those who are looking for contacts. Also some undiscriminating database companies sell on their data to less than reputable sources - so never give your email address out unless you are absolutely sure it won't be abused.If those tricks fail, there is always the hit and miss method of trying random addresses - there are now automated programs which try different combinations of words and letters to try and find live, active email addresses.The key thing to remember is that criminals have no problem with dishing out millions of emails because spam costs almost nothing to send. They live in hope that some unlucky punter will fall for the scam, and judging by the amount of money they make, it seems that their hopes are often realised.The best way to avoid being caught by a spam email or phishing attack is simply to filter out the email before you read it. For this, you might want to try one of the popular spam blocking programs like Mailwasher (here's a shareware download fromPC World), or  step up the built-in filtering on your email.If you do get unsolicited mail, make sure you don't fall for it. Spam and phishing attacks are getting increasingly sophisticated and there are two golden rules: if it looks too good to be true, it is; and - most importantly -never give them personal information.Typical scams include the so-called Nigerian "419" mail, in which a stranger says they need to move huge amounts of money from another country and wants to use your bank account to do so, with a promised six-figure payoff for the privilege. In fact, they will just empty your bank account as soon as you hand over any details.Other phishing scams include criminals posing as either eBay or your bank, and telling you that you must log on to a special website to confirm your details. They are, of course, running fake websites - although they may appear to be genuine - and will take your bank details and use them to rip you off.The rule of thumb is simple: If there is anything fishy at all about an email, then don't act on it. You may also find it helpful to put the email into a search engine or to cross reference what you've been sent with a site likeSnopes, which has entire sections dedicated to outing scams.5. Sit backYou should now be fairly well protected from cyber criminals; although it is essential that you run checks on your computer regularly and update your software often.Safe surfing.
If you're an unsigned artist who has put some sounds together at home, it is now both easy and cheap to share them with the world. And you don't have to fall into the clutches of a major record label to do so.Finding and buying music on the internet is becoming increasingly popular, as music fans realise the potential of online distribution and a growing number of MP3 players.Recent research from Nielsen reveals 46% of all 12 to 17 year olds in the UK visited a music website in December. With the British Phonographic Industry saying in January that digital downloads had overtaken sales of CDs and vinyl for the first time, this increased traffic can only be a good sign for online artists.And after jazz composer Maria Schneider became the first musician to win a Grammy in February for an album released only on the web, digital musical adventures could well be the best format for the future. There are four main ways for unsigned artists to release their music online.Option 1: MP3 hosting sitesMany websites will host your digital audio for you, and while some of the larger distributors will charge a fee for not discriminating in terms of music quality, many are still free.Tune Tribe, a "democratic" music download site backed by Groove Armada, is still in beta testing and expects to do a full launch by May. It offers UK-based artists and labels up to 80% of royalties, and bands set the download price of their music. It is free to join, and at this stage, they say anyone can get involved.Tom Findlay, from Groove Armada, says: "We're keen to be as democratic as possible but at the same time we are not going to put up dreadful music. It has to have creative merit and be well recorded ... Eventually, we want to branch out to become an online record label. Then we can really find and nurture new talent."Total Bandoffers "total solutions" as well as simple MP3 hosting services. Different packages are charged at a monthly rate, ranging from 1.99 for a simple SmartStream MP3 Player to showcase your songs, to 4.85 for their TotalPro package. They offer a range of useful features, including a free domain name, website builder, online gig book, band email address and ongoing hosting support.To publish your licenced music toInternet Archive, a non-profit internet library, you should download the CC Publisher application fromhere, install it, run it on your computer, drag your songs on to it, tag them, add information so others can find them in the archive, choose your licence, set up an account and upload everything. You will then be sent a URL, which should be live within 24 hours.Sign up for a free new artist account on theSound Clickcommunity music hosting service, add your band information, upload your songs and choose a licence.TheMorpheusP2P network searches all major P2P networks and millions of online file-sharing users for various downloads, including audio.This pageexplains how to distribute your songs on the Morpheus network.Primarily a free online community for meeting friends of friends,My Spaceis also being used as a hosting service by up-and-coming bands. After signing up and creating a profile, you can invite people to join your personal network by emailing them. People can also ask to join your personal network by emailing "friend requests" to you. Bands can upload their photo and MP3 streaming, and use the site as a way of reaching out to a new fan base across the world.Option 2: Digital record labelsIf you feel your music is of good enough quality, try to get signed by an online record label. The ethos of digital labels is often very different from traditional record labels - you should end up with more money, more creative control and more rights.Magnatuneis an open music record label that hosts artists from genres including classical, electronica, jazz &amp; blues, metal &amp; punk, new age, rock and world. "We're a record label, but we're not evil," says its site, so artists get 50% of each sale, and keep all the rights to their music.The main difference from other music sites is that consumers choose what to pay for each album, from a minimum of 3. Fans are generally being charitable, paying an average of 4.20 for each album. Apple's iTunes Music Store - rated by Nielsen's survey of UK teenagers as being in the top five most popular music sites - also recognises Magnatune as a traditional record label, so your work will be sold there, too.Artist Share, home to Maria Schneider, makes fans part of the creative process. Artists sell "participant offers" to fans, through which they fund the recording of an album while building a strong fan base. And they get 85% of each end sale. Artist packages cost between $900 and $7,000.Brian Camelio, founder of Artist Share, says those keen to sign up should "start working on cultivating an email fanbase" and "create a personal relationship with each of your fans", as they are the ones who are going to make or break you.Karma Downloadcharges artists who pass their "quality control" test 10 a year, for which you get your own MP3 hosting section on the site, 50% royalties from each 99p per track sale, and a chance to be included in its weekly unsigned chart.Option 3: Your own band websiteA website is one of the best ways to reach a wide range of fans, but you have to make yours stand out from the crowd. Important things to include are: biography; photos; contact details; gig listings; message board; reviews and links; and MP3s of your songs. It is also vital to regularly update your site with news and gig information to keep fans coming back for more.You have to convert your audio files to MP3s to upload them and use an FTP (File Transfer Protocol) program such asQueue FTPorFilezilla. So people can listen to your tracks before they buy, convert them into a streaming file using a program such as Windows Media Player, Windows Media Audio 9, Real Audio or Flash.It is also important to secure the correct form of DRM (digital rights management).Creative Commonsis a non-profit online organisation that offers flexible copyright for creative work, with a range of licences that can be tailored to your individual needs.To add your Creative Commons licence to your audio download page, you have to copy the code and paste it into your site. Instructions on that arehere).You then have to set up an online payment process, through a service such asPayPalorWorldPay, which will take a percentage of each transaction. For fans who aren't old enough to have a credit or debit card, however, you may want to provide a way for them to send cheques or postal orders.Option 4: Remixing sitesAnother way to reach a wider fanbase and possibly improve on the quality of your work is to enter songs on to a remixing site, such asCC Mixter. This legal community music sharing site features songs licensed under Creative Commons, where you can listen to, sample, mash-up or interact with music however you want. So far, 212 remixes have been built from 195 original songs from a range of underground artists.The trend for buying music online is growing, says Gabrielle Prior, European internet analyst at Nielsen. "When today's young adults use the home PC, they are not just using the computer to help with their studies and homework," she says. "They are also listening to music &#91;and&#93; downloading the latest music tracks."So selling music online is a wise move for unsigned artists. John Buckman, the chief executive and founder of Magnatune, is optimistic about the future of digital releases, and offers advice to those choosing to go it alone. "If you are going to go with a large service that doesn't discriminate, assume you are going to have to generate the sales yourself," he says.On your own website, he says, have the album artwork as a printable form, and offer bonus or free tracks.Digital music releases often offer a fairer and more experimental alternative to traditional record label formats, but their future lies in the willingness of fans to carry on downloading music. "Generosity is encouraged," Buckman says. "People respond well to that."&middot; Send alternative suggestions or feedback on the websites mentioned toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Wow, today is becoming Celebrate the Independent Developer Day. Lest we forget, there's also a burgeoning indie market on non-traditional platforms, (not just the big onesKeithspoke about in an earlier post) and lots of new arenas to try out new game ideas on.For example, a new game formulated in Massively Multiplayer Online GameSecond Lifeis about to get real. For financial skeptics, it was developed for only the cost of a monthly subscription to the virtual world service. Yes, that's the SL my lastpostsuggested you turn a blind eye to...The DIY virtual world, which stresses creativity and user-generated content - fromJM Barrie theme parkstoSchizophrenia simulations- has served as a workspace for a variety of real-world results. Early last year we read aboutMrs. JonesDigital Couture. Her marketing company had set up aplacewhere SL residents could purchase designer gear for their online persona. The UK fashion queen laterchallengedSL residents to create clothing she could transform into physical items.Now, it appears that an in-game game has been purchased for publication for the equivalent of US$4,000 by out-of-worldDonnerwood Media. The company plans to release the cross-between bingo and Tetris on web and mobile phone platforms.For Terra Nova coverage, headhere. Alternatively, head toWonderlandfor in-depth coverage of the details of this and other SL bits unveiled at the GDC Serious Games Summit by VP of Product Development, Cory Ondrejka.
According to several developers I've spoken to recently, most major publishers have now put a halt on commissioning 'original IP' for current console formats. In other words, there are no new games going into development for PS2 and Xbox, it's all sequels and branded tie-ins from now on...Of course, we all know why this happens. The transition period between different generations of technology has always been a painful one for the industry. Four to five years in and the dedicated, discerning gamers begin to lose interest in the ageing platforms they have and start saving up for the shiny new ones glittering seductively on the horizon. Which leaves behind a, well, not exactly discerning consumer base.As Nick Gibson, an industry analyst atGamesinvester.com, puts it, "the back-end of any console market is dominated by a mass-market demographic that makes more software purchasing choices based on easily identifiable and known brands than on gameplay quality (which it often is unable to discern or not interested in discerning). It is very difficult to generate hit sales for original IP in this market so most publishers do not try."This is fine if it means publishers are shifting their budgets onto startlingly original new games for incoming platforms. But of course they're not. Take a look at the PSP line-up for example and you have to wade through a sea of brand conversions before you get to anything entirely new. And while leading lights like Final Fantasy creator Hironobu Sakaguchi maytalkabout ambitious and original projects for next-gen consoles, you know that for most western publishers it's going to be a case of porting over key brands to PS3, Xenon and Revolution as quickly as possible and seeing what sticks. "Publishers are becoming increasingly risk-aware and, as a result, risk-averse," confirms Gibson, "The market continues to become more and more hits-driven and with average development cost expected to exceed $10m/title for next-gen titles, publishers are seeking the sales security of known brands, gameplay genres and developers."But is this slide into the quagmire of conservatism really the best solution for a frightened industry? Okay, annually recycling the same old tired blockbuster blueprints has worked well for the movie industry, but surely even the most casual of casual gamers expects something more from a 35 videogame investment - especially when it's made on the back of a 200-or-so investment in a brand new console? Didn't the industry almost destroy itself in the early eighties by churning out endless dumb Atari VCS games? Doesn't the law of diminishing returns come into play here? Somehow?There is another way."The success rate of original IP is considerably lower than that for licensed IP and is far less predictable," admits Gibson. "However, the licensed IP strategy is not one that creates long-term value. Original IP creation and exploitation, although difficult, can deliver greater margins and longer term value growth. Compare the fortunes of Take2 (strong reliance on original IP) versus THQ (historically strong reliance on third party licensed brands) over the last 5 years."This is an interesting observation, and one born out elsewhere in recent videogame history. In the first few years of the PlayStation's lifespan, for example, several developers, who had been major forces in the 16bit era, were re-invigorated when they stopped porting archaic brands and started developing new IP. Capcom with Resident Evil, Konami with Metal Gear Solid, Core with Tomb Raider The industry decision makers must remember this.Relying on solely on sequels is the videogame equivalent of incest  eventually, the gene pool goes stagnant. People have to make brave decisions. Look at GTA  this series started as a 2D overhead-viewed driving shooter in 1998. 2D! 1998! What a leap of faith it must have been for some bright spark at Take Two to greenlight that. But greenlight it they did.If publishers are wary of putting their best teams on original projects then they need to find a way of supporting small-scale third-party developments. We all know it. Perhaps the solution lies in forging more links with the growing independent games scene. No, I don't mean leeching it for talent and sticking brilliant minds on the next sports sims. I mean funding offbeat micro-studios, donating development tools, maybe even providing a more reliable high-profile distribution model for indie developers - creating something akin to Mirimax or Fox Searchlight.It would appear that original development for PS2, Xbox and Gamecube  as far as third party publishers are concerned  is dead and gone. Let's hope they at least give it a fighting chance on forthcoming platforms
Terra Novanand Second LiferCory Ondrejkahas pieced together a cutting response to the GDCGame Developer's Rant(via Wonderland, of course), offering up his alternatives to a future ruled by uber-publisher Electronic Arts, or others of a similar ilk.A sample:First, you have the personal computer. Everyone has one, they are all connected to the internet, and anyone can get tools to develop on them for free. You don't want to deal with Sony's and have a burning desire to build a game? Just go do it! There are even great, cheap engines available for you to play with.For the full list, clickhere. The remainder continues in the same vein. If the creative populace turns a blind eye to the plug for Second Life at the end and follows the rest of his rules, new approaches to and resulting innovation in games could end up on the upswing. Why can't gaming can't have its own Blair Witch revolution (without thenutcases)?
Motorola bosses have said that the iTunes phone launch was not hit becausenetworks weren't interested, but that Appledidn't want them to trail a new product, according to Reuters.In response to a question about why Motorola did not show its upcoming iTunes phone at the Cebit technology fair in Germany Motorola said it tends to display its products before they go on the market but Apple's Chief Executive Steve Jobs does not."The first thing you're seeing here is a merger of two different industries with different ideas of launching products," Ron Garriques, president of Motorola's mobile phone division told analysts and reporters at a news conference at the CTIA U.S. wireless show in New Orleans."Steve's perspective is that you launch a product on Sunday and sell it on Monday." he added.He also downplayed a question about whether the reason Motorola did not unveil the phones at Cebit was because of a disagreement with mobile phone carriers."I've got lots of carriers fighting to be the first one we go with," Garriques said in an interview.Different businesses, different practices: but are we getting the whole story on this launch?
Microsoft yesterday won a notable victory in its long-running anti-trust battle with the European commission, in effect forcing it to abandon another potentially damaging investigation into its allegedly monopolist strategy.The company outmanoeuvred the Brussels competition authorities by sealing the equal participation of Thomson, the French IT group, in a joint venture with itself and Time Warner to take over ContentGuard, an anti-piracy software firm. The deal was completed yesterday.Sources close to Microsoft insisted that the deal followed "commercial imperatives" but the commission, stung by its tactical defeat, warned that it would continue to monitor developments withindigital rights management (DRM) technology, and "may take action under EU anti-trust rules if necessary".Brussels, which fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m (&#163;350m) last year, is still pursuing the group in the European court of justice over its allegedly anti-competitive behaviour in a separate case due to be heard in 2006 or 2007.Neelie Kroes, the competition commissioner, yesterday warned that Microsoft had failed to comply with an interim court ruling. Last December the company was ordered to give rival server suppliers access to the secret protocols of its Windows operating system and offer a version of Windows without its MediaPlayer audiovisual software."They have to be aware that it is serious and that we want to have an answer that is serious," she said. The software group insists that it will comply fully with the court ruling and wants a negotiated settlement of the full case.ContentGuard, once owned by Xerox and based in Maryland, makes technologies that prevent illegal downloading of music and films.Microsoft and Time Warner each acquired a 48% stake in the company last July, prompting the EU to launch a full-scale investigation on the grounds that the transaction could have strengthened Microsoft's monopoly in the market for PC operating systems.The EU feared that the world's biggest software-maker would use DRM as a "gatekeeper" technology but the group insisted yesterday that it favoured the widest possible inter-operability with other systems. It added that ContentGuard was a small player in a nascent market.The commission dropped its investigation because, it said, in a three-way transaction no shareholder would have control over ContentGuard and Microsoft would not be able to impose a licensing policy.
BT announced new measures yesterday aimed at cracking down on internet "rogue dialler" services that have defrauded thousands of computer users.The company will offer all 20 million of its customers a free software download that will stop PCs dialling expensive premium rate or international numbers that are not on an approved list.It has also developed an "early warning" system to ring customers and alert them to unusual call patterns.Tens of thousands of people have unwittingly run up huge phone bills by falling victim to the rogue dialler scam, which tricks home computers into dialling premium rate and international lines. It is often activated by closing an unwanted pop-up window.The fraudsters - usually based in far-flung locations - have made millions from the scam. About 30 companies have been fined and barred for running rogue dialler services.BT acknowledges it has taken "a lot of criticism" for allegedly not doing enough to protect consumers from the scam, while pursuing victims for the full cost of the calls.A spokesman said that even though this was not a problem of BT's making, "we have ploughed resources and a tremendous amount of time into developing new products to help our customers".It plans to make the new services available to all its customers by May.The software, called BT Modem Protection, will warn customers if their modem begins to dial a  number which is not on an approved list.An early warning alert will send a voice or text message to a customer's landline if a call is made to a destination suspected of operating unregistered diallers, or if the customer's bill jumps dramatically.
It is well known in techie circles that the cool, shiny peel encasing Apple Computer has, for some time now, obscured an ugly core of corporate paranoia.The company's instinct is for opacity rather than transparency, for proprietary control rather than open collaboration. It is widely assumed that this mindset is born of Steve Jobs' years spent battling Microsoft and others, keeping Apple on the computing fringe for so long.But wherever it comes from, none of this sits comfortably with those achingly hip, design-conscious products.Still, the peel has come right off this week after a California judge decided   that Apple has been right to argue that three web-based journalists who published details of new Apple products should be forced to reveal their sources. The ruling declared that articles in two online publications, Apple Insider and PowerPage, contained "stolen property" in the form of trade secrets.Crucially, the judge went on to say: "Defining what is a 'journalist' has become more complicated as the variety of media has expanded. But even if &#91;web-based writers&#93; are journalists, this is not the equivalent of a free pass."Predictably, this has caused a wave of protest and debate in the US over the effect on legitimate business journalism - was Enron's off-balance sheet funding structure a "trade secret", for instance? And, in a nation of compulsive bloggers, the scope for copycat legal action from corporations seeking to shut down their critics would appear to be enormous.But while the American media can   probably be left to fight its own corner, it remains a mystery as to why Apple should so actively seek to alienate the people who are its fans and customers.Apple is seen here as trying to crush the little guys - which is rather rich, given Apple's historical place in the computing hierarchy. Corporate secrets leak, that's corporate life. Using the courts to suppress information simply puts a premium on that information and will encourage the moles within Apple to double their efforts.Suddenly this company is asking to be loathed and subverted - which doesn't seem to make much business sense.Smuggling gunTobacco smuggling, like smuggling of alcohol and fuel, is running at an unacceptable level, said the Treasury select committee yesterday. It's a fair point, and the committee produced a mass of well-sourced statistics.But get this: according to something called Retailers Against Smuggling, 26% of independent retailers are considering closing their business because of tobacco smuggling.Really? It is hard to believe, and only partly because Retailers Against Smuggling is funded entirely by the Tobacco Manufacturers Association. Membership for the 18,000 corner shops is free. So it would be understandable if there is a tendency to say what the tobacco barons might want to hear.But the 26% claim looks shakiest when measured against another of Retailers Against's numbers. Though the press release fails to make the basic distinction between turnover and profits, it turns out that the organisation reckons &#163;1,000 is the average lost weekly sales per outlet.So what's the profit margin on a packet of smokes? Tobacco is notoriously low margin, but if the rate were 4%, then we're talking &#163;40 of lost profit a week, plus a few quid for lost add-on sales like newspapers. Yes, &#163;50 might be a matter of life or death for some corner shops - but 26% of them?If they're really thinking of throwing in the towel then the causes are likely to be far more complex. Chief among them would be the advance by Tesco and Sainsbury's into local neighbourhoods. That threat, of course, can also be an opportunity: the big boys are paying serious bucks for decent premises.None of which is to deny there is pain for some corner shops, but you have to worry when 73% apparently say the way to prevent smuggling is to freeze or reduce duties. Don't these people know there's a National Health Service to fund?RSVPJean-Fran&#231;ois Th&#233;odore, the usually urbane boss of Euronext, gave us an illustration yesterday of how dull the   financial world has become under the current regulatory lock-down.At a public presentation of year-end figures from this French-led alliance of continental exchanges, there was a blanket refusal to discuss the one issue people want answers on: namely Euronext's putative bid for the London Stock Exchange.Instead, all we got was some flannel about Euronext listening to its shareholders and really caring about things like corporate governance. This typically gallic institution is promising, for example, to adopt a much more Anglo-Saxon approach to boardroom matters: investors are even promised the novelty of a vote on the re-election of directors.But quite why Th&#233;odore cannot discuss his ambitions for the LSE, when the matter is so clearly in the public domain, remains a mystery. We can only conclude that he does not have answers to the umpteen questions hanging over Euronext's strategy and finances.
Vodafone is struggling to attract customers to its 3G service in its home market of Britain, despite a multimillion-pound campaign advertising the benefits of the new technology.News that the world's largest mobile phone company has attracted fewer than 200,000 customers for its flagship product in the UK will add to investor concerns that it will take a lot longer than hoped to start recouping the billions spent on 3G service development.The four original UK networks - O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone - along with new player 3, spent &#163;22.5bn buying licences to use the 3G spectrum back in the heady days of the dotcom boom.At the time, analysts predicted that millions of customers would be video-calling, watching film clips and downloading music to their mobiles within a few years.But problems with the availability of 3G-compatible handsets led to its roll-out being delayed. While 3 launched its service two years ago, Vodafone's only became available in the UK in November.Retail sources believe the company has attracted fewer than 200,000 customers for its Vodafone Live with 3G package in the UK. Some within the industry believe it may have signed up as few as 160,000.The majority of these are understood to be subscribers to data services package Vodafone Live - whose contracts were coming up for renewal.A spokesman for Vodafone refused to comment on the British figures but said the company was still on track to recruit 10 million 3G users in Europe and Japan by March 2006. When that target was announced last year, analysts said it seemed rather light.Vodafone is believed to have done well with its 3G service in some of the other European markets, while in the   UK it has succeeded in obtaining 170,000 customers for its 3G datacard, which allows laptop users to connect to the internet at broadband-like speeds.In the British consumer market, however, its pricing point seems to have deterred new customers, as the service seems to offer little that is not available on Vodafone Live. In contrast, O2 has priced its 3G service using exactly the same tariff structure as its current packages, while Orange has launched a two-for-one promotion dubbed Try 3G.After a rather shaky start which saw it put on just 215,000 customers in its first nine months, 3 had about 2.5 million by the end of 2004.Last month, Vodafone announced that the head of its UK business, Bill Morrow, would be leaving to take charge of its ailing Japanese business, which has come under intense competitive pressure from rivals NTT DoCoMo and KDDI.Industry sources said that when his replacement - the present head of the company's New Zealand business, Tim Miles - takes up the reins at the start of next month, one of his first jobs will be to revive Vodafone's position in the British market for 3G services.Vodafone yesterday said it will pay $3.5bn (&#163;1.8bn) to buy Romanian wireless firm Mobifon and Czech rival Oskar Mobil. Both businesses were owned by Canada's Telesystem International Wireless (TIW), which was advised by Lehman Brothers. Including debt, the deals are worth about $4.4bn."These acquisitions will create value for our shareholders and will be good for our customers," said Vodafone chief executive Arun Sarin."They are also consistent with our stated strategy of increasing investment in central and eastern Europe." The acquisitions would not affect the company's ability to continue buying back its own shares.
"A Louisiana man was sentenced to six months in prison for sending a malicious program using e-mail that caused Microsoft WebTV customers to call the 911 emergency service without their knowledge, according to a statement released by the US Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California," reportsPaul Roberts, IDG News Service."David Jeansonne, 44, pled guilty in February to charges of intentionally causing damage to computers and causing a threat to public safety. He was sentenced on Monday by US District Judge Ronald Whyte and will have to spend an additional six months of home detention and pay $27,100 to Microsoft."
Very odd when you travel thousands of miles to learn about new technologies and end up applauding someone who's theme was what John von Neumann did in the 1940s. Still,George Dysongave a fantastic talk about the father of modern computing, and about Kurt Goedel, who had an office above his at Princeton. (Prof Einstein was a couple of doors away.)Dyson got access to some boxes of archives that haven't been seen for 50 years, and produced some fascinating bits of logs, letters, and memoes. Much of this was "human interest", like the complaint about the engineers putting too much sugar in their tea. Whatever, the talk got the biggest ovation I've ever seen at ETech, and there has been some tough competition.Dyson's book, Darwin Among the Machines, has already covered the same ground, so maybe he'll do an expanded edition.I saw George's sister, venture capitalist and former Online columnist Esther Dyson, chatting in the lobby, so presumably she was in the audience.
Flickr's Stewart Butterfield gave one of the 15-minute talks this morning (and no, he didn't say Flickr was being bought by Yahoo -- though that's a popular rumour). Pretty much everyone here seems to be a Flickr user, and there are already about 250 photos on Flickr tagged with etech05. See:http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/etech05/
Onlineblog is a regular target for comment spam, and while my back was turned (ie I was on a plane) we got hit big time. A single search using MT-Blacklist found 669 spam comments: is this a record?The total number of spam comments deleted last night was close to 800....Well, we all get spam, and some people get SPIM (spam via instant messaging). One of the O'Reilly speakers today -- some bozo from AT&amp;T -- also came up with SPIT, which he said was Spam over Internet Telephony. (Shouldn't that be SPoIT?)
Things are crazy busy here at Online Towers today, so I'm just going to post a little snippet before leaving the floor to Jack once again.So, last night the 5th annualBloggie awardswere announced.Congratulations to all those who scooped a prize - Onlineblog favouriteBoingBoingas the best weblog as well as, for British interest, Zoe atMy Boyfriend Is A Twatand the aforementionedTom Coates.Still, I won't pretend I wasn't a little disappointed by the relatively heterogenous nature of the winners; it certainly felt like a fairly unexciting selections of a competition usually well-regarded by the blogging community.Nick Denton's done well with Gawker Media, but arethreeGawkerblogsreally the best in their respective categories? I find plenty of political blogs which engage me more than Wonkette, while both Gawker and Defamer strike me aswaning rather than waxing.Similarly, kudos to Heather Armstrong, but doesDoocereally meritfourindividual awards? And while recognition forSalam Paxwas well-deserved, he posted only a handful of times over the past year.In fact, when I registered my votes, I sent in a complaint to the organiser - why weren't the likes of Pax andGlenn Reynoldsable to be considered for the lifetime achievement award? Not wishing to diminish the achievements of others, but surely they've done more to promote blogging in the Big Wide World than nearly anyone else...Still, if I take off the lemony-sour face for a moment I'm well aware no awards are ever likely to please the pernickity. And take all of this with a pinch of salt (lemon, salt... all we need now is tequila) since weblog competitions are notoriously difficult to administer (the Guardian should know).But blogging evangelists spend a lot of time remarking on the wide range of blogs out there - fingers crossed that next year the victors will reflect that variety a little better.UPDATE:My Mac crashed as I tried to post this first time round: clearly this is a case of computer karma for not being 100% jolly hockey sticks about the whole thing. Pffff.
Most sane individuals believe that Marvel'ssuitagainst Cryptic Studios, developers of the monumental City of Heroes, was grumpy, party-poopy and just plain curmudgeony (curmudgeonous?). Come on, what's a bit of fan-based fun? Thankfully the legal world agrees as well.A Federal District court Judge threw some of Marvel's evidence against Cryptic out of court on Friday, claiming that the comic company was out of order with reference to their examples of user-generated artwork. Actually, the exact words he said were "false and sham," when it became clear that the exhibits in question had been created by Marvel itself. Shazam indeed.Now, can someone please explain to me the laws regarding music sampling in a host of Top 10 hits?The case still remains open. Debate still remains active onTerra Nova.
The Nintendo handheld sold87,000 unitsin the UK over the launch weekend, surprising notonly me, but probably Nintendo themselves. To put this figure in context the GBA SP, the last Nintendo handheld, debuted with 47,000 sales. The top selling title was, unsurprisingly, Super Mario 64 DS, although WarioWare wasn't far behind. Of course, the challenge for Nintendo is to maintain this success over the coming months. This task has been made a little easier by Sonyconfirmingthat the European PSP release is months away. But it's been a cracking start for the DS and proves that Nintendo are not giving up their dominance of handheld gaming without a fight.
Dear sweet Jehosephat, my first day back home (surrounded by boxes and moving chaos) after the around the world trip and I've just logged on toWonderland. For ALL your GDC review needs, head there. Seek out and ye shall findtranscripts(and more),reviews,wailings and gnashings. Oh if only hadn't had to leave the day after the eventstartedfor a wedding in Ireland. Sounds like it was tremendous. Remind me to go again - for the whole thing - next year.Alice, you truly are incredible.
Capita, the management services giant specialising in computer support, is embroiled in another dispute over software failures which have affected hundreds of school computer systems in England and Wales.Headteachers say that the company has lost school records and other crucial data on timetabling, examination performance and attendance after the failure of a software upgrade for Sims, the management system used in more than 70% of schools.The system is marketed by Capita, the firm responsible for software problems behind huge delays at the Criminal Records Bureau and glitches during the introduction of the London congestion charge.The revelations come as the government publishes new guidelines today on how parents can monitor their children's progress at school from the home or office computer.The strategy aims to set out   how teachers, pupils and their parents should be using computer programmes in lessons across the curriculum, as well as the internet, to store and access school and homework.The Sims upgrade has led to schools losing irreplaceable data and having records corrupted, and has forced many to move to paper-based records.The Sims system is central for day-to-day operations in schools, controlling staff and pupil records, finance and timetabling. Extra modules used by most schools also control examination entries and pupil attendance.Last autumn, Capita asked schools to move to a new version of the software, but the Guardian has obtained documents showing that minimal testing took place on a crucial module in the new system. Capita disputes the broader Sims system is experiencing problems.The difficulties surfaced in January, when schools tried to make a census return only to find that they could not retrieve the information needed.Capita claim "virtually all secondary schools" have successfully transferred to the new system.Phil Neal, director of Sims, Capita Education Services, said: "Inevitably in an opera tion of this scale the conversion programs come across situations where schools have not used the systems as we expected. This can lead to unexpected effects in the new system in a small number of schools."Graham Willett, head of Tiffin School in Kingston-upon-Thames, said: "We lost all the records relating to our old girls."Colin Kirkman, deputy head of Westlands School in Torbay, added: "It has destroyed our systems; we can't contact our parents because the software has lost the information."Despite the setback, the government will today underline its determination for schools   and parents to rely even more on IT in communications.The schools minister, Derek Twigg, will announce that parents should be able to check their children's latest marks online, to read "mini-progress reports" and full details of what their child should be learning at school. Ministers hope the moves will help parents get more involved in their children's schooling.The strategy also says that every pupil should have their own webspace to publish examples of their work so that employers, universities and their parents can check on their progress. The "electronic portfolio" would document all their achievements at school or college and provide examples of their work.An online portal will be created as a one-stop shop for information for pupils, their parents, and people working in schools to gain access to information about education and training.Ministers are also considering how data on pupils could be streamlined so each has an identification number throughout their school, college and university career which would allow them to keep a record of their schooling, as they change institution or slip in and out of education.The document tries to draw together what it says has been a "haphazard" growth of the use of "e-learning" in schools and to set new standards for schools to work towards.While some schools are now ploughing ahead with online submissions of homework and up-to-the-hour reports on pupil attendance and punctuality for parents, others are still failing to provide good basic lessons in information communication technology.An Ofsted report on ICT in schools last year found that the quality of lessons, although improving, was "sporadic and teacher-dependent".
The annual O'ReillyEmerging Technology Conference 2005kicked off with workshops today in San Diego, California. The bad news is that it's starting to look more serious and more corporate, rather than being the splendid geek-fest of old. Nokia has appeared as the Diamond Sponsor and is hosting a reception tomorrow evening. AT&amp;T, Yahoo!, Microsoft Research and Apple Developer Connection are the Platinum Sponsors, so the multibillion multinational corporations are emerging in force.A quick skim through the list of attendees also suggests the mainstream press will be here, too. The names include Reuters (Eric Auchard), The Washington Post (Ed Holzinger), Newsweek (Steven Levy), The New York Times (John Markoff), Forbes (Victoria Murphy), and Fortune (Fred Vogelstein), plus people from Ziff and CNet. Hmm, what happened to The Wall Street Journal, Business Week and The Economist? Keeping their attendance secret, or asleep at the wheel?Still, there are probably enough of the right sort of speaker to maintain the proper flavour. Examples include Stewart Butterfield of Flickr, Tom Coates from the BBC, Cory Doctorow (Boing Boing), Danny O'Brien (NTK), and Clay Shirky (that's in alphabetical order). Plus the inestimable David Weinberger to blog the whole thing at Joho (see link, left, under People).
I'm in San Diego for the annual O'Reilly ETech (above) and for the second year running failed to get into the conference hotel, the Westin. Worse, for the second year running, I'm staying at the Comfort Inn, Gaslamp edition. Those with long memories and not much of a life may recall that, last year, it had no broadband as its supplier had gone bust. (AOL dial-up saved my bacon.) The good news is that this year it has Wi-Fi. The bad news is that it doesn't stretch as far as my room. I've pleaded for a move down the corridor to no avail because the hotel is full, as is, apparently, every hotel for miles around. Unfortunately, the whole of San Diego is overrun with millions of American chemists, here for a different conference.However, I've already visited the two local shrines: Fry's cavernous superstore, which is about 10 miles away ($26 in a cab*), and the new Apple Store which is, appropriately enough, in the Fashion Valley mall ($2.25 by tram**). I paid my respects in the usual way, with a flash of plastic. The haul included an Emprex USB 2.0 disk-based MicroStorage system smaller than a box of Swan Vestas. It may well be rubbish, but getting 2.2GB of shirt-pocket storage for $79.99 was just too much to resist. Fry's also had little 1GB Flash/thumb-drives for $69.99.* This obliges you to spend enough to save the cab fare. ** This doesn't oblige you to spend anything.
... by Stuart Campbell righthere. The absolute opposite of almost everything else you'll read about the game this month, and therefore essential. Just thought I'd point it out.
Will Wright chose GDC to reveal his new game,Spore, an ambitious (to put it lightly) evolutionary simulation in which the player guides a lifeform from single cell pond lurker to advanced space-travelling civilisation. Wright compares the game to Wario Ware, due to its episodic structure, but is this 'best-of-every-genre-from-the-last-twenty-years' approach going to scare the crap out of mainstream gamers? The Sims succesfully refined the Sim City dynamic by sharpening the focus onto individuals. Spore zooms way out again. To continue the cinema analogy just a little too far, is this going to be Wright'sHeaven's Gate? Intruiging stuff, though, and you certainly can't accuse the man of sitting on his laurels...
I don't want to step on Aleks' toes regarding GDC coverage, but Grand Text Auto has picked up on aninteresting debateeminating from a highlight of Friday's schedule:One of the comments that came out during the panel discussionWhy Isn't the Game Industry Making Interactive Storiesis that the game industry has yet to reach its "Citizen Kane moment". This is the idea or hope that at some point someone will finally create a game that uses the medium in such radically new ways that it uncovers a new grammar of expression, and in the process reaches new artistic heights.Grand Text Auto is skeptical, and indeed it would seem that the market, fractured into so many vastly different platforms, is too heterogeneous for one stunningly original product to make an all-pervasive impact. Certainly, the 'major' innovations we have seen recently - the squad-based tactical shooter and the open-ended action adventure - are merely mutations of old genres. But is there an Orson Welles lurking somewhere in the industry, ready to make a fool of all us naysayers?We can only hope...
There's acomment piecein today's IT Week that I read with interest, despite finding it a little puzzling. It's by Daniel Robinson, who explains "Why high Arpu is bad news for you".Arpu is, as business-headed types will probably be aware, short for "average revenue per user". So, if something has high Arpu, it makes more money per customer than something with low Arpu. Fair enough, and a basic business technique - getting existing customers to generate more revenue. Let's hand over to Robinson:Over the last year or so, I've lost count of the number of press releases from handset and wireless device makers that breathlessly promised that new products will deliver "fantastic growth in Arpu!" or other similar phrases.On the face of it, this seems a puzzling way of selling handsets. When a manufacturer claims that its device delivers higher Arpu than rival products, it is basically boasting that its new phone costs you more to run than rival models. This is like a car manufacturer advertising its latest model with the slogan "burns more petrol per mile than any other car on the road!".It's certainly a question that we should look at: ("are handset manufacturers on the side of the consumer") but one that's pretty easy to answer. Not really, no. They are businesses, and their clients are actually the phone networks rather than the phone users.Just last week, Jack blogged about Motorola's decision topull the plug on an iTunes phone... because not enough networks were interested. I'm not sure customers would have had the same opinion.In fact, I'm not even sure consumers are particularly interested in what handset they have, as long as it does its job and looks OK. The rise of South Korean handset makers like Samsung andLGstand as testament to this: apart from a handful of early adopter, phone obsessed gadget twitchers, function and price is much more important.And ultimately it is the networks that distribute and promote most phones, so a Motorola, Nokia or Samsung claiming they can drive up Arpu should hardly shock. Consumers just aren't their target market.
Nintendo big boy Satoru Iwata has announced his firm's next generation console, codenamed "Revolution". I'm sureGamesblogwill be covering all the bases, but I'm intrigued by one particular aspect: how they are changing the input method.In this interview withBusinessWeek, Iwata says Revolution will erm, revolutionise the interface:The new interface will allow some new forms of innovation. Already, you're seeing changes in Nintendo DS, which has a microphone, input pen, and touch screen.We have a number of candidates for a new interface but are not ready to reveal them. All I can say right now is that whatever we choose will be intuitive and easy to use for everyone.There have been advances in interface design over the last couple of years that have finally started to make some headway. PDAs led the way with stylus input, but in terms of real mainstreaming Sony'sEyeToy, for example, is likely to be the progenitor of many new video-based inputs. And, as always, several firms are working on proper voice command systems for PCs, consoles andhome entertainment systems.I'm not quite sure the DS's "breathing-on-microphone" technique is quite the ticket, but it's fascinating to see how in many ways it's entertainment, not business, that is really driving forward the idea of changing the way we use technology.
TheIndependent Game FestivalAwardsand theGame Developers Choice Awardswere doled out on Wednesday night in front of three banquet rooms full of GDC attendees (a terrifying prospect for me as one of the presenters), with the bounty of the latter distributed amongst the teams of Half Life 2 and Katamari Damacy, and the former forthe Behemoth'sAlien Hominid,Chronic Logic's popularGishandReflexive Entertainment'sWik and the Fable of Souls. As gongs voted for by game development peers and GDC attendees, it was a rocking night for the winners, with one marriage proposal thrown into the mix and a few Scottish bruised egos making an early exit empty handed.The marriage proposal came from one of the indie game developers at Chronic Logic, who'd just won $15,000 for their top-voted game Gish. The bruised egos belonged to snubbed Rockstar North, who were denied all titles, from Best Writing (to Half Life 2) to Best Game (to Half Life 2) to Best Technology (to Half Life 2) . While I can't deny them being irked (and was exceedingly surprised at their lack of recognition for such a tremendous title), it was a bit churlish to get up and storm out of the auditorium.Handbags at dawn.
Besideschallenging designersto perform impossible tasks, Day One of GDC also challengedHank Howieto solve the current-most prevailing industry question in a 60-minute session.Better Games (and Quality of Life) in 40 hours per weekdrew a massive crowd. It was available to all attendees, not just the ones who panned out the big bucks, so it sold out within milliseconds of the doors opening. Unfortunately, that meant that there were a lot of casuals in attendance and few people who could actually make anything happen were able to get in the door.Essentially Howie offered solutions and advice, summarising some of the common themes that came out of Tuesday'sQoL full-day tutorial. He basically argued that to make both better games and happier employees, significant planning needed to come in at the early stages, and managers needed to stick to schedules without forcing workers into six months of crunch hell. The session over-ran, as expected, as Howie had to field countless questions from disgruntled (and exhausted) workers, and allow one or two infomercials from representatives of other organisations.QoL was a hot topic this year, or perhaps more attention was paid to it because of the explosion of pubic awareness of the issue after the publication of a post by the now-famousea_spouse. At the IGDA VIP luncheon,Francois Dominic Laramewas given one of the newly coveted Most Valuable Player awards for his work this year on the organisation'sQoL White Paper.I also met a couple of guys in the bar on Tuesday night who had a UK-based company providing assurance to publishers that games would be done on time, by working with developers to review early schedules in order to make sure the intentions proposed are realistic. More companies of this sort could continue to alter the models utilised by the industry, but in the end should have a positive impact on employee quality of life.Next time, however, any session intended to address this burning topic should get a bigger room.
There was more movement on theApplevsBloggerscase at the end of last week, which David Teather reported onfor us:Santa Clara county superior court judge James Kleinberg said even if the writers were defined as journalists "this is not the equivalent of a free pass". He said the information about Apple's unreleased products "is stolen property, just as any physical item, such as a laptop computer. The bottom line is there is no exception or exemption...for journalists.""Unlike the whistleblower who discloses a health, safety or welfare hazard affecting all, or the government employee who reveals misman agement or worse by our public officials, [the enthusiast sites] are doing nothing more than feeding the public's insatiable desire for information," the judge wrote.A statement like that is bound to send a chill down the spine of - especially the technology press, who revel in finding out what the manufacturers are up to.But I still wonder: what happens if these leaks didn't come from inside Apple, and if the "John Does" weren't subject to Non Disclosure Agreements?
Electronics company LG may have decided to close its Durham factory - a joint venture with Philips - with the loss of almost 800 jobs, but the Korean firm still believes in the English language. The company recently announced that by 2008 all business, every email, fax, meeting and conference, will be in English.This is not a new idea among the Korean chaebol, the huge family-run conglomerates with close ties to government. Some of Samsung's smaller subsidiaries have already completed the transition. Korea's third largest conglomerate, SK Global, announced similar plans some years ago but seems to have quietly given up any development of them.The only place you will find the phrase "giving up" in LG Electronic's pristine training centre just south of Seoul will be in the vocabulary books of the employees   who are taking the eight-week intensive English course. Students can be found in classrooms at 7:30am and are still there eight hours later. The intensive course is dubbed the "incentive course" because better English is a fast-track to promotion and higher salaries.Just outside the south Korean capital, the LG training centre has the air of a military base combined with a holiday camp. The clean air and well-tended gardens are very unlike the vast concrete, pollution-ridden megapolis that is Seoul. But the activity that can be found within the serene setting is reminiscent of the frenetic pace of the capital.The real character of the place can be more accurately surmised from studying the company's "10 commandments", which can be read on every doorway, lift and conference room. "We not I", "No excuses" and "Resources are limited but wisdom is infinite" are just some of the phrases that every employee has to memorise.Mesmerising is the word that can be   used to describe LGE's performance in Asia since the turn of the century, especially in China, India and, increasingly, the Middle East. Becoming a leading brand in Europe and, more important, the United States, is next on the agenda. The training centre has to provide the firm with the know-how to drive that push.The wheels are already in motion. LGE was recently honoured by the US Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) and the 2005 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) for its technical excellence. The company also won an unequalled 16 CES awards. It seems that LGE is finally challenging its fellow chaebolite, Samsung, in the world markets.Samsung is seen as a cold, unemotional yet aggressive organisation. Its success and methods have been noted by Kim Ssang-soo, LGE's pugnacious chief executive, who is seeking to turn his company away from its domestic reputation of being a nice, friendly firm into a successful, global one. "Nothing succeeds like success" is the mantra of the former refrigerator engineer turned top executive.Military regimeAt about the same time as the students begin their studies each morning, back in their dormitories around the campus hundreds of television sets - made by LG, naturally - turn themselves on, subjecting anybody in the room to a barrage of white noise. Of course, there is nobody in any of the rooms as everyone is up and studying.This is especially true of the company's new employees, who spend a week there. These "freshmen" are easy to spot as they wear special vests with "challenge and innovation" emblazoned across the back, and can often be seen learning the LGE dance. At 6:30am, the new recruits are running, marine-style, around the site in large groups, chanting "widaehan kiop, widaehan saram" - "great company, great people".If that doesn't wake the recruits, breakfast will. The Korean national dish, kimchi, a fiery cabbage-based concoction, is consumed along with rice and spicy soup. The hall is only open for 50 minutes, but despite its limited seating, manages to serve hundreds of people. This is mainly due to the fact that Korean men eat incredibly fast: "It's because of the military service," one explained in the only moment his mouth wasn't full. "We used to eat lunch in two minutes in the army."The military ethos is more pronounced at the "innovation training" that has recently been introduced. Mention of it tends to be met with dark looks, shudders and shakes of the head. The trend was said to have been inspired by a former chief executive of Toyota, who cleaned the bathroom every morning.Every employee has to undergo the week-long exercise: tales of only one hour's sleep a night, cleaning dirty bathrooms without gloves and all-night hikes are common. One employee recounted how, during a night-time 25-mile trek, everyone was told that they had to catch a fish by hand from a mountain river. Those that failed had to immerse themselves in the cold water."There is no innovation whatsoever in any stage of the innovation training, only in trying to make us suffer," said one, while another noted: "Samsung can't resist Japanese ideas and LG can't resist Samsung's. We are the ones who suffer."Some colleagues disagreed, however, as one claimed that he was able to stretch and challenge himself. "It's tough, but you learn a lot about yourself and the company - it's really useful."LG originally stood for "Lucky Gold Star", but now the company branding has become "Life's Good".Not every employee at Korea's biggest home appliance maker agrees, in the middle of the night.
Interesting article inyesterday's Observerabout a Romanian "virtual sweatshop". Here, workers grind through MMORPGs likeWorld of Warcraftand Everquest to create high level characters to sell to punters who haven't got the time or inclination to play through the early levels. Of course, anyone stupid enough to spend hundreds of pounds buying a high level character deserves to be laughed at. And not only because a friend texted me about this story yesterday when I was midway through a 9-hour WoW session where I actually achieved very little. Great fun, mind.
The first day of theGame Developers Conferencedescended upon San Francisco like a heavy scent from geek-boy heaven. The characters from the night before  at theUematsuconcert  had disappeared behind a non-descript costume of khakis and black shirts, speckled here and there with an alternative hair colouring. Sessions were plentiful and many were over-subscribed. All, however, were deserving.I went along to two of note, creeping into the cramped spaces, surrounding myself with computer gamer flesh. The first was the tremendousDesign Challenge, running for the second year in a row, and packed with fan boys and designers alike gathered together to observe mastergamedesignmindsin action.The idea was to pose an impossible mission to some of the finest minds in the industry. Represented were Ubisoft's Clint Hocking, Lionhead's Peter Molyneux and the ever-entertaining and exceedingly popular Will Wright. They were charged with a task that seemed irredeemable: to create a computer game based on the poetry of 18th century eccentric American author Emily Dickinson.It is an interesting and unique session idea, a sort of which which was underwhelming at last year'sEIGF(now called Edinburgh or EIEC). The major difference between this and that, however, was that the participants in the GDC challenge could teach their methods from a standpoint of expertise and success, while in Edinburgh all that could be taken home was what lawyers and PR people thought went into gaming.As host Eric Zimmerman, from gameLab, explained, this was an opportunity to look at games in a raw way, to give a sense beyond the finished product, in order to understand the challenge with game design problems.This comes at a time, explained Zimmerman, when the industry is in a creative crisis (a bold statement from an industry veteran to a roomful of hundreds of industry employees), when released titles only explore a very narrow range of form and content in terms of what a game can be.In light of the contemporary technical, cultural and economic constraints of creating a computer game product, the challenge was not going to turn up its nose at an important form of revenue. It specifically looked at what could be done with licenses, and difficult ones at that.Emily Dickinsonwas a particularly prolific and eccentric woman, with over 1800 poems to her name by the end of her life. As a whole, they dealt with philosophical and metaphysical themes  awfully problematic to pin down for the purposes of pragmatic, goal-oriented game designs. What the contestants were able to work with was the content of these poems, the life of Emily Dickinson or any combination of the two. She was certainly an interesting woman, only recognised as a poet after her death, she grew increasingly secluded towards the end of her life and only wore white. As Clint Hocking pointed out in his presentation, surely a designer likeAmerican McGee, with his Tim Burton-esque interactive treatment of a variety of traditional fairy tales and stories, could do something with that.For the Creative Director at Ubisoft, where he recently completed Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, it was a more difficult, albeit exciting and innovative, topic of game design. He explained that he believes that a good game can be made about anything, and in a situation like this one, where the sky's the limit, the biggest challenge is to constrain the problem.He first approached it from a marketing perspective. How could he set up this game to make it appealing to people? First line of thought was Emily Dickinson Poetry Slam, a fighter in the tradition of Mortal Kombat with authors throughout the ages (think Mark Twain as Fathom, special move: stun enemies with wit). Unfortunately he couldn't think of what to do with Emily Dickinson.His second idea was the American McGee-inspired direction, in which the spectre of Emily comes back from the dead to save her childhood home. He discarded that one as well.Other constraints were technological. This led him to focus his project on the Nintendo DS, with specific attention on the stylus as an alternative to Emily Dickinson's pen. It offers interesting functionality, and might attract new audiences to the new things the machine can do.He chose as his final design idea that the player should take the character of Emily's must, inspiring her to write her collected works. Each poem would be buried in a puzzle, but how to build the poems?The answer was to develop a symbol language of nouns, verbs and descriptions. The main game would be to collect objects in five worlds (based upon the overall thematic element of the seasons plus one of Emily's "Fancy") which would contain symbols, which are used to build poems. The secondary game, a series of important mini-games, would be to assemble the symbols in their correct syntax in Tetris-style challenges. The player would need to create 13 poems each season to progress to the next. Some symbols would be easier or harder to collect in certain seasons, and those which are not immediately necessary could be save in a time-mechanic degrading form in Fancy.The technology would also allow parties to trade between one another, both in symbol format and in reward. After the player completed a poem he or she would be treated to a reading accompanied by a visual montage of the unique way each object was harvested. By swapping visual montages, the player would demonstrate their own personal gameplay flair, as well as offering visual FAQs to others who were having trouble.Clint concluded his presentation by explaining how he went about the process of designing a game based around a challenging premise. He started by looking at different aspects of the problem, the constraints upon the design, and then fleshed it out with appropriate actions (taking a leaf out ofChris Crawford'semphasis on the importance of verbs in interactive storytelling). The important message he sent was to develop an interesting functionality to suit the platform and the target audience.Molyneux's proposal was less intoxicating; indeed he admitted that he crowbarred the Emily Dickinson license into an existing technology which Lionhead are currently producing for next generation hardware. It was rather disappointing, to be honest, and served as advertisements for his "digital clay" and the session he held later that afternoon which went into greater depth about the tech at another time (opposite myCounting Womenpanel...). Still, being PM he wowed the gathered with a demo of his idea and did show a few insights into how he creates world-class games.He first began by asking, "What is poetry?". It is, he argues, words creating visuals inside your mind. The digital clay was a method of creating the visuals which Emily Dickinson may have seen inside her head, based upon recreations of her home surroundings.The objects that are created by the digital clay unlock a poem or allow the player to create his or her own poetry.He examined the context next, in which he claimed that poetry is all about looking at things in a different way, so the mechanics the game would allow the player to look at rooms in a different way, through portals, and from different angles. The overall objective was to recreate visual poetry, inspired by Molyneux's admitted difficulty with writing and using written language to express his own thoughts.Will Wright's design was the overall winner, a close first to Hocking's second. His design was called USBEmily (aka Unstable Synthetic Brain Emily), but before I get into the meat I'll go through his stated process.First stage is research. He jots things down in a brainstorm fashion, looking at opportunities or problems based upon Emily the poet or her poems. The result of this was: 1. Poetry is all about compression 2. Text is boring, and today's market isn't interested in it 3. Should he respect the license (or should he recreate her into some kind of first-person shooting main character with muscles and a special weapon of cleverly-arranged words?) 4. Is it mass market? 5. What would he get out of this as a designer? 6. Because of the game-based medium, he could perhaps expose a lot of people to Emily Dickinson who wouldn't go to a bookstore and buy a bookHe then gave answers to these issues and explored the raw material at hand. There are thousands of letters, which span emotional ranges. He liked the idea of interacting with someone from history, and slowly came upon a final design that was a cross between Tamagotchi, the Microsoft paperclip and the Dreamcast game Seaman. In short, he wanted a game character which was moody, dependent, portable; observant, concurrent and annoying; and one whom the player had a continuous relationship with, but was rather creepy.After looking at the current trajectory and statistics about memory stick uptake, he chose to utilise this growing mass market platform by including his program as default software on a USB memory stick. "USBEmily" would be an artifical personality, slightly unhinged, who would require the player, her psychiatrist, to manage her state of mind. He devolved this idea as a result of a vague point in Emily's history, her most prolific, which she called "The Terror". The various poles the character could veer towards would be romantically obsessed, utmost respect or suicidal, the last resulting in her self-deletion from the stick.Emily would contact you via email, Instant Message, while you were in the middle of an application or when you were online. She would be pervasive, asking if you want her to make a poem for you - a visual montage of first result images from a search using the two most relevant words from each line of one of her poems.The assumption was that the customer doesn't buy into Emily initially, but that he or she develops a relationship with her over time. This emergent gameplay inspiration contrasts with Hocking's starting point  the stylus, and Molyneux's - his own difficulties expressing himself in the written word.All very unique proposals, and an invaluable lesson into the processes top games designers go through. The presentations will be on www.ericzimmerman.com in a few months time for the chronically curious.
Do you know who your MEP is? If not, can I respectfully suggest that you click onwww.europarl.org.ukand find out, pronto? There are 12 European constituencies in the UK, and each has between three and 10 MEPs. They need to hear from you, because they hold your future in their hands. And the irony is that many of them probably don't know that yet.At stake is a simple but overarching question: who runs Europe: the elected European Parliament or the unelected European Commission? This may seem a rather grand question for a technology column, but bear with me.It just so happens that the issue which has brought the power struggle between the parliament and the commission to a head concerns the future of software, and especially the future of open source software, the stuff that makes the internet (and a great deal more besides, including your broadband modem) work. What's happening is that the commission has been nobbled by a small number of large software companies (among them a noted US monopolist), and is trying to railroad through a directive that would enable them to control the evolution of software.Here's the story so far. In   2002, the commission proposed that 'computer-implemented inventions' should be patentable in Europe. In 2003, the European Parliament amended the proposal to exclude computer programs and 'business methods'. Last May, these amendments were discarded by the commission and the original draft directive was resurrected.In December, the commis sion tried to push the directive through by making it an 'A-list' item at the (wait for it) European Fisheries meeting. (An A-list item is one that is approved without either a discussion or a vote.) This wheeze was initially foiled by Poland. The parliament then considered the whole affair and demanded that the commission think again about software patents.The commission refused and tabled the directive as an A-list item at last Monday's council of ministers meeting. This time, Denmark requested a postponement   but Luxembourg (currently holding the presidency) refused the request - on 'institutional' grounds. The directive now goes back to the parliament, where it can be stopped - but only by a majority vote of MEPs.Why are software patents bad news? Simply because patents (unlike copyright) allow someone to control access to an idea. Ideas are not copyrightable - only tangible expressions of them are. Thus James Joyce's idea of stream-of-consciousness narrative could not be copyrighted, but the text of  Ulysses  (in which the idea was given expression) could be. And that's fine.But a patent gives the patentee monopoly control of an idea - not of a tangible implementation of it - for 20 years. There is a valid US patent for a method of exercising one's cat by using a laser pointer to create a moving spot of light. (I'm not making this up - it's US patent no. 5,443,036). So if you decide to exercise your moggie by using a small mirror to deflect sunlight onto the floor you may be infringing someone's intellectual property.In most areas of life, we can live with that. But the trouble with software is that it is pure 'thought-stuff'. A computer program is a set of ideas turned into instructions that a computer can execute. Software is thus the expression of an idea, and is rightly covered by copyright. And again, that's fine. If I have the talent and dedication to write a great program, it's reasonable that my creation should be protected.But extending patent law to cover software would have a chilling effect on creativity and competition. Take for example the idea of using a computer to organise the composition of documents - ie what we now call word-processing. There are innumerable programs on the market that do this - all protected by copyright. But imagine if someone had been able to patent the original idea. That would have meant that nobody could have developed a word-processing program without the permission of the patentee and paying a royalty for the privilege.The fact that software hasn't been patentable has   led to an explosion in creativity because the barriers to entry to the market are very low. To create a great program, all you need is an idea, programming talent, dedication and a computer. But in the world desired by the European Commission, the first thing you will need is a patent lawyer - to check that the ideas embodied in your embryonic program are not owned by someone else.And if your program turns out to be popular, it will only be a matter of time before a patent lawyer acting for a big company claims that you   may have infringed one of his client's patents. So you stop selling and spend months checking whether this is true. Even if you're sure you're not infringing, there is the risk that he will raise the ante by threatening to take you to court anyway. And he's got a colossal budget for litigation, whereas you don't. So perhaps the best thing is to cave into the blackmail and pay the royalty. After all, you're a programmer, not a poker player.The only people who can play this kind of poker are big companies with huge patent portfolios which they trade with one another - thereby keeping troublesome outsiders out. These are precisely the outfits that have nobbled the commission and led it to cock a snook at the parliament. They must not be allowed to get away with it.Which brings us back to your MEPs. They may not be aware of the technical issues involved, but they will understand that there is a big political issue here. The European Parliament is the only democratically accountable institution in the EU. So far it has displayed a good understanding of the patent issue.It is being treated with contempt by the commission's unelected bureaucrats. Sanity can be restored - but only if politicians turn up and vote on the issue. So email your MEPs now. And if you need a basic text to work from, follow the Footnotes link below.
It's a chastening experience for newspapers, and for the politicians who fawn over them. It is also, surely, the shape of things to come: new light in a media world where Messrs Blair and Howard don't have to go crawling cap in hand to the worshipful  Sun gods, craving indulgences. Just look at the latest election figures and see the difference for yourself.America, as Mr Rupert Murdoch often says, is where we're heading, maybe one step behind. So (like ABC News and the Pew Centre surveys this month) let us take the presidential election of 1996 and set it against Bush 2004. The pace of change is compelling.In 1996, just 3 per cent of American adults cited the internet as one of their two main election news sources. Last year it was 18 per cent, a sixfold spurt. In '96, some 60 per cent of American voters said the print media were an influence on their election decision. Last year, that was down to 39 per cent.In crude terms, television is still the biggest factor for electoral news and views: but, still swinging around the 70 per cent mark, it's stuck more or less where it's been for a decade. The big move is between newspapers and the net. Seventy-five million Americans turned to the internet as their flexible   campaign friend last November; 63 million relied on it as their primary poll news source. The bloggers and the party websites have never had it so good. The printed press has never had such slim pickings.But the wisdom of the pollsters also needs interpretation rather than mere repetition. Was there marked movement away from words on paper, as rolled and thrust through letterboxes? You bet. Did that switch, though, make the election net a confused melee of individual voices, a barrage of bloggers? Only to a limited degree.Bloggers - witness the Dan Rather   episode - have demonstrated a growing capacity to embarrass or undermine the big boys of news; but the sites that gained most traffic were exactly those big, professional players: the CNNs and Yahoos and AOL News. 'It's a channel difference, not a substantive difference', according to the director of the Pew internet group. 'Newspaper executives probably have to think of themselves less as newspaper people now, and more as content people'.In short, the essential future for journalism still lies with professional newsgathering machines - as long as those organisations see the need and the    opportunity to change and adapt digitally. The crucial question today, amid all the British pre-election swaggering, is whether they do, whether the  Bun , the  Telegraph , the  Mail and the rest are content to be viewspapers, peddling allegiances and attitudes rather than the information that America, one step ahead, still reckons to be top priority when decisions are made.Come back in 12 years' time and find out. But don't expect to find the bosses of Fleet Street holding court as heretofore. And don't be too surprised, either, if the force of advocacy, bias and prejudice has faded to a whimper.
Bogdan Ghirda is paid &#163;70 a month to do what most bosses would fire him for. From the moment he arrives at work he plays computer games on the internet.With only a few short breaks Ghirda, 20, goes on playing furiously for 10 hours in the backroom of a run-down apartment block in Caracal, Romania. The moment he leaves his desk a member of an evening shift takes over the computer and continues the same game with equal determination.Between them, the company's 11 employees keep a dozen or so computers running 24 hours a day, seven days a week.Although Ghirda works in Romania, the computers and the internet connection he uses are paid for by a company in northern California. Gamersloot.net is one of a growing number of firms taking advantage of a boom in online computer games by opening 'virtual sweatshops', using the low pay in poor countries to provide services for wealthy western players.Older computer games pit a single player against computerised opponents, but the new ones allow players to join forces with others anywhere in the world. There are now an estimated 350 such games, the most popular of which have more than 300,000 subscribers, each paying a monthly fee to keep their place.'Depending on how you define "sweatshop", I guess we qualify,' says Patrick Bernard, head of Gamersloot.net. 'If you mean exploiting helpless people and making them work 15 plus hours a day at repetitive tasks that they hate in appalling work conditions, that's not us.'If you mean employing people that don't mind "playing" a computer game for eight to 10 hours a day at a wage that would starve a UK resident but it is a decent salary for an employed university graduate in their country then yeah, that's us.'One of the things that gets me up in the morning is knowing that the people in Romania are making a decent living out of what I'm doing, and that without it some of them might have turned bad. I feel very good about that. It's a decent job, not a career perhaps, but there are far worse things they could be doing.'When  The Observer  arrived in Caracal, a bleak-looking town of 33,000 inhabitants three hours from the capital, Bucharest, the local internet connection had failed and the staff were sitting around with nothing to do. For Ghirda, who joined the company a   year ago, the job compares favourably with his previous one in a local club.'I'd never played any kind of computer game before I started here,' he said. 'I was working as a barman when I saw a commercial on television asking for people who spoke a little English and liked to play games to apply for a job.'The money I make here &#91;equal to just 28 pence per hour&#93; is around the same that I made in the bar but this is much better.'The television commercial was placed by his 26-year-old boss, Adrian, whose apartment is the base for the operation. 'Caracal is a dead town, a ghost city,' Adrian said. 'There is no industry and many of the factories are closed. People are desperate for work.'When I bought the advertisement I got a huge response. Lots of women in their forties and fifties were so desperate for work that they applied for the job too.'The games are highly addictive - the average player spends 22 hours per week online - and Adrian acknowledges that this can work to his advantage. 'Quite often at the end of the shift I have to tell people to go because they want to carry on playing. Sometimes they come in on their days off and play the game some more.'An hour later the internet connection is back and the day's work begins. Ten computers are switched on and Ghirda and two young colleagues on the day shift assume the parts of numerous characters, and begin fighting huge groups of virtual 'bad guys'.Their skills are so finely   honed that they easily win every battle, earning valuable experience points which can then be passed on to other players.The most valuable commodity in all such games is time, and this has spawned the rise of the virtual sweatshops. Every new player starts at the bottom with little   virtual money and few skills. Moving up to the next level of the game involves carrying out dull, repetitive tasks such as killing thousands of virtual monsters.But thanks to companies such as Gamersloot.net, new players now have an alternative. They simply pay someone else to do the dull repetitive work, and buy a ready-made character at a more advanced level.Getting to the highest level in some games takes months and for players working alone is almost impossible to achieve. Gamersloot.net offers to promote your character in a matter of days for a fee of around &#163;250.Other companies - most of them based in Russia and Asia - concentrate on 'farming' virtual currency which is then exchanged over the internet for the real thing. Last week 10 million Adena, the currency from a game called Lineage, was retailing for around around &#163;55. Up to 200 gold pieces, the currency from Everquest, could be bought for &#163;45.The virtual sweatshops represent only a small part of the overall market in virtual goods. The auction website eBay is selling everything from virtual daggers and magic potions to high-level Elves and Jedi Knights for up to &#163;800, in a market worth more than &#163;500m.THE TOP GAMESEverquestPlayers meet in a medieval virtual world called Norrath. There they pick a character to play, such as a warrior, a blacksmith or a healer, and then band together to slay magical beasts. Completing such quests earns the players virtual currency which can be used to buy better weapons or other equipment. It can also be used to purchase houses. Everquest is said to be so addictive it is often referred to as Evercrack.World of WarcraftWarcraft has proved so popular with more than 400,000 subscribers in its first six months that the manufacturers have stopped providing new copies. Revolving around a battle between Orcs and humans, players create characters which they take through a fantasy world, learning magic and mastering weapons to vanquish foes. Players can fight against computer-generated characters or against other players.Eve OnlineThis game takes place in space. A player starts off as the captain of a small mining vessel but can progress to become the head of a mighty corporation, a trader or a mercenary. Some players decide to become pirates and spend their time flying around attacking other players. Unlike normal computer games that stop when you switch off, these continue in your absence. One reason they are so addictive is that players are afraid of what they might miss if they leave the game.
A California judge last night ordered three online writers to give up the names of sources who allegedly leaked them details of upcoming Apple Computer products.The judge ruled that no one has the right to publish information that could have been provided only by someone breaking the law. Apple said staff had leaked information in violation of nondisclosure agreements and possibly the US trade secrets act.Prior to the ruling there was debate about whether the three, who wrote for Apple enthusiast websites, were journalists and should be afforded the same first amendment protections in the state.But Santa Clara county superior court judge James Kleinberg said even if the writers were defined as journalists "this is not the equivalent of a free pass". He said the information about Apple's unreleased products "is stolen property, just as any physical item, such as a laptop computer. The bottom line is there is no exception or exemption...for journalists."The ruling will send a chill through the financial press, which commonly publishes confidential corporate information. Details about Apple's iPod Shuffle and Mac Mini were widely reported ahead of their January launch."Unlike the whistleblower who discloses a health, safety or welfare hazard affecting all, or the government employee who reveals mismanagement or worse by our public officials, &#91;the enthusiast sites&#93; are doing nothing more than feeding the public's insatiable desire for information," the judge wrote.He delayed the enforcement of the ruling for seven days to allow time for an appeal.The ruling does not have an impact on the final merits of the case, only giving Apple the right to subpoena the writers in question.
