Nintendo Revolution announcementSince Microsoft decided to be first in the race to launch the next next-generation of games consoles, both Sony and Nintendo have been forced into publicising their plans for the future in their own inimitable ways. Sony stayed true to form by concentrating on the raw processing power of PlayStation 3, while Nintendo have said virtually nothing except that their new Revolution console will have a totally different kind of joypad. What that might be has been causing feverish and often comically far-fetched internet speculation, which is due to end on September 16 when Nintendo make their official announcement. In the run-up to that, persistent rumours about controllers with built-in gyroscopes are actually starting to sound like a possibility.
Delta Force: Black Hawk DownPS2, XBOXTaking the role of an American Special Forces operator, your mission is to head into downtown Mogadishu in search of warlord ass to kick, in a reconstruction of events leading up to the infamous "night of the ranger" portrayed in the book and film Black Hawk Down. On PS2 this translates into an interesting squad-based shooter that rewards caution over Rambo tactics and conveys a decent feeling of destructive power as you man the mini-guns or detonate satchel charges next to inconvenient obstructions. Although graphically rough, this is more than a match for any of the recent slew of Vietnam shooters. Oddly, the Xbox version is a totally different (and not particularly good) game.&#183;Novalogic, &pound;35, &pound;40Super Monkeyball DeluxePS2, XBOXThat the monkey, trapped in a transparent ball and tilted around the game's huge variety of precipitous mazes, has absolutely nothing to do with the game, is just one glorious aspect of Sega's new star franchise, now available for PS2 and Xbox. While mechanically identical to the Nintendo versions, its structure scraps the usual three lives in favour of letting you try each level as many times as you like, and offers a menu of stages to play rather than forcing you along a pre-determined route. Featuring an amalgam of puzzles from previous outings, this is, if anything, even more accessible and fun: qualities it already had in surfeit. Tense, addictive and funny, it also comes with some of the finest and most surreal multi-player mini-games available.&#183;Sega, &pound;40
TuesdayChina's 3-hour limit isn't so surprisingWednesdayViral marketingMobile GDCGames Market EuropeThursdayPSP launchMore mobile GDCFridayPot of cashPSP video fun
Just got hold of your PSP? Looking forward to a weekend of transfering your MPEG4 files from PC to Memory Stick? Chances are you're a little daunted by the prospect, especially as most tutorials make it look as though you need a degree in computer science to understand the process. So, just in case you haven't stumbled across these already, here are four helpful utilities for your video conversion pleasure...PSP Video 9PSP Video ExpressXilisoft PSP Video ConverterPSP Movie CreatorOh and it may be semi-defunct now, but it's still worth visitingPSPunchfor bizarre short flicks in a PSP friendly format. Or goherefor US movie trailers, mini-documentaries and the like.Got your own favourite PSP download/utility sites? Post them in the comments section!
Blu tact: a prototype Sony Blu-Ray machine. Photograph: Bobbie JohnsonOne of the soon-to-hit-us technologies here on show at the IFA consumer electronics show here in Berlin is Blu-ray, thehotly disputedattempt at a new standard for high definition DVDs.A bunch of the manufacturers supporting Blu-ray are showing off prototype players on a stand, and most of them are tres clunky, my friends. But a few catch the eye, including this little one from Sony. Perhaps that's because it also bears more than a passing resemblance (in my mind, anyway) to Sony's forthcomingPlayStation 3 console...
Keep watching: That's a lot of TV. Photograph: Bobbie JohnsonWell, it's clear that TV is a big part of this experience, whether you want it to be or not. Manufacturers of all shapes and sizes are displaying their TV sets, which are all the same shape (rectangular) and pretty much the same size (BIG). Ohtsubo'spresentationthis morning said that "size really does matter", and it seems that it is a credo which the companies here are sticking to rigidly.That said, I had a few some very interesting spots in telly terms. High definition's a hard concept to get across properly - after all, it's just a clearer picture - but it does look remarkable in the flesh, especially for things like sport.Elsewhere, Sharp was showing the prototype of its two-way viewing-angle LCD screen, which shows different content depending on where you're standing. From the right hand side you could see a piece of video, and from the left it was a computer desktop. Is this about turning a bug (crappy viewing angles on LCD) into a feature? Probably. I can't seriously see many mainstream uses for it: couples, for example, certainly couldn't watch two different TV shows simultaneously (unless they could also hear different sounds). But perhaps it might have more useful industrial applications and niche benefits.
Sir Richard Branson today appeared in London via a hologram recording beamed to his flagship store as he launched Virgin's new digital music download service in the UK.The entrepreneur - who is currently at Necker Island, his Caribbean retreat - launched Virgin Digital UK just a few days ahead of HMV's rival service, which will go live on Monday.Both HMV and Virgin want to win a slice of the growing digital market, whch is currently dominated by Apple's iTunes. The high street retailers are offering services allowing music to be downloaded on to MP3 players, but not Apple's iPod.A 3D image of Sir Richard was relayed to an audience at his Virgin Megastore in Oxford Street this morning, and his launch message said Virgin Digital would compete strongly against iTunes."We have always felt that a company with music at its core, rather than technology, could do so much better for music fans," the holographic Sir Richard said. "It is so user-friendly that even I could use it."Like HMV, Virgin allows users to access music online from its vast "jukebox", either on a pay-as-you-go or monthly subscription basis. 
There are options to buy music and keep it permanently or effectively rent it by continuing to pay subscriptions.A &#163;9.99 basic package allows users to listen to tracks from the company's catalogue of 1.2m songs on up to three computers. The &#163;14.99 premium package also allows the tracks to be downloaded on to compatible MP3 players.Buying a downloaded track from Virgin Digital will cost a fixed rate of 79p each on a pay-as-you-go basis - the same price offered by iTunes and HMV, which has joined forces with Microsoft.Sir Richard said his firm's "strong music heritage" as a record label and a retailer would give it an edge. "Virgin has a huge advantage and a platform to launch a digital service that will become the ultimate destination to buy, stream, burn and enjoy the best the music world has to offer," he added.HMV and Microsoft expect their new service to accelerate the adoption of digital music downloads. About 5% of the UK population own a digital music player at present.Legal digital sales account for less than 2% of the British market. Online music sales are predicted to nearly double from &#163;34m this year to &#163;65m next, reaching &#163;261m by 2010.Virgin Digital customers will get free music insurance, providing a backup service to replace downloaded tracks if a computer's hard drive crashes. Both Virgin and HMV are attempting to offer more than just music, and the online services include an "encyclopaedia of additional facts and musical recommendations".Customers will also have access to online radio stations and exclusive performances by artists in HMV and Virgin stores. Virgin subscribers get access to 60 free radio stations and an "ask the expert" backup email service.The Virgin service is a collaboration with the US digital music giant MusicNet, and help desks for digital music customers will be set up at all main stores.John Taylor, the HMV e-commerce director, yesterday said iPod users had bought into a "walled garden" because they could not download music from rival sites. 
 
It was also reported yesterday that a mobile phone compatible with iTunes would be launched next week. The New York Times said the Apple-Motorola "iPhone" would be unveiled at a conference on Wednesday.
America's National Oceanic &amp; Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has posted around 1,800 aerial images of the US Gulf Coast areas hit by Hurricane Katrina athttp://alt.ngs.noaa.gov/katrina. There's background infohere."This imagery was acquired by the NOAA Remote Sensing Division to support NOAA national security and emergency response requirements. In addition, it will be used for ongoing research efforts for testing and developing standards for airborne digital imagery."Thanks toGary Pricefor the links.
Netsky and Mytob topped last month's Windows Virus charts, as expected.But commenting on the Sophos list,Silicon.comreports that "the high profile Zotob worm, however, which hit a number of media organisations including the Financial Times and The New York Times, failed to make its mark on the chart despite incorporating elements of the Mytob source code."Comment:Not only does this show that the ridiculous media hysteria over Zotob was misplaced, because it had almost no impact, but Zotob was actuallylesseffective than Mytob, on which it seems to have been based.
It's the opening morning ofIFA, the massive consumer electronics show in Berlin, and I've just heard the keynote speech from Fumio Ohtsubo, president of Panasonic AVC Networks.Essentially, it was a pitch on how Panasonic wants the television to be the centre of people's digital lives. Mr Ohtsubo made a pitch at "generation tech" - the people in their teens, 20s and 30s who are existing daily with technology, and want simple solutions for easier lives.He pushed hard on four topics; entertainment, communications, security and ecology - essentially using your TV (preferably a Panasonic-made high definition model) as the control for the technologies in your life, through an on-screen graphical interface. That basically means watching movies, listening to music, using the web, in-house CCTV, outbound video conferencing and monitoring your home's energy consumption - all through the telly. And it involved a lot of promotion of the SD card and Blu-Ray disc formats as ways to transport your information from one device to another.To explain these theories in practice, a couple of actors were wheeled on stage - Lisa and Otto, a cheesy attempt at a "generation tech" couple who were mildly entertaining, if mainly for their bizarre paid-for enthusiasm for everything they saw: "And that was *all* Panasonic's idea? Wow!").But the centrepiece of the show was probably a whopping great 65" plasma screen which ran a variety of apps and is on exhibition here. I'll try and get a picture of it later, for all the screenheads out there."We want television to be the single, but complete, window on their lives, and the lives of all consumers," said Ohtsubo. "We have a vision of the TV at the heart of the consumer experience."
Idel.icio.us'dthisarticleyesterday on my way up to meet some of the folks who'd been attending the various gamesindustryconferencesbeing held in London this week (read: at the bar). In it, the ever-enlightening Alf Hermida at the BBC reports on an address by Toby Barnes from tech think tankPixel Lab, which argues that there's loads of cash out there for budding young games development companies, but few are willing (or have the knowledge) to take it. From the article:"Just because films got money in the past, it is no use arguing that games should get the money now," he said.Instead he blamed game developers for not doing enough to take advantage of the support already available.As prices for production increase, resulting in more conservative projects and a hike for players at the pay point, it's important for independent and established developers to look to other sources of funding than the traditional publisher model - particularly as behemoths take control of indies and lockdown their creativity through un-healthy (and unethical) work demands.At the minute, though, devs are too focussed on keeping their businesses alive than exploring untapped pots of cash. Furthermore, as Barnes suggested, there's a real gap in the knowledge in studios. Industry developement organisations likeTIGAattempt to educate developers in issues like this, and regularly petition government bodies in conjunction with publisher representativesELSPA. They're doing their darndest to let people know about things like research and development rebates and tax breaks. But the news from the conference suggests that this message isn't getting to where it counts.I propose another further method of getting this information and getting the cash into the hands of developers, inspired by a trend which - mark my words - will be responsible for changing the nature of the industry from fanboy production to mainstream media: academic business development courses. There's been a proliferation of design, programming and art degrees that have been accredited over the past few years (up to 160 now, I believe), but the accounting, management and other top-level courses have been absent from the headlines, perhaps because they're perceived as less "sexy" than the creative level ones. Well, there's certainly more cash in 'em. Problem is, I can't find any in the UK. Can anyone help me?
The online casino 888.com confirmed plans yesterday to float in London, and thereby become the latest gambling website to crystallise the multimillion fortunes of its backers.The company is aiming for a valuation of $1.5bn (&pound;835m) and is 90%-owned by two Israeli families. The brothers Avi and Aharon Shaked own 70% and will sell 25% to 30% of their stake in the flotation. The move should reap about &pound;160m in cash and leave them with a holding worth &pound;424m.Neither Shaked works full-time for 888, even though the pair will jointly still be majority owners after the listing. Shay Ben-Yitzhak, 37, chief technical officer, is the only founder on the board. His family trust owns 20% - set to be worth &pound;46m in cash and &pound;121m in remaining shares.He agreed to write the original computer programs for the site in 1997 with no first-hand experience of casinos - there are none in Israel. "My partners gave me a book of rules with nice pictures of blackjack and roulette, and I based the first software on the images and rules in that book," Mr Ben-Yitzhak said.He admitted he did not bet cash online himself, and now plays for stakes of only a dollar or so in traditional casinos, preferring to observe others in order to understand the gambling psyche.The float is designed to allow the founders to turn part of their fortunes into cash and to raise money for acquisitions.The chief executive, John Anderson, a Ladbrokes veteran who went on to lead a management buyout of the property group Burford Holdings, said: "We are in a period of consolidation. We want to come out at the end as one of the big players. In a few years' time I think the market will be a lot bigger and the number of players will be fewer."888 owns Pacific Poker, the world's fourth-largest poker website, but the bulk of its revenues come from fixed-odds casino games. Last year it made pre-tax profits of $41.1m and reported yesterday a 30% gain for the first half of 2005 to $24.5m.More than half its turnover comes from the US and, as with PartyGaming's successful &pound;5bn flotation in June, the legality of online gambling in the US will be a central issue for investors. Mr Anderson argued that US case law supported 888 and noted that general threats against the online industry from the US department of justice had resulted in little action."People should remember that the department of justice is not a law-making body," Mr Anderson said.
The Chinese communist party is reprogramming history with the development of a new internet game that encourages players to slaughter Japanese invaders in simulations of battles of the 1930s and 40s."Anti-Japan War Online" is being sponsored by the Communist Youth League, the power base of president Hu Jintao, in order to foster greater patriotism among the fast-growing internet game community. Players choose from a range of 17 Chinese characters - peasant, worker, student, tailor - that they must develop from childhood into strong figures worthy of joining the communist guerrilla forces. Advanced players are promoted to the Eighth Route Army - the militia that served under General Zhu De in a series of successful raids on depots and supply convoys behind enemy lines in the north of China during the second world war. Players are not allowed to take the part of Japanese soldiers.To distinguish the two sides, developers said they had made the appearance of Japanese soldiers more ugly, but they have scaled down the battle scenes so that the fighting is not excessively bloodthirsty.Such compromises have been the source of internal quarrels. "Our developers hate Japan, so they want to make the game very provocative, but the team leaders have tried to tone down the violence," said the project manager, Liu Junfeng of PowerNet Technology, a Shenzhen-based gaming company."Anti-Japan War Online is a patriotic online game that is both interesting and instructive to young players," the youth league's Chen Xiao said. "We will play close attention to the authenticity of historical facts in the game."
"Occupying the 10th floor of a downtown Big Easy office building, Zipa is a typical web hosting and co-location center, with one key difference: It's sitting smack dab in the middle of some of the worst devastation the United States has ever experienced," reportsWired News.It may be the only blog currently both written and hosted inside New Orleans, and it's receiving nearly 3,000 visitors an hour.A webcam streams images from inside the data center, showing haggard but smiling employees. Voice-over-IP telephones let stranded workers make telephone calls even when the rest of the city's phone service is severely overloaded. A photo gallery is filled with pictures uploaded by the dozen."We are still up and running," says Zipa's data center manager Michael Brunson, "We have people on site and they are doing well. Even if they need a bath."Comment:Wired News's links don't work for me but I hope it's just overload (a mirror site would be a better idea). All our hearts and prayers go out to the people marooned (yes, even the prayers from atheists). And if anyone from the White House is reading this: Hey, guys, having seen the power of nature in New Orleans and in Asia, and our inability to do much about it, please could you get serious about global warming?
I trust everyone got a copy of The Guardian with the Online section today, preferably delivered. For those with the misfortune to live beyond the reach of our distribution network, I can exclusively real that it's also Online, for free,here.Naturally there is extensive coverage of the PSP fromGreg Howson,Steve Boxer,Alice Taylor, andAndrew Losowsky. Also,Simon Bisson and Mary Branscombereport from ithe Intel Developer Forum, whilePeterJudgereviews Google Talk. There's much more, of course, but I've already tired out my typing fingers. Both of them.
One of Britain's oldest music chains joined the digital age today as HMV revealed their new music download service, in direct competition with Apple's iTunes.The new service, HMV Digital, will also be competing with rival Virgin Digital, which will be launched tomorrow.Both services will give music lovers access to an online "jukebox" of single songs and albums that can be transferred to digital music players, computers, or burned onto CDs.They can be used with a range of digital music players such as Creative and iRiver, but not with Apple's iPod. Apple's download service, iTunes, is only compatible with iPods.Gennaro Castaldo, a spokesman for HMV, said: "I think in time the public will realise that there is a vast choice available to them. The iPod has been so successful because it is a fashion item as much as anything else, but fashions tend to change in time."Customers have the choice with both HMV and Virgin to buy songs individually for 79p each, or sign up for monthly membership. HMV Unlimited will cost &#163;14.99 and gives uses access to a catalogue of around 1.3m tracks.For &#163;9.99 a month, users can sign up to Virgin's basic service - but customers cannot use portable devices with this option - or pay &#163;14.99 for a premium subscription. Virgin has a catalogue of around 1.2m tracks.Customers will also have access to online radio stations and exclusive performances by artists in HMV and Virgin stores. The music will be unusable if users let their monthly subscriptions expire. Apple does not charge a monthly fee for its service.The HMV Digital website can be accessed via free software availableonlineor at HMV stores. Virgin customers can log on atwww.virgindigital.comor visit their nearest Virgin Megastore.John Taylor, e-commerce director for HMV, said today that iPod users had bought into a "walled garden" because they could not download tracks from rival sites."We don't expect the iPod to retain the market share it has today for very much longer while it remains incompatible with the rest of the market," he said.HMV Digital goes live on Monday. The Who's Roger Daltrey and the band McFly will re-record a version of My Generation together to mark the launch. Proceeds of the single will go to the Teenage Cancer Trust. Virgin Digital goes live tomorrow.It was also reported today that a mobile phone which is compatible with iTunes will be launched next week.The New York Times reported today that the Apple-Motorola "iPhone" would be unveiled at a conference on Wednesday. Apple software will enable users to download music from iTunes on their computer on to the Motorola phone.Apple refused to reveal the subject of next week's conference in San Francisco, but invitations to the event state: "1,000 songs in your pocket changed everything. Here we go again."
The reason I can't report back much of my meeting with Katamari Damacy legend Keita Takahashi (mentioned below) is that I'm about to dash off and catch a plane to Berlin forIFA.IFA - or, to give it its full title, Internationale Funkausstellung - is a massive consumer electronics conference held every couple of years:we previewed it last week, saying that "the annual CES in Las Vegas may be the world's most important consumer electronics exhibition but IFA runs it a close second.".I'm arriving later today and hoping to bring you updates throughout tomorrow and into the weekend from this epic expo, where much of the emphasis is being put on the rollout of high definition TV across Europe.But if there's any you want me to go and find out more about, here's your chance to tell me. Leave a comment about something that intrigues you, and I'll see if I can find out some more...Auf Wiedersehen!
Alright, forget about PSP for a second. If you read yesterday's post you'll know I spent Tuesday at the Mobile section ofGDC Europe. Here are some more random and possibly inaccurate findings from the range of seminars I attended, including Square Enix's mobile plans, how people pay for games in Japan and Korea (more interesting than it sounds) and how Wal-Mart could have destroyed the games industry in the early eighties…More things I found out at Mobile GDC1. EA is rumoured to be looking into acquiring another development studio, possibly UK innovator Ideaworks3D, or US newbie Floodgate. When Mobile GDC organiser Robert Tercek put this to EA's CTO of Worldwide Mobile Gaming, Lincoln Wallen, during the'Global Perspectives on Mobile game Publishing'group discussion he replied that 'EA does not comment on rumours'. So it's definitely true then.2. A year ago, Square Enix released Before Crisis: Final Fantasy VII for mobile phones. The game cleverly exploits the handset's camera, requiring players to photograph specific colours to activate spells – for example, if you want to use a water spell, you need to take a snap of something blue. Interestingly, incorporating this element into the game required the phone manufacturer and network operator to give Square Enix access to some hardware APIs usually kept well away from game developers. According to the 'Global Perspectives' panellists, this kind of cooperation is absolutely unheard of in the west. Typical.There's also a basic multiplayer element – if you get into difficulty while fighting a monster, it's possible to put out a call for help via in-game text message to other members of the community. Some warm-hearted hero then comes to your rescue. Also, if you're killed, your avitar is sent to a sort of prison where, once again, you're allowed to put out a call for help – if someone turns up and releases you, you can re-enter the game. If no one answers your plea, your character dies.Finally Square Enix operates a subscription model, releasing a new chapter of the game very month. They're now onto Chapter 17 and Ichiro Otobe, who heads up the company's North American operations, claims that most of the players have remained throughout the experience.3. Kyu Lee, General Manager of Global Business Department atGamevil, gave some interesting insights into the Korean mobile games industry. He said that 3D games phones are being heavily advertised in the country, but take-up is still modest and, realizing that content is the key, carriers are actually financing 3D games themselves, even setting up development competitions to encourage new titles. Perhaps European network operators have a thing or two to learn from this pro-active approach. Talking about pro-active approaches, I think I also heard Lee claiming that Gamevil publicised its games directly to key demographics, for example, distributing promo material outside schools… Is that legal?4. You may already know about this, but just in case… Japanese and Korean carriers support an innovative payment method for games and other downloadable content. Magazine adverts now carry barcodes (orQR codes), which can be photographed via mobile phone. The snap is then sent to a dedicated wap site which mails a link back to the customer so that they can download the desired mobile game, ring-tone or wallpaper. When's that going to happen here?!5. During theGlobal Perspectivessession, Robert Tercek talked about how mobile game publishers in the US won't give any significant marketing support to non-branded IP – this approach has meant that very good games have had to be re-named for the American market – Gamevil's excellent Baseball 2005, for example becoming CBS SportsLine Baseball. Essentially by demanding only licensed titles, publishers are more-or-less killing innovation – in the same way as major retailers are strangling creativity by stocking only safe Triple 'A' console titles.Tercek went on to make the point that, "if Wal-Mart had existed in its current form in the early eighties, we wouldn't have seen the level of innovation that we've seen so far in the videogame industry. There would have been no Quake…" Scary and thought-provoking stuff for the big mobile players. In response, EA's Lincoln Wallen insisted that the company demands innovation from its developers when transporting brands from console to mobile. "They have to ask, what does a driving gamemeanon mobile," he said. We'll see…6. Sony Ericsson is stepping up its commitment to games according to Mikael Nerde, of the company's Developer Program. There are already around 25 Sony Ericsson handsets with 3D graphics capabilities, and now there are plans to distribute games on Memory Sticks via retail stores – a model that didn't work too well for N-Gage, but then this is Sony we're talking about, and they're done quite well in the games industry. Nerde sees more and more phones being released with secondary storage facilities in the future, so you better get used to carrying teeny memory cards wherever you go…7. Chris Melissinos, Sun Microsystems' Chief Gaming Officer, had an interesting idea. He talked about how he'd like to see mobile phones providing gaming services for traditional games platforms – "like texting you when all your buddies are on a Battlefield 2 server ready to play. It's really frustrating waiting 45 minutes to find and get on a server…" Sounds great – imagine being in the middle of a sales meeting when you get a text informing you that your worst enemy is currently hanging around waiting for you on an Unreal Tournament server with superbly low ping rates. Mobile phone as gaming butler. I like it.
I spent a while last night talking to Keita Takahashi, who was in town for theGames Developers Conference Europe. His is a name some of you probably aren't familiar with, but you may have heard of his handiwork: he's the Japanese games developer behind the legendary - if difficult to find -Katamari Damacy.Katamari is really indicative of the way gaming is heading back towards its roots, returning to an emphasis on fun. He'd already given the conference some of his opinions in a keynote speech, but over a few drinks in a rather hot room, we discussed his influences, ideas and thoughts on gaming.Unfortunately I've got no time to report back further right now, so watch this space for more. But thanks, Takahashi-san!
Rupert Murdoch'sattempted buyoutof popular social site MySpace looks like it could be on the rocks, according tothis reportfrom our media team...Shareholders have filed a class action alleging that executives, directors, officers and controlling shareholders of Intermix benefited themselves at the expense of the company and investors when they agreed to sell the company to News Corporation, the global media giant run by Rupert Murdoch.They want an injunction to stop the sale as well as damages.A spanner in the works, though Murdoch is usually doggedly persistent in his acquisitions...
"Japan's Toshiba Corp said on Thursday it may delay the year-end launch of its next-generation HD DVD players, potentially undermining its advantage as the first supplier to put such machines on the market," reportsReuters."We are now in talks with Hollywood studios and large-scale retailers to seek the most effective timing of the launch and best way to launch," a Toshiba spokeswoman said."We originally aimed for the year-end launch in the United States. But we have not really decided on that."Comment:I've written about the next-genDVD format warsin my column in today's Online, thinking that HD-DVDs main chance would come partly from being first to market...
Microsoft yesterday sent a shudder through the traditional telecoms industry when it announced plans to develop an internet telephone service, allowing calls from computers to fixed line and mobile phones and other PCs.The software company is bolstering its expertise through the acquisition of Teleo, a small San Francisco firm that makes voice over internet protocol (VoIP) technology. Microsoft intends to integrate the technology into its systems and develop services allowing consumers to make calls from their desktop by the end of the year.Services offering cheap phone calls via the internet have been around for more than 10 years but the technology is only now beginning to attract big name firms and gain momentum. Yahoo! recently bought Dialpad, another firm that allows users to call over the internet to traditional phones, with the aim of adding the software to its online portal.Last week, Google launched Google Talk, a more limited offering that allows users to send instant messages and hold live voice conversations with other PC users. AOL has also announced a voice service.VoIP is cheaper than making a traditional phone call because it uses the internet, sending the voice in the same way as emails or web pages.There are an estimated three million people using VoIP services in the biggest market, the US. IDC, the telecoms consultancy, forecasts that will rise to 27 million by 2009, putting traditional telephone firms under intense pressure.Skype is the biggest existing player in internet telephony. It offers free calls to other Skype software users and charges as little as 1.1p a minute to fixed line phones in the UK. The company says that 51 million people use its free service while two million have signed up to pay for connections to traditional phones.Its nearest rival, Vonage, claims to have 700,000 customers. The firm charges &pound;9.99 a month for unlimited national calls, with additional charges for international and calls to mobiles.Microsoft already uses VoIP technology in its MSN Messenger but does not yet allow calls from PCs to fixed line or mobile phones.The Teleo software was designed to facilitate "click-through" dialling of any telephone number that appears on screen, either through a website, via search results or email. It offers calls at two cents a minute to most numbers including from the US to Britain. Microsoft said the software would be integrated into its MSN service, which has 170 million users worldwide.Blake Irving, corporate vice president of MSN Communications Services, said the deal "opens up infinite opportunities for Microsoft". The terms of the deal were not disclosed.Some of the traditional telecom companies have begun fighting back. BT is offering customers cheap international calls through an online service called BT Communicator.
Popular Mechanics magazine bought iMac G5s, butreports: "Within a few months, we began to suspect a problem as, one by one, [they] started to overheat and then die. Eventually, 40% of them had to be sent back to Apple for repair or replacement. When we looked into the problem, we found a number of complaints about overheating power supplies and 'bloated', apparently heat-damaged, capacitors on the midplane circuit board. These were posted on Apple's own online user forum as well as user groups such as MacOSG, TidBITS and MacInTouch."Complaints became so numerous that MacInTouch recently conducted its own reliability survey of iMac G5 owners. Of 1,948 responses, the site's survey found there was an 18% failure rate among the original iMac G5 machines with 17-in. screens, and a troubling 31% failure rate for models with a 20-in. screen. (Recently purchased models had far lower failure rates--of around 11 to 12%.)Comment:As notedbelow, Apple has already done the decent thing and extended the warranty of first-run iMac G5 desktop computers by a year .
The PSP is out in Europe today - finally - and we've gone big on Sony's sexy handheld. I've written areviewthat explains what the thing actually does whileWonderland'sAlice Taylorreminds usof those heady early days when imported Japanese PSPs were the talk of the tube. Also we look at theflawed multimedia capabilitiesof the PSP and the thrivinghomebrew scene. So, have you got one yet? Did you queue up at midnight? What do you think so far? Let us know here.
Despite being just seven inches long, it has been wowing technophiles in Japan since last year. And in America, where it has been available since March, it sold more than half a million units in two days. But today it is the turn of videogames fans in Europe to rub their hands in glee, as electronics giant Sony launches its hotly anticipated PlayStation Portable (PSP) handheld video games console.The &pound;180 PSP, which is set to be this year's must-have Christmas present, is a multimedia device capable of playing videogames, widescreen movies, music and surfing the internet. Despite its size, it is as powerful as the current PlayStation 2 console, and has been winning over fans across the world. Some have dubbed it the most eagerly awaited gadget since Apple launched its iPod digital music player four years ago.The PSP was launched amid much fanfare at midnight, with a party at HMV's flagship store on London's Oxford Street, where eager fans had queued to be the first to get their hands on the gizmo."We believe we are on track for the biggest launch we have ever seen in our business," said Ray Maguire, senior vice-president and managing director of Sony Computer Entertainment UK. The Japanese electronics giant will be hoping to cash in on the multibillion-pound videogaming industry, as well as the established handheld games market pioneered by Nintendo's GameBoy 16 years ago.The increasing capabilities of mobile phones and the popularity of Apple's iPod has also shown demand for multimedia devices and Sony will be hoping to use the prestige of the PlayStation brand, which has shifted some 180m consoles since its 1994 launch.It will not have an easy ride, however, say experts. Many gaming fans have already been wooed by the "son of GameBoy", the innovative hand-held Nintendo DS, which is less powerful than the PSP but incorporates a touch-sensitive screen. And Nintendo also plans to launch its GameBoy Micro in time for Christmas.But the PSP launch has not been without controversy. It was scheduled to arrive in European stores in March, but that date was pushed back to ensure US stocks did not run out.Those feelings were exacerbated by Sony's subsequent crackdown on retailers who were satisfying the gadget lust of hardcore gamers by importing units from outside the EU.A court action by the Japanese electronics firm succeeded in stemming the flow of imported consoles, but brought condemnation from critics who said it was merely paying the price for treating European gamers badly.What the fans say...London schoolboysPhilip FitzgeraldandJoseph Hicksonmade sure they got their hands on a PSP as soon as possible. "I've heard lots of good things about it," said Joseph, 13."It looks really good", added Philip, 14. "The graphics are much better than I thought."Paul Arneil, 36, who works for a post-production company in London, was first in the Oxford Street queue. "A couple of guys at work already had PSPs, so I've played on one before," he said. "They really are pretty damn cool - you can even play against people in different rooms."Illustration studentJohn Brockwas annoyed it took so long for the PSP to reach Europe. But he was impressed with its sleek look and large screen, as well as its capabilities. "Being able to play on the move is fantastic, and I may put my films on it too ... it's like an iPod with games: it's a status symbol."
Warwickshire county council's web developers spent the bank holiday weekend on their feet. They were handing out branded Frisbees and other gifts at the Town and Country Festival at Stoneleigh agricultural fairground. Visitors received goodie bags in return for trying out the website live at the county's stand.This was the fourth year that the web department has exhibited at the festival. Phil Parker, corporate webmaster, says there are two reasons. First, for a fraction of the cost of hiring usability consultants, the team get a chance to watch how ordinary people use the site. By discreetly keeping an eye on how visitors tackle questions, and judicious use of the "back" button, developers find out which bits of the site are awkward to use. Secondly, appearing in public promotes the council's online services, from renewing library books to applying electronically for a job, to people who would never find them on their own.After five years of hard work, local councils, responsible for running most public services, are close to the era of electronic government. The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister reported last week that councils in England have on average 77% of their services "e-enabled". Three years ago, the figure was 26%. The local e-government minister, Jim Fitzpatrick, says that councils are now on the "home straight" to the target of getting 100% of services online.In nearly 200 councils, residents can go online to submit planning applications or calculate their entitlement to benefits. Nearly all councils in England allow residents to go online to renew library books, get information about public transport or read the minutes of council meetings.Many innovative services are available. In Wiltshire, motorists caught by a road safety camera can view the photographic evidence online - and find out where the cameras are.Most of the services that are not yet e-enabled are those that need users to prove electronically who they are. In another announcement last week, the government promised to spend &pound;7.5m on developing Government Connect, a set of procedures for authenticating identities. By the end of 2007, every citizen will have a "single sign on" for government. The scheme also includes secure e-payments, using a third-party service, Datacash, to validate, authorise and collect fees for licences or libraries.Local e-government is a remarkable achievement, especially given the constant financial pressure on councils. However, the investment - at least &pound;2bn in England - will be wasted if nobody knows it is there. Research published last week by Socitm, an organisation representing IT managers, suggests that few councils are making an effort to promote their electronic services.Researchers surveyed visitors to 27 council websites across the UK last May. The sample suggests that about 20% of internet users, or about 10% of the population, visited a council website. Interestingly, women seem to use council websites more than men: 59% of visitors were women. (This varies widely between councils, presumably reflecting socio-economic differences.)Most visitors to local e-government find their own way there, without help from either advertising or other promotional activity. The most common route was via Google (29.4%) or by guessing the URL (18.5%). A further 25.5% of visitors knew the URL because they work for the council.The useage of local e-government will need to climb dramatically if councils are to recoup their investment in websites. The government wants local authorities to make &pound;1bn in "efficiency gains" from e-government by April 2008.Warwickshire has evidence that persuading residents to go online can pay off. In an exercise carried out with Socitm, the county council asked visitors to its website what they would have done had they not gone online. Nearly half would have telephoned, 7.4% would have visited council offices in person while 3.2% would have written a letter. Over a year, this suggests that, had the web not been available, council officers would have had to deal with 646,818 extra contacts with the public. Assuming every contact takes five minutes and that staff time costs &pound;13.13 per hour (both conservative figures), Warwickshire worked out that e-government creates an efficiency gain of &pound;707,727 a year.The promotional effort at Stoneleigh costs about &pound;2,000 a year.At the festival stand, Parker buttonholes a young family and challenges the children to find a bus timetable on the website. But he's really watching dad, who leans over to help. "That's the sort of person we would never get along if we advertised for people to test the site."It's a good experience for the web team, too, says Parker. "We stand here for three days and watch real people struggle with what we've built. If there's something that needs fixing, it doesn't half hit you."LinksWarwickshire county councilwww.warwickshire.gov.ukInformation for Local Governmentwww.info4local.gov.ukSociety of IT Managementwww.socitm.gov.uk
On a slow August bank holiday, the Home Office scored itself some good media coverage by announcing a blueprint to make it illegal to view extreme, violent pornography on the internet."This is material which is extremely offensive to the vast majority of people, and it should have no place in our society," said Home Office minister Paul Goggins. "The fact that it is available over the internet should in no way legitimise it."Few disagree that viewing child pornography should be a criminal offence, though some may wonder where the line may end up once it wanders into the realm of adult porn.As it happens, the world of salacious adult material has always been a key mover in propelling the internet forward, despite the best intentions of those who created the network. But the popular tide may have already turned against the worst extremes of adult content - or at least the ability for surfers, especially children - to have unfettered access to it.The hype surrounding the Home Office plan was further exacerbated by a report from consumer watchdog Which? stating that most nanny software - those programs aimed at protecting young surfers from inappropriate content - fail miserably in their jobs. Norton Security and MSN Premium were singled out as the worst offenders in a small test.All this is the latest part of a drive to use technology in the parenting process. Just last week, mobile phone manufacturer Motorola slipped out the announcement that it would be building new handsets that incorporated a variety of parental controls. In a statement to reporters in India, Edward Zander, the company's chairman and chief executive, said that new models will allow parents to monitor and censor the information being downloaded on to their children's mobile phones. They will also have the ability - probably through the same sort of satellite tracking currently common in cars - to keep tabs on the location of a child.The problem, say some observers, is that we are in danger of using technologies to try and replace some of the more important tasks of parenthood. "Both tracking and censorship are already available through the different service providers, but they have never been promoted by the phone networks in the past," says John Carr, new technology adviser to NCH, the children's charity.For whatever reasons - probably profit - parental controls have not been hugely marketed. Some tracking services are already available, such as KidsOK, which launched earlier this month, but at the moment they tend to be underpowered and underpublicised. But, says Carr, if manufacturers begin incorporating specific child-watching technologies, "the demand could be very large".The message is clear: there is a lot of inappropriate content on the web, and these are increasingly moving on to mobile devices and elsewhere. There are also lots of fancy ways to try and limit the effect that inappropriate content might have on your children. But parents should never trust a machine to do the job they should be doing themselves."Is electronic surveillance a substitute for good parenting?" asks Carr. "No. A young child in 'need' of this kind of service should never be out of your sight anyway. It's a solution looking for a problem."
All successful IT projects are alike, but every failure happens in its own way. This is one reason why this week's column - about mobile computers in government - focuses on an acknowledged failure from a list of many claimed successes.There's also another reason, which we'll come to later.It happened in Cambridgeshire, where the county council is grappling with one of the trickiest policy challenges on the public service agenda - convergence of health services, run by the NHS, and social care, run by local authorities. At the moment, the two have separate cultures, routines and languages. Everyone has a tale of granny being visited by successive teams of professionals, all asking the same questions.One solution is the single assessment process - a buzz phrase for one branch of the welfare state trusting another to collect information on its behalf. For this, good IT is essential. Social workers and doctors need to know they are dealing with the same Mrs Jones, and be confident that data about her has been accurately recorded. The key to getting data right is to enter it at the "point of care", usually the client's home, and update the database immediately. This means using secure, unobtrusive, mobile computers. Going mobile also means social workers don't have to travel to the office to type up case notes, saving time and money.In a pioneering project, Cambridgeshire social services decided to issue workers with tablet PCs running a mobile version of its information system, which connected wirelessly through the mobile phone network.The project began in July last year. It was dogged with delays. Core software was not delivered until two days before the test period was due to end, destroying any hope of running to timetable. When the software did arrive, it didn't work. Three months later, updated code fixed the problem, but created another one.A fully functioning system was delivered at the beginning of this year, but found to be impractical. The process of downloading an assessment file took 10 minutes. The program was also too slow starting up - social workers do not enter data continuously but intermittently, as they elicit facts from their clients. They found themselves waiting for between 15 and 25 seconds for the system to "wake up". The supplier proposed replacing the database software, which would need a hardware upgrade. By this time, the trial had run out of time and money. It was abandoned.Should heads be rolling for the failure? Absolutely not. The trial was funded by central government, as part of the Nomad national project, precisely to learn lessons. Negative lessons are just as valuable as positive ones, even if the instinct of the individuals involved is to hush them up.The basic problem of computerising social care remains - over the next few years, huge sums will be spent solving it. Eventually, we'll get it right, but only if we learn from the false starts. Which is why they should get at least as much publicity as the successes.
A PlayStation Portable is a strange thing. I sat next to a man on the London tube, two days after the PSP launch in Japan, and he already had one. He was playing it, it was glinting, and I couldn't help myself - I leaned over and said, "Wow! You've got yours already?" And he said, "Yes, here." And shoved it into my hands.I had no idea what to do with it. I know how to work these things - it's just a Playstation, reflexes kick in - but oh my God, I was holding his PSP. Was he nuts? I'm a stranger! But this is what the PSP does - it makes you want to share.You want to show people the quality of this illegal copy of The Office. You want to show that you can fit four of these episodes on a one Gigabyte chip, or eight of these slightly more pixilated episodes of Doctor Who. Superb. Like a sonic screwdriver, my PSP can do anything.Unfortunately, there aren't any decent games out for it yet. This is hardly surprising, as it was only launched in the UK today. I have a grey import - not literally grey, you understand, but a very shiny black one imported to the UK by the helpful elves at Lik-Sang. And now I hear Sony is planning a white version: damn it, why did I have to go and buy the black one already?Unfortunately, Sony shouted at Lik-Sang so it has stopped doing this useful job, which is a pity - geographic restrictions are so pre- internet, I don't know why people think it should still matter.I could buy games in Japanese if I could find an importer - maybe the apparently brilliant Lumines or the definitely superb Katamari Damacy. Wipeout is boring after a few hours, and Need For Speed is just a slow Wipeout.So what shall I do with my PSP? If you polish the screen on your trousers, it makes a good mirror. Or you can browse the web, assuming you're standing in the fairy dust ring of a free Wi-Fi hotspot.It's a shame that there's no keyboard - the text input is a total arse. I want the screen to be a touchscreen. I dream of a crossbreed: half Sony PSP, half Nintendo DS. The PSDS - that would be an amazing beast.So, it's not perfection. Still, I show it to people at work, and their jaws drop. It's the screen size and the quality - media players are boring, the PSP is not. Everyone's got an iPod, but this thing is bigger and shinier. The price helps, too - a PSP costs much less than an iPod, and does much more than just play music.This is just the beginning of a handheld revolution. The PSP is screaming for a decent media manager, and for television shows to be legal loads. It needs lots of games, a touchscreen, and guaranteed free Wi-Fi. A way to rip my DVDs and load them without breaking the law or having to fiddle about with special applications and rippers would be nice. I've already paid for Lord of the Rings (twice, as it happens - I lost the first one) and I don't want to buy it on UMD now, no way.A 10GB chip, plus podcasting and the equivalent for audio visual media is essential, too - I want to dock it and have it magically fill with entertaining material that matches my tastes, and is delivered to me by my favourite sites. And an always-on internet connection with a PSP-friendly copy of World of Warcraft for on-the-road questing would be welcome.The PSP offers enough to make you hungry for more and, as a multimedia device, it's a sleek and shiny triumph. But it doesn't quite satisfy as it is. Maybe I'm just greedy - after all, good apps come to those who wait.Multiplayer Katamari Damacy over a venti iced latte will be yours soon, my friend.&#183;Alice Taylor writes the Wonderland blog:http://crystaltips.typepad.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Techno lust readings are likely to go off the scale today as the most important gadget since the iPod launches in the UK. Sony's PlayStation Portable brings you games, movies and music, and will display photos. Yes, the "C" word may have finally come of age: but convergence isn't the first thing you think of when you see the PSP. That honour goes to the aesthetics.This is a sexy and desirable piece of kit - the kind of thing that will turn heads on the train. But, with a &pound;180 price tag, does it have the brains to match the beauty?Looking at the hardware first, it is clear what the big draw is - the screen, which measures 4.3in, with proper 16:9 widescreen dimensions. The style comes at a cost, however - the PSP's glossy black finish is lovely, but easily smudged. Wiping the screen with the included cloth becomes an essential pre-use ritual.The controls are only as good as any other handheld, so prolonged play is uncomfortable. Because of the layout, all the buttons are within easy reach, although the analogue stick in the bottom left is fiddly to use. But for a lot of games, especially sports titles, it is invaluable.The PSP isn't really a pocket device (the size of the screen dictates that) but it is relatively light and will not weigh down any bag. The standard pack includes a handy protective slipcase, but while the PSP feels tough, it is unlikely to survive any great fall. Luckily, the storage medium - the Universal Media Disk, or UMD - is sturdy. Battery life is better than expected, with about six hours from charged, though less if the built-in wireless internet connection is used.So the PSP looks good, but what can you actually do with it? Initially, at least, the games are the most important element. "Traditional handheld gaming has always been an apology to what you receive on a TV. Not any more," says Phil Harrison, Sony Europe's vice president development. And he is mainly right. The graphics are of a much higher quality than the PSP's gaming competitor, the Nintendo DS.UK developers Climax created one of the US launch games and Chris Keegan, Climax's vice president development, is positive. "It's an exciting device to us because for the first time we have a piece of hardware capable of creating games with a similar fidelity to the PS2 but in a handheld device," he says.David Brickely, development manager at Codemasters, agrees: "What has changed with the PSP is the old assumption that a handheld game has to compromise on quality."Racing, sports and puzzles - the launch lineup covers all the traditional bases. If your gaming taste is a little more in depth, then you'll need to wait a bit longer. But the launch lineup is solid enough, and the high number of titles available (about 30) is welcome.The highlights are Virtua Tennis World Tour and Wipeout Pure. The former is a cracking tennis game that transfers marvellously on to handheld, while Wipeout is the latest in the futuristic racing series and highlights the PSP's graphical oomph. The ability to download further content is another signal to the future. Other standouts include Metal Gear Acid - a bizarre take on the popular stealth game series - and the driving games Colin McRae 2005 and Ridge Racer.Sports fans are well catered for on launch. Fifa and World Tour Soccer cover the beautiful game, with the latter a pleasant surprise, though the October release of Pro Evolution Soccer 5 is likely to storm to the top of this particular league. Elsewhere, EA have basketball covered with NBA Street, but the real sports recommendation is the cute Everybody's Golf.One of the bigger surprises is Fired Up - a vehicular combat title set in a series of Grand Theft Auto-style cities. A spin-off of GTA, Liberty City Stories, is due out in October and is likely to become the format's biggest selling game.Ever since Tetris arrived on the original Game Boy, puzzle games have been crucial to handhelds. The PSP's graphical prowess means it doesn't have to rely on abstract visuals but puzzle titles are still important. The pick of them is Lumines, but Mercury - where you guide a blob around a maze - is an enjoyable brain tease.The kids are covered with Ape Academy, but overall, the launch titles highlight the demographic Sony is aiming for. "Our initial target audience will be an older, more digital-savvy audience than the traditional handheld market," says Harrison.The stop-start nature of handheld gaming makes the ability to save your game anywhere crucial. Arriving at Waterloo station while approaching the end of a match in World Tour Soccer isn't the disaster it could be. Simply turn off the PSP and when switched on, the action will resume where it left off. Movie playback is the same, and the PSP even remembers where it was on a film if you have played a game in the meantime.The other big gaming feature is its wireless connection. The PSP comes with wireless network capabilities and a PSP-to-PSP proprietary "ad hoc" function that lets you connect several machines together, negating the need to find a Wi-Fi hotspot. The latter allows up to 16 players in the vicinity to compete or share data, and some games need only one player to own the physical title, who can then share it with others.Looking at the launch lineup as a whole, there is no doubting the title's technical quality, despite some issues with loading times. The graphics and audio are unprecedented on a handheld. However, at present, few of the titles show the originality that Nintendo's DS can occasionally deliver.There are other concerns. "The real problem the PSP has is that what all publishers are looking to do is port over existing PS2 hits without considering whether they make for good handheld entertainment," says Kristan Reed, editor of Eurogamer.net. "Midnight Club 3 and its lengthy loading times are a good example of this."This issue hasn't gone unnoticed by game developers. "It is important to find a balance between pushing the hardware with high-quality graphics and sound, and ensuring the game is appropriate for someone to play in very short bursts," said Brickley.The UK games development community is enthusiastic about PSP. "PSP is an extremely powerful handheld platform, which means we can look at doing games which are graphically richer than has been possible before, as well as games which require more processing power like AI &#91;artificial intelligence&#93;, physics and animation," said Ian Baverstock, Business Director at developers Kuju.But the significance of PSP is that it does a lot more than play games. "The PSP has multiple entry points with music, video and games all appealing to different audiences," says Harrison. At the price charged - about &pound;15 - you would have to be a real fan to buy a movie on UMD rather than DVD. But, if you do value the convenience of watching on the go, then the playback quality is excellent. "The 16:9 screen shows that movies are core to the PSP experience," says Harrison.Unfortunately, the volume level on movies is too low on the included headphones. Sony is wary of litigious owners getting earache, but for the normal user it means spending more money. Connect a decent set of headphones - PSP will take any standard pair - and the sound matches up to the sparkling picture. The PSP is the first device to make watching movies on the go a valid experience.The initial movies are skewed towards a male audience, but expect the genres to move away from action and sci-fi as the ownership demographics widen.However, watching your own video content is a problem. The whole process of getting playable content on to the device is fiddly and unfriendly. Music and photos are added by connecting your PSP to a PC and simply dragging and dropping. But for video, the PSP can only recognise one format and it needs to be named in a ridiculously restrictive manner. This is one of the few disappointments with the PSP.The third prong in the masterplan is music. The playback is certainly iPod standard, especially if you have upgraded your headphones. But the PSP is only really a music player for casual listeners. The standard 32MB memory card will only hold a few tracks and the on-screen presentation of the tracks is perfunctory.The PSP is undoubtedly a gorgeous thing and it does get a lot right. The games are graphically unsurpassed on a handheld. The movie playback is excellent. But there are some issues: load times are lengthy and to get any serious use out of the device you will need a larger memory stick. The process for getting non-UMD video content on to the PSP is a farce.However, when you consider what's on offer now, plus the potential connectivity with PS3, this device cannot be ignored. Commuting just got to be a whole lot more fun.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Net gainVirtua Tennis World TourPlayStation Portable, &pound;34.99Sega, ****Timing is everything in tennis, and that includes the marketing of the sport's videogames. Release a game around Wimbledon time and you have a chance of serving an ace - any other time and you're more likely to hit a double fault. Virtua Tennis World Tour, though, is different.This fantastic game is worthy of attention despite its late summer release, and is the pick of the PSP launch titles. The main reason is the tennis itself. The simple controls mask a depth and subtlety that appears after lengthy play. Like that other great gaming sports series, Pro Evolution Soccer, Virtua Tennis is a game that rewards skill and plays for real. But don't go thinking this is a po-faced sim. The imaginative and addictive minigames - hitting a tank with your volleys or serving to knock down skittles - are an important part of the action, and fit in with stop/start PSP gaming on the go.These pick up and play elements tie in nicely with the main career mode that sees you playing tournaments and building your players up to top the rankings. But the key to all of this is the fluid nature of the action, which transfers wonderfully to the PSP.Wireless multiplayer also works a treat. Yes, initial play can be a little frustrating as you struggle to improve your player's skills. And the typically Sega-ish synth muzak during matches can be annoying. But these are minor gripes. Virtua Tennis: World Tour is the star of the PSP launch.Greg HowsonMercurial powersArcher Maclean's MercuryPlayStation Portable, &pound;34.99Ignition, ***Truly original games for the PSP - as opposed to tweaked versions of PlayStation 2 games - are in desperately short supply right now, as is generally the case for a console when it launches. So Mercury deserves credit for its originality, even if it isn't going to win any prizes for pushing back the boundaries of videogaming.It is a simple but addictive puzzle game, and thanks to modern technology, it takes the concept a lot further. Mercury presents you with a series of maze-like levels, in which you have to get a certain percentage of your virtual mercury from a start point to an end point, within a specified time, by tilting each level using the analogue joystick and letting gravity take its course. As the game progresses, you start to find switches (on which you might have to position one piece of mercury in order to open a gate to let another blob progress), splitters for dividing your mercury and gates that will only allow mercury of a certain colour to pass through.You could argue Mercury is mildly educational, as colour-coding plays an increasingly major part in the game (so you will need to work out, for example, that yellow and magenta combine to make red). Mercury should perhaps have had a greater number of levels, but as you progress, difficulty levels go sky-high.Steve BoxerRole reversalDungeon Siege 2PC, &pound;34.99Gas Powered Games/Microsoft, ***After a long summer of bad games, the first of the blockbusters is usually one of the better signs that autumn has arrived. Not this year, apparently.Dungeon Siege 2 is a strangely barren affair. The first game was a decent if uninspiring Diablo-clone with a fancy 3D engine and a few silly quirks, like the pack-mule that never flinched, even when attacked with spears and fireballs. It's the unlikely highlight of a game that tries hard to build roleplaying credibility yet fails.You can have up to six members in your team (including the beast) and, as before, the action is all about taking on quests from stereotypical merchants and townsfolk, finding and pawning treasure, and fighting off a steady stream of enemies. The 3D engine has been improved, coping effortlessly with zooming and rotating and throwing in some very imaginative boss characters, but still labouring over basics like picking up treasure - thanks to an over-sized and sluggish cursor. It's also easy to get lost in the land of Aranna, especially when trying to keep track of multiple quests with an archaic system of "save points" that forces you to re-tread whole areas of the map.The above-average score pays tribute to quantity over quality, as this is a huge game with plenty of "dungeoning". With Microsoft's predilection for dominating genres, however, it's hard to believe this is the closest thing to roleplaying it can manage after two bites of the cherry.Mike AnderieszTop 5 gamesMobile downloads1.Lemmings2.Wall Breaker3.Tetris4.Pub Pool5.Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?&#183;Source: 3, O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Hello world! With these two harmless-sounding words, spirits dropped at Sony headquarters. By hacker tradition, this phrase indicates that a system has been prised open to run unauthorised programs. Since the words appeared on a PSP screen in May, people have become very excited about the console - not in order to play the official games, but to try and write amateur programs, known as homebrew. An unprecedented number of these programs have appeared in a very short time.Some of these contain the ability to play games from other, now-defunct consoles and computers, such as the Super Nintendo, the Game Boy Advance, PlayStation One, the Sega Megadrive, the Amiga 500 and even the Atari 2600, which first appeared nearly 30 years ago. There are also homemade versions of Tetris, Air Hockey, Chess and something called Michael Jackson Puncher.It's not just games. In the last three months, dozens of applications - including document readers, instant messengers, calendars, calculators, an on-screen lava lamp and even a way to turn your PSP into a remote control for Sony TVs - have appeared. The users wanted these tools and, as they weren't available for the system, people wrote them.An Israeli hacker even managed to get Windows 95 and Linux running - albeit very slowly. Some homebrew applications, such as the ability to change the background to an image of your choice, were adopted by Sony in later editions of their system.And yet the company is firmly against all of this. It refused to talk to the Guardian for this article, but the answer is given in the company's behaviour: since the console was released in December, it has launched four updates, each one improving the PSP's functions, but also adding tighter security.These updates aren't optional if you use your PSP for gaming - some games won't run without the latest version of the system, which forces users to upgrade. The Japanese and US launch systems were all cracked in a matter of months; at the time of writing, European PSPs contain the latest firmware, 2.0, and so won't run most of the programs mentioned above. Yet.Regular security updates are not only due to the shivers Sony gets from seeing Nintendo games run on its hardware. Consoles typically sell for less than the cost of their parts - Sony expects to make its money in the long term, from games and film sales. If people are busy playing eight-year-old Sonic games, which they have downloaded, then, Sony argues, they're less likely to buy high-priced official titles. The company is also worried about pirated versions of its games.It's not a new debate - ever since the Dreamcast launched in 1999, programmers have been hacking games consoles in a serious way.But not everyone thinks Sony is doing the right thing in fighting the hackers. "When the PSP launched, it also did not include a web browser, yet it was a perfectly capable wireless device," says Phillip Torrone, associate editor of Make magazine, which is devoted to digital projects, hardware hacks and DIY inspiration."In a matter of weeks, a web browser hack was propagated around the web. These are device liberators. Sony didn't launch with many titles, and the ones that are out are so-so for such a powerful device. These 'makers' are saving the platform."Saviours or not, some feel that homebrew is about programmers taking ownership of their device. "People create homebrew because they can," says 'Dan', from developer website PSPUpdates.com. "Because they like to do it for others, and be able to play their favourite game wherever they are. Current generation games are speed and graphics, whereas Monopoly and Scrabble have a style of gameplay where you use creative skills to win. Newer generation games lack that, and compensate in groundbreaking features that add nothing to the gameplay. Homebrew is a way to alleviate that."He thinks Sony would be better off by allowing homebrew to run. "It should find a way to let certain code be submitted and allowed for download. This will let the creative geniuses program for an audience that the newer games just don't appeal to."However, the programmers are also often pushing the device to its limits - something official games, perhaps worried about the effect on battery life, do not do. This means that running homebrew can invalidate your warranty."The battle will never end," says Torrone. "Sony lost when it decided to make something that uses zeros and ones. Computers and software, by their nature, were meant to be hacked, tinkered with, copied and transmitted."So far, Sony has yet to show any signs of agreeing. Its official webpage for the device isYourpsp.com. Terms and conditions, it seems, still apply.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Message receivedMy PC has recently started to display certain words on all websites underlined in green, which seem to be advertising links. How can I get rid of them?Sean MarkwickJack Schofield replies:This is probably the result of sites installing Vibrant Media's IntelliTXT advertising system, which identifies key words on web pages and links them to advertising. This happens on the server side, not on your PC, so there is no virus to remove, and it does not represent a security risk. It's harmless unless you hover your mouse over the underlined word then click the link for a sponsored advertisement. You could, of course, complain to the website owner, but IntelliTXT advertising is generating revenue that is helping to support free sites such as Tom's Hardware Guide and GardenWeb. Seewww.scumware.comfor more information.In any case, I can't see a simple way to remove IntelliTXT in Internet Explorer, though searching Google for &#91;block IntelliTXT&#93; will throw up some suggestions. However, it doesn't work with Opera, and with Firefox, you can block it with Adblock, so this may prompt you to try a different browser.Blu moveShould I go ahead and buy DVD recorder or wait for Blu-ray?Bob BishopJS:Buy now. When "next generation" Blu-ray players arrive in the UK, they will be more expensive than DVD players, and recorders will be even more expensive. Also, there will be very few pre-recorded discs available. By contrast, today's DVD players and recorders are extremely cheap, and there is an abundance of cheap discs to play on them. It therefore makes sense to wait until Blu-ray hardware has been launched and debugged, and the prices of both recorders and blank media have fallen to reasonable levels. In this case, there may also be a formats war which makes waiting even more advisable. However, you may already be able to pick up a Blu-ray recorder. For example, Babyimpressions has offered the Sony model (five available) on eBay.com for only $3,875, plus $262 for shipping from Japan to the US. Seehttp://cgi.ebay.comCash pointOur home computer, bought in 1999, runs Windows 98SE, and came with Microsoft Money 99, which I use to keep track of my accounts. We're thinking of replacing it with a PC that runs Windows XP. Will it run Money 99?Marilyn SackmanJS:Your PC predates Windows XP, and while it might run Money 99, I wouldn't try. First, Microsoft does not list it as being compatible on the current Windows Tested Products list (http://testedproducts.windowsmarketplace.com/). Second, by not upgrading, you risk your data becoming incompatible. File formats change over time, and it's risky to assume any company will maintain compatibility with programs that are five or more versions behind. Third, if you buy a new PC, you can often get a copy of Microsoft's Works Suite either free or for a ridiculously small price - &pound;35.25, for example, from Dell. This includes Microsoft Works, Encarta, Money, Word, Picture It! and Autoroute. This is too good a bargain to miss.Before taking the plunge, you may want to run the old Windows XP Upgrade Advisor, downloaded fromwww.microsoft.com/windowsxpEarth callingIs there any way we Windows 98 users can sample Google Earth?Ian BoothJS:No, it requires a New Technology (NT) version of Windows, either Windows 2000 or XP.Backchat&#183;The largest portion of this week's email concerned sorting Favorites &#91;sic&#93; in Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser. I couldn't explain why Norman Thomas did not have the Sort By Name option on the menu produced by right-clicking on the Favorites list. It turns out you have to use the pull-down menu (which I have always used), not the one produced by clicking the star-shaped Favorites icon (which I had never used). Sandie Harwood was first to point this out, followed by John Illingworth, Jim Ito, Richard Lees and others.&#183;ME sufferer Mark Savill was affected by blasts of hot air and dust from his PC, and was looking for a system without a fan. Jon Reades points out that Mark could isolate his desktop computer using extended keyboard/mouse and video cables: it could be in a different room, if necessary. On the notebook front, Scott suggests using CPUIdle (www.cpuidle.de), which switches off the processor when it's not being used. He says: "I run it on my laptop, and it dramatically reduces the amount of time my cooling fan is on, as well as increasing the life of my battery." Michael Johnson adds: "In the eight months since I bought my Apple iBook, which I use for long periods every day, I have only noticed its fan operating on one occasion." The Mac Mini is also sparing in the use of its fan.&#183;Send comments and questions toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
My PC has recently started to display certain words on all websites underlined in green, which seem to be advertising links. How can I get rid of them? Sean MarkwickThis is probably the result of sites installing Vibrant Media's IntelliTXT advertising system, which identifies key words on web pages and links them to advertising. This happens on the server side, not on your PC, so there is no virus to remove, and it does not represent a security risk. It's harmless unless you hover your mouse over the underlined word then click the link for a sponsored advertisement. You could, of course, complain to the website owner, but IntelliTXT advertising is generating revenue that is helping to support free sites such as Tom's Hardware Guide and GardenWeb. Seewww.scumware.comfor more information.In any case, I can't see a simple way to remove IntelliTXT in Internet Explorer, though searching Google for [block IntelliTXT] will throw up some suggestions. However, it doesn't work with Opera, and with Firefox, you can block it with Adblock, so this may prompt you to try a different browser.
Our home computer, bought in 1999, runs Windows 98SE, and came with Microsoft Money 99, which I use to keep track of my accounts. We're thinking of replacing it with a PC that runs Windows XP. Will it run Money 99? Marilyn SackmanYour PC predates Windows XP, and while it might run Money 99, I wouldn't try. First, Microsoft does not list it as being compatible on the current Windows Tested Products list (http://testedproducts.windowsmarketplace.com/). Second, by not upgrading, you risk your data becoming incompatible. File formats change over time, and it's risky to assume any company will maintain compatibility with programs that are five or more versions behind. Third, if you buy a new PC, you can often get a copy of Microsoft's Works Suite either free or for a ridiculously small price - £35.25, for example, from Dell. This includes Microsoft Works, Encarta, Money, Word, Picture It! and Autoroute. This is too good a bargain to miss.Before taking the plunge, you may want to run the old Windows XP Upgrade Advisor, downloaded fromwww.microsoft.com/windowsxpUpdate:Several readers responded that Money 99 ran just fine on Windows XP, though one had minor problems.
Is there any way we Windows 98 users can sample Google Earth? Ian BoothNo, at the moment it requires a New Technology (NT) version of Windows, either Windows 2000 or XP.
Should I go ahead and buy DVD recorder or wait for Blu-ray? Bob BishopBuy now. When "next generation" Blu-ray players arrive in the UK, they will be more expensive than DVD players, and recorders will be even more expensive. Also, there will be very few pre-recorded discs available. By contrast, today's DVD players and recorders are extremely cheap, and there is an abundance of cheap discs to play on them. It therefore makes sense to wait until Blu-ray hardware has been launched and debugged, and the prices of both recorders and blank media have fallen to reasonable levels.In this case, there may also be a formats war which makes waiting even more advisable. However, you may already be able to pick up a Blu-ray recorder. For example, Babyimpressions has offered the Sony model (five available) on eBay.com for only $3,875, plus $262 for shipping from Japan to the US. Seehttp://cgi.ebay.com, while it lasts...
It's funny how the addition of "the internet" to a news story can impact the underlying reality - as if the internet itself is to blame for something bad. Take, as an example, the news stories that came from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation's recent report on the impact of neighbourhood information sites such asupmystreet.com.The report's basic concern was that people use websites to make strategic decisions about where to live, and that such decisions mean people with similar tastes and preferences end up being more concentrated. This leads to fears about the digital divide, because web-literate consumers have access to data (such as crime rates) that the web-illiterate do not.The researchers point out that there has been an overall trend for geographic areas to become less diverse over recent years.This is true, but it has nothing whatsoever to do with a site like upmystreet.com or, indeed, any internet service: it's because of us.It's been known for a long time that if you give people the freedom to move where they like, then some form of segregation will arise.In 1978, Thomas Schelling published a groundbreaking book called Micromotives and Macrobehaviour in which he demonstrated how the group-level consequences of individual decisions can be counterintuitive.Schelling began to experiment with computer models of urban behaviour and used them to study racial segregation in the US. What he found was that segregation does not necessarily result from bigotry.Simulations show that people who do not consider themselves to be racist end up in racially-segregated neighbourhoods as an inevitable consequence of the bias that people have for living with people similar to themselves. A person who is not racist may still have slight probability balance (even though it may be only 51-49, say) in favour of living next door to someone like themselves. Over time, if you allow free movement, this leads to the "emergent behaviour" of loss of diversity. People who aren't bigots end up in segregated areas - whether that's segregated by race, class or whatever.It may well be a problem in social and cultural terms - frankly, I'm not qualified to comment - but if it is, it's not a problem caused by the internet.I don't think I would make a choice between buying a house in Street A or Street B because one of them has lower car thefts: car thefts would merely be a factor in a whole spectrum of considerations, a spectrum that would be evaluated by driving around, viewing properties, looking in local papers and so on. It's entirely believable that the web-literate save time and effort by doing this online, but to blame the web for the shape of the communities that arise is a bit of a stretch.People from St George's Hill in Weybridge do not avoid moving to Moss Side in Manchester because a website tells them anything about average income or the availability of local plumbers. They will find this out from themselves and from their friends. The internet simply makes it more efficient for them to gather relevant data - which is sort of what it's for.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Entertainment PCFun for all the familyWithin six months, Entertainment PCs, which are a cross between a computer, DVD player and VCR, will be on sale in the UK, Intel announced last week. The chip manufacturer unveiled a new processor and brand name of Viiv, which will power what it considers to be the next big boom in home computing. Entertainment PCs sit underneath the television and are controlled via a remote control rather than a mouse and keyboard. The wireless computers will be supported by a movie, music, games and news on-demand service, which will allow owners to download and watch content on the television. Intel expects PC and consumer electronics manufacturers to launch models shortly after Christmas. They are likely to cost between &pound;500 and &pound;1,000.GamesHand craftedPinpoint Consumer Electronics has unveiled a new series of accessories for the Sony PlayStation Portable (PSP). Among its PSP add-ons is the &pound;29.99 Gamexpert Sound Case, pictured, portable storage that improves the audio quality of the handheld via its flat 3Watt speakers. It is also offering the &pound;19.99 Digital Innovations Glare Guard, which is designed to improve gaming in brightly lit environments. Rival accessory company Logic 3 has a recharging unit/speaker system for the PSP, which retails for about &pound;45, and a &pound;9.99 leather case. Meanwhile Logitech is offering the &pound;20 PlayGear Pocket, an ultra-tough polycarbonate casing for the handheld.www.pinpointce.co.ukwww.logic3.comwww.logitech.comMobile phonePath finderMotorola has unveiled what it claims is the first European mobile phone to feature a built-in satellite navigation system. The clamshell-style A780 has a large colour touch-screen, GPS receiver and CoPilot Live software to guide users round maps of the UK and Ireland. Other facilities include a 1.3 megapixel camera with an 8x digital zoom, Bluetooth and quad band reception. Motorola has also announced the V360, a budget clamshell handset with a VGA camera, Bluetooth and push-to-talk facilities. Both models will be on sale within the month.www.motorola.co.ukAudioMusic to your earsIt's a busy time for music downloaders, who will soon have two of Britain's biggest high street retailers competing for their attention. HMV is launching its jukebox service today, which will allow customers to buy music in Microsoft's WMA format. Virgin, meanwhile, will be launching what it dubs "the world's deepest music collection" tomorrow: let battle commence.www.hmv.co.ukwww.virgindigital.comPlay itIRiver has announced a cut-down version of its H10 hard disk-based digital audio jukebox. The new H10, which goes on sale soon, is similar to its predecessor in that it features a five gigabyte hard disk, MP3 and WMA (including copyright-protected downloads) compatibility and power of 12 hours from its on-board rechargeable battery. The new model has no FM radio and retails for the lower price of &pound;159. The H10 has a clock/alarm and voice recording facilities.Cinema scopeYamaha has announced that a budget version of its innovative Digital Sound Projector surround speaker system will go on sale shortly. Like its predecessor the YSP-1, the YSP-800, uses digital sound processing technology to create a home cinema-style effect delivered from just one unit. The lozenge-shaped system, which has been designed to partner flat-screen TVs, features 23 digital amplifiers that power 22 audio drivers to deliver the 3D-style soundfield. The unit features three modes: music, movies and sports. It will cost about &pound;600.Stat of the week - Americans love their keyboardsResearch has shown time spent on computers or playing video games is now north America's second biggest form of media consumption. A study by Forrester discovered an average of 10.5 hours a week was spent on computers or consoles; second only to television.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It looks as though there will be a format war to decide a next-generation optical disc standard, following last week's breakdown of talks between the rival groups. The opposing camps are HD-DVD, created by Toshiba and NEC, and Sony's Blu-ray. HD-DVD aims to offer a smooth upgrade from DVDs, while Blu-ray offers higher capacities, at the cost of making disc manufacturers replace their production lines.Blu-ray is garnering most support. Sony in particular is putting several thumbs on the scales, because it also owns two movie studios - Columbia and MGM - and intends to use the PlayStation 3 to drive Blu-ray into the market. The PS3 could flop, but it will undoubtedly pick up enough support from PS1 and PS2 users to make this happen.In the industry, Blu-ray's main appeal is the security infrastructure. The player contains a small operating system that loads code from the BD (Blu-ray Disc) and decides whether to play it. The idea is to have a "renewable" encryption system, so that when the copyright protection is cracked, it's not cracked forever - as it was with the CSS (Content Scrambling System) used for DVDs.Also, the Blu-ray camp has just added ROM marks to try to prevent piracy. It seems duplicating devices will detect these watermarks hidden on BDs and will not copy them. This is what the Hollywood studios want.Meanwhile the grass doesn't look too green on the HD-DVD side of the fence. It should be able to deliver the same quality in cheaper devices and get to market quicker, both with standalone players and with drives built into personal computers (though Microsoft has not agreed to ship HD-DVD drives in the Xbox 360). This approach certainly appeals in China and Taiwan, and could also attract the cost-sensitive US porn industry, but this may not be enough.However, most of us don't need either system. The only people who would benefit from buying a more expensive high-definition video system are the relative handful who have already bought expensive HDTV sets. Even then, it's not obligatory. Modern DVD players can do a reasonable job of "upscaling" DVD images to the number of pixels required.You may have missed the last format war, but it happened in the hi-fi world. Rival factions brought out systems that offered higher quality than today's CDs, with Sony's superior SACD (Super Audio CD) taking on DVD-Audio.What actually happened was that most people ignored both, figuring that today's cheap CDs and CD players were already good enough, thanks. In fact, much of the audience went the other way, opting to make or download worse-than-CD-quality MP3 and similar music files.Hollywood and the hardware manufacturers would certainly benefit from selling us all a new DVD player with much tougher copy protection, and selling us new HD versions of all the movies we already own. But today's DVDs should be good for at least another five or 10 years, by which time we might prefer to get our movies via the net.
For several years, mobile phone networks have been mulling over a technology called push to talk (PTT). Already used widely in the US, it is a system that enables mobile phones to make walkie talkie-style calls that require no dialling.The big difference between PTT and traditional walkie talkies is that PTT's range is limited only by the network. So, for example, a user could make a PTT call from the UK to Australia.Yet so far, in spite of its potential, only Orange has offered PTT in the UK, and the soft launch of its Talk Now service in September last year wasn't exactly the high-profile debut for PTT that many in the mobile industry had predicted.Almost a year on, Orange is at last starting to position PTT as a consumer option, with a range of new handsets and pay-as-you-go as well as pay-monthly tariffs.To test Talk Now, Orange supplied Online with a pair of Sagem myC5-2 phones - a compact clamshell with a limited suite of features that's aimed at budget phone buyers.Once the system is set-up, which requires adding contacts and inviting them to join the PTT list, a user can make calls either to individuals or to groups.One of the weaknesses of the myC5-2 phone is that a user has to go to the Talk Now interface through the menu system and then hold down a central "OK" button to set up and make a call. Similarly, when users respond, they have to open the phone and hold down the "OK" button to respond.Future Talk Now handsets, such as the upcoming LG 2250T, will feature a dedicated PTT button on the side of the phone that will significantly speed the process up. As the system uses the phone's speakers, users don't have to put the handset to their ear; instead, they can talk in traditional walkie talkie-style with the phone in front of them.Overall, the system works well. Call quality is crisp and clear, and the delay between a person speaking and their voice coming through to the other person's phone is negligible. Perhaps Talk Now's best feature is the way in which users can see from their handset who in their buddy list is available and ready to take calls. Also, the option of being able to convert a group PTT call into a group conference mobile phone call is potentially very useful.At 20p per PTT session (for individual or group contact), Talk Now is too expensive to tempt many younger users, who would probably prefer to text anyway. If, however, Orange offers a US-style unlimited use monthly tariff, there's no reason why PTT shouldn't extend beyond its initial target audience of outdoor sports enthusiasts and small businesses.www.orange.co.uk
Hits and missesMy experience of referral spam (Moral maze, August 25) almost cost me my reputation. I run a totally clean, educational website with only one education-related advert. I get about 40,000 hits a month and proudly decided to publicise my stats on my front page. I was delighted when my hit rate rose markedly - until I realised referral spammers were sending robots to my site thousands of times a day.I quickly pulled the link to the stats from the front page and now, two months later, I have almost no referral spam. I dread to think what would have happened if a pupil had seen the highly explicit text links in the referral list in my stats and assumed I had put them there, and of equal worry was what my advertiser would think.Anyone who says referral spam is a victimless crime take heed: it could have been my reputation trashed, with little chance of those pointing the fingers being prepared to hear the reasonable, but highly technical, explanation.A BookerAll talk, no actionI was excited to learn about the launch of Google Talk (Watch your Google grow, August 25), but quickly frustrated to find it is only available to people with Gmail accounts. I'm ashamed to admit that I'm not one of the Googlati, never having been invited to share this sacrament. When I crawl to Google asking for admittance, I get catch-22 auto-replies telling me to try Gmail's help pages. So now that anybody who's anybody will be Google Talking all day long, what do nobodies do? I think I'll try attaching a tin can to a USB port with a bit of string, and see if that works.Paul MaySurbitonGet a move onMy university finally upgraded to Windows 2000 in the past few weeks, and was immediately hit by a virus that put most staff computers and central servers out of action: there's no chance of them upgrading yet again. But I don't agree with your conclusion (Jack Schofield column, August 25). Why move again to an operating system that is manufactured by the same company and that is also very vulnerable? Why not move to a stable and secure OS - perhaps like my Mac, but not necessarily. The fragility of recent products should not serve as a selling point for a company's upcoming ones.Aidan ByrneWolverhamptonSignal failureWhy do suppliers of wireless routers claim, without qualification, that they have a range of anything between 300m and 500m? I have tried two ADSL wireless routers with two different laptops, and each fails to pick up a strong signal indoors over two to three metres.I have discussed this with 3Com, who failed to explain it. I have placed the router at shoulder height, adjusted the aerials, moved it to within line-of-sight of the laptop and still fail to get a strong signal. 3Com sent me a replacement unit but the problem persists. Any suggestions? My PC is in a small downstairs study in a modern house; doors lead to the hall and other rooms. My cordless phone works fine in all rooms and in the garden.Chris NashHenley-on-ThamesLimiting logoOver the past year, I have experienced three instances of DVDs bought in mainstream shops failing to play in my Hitachi DVD/VCR player. The films play without problems in my dual-format DVD writer on my PC, but this is hardly my preferred method for watching them.I checked through my collection (of about 200 films) and identified a common factor unique to these films: they all carry the Sony Pictures Home Entertainment logo. Checking the player's specs, I find it only supports the DVD format, presumably because so few films are produced in the DVD+ format that Sony espouses. I will not buy any more DVDs bearing the Sony logo and would suggest your readers consider doing the same.Simon OliverBlogbackIt is totally asinine that a major organisation like CNN or ABC can't figure out how to block a flippin' port on their firewalls so they end up getting servers shut down by a worm (Jack Schofield's column, August 25). If I were management there, I'd have a reward out for the head of the idiot that left those ports open.http://utterlyboring.com/Good observation from Gamesblog's Aleks Krotoski that people "don't play games because they don't see gaming as an asset to their self-image". It's hardly surprising when there aren't any counter-images of gamers: all the images and advertising I see for games are dark, hard, aggressive, serious and "masculine". It's a bit immature on the whole. Women refer to it as "playing" rather than "gaming". Many people play games, they are not "gamers". Come on, big up the play. Big up the fun. Use some irony and satire to undermine the "gamer".www.technogoggles.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Street wiseEvery UK householder wants to know about any nearby houses for sale, and especially, what's the asking price? The Assanka team is now making it easy to find out, by combining property sales information with Google Maps. Type your postcode into the OnOneMap site and it plonks down a bunch of little red houses then, eventually, sticks a street map underneath. Click on a house and you usually get a photo and the price; click View and you get the estate agent's blurb. The site claims to list more than half the homes for sale in England, Scotland and Wales, and it's aiming for 80%. There are some minor problems, such as houses not showing up because they are too close together, or the same house appearing twice.http://ononemap.comCity scapeWouldn't it be nice if OnOneMap also offered street-level views so that you could virtually walk down the road where you hope to buy, or look at a building you plan to visit? Oddly enough, that's something Amazon is thinking about. It's A9 search engine has just started offering street-level views of business addresses in some of America's largest cities, including New York and San Francisco. Type in an intersection &#91;Broadway and 46th, New York, NY&#93; or zip code &#91;CA 94111-2725&#93; and you get a little filmstrip of views, if available. Many of the pictures are pretty dreadful, with buildings obscured by cars, trucks or buses, but getting a few million people to photograph their neighbourhoods could soon solve that.http://maps.a9.com/Food for thought"Over 60% of the human population now lives vertically in cities. The time has arrived for us to learn how to grow our food that way, too," says Dr Dickson Despommier's Vertical Farm site. Growing food in the middle of cities would feed more people, remove thousands of supermarket lorries from busy roads, and reprieve land that is being despoiled by industrial chemical-based farming.www.verticalfarm.comwww.hydroponics.comSaving faceWould you like to see your face on a magazine cover? It doesn't have to be your face, as it happens: it can be any picture published on the Flickr photo sharing website, and available in a large size. Magazine Cover Maker lets you choose a picture, write cover lines, and save the result. If you want to see what other people have created, there are more than 850 examples in the Flickr magazine coverpool.http://flagrantdisregard.com/flickr/magazine.phphttp://flickr.com/groups/magazinecover/pool/Cover storyIf you are not keen on magazines, there's a site that will translate text into a Coldplay X&amp;Y-style graphic. Brendan Houle, who created it, says the album's liner notes provide a chart of the code used to write X&amp;Y on the cover, and his JavaScript routine follows that.http://homepage.mac.com/wysz/xy/coldcode.htmlReel worldMicrosoft UK has launched a Thought Thieves site as part of a short-film competition "about how intellectual property theft affects both individuals and society". That has now closed, but US-based Thought-thieves.org has responded with its own film competition "about big companies stealing and profiting from the knowledge commons". The deadline is September 16, and the best films - decided by popular vote - will be screened in Tunis, Geneva and London.http://thought-thieves.org/www.msn.co.uk/thoughtthieves/Timely remindersThere's no shortage of reminder sites that will send you an email so you don't miss an appointment or a loved one's birthday - the Open Directory lists about 35 examples, and some e-card sites also offer the service. There are a few British ones, such as Datereminder and Dates2remember. Now there's another, DontBeAPlonker, which also includes e-cards and a gift shop. It is more commercial than the MemoToMe and AnyReminder sites, but may have more local appeal.www.dontbeaplonker.com/www.google.com/Top/Computerswww.datereminder.co.uk/www.dates2remember.co.uk/www.memotome.comhttp://anyreminder.com/Six of the best - essentialsGooglewww.google.comAmazonwww.amazon.co.ukeBaywww.ebay.co.ukWikipediawww.wikipedia.orgEngadgetwww.engadget.comThe Internet Movie Databasewww.imdb.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Shops were opened after the stroke of midnight this morning to satisfy the latest consumer craze - only this time the pretext was not a new Harry Potter book but the UK launch of Sony's PlayStation Portable, the most iconic consumer product since the iPod music player.Sony expects to sell at least a million hand-held PSPs in the UK by Christmas which, at &pound;179 a time, will by itself give a mild fillip to the sagging retail sales figures. The PSP is a masterpiece of micro-miniaturisation, enabling users not only to enjoy computer games, but also to play music, watch films or browse the internet through a wireless connection. It marks the latest stage in a cultural revolution that has seen entertainment migrate from outside (cinemas and concerts) into the home (TV sets and music players) and now on to people themselves as they move around. A typical PSP buyer might already have an iPod, a mobile phone and a watch and will now add a fourth device, at least temporarily.The battle of the hand-helds has reached a decisive stage. Apple and Motorola (the largest mobile phone company after Nokia) are about to launch a phone with many of the characteristics of an iPod. This may persuade users to have one rather than two devices. But other mobile manufacturers are not sitting still. Most of the new generation of "smart" phones will store and play music, though not with the storage and quality demanded by the iPod generation. Later this year Nokia launches a phone with enough music storage to provide serious competition for the iPod.Meanwhile, the success of the PSP will partly depend on whether users carry it around during the day and use it as their main source of music. Curiously, while it sports an array of facilities, the PSP does not have a phone (maybe to avoid treading on the heels of Sony's associated phone company, Sony-Ericsson). But the search for a single device that will squeeze out all the others may prove illusory. After all, nearly all phones have clocks yet the vast majority of people still keep their watches. Some old technologies are simply too difficult to dislodge.
It's always hard for people to know when to adopt new technologies, but 10 years ago, Gartner researcher Jackie Fenn developed a model that can help. In an industry that's awash with hype, it's no surprise she called it the hype cycle, and Gartner has published 68 of them this year, covering a wide range of markets.What won't surprise Online readers is that the 2005 Hype Cycle for Emerging Technologies includes podcasting, desktop search, wikis and similar developments. However, the key questions are how far they have progressed, and how quickly they are progressing.The hype cycle model tracks each emerging technology through five stages, using terminology reminiscent of John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. It starts with a Technology Trigger - usually the development breakthrough or product launch that makes an idea interesting. That gets the attention of the media, analysts, conference organisers etc and the new idea's potential is enthusiastically explored, leading to a Peak of Inflated Expectations. This is the top of the hype cycle.Having failed to live up to inflated expectations, disillusion sets in, and the technology becomes unfashionable. The press, having overhyped it, knocks it for being overhyped, and it descends into the Trough of Disillusionment. It sounds bad, but this is when good ideas, and good products, start to pull through. Organisations that have what Gartner calls "a true understanding of the technology's applicability, risks and benefits" are developing and implementing real applications, and it starts to climb the Slope of Enlightenment. In more traditional language, this is when products are growing to maturity.Once the real-world benefits of the technology have been demonstrated, of course, then widespread adoption follows, and we reach the final stage: the Plateau of Productivity. The risks are small and the benefits are obvious, so sales can grow rapidly.The problem for companies is that they can invest too early, in response to the hype, and then miss things that are in the trough, according to Gartner's research vice president Alexander Linden. He says: "It's less a matter of don't believe the hype and more a case of do believe the hype, but only in the wider context of the market place, potential applications and ultimately the relevance to your business today and tomorrow."In the latest ET hype cycle, podcasting is still climbing in visibility, while biometric identity documents have reached the peak of inflated expectations. Linux on the desktop, corporate blogging and wikis have passed this peak, and are on their way into the trough of disillusionment. At the bottom of the trough, Gartner has put internet micropayments, the Tablet PC and RFID. However, handwriting recognition, location-aware applications and VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) are climbing towards the plateau of productivity.Evaluating and positioning technologies causes long arguments, both inside Gartner and outside. Views differ. At least the hype cycle provides a useful framework for discussion.The emerging applications are in mobile environments, such as rental companies checking cars in and out, and for sales people visiting customers such as doctors. Linden says the Tablet PC form factor gives you a much more socially acceptable way of entering data - by writing on a flat screen, as opposed to typing, where the raised screen becomes a barrier.What excites Linden for the future is the appearance of what Gartner calls networked collective intelligence. This is already being exploited in some areas, such as the Wikipedia encyclopedia, citizen journalism and podcasting. Linden compares it to grid computing where users contribute spare processor cycles to do calculations to search for extra-terrestrial intelligence (the SETI@home project) or whatever. "With networked collective intelligence," he says, "they contribute their own brain cycles."As well as Wikipedia, there's the Open Directory Project, which is creating a Yahoo-style directory, people tagging spam for Cloudmark and tagging pictures at Flickr, and Nasa's "clickworkers" experiment in volunteer science. "It's one of the biggest things Gartner is analysing at the moment," says Linden.Networked collective intelligence is associated with the development of several kinds of social software, including wikis, blogs and podcasts that exploit RSS (Really Simple Syndication) systems."Another biggie" will be the emergence of the corporate semantic web, says Linden. The semantic web, conceived by the web's inventor, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, is about making data accessible to computers in a usable form, which it isn't when it's simply displayed on web pages. It's still in its infancy. Linden says: "In the next two to five years, people will realise the potential of this idea and start doing something about it."Gartner's Hype Cycle Special Report for 2005 &#91;PDF&#93;www.gartner.com/resourcesHype Cycle 2005www.gartner.com/pressDefining collective intelligencewww.community-intelligence.comNasa Clickworkershttp://clickworkers.arc.nasa.gov/
Last Wednesday, Google Talk got about as much publicity as an English cricket victory. The Evening Standard put out placards about it, and Google's own news service rapidly clocked up almost 650 items.The search giant is offering free phone calls, screamed the headlines. And it is true, more or less. The Google Talk program is simple, and it works. Download it, and you can make voice calls on your computer.Of course, you already could make calls on your PC. We've explained how to do it on these pages before, and three million people are using the Voice over Internet Protocol service Skype. Still others use services like VoipBuster. But a lot more people don't use internet phone services: they don't trust them, and they think they are too technical.Google is probably the best known and most trusted name on the web, so the arrival of Google Talk could persuade a lot more people to give internet phone calls a spin.For many, however, it will be the wrong thing to use, because it isn't actually a phone service. Technically, it is an instant messaging (IM) service with voice capabilities - more like MSN Messenger or Yahoo IM than Skype. But it will get people talking online.There is a lot of good in Google Talk. The software is compact and simple. It downloads and installs in a twinkling, and has great sound quality. It has had no problems with an array of hardware. If you have a Windows (XP or 2000) PC with a microphone and speakers that work, you are in business.But before you can download it, there's one hurdle: you need an account with Google's free email service, Gmail. The service, launched a year ago to complete with the likes of Hotmail, gives you a whopping 2GB of storage, and an "@gmail.com" address. Many people use Gmail as their main email account.In the US, you can get a Gmail account by sending a text message to a specified number. Elsewhere, you have to rely on invitations from existing Gmail users. If you know someone with a Gmail address, ask them. If not, go straight to Skype or VoipBuster for internet phone calls.If you have a Gmail account, adding Google Talk is easy. Download it fromhttp://talk.google.com. At less than 1MB, it's very quick and installs in no time.The Google Talk window is simple and uncluttered. It shows the people you can call, and that's about it. Other IM services, such as AOL's, flood you with annoying advertising.To start a call, open a chat window and click a Call button. If the sound doesn't work, type text messages.Google's investment in sound quality has paid off. My first call was to a colleague with a top-quality Plantronics headset, and I could hear every note of the classical radio station he had on in the background.Subsequently, another colleague and I abandoned a poor-quality Skype call, and instantly got a crystal clear Google Talk call. Only once or twice did I experience the echo effect common on internet phone services.But then I ran up against Google Talk's biggest problem: who to call? It only works between Gmail users who have Google Talk. To get more people to talk to, you have to persuade them to get a Gmail account, and install Google Talk.The service's raison d' &ecirc;tre may simply be to persuade more people to use Gmail, where every message is accompanied by discreetly targeted adverts. All my messages that mention Google Talk have adverts for Plantronics headsets (which are going for &pound;17.99 and up on Amazon).It's nice to have clear, free calls to a limited number of people, but Google Talk won't let me dial a call to a real phone. With a true internet phone service, such as Skype or Voipbuster, I can buy credit for outgoing calls and dial real phone numbers. I have a phone number for incoming calls, and I have voicemail. I can even use a regular phone instead of a PC headset, by plugging in a device such as ActionTech's Phone Wizard.Google Talk's IM also omits a vast list of features that are available elsewhere. It won't let you set up group chats or chatrooms, it won't share files, it doesn't do video chat, and it doesn't do encrypted chat or voice. Although you must have Gmail, the two are not well integrated - you can launch a Gmail message from Google Talk, but not the other way round.And, astonishingly, Google Talk doesn't log and index text chats. So the company whose stated aim is to "organise the world's information" has the only major IM service that can't be searched by its own Google Desktop product.The Google Talk client won't run on mobile devices, or any non-Windows platform. Google supports the open "Jabber" protocol, so users on Linux and the Mac can connect with software like Gaim and Adium. However, you can't do voice chats unless you are running the Google Talk client.If you have friends on Gmail, then install Google Talk. But your PC can do more: why not get a real internet phone service as well?
Local linksLocal authorities are on target to become 100% web-enabled by the end of the year, says Jim Fitzpatrick, the Local e-Government minister. Returns for the Implementing Electronic Government report from all of the authorities in England show great improvement. In March 2002, only 26% of services were live on the internet compared with 77% in March this year. By the end of September, 93% will be "at 'amber' or 'green' for implementation". Improvements have resulted in &pound;115m in efficiency gains in 2004-05, Fitzpatrick claims. This will rise to &pound;277m in 2005-06.www.odpm.gov.ukConsumer checkOnline shopping damage-limitation is being investigated by Permanent TSB using a disposable credit card. The card will have a preset credit limit and a unique card number; after use, it can be thrown away without risking security. Initially, the trial will target Irish consumers because two-thirds of the population lack conventional credit cards. The cards will be sold in shops. If it proves successful, the service will be made available in the UK and Europe. The Association for Payment Clearing Services (APacs) claims that online fraud accounts for &pound;117m per year.File protectionIBM should be the first major player to offer instant data protection for computers and laptops. Tivoli Continuous Data Protection for Files offers an alternative to taking periodic snapshots of files by saving only the file changes. These backups occupy less space and generate less network traffic when a backup is sent to a server. The technique was pioneered by Revivio, which released a product last year. Symantec Veritas is not far behind IBM, and expects to release its Panther beta as a product within the next few months. The IBM Tivoli package will be available by September 16.www-306.ibm.comStorage facilityMicrosoft is beta testing the WinFS (Future Storage) subsystem originally planned for inclusion in Vista, the next version of Windows. WinFS is a major revamp of the way Windows handles files: it stores metadata instead of simple filenames. This allows for more powerful and more flexible searches than the underlying NTFS file system. The beta is only available to subscribers to the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN), and the company says that it will allow users to see how it could be used within their current applications. WinFS only runs as an add-on to Windows XP rather than as an integral part of Vista, which is due for release next year.http://msdn.microsoft.comSoftware managerLenovo is making a bid for a corporate market presence by consolidating its PC management software. The company is using a LAN Desk interface to bring together its own ThinkVantage Technologies as an integrated management suite under a single interface. ThinkVantage offers password management, file encryption, and backup and recovery capabilities. This will be expanded using Lenovo's new ThinkPlus Service, which focuses on deployment with imaging support to make it easier for companies to roll out PCs. Utimaco SafeGuard PrivateDisk encryption has been added to allow ThinkPad notebook and ThinkCentre desktop users to create a secure data area on their disk drives.www.pc.ibm.com/europe/Hack attackAruba Networks claims it has beaten the hackers. The company provided the wireless networking for the DefCon and Black Hat security conferences in Las Vegas, which attract many of the world's leading hackers as well as security professionals. Those attending were encouraged to break the system, but Aruba survived roughly 535 Man-in-the-Middle attacks, 200 denial of service attacks, 270 rogue wireless access points and 2,090 MAC spoofing attempts, plus numerous impersonation attacks, IP spoofing, and syn floods.www.arubanetworks.comMail upgradeYahoo has started to roll out a dramatically improved search system for Yahoo Mail users, starting in the US. It can now search inside attachments, and the results show "snippets" or brief excerpts highlighting search content. Users can also see thumbnails of all the pictures and documents saved in their mailbox. Google raised the bar for mail search last year with the launch of Gmail, and Yahoo is now fighting back.
The Pentium is dead: long live the Pentium. Intel's chief executive, Paul Ottelini, unveiled the company's new road map for processors at the Intel Developer Forum at the Moscone Conference Centre, San Francisco, last week, and, as expected, the venerable Pentium family is getting a revamp for a high-speed, low-power future.It's a future that depends on a new micro-architecture - one that will support everything from laptops to servers - along with a new class of devices that Intel is calling "handtops".Ottelini's theme was delivering more power while using less power. Portable PCs need to use less power to provide the eight-hour battery life Intel is promising for 2008. Servers need to use low power chips to cram more processing power into ever smaller cases without them over-heating, or costing more to run than to buy. And with energy prices climbing, it also makes economic sense to save electricity.Intel is promising notebook PCs that, next year, will use no more than 5W, desktops at 65W, and servers at 80W. By the end of the decade, it's hoping for portable PCs that consume just half a watt. These "handtops" will weigh less than a pound and have 5in screens and an all-day battery life, much like the Haiku prototype Microsoft unveiled at the WinHEC Windows Hardware Engineering conference in May.Although not much bigger than PDAs, handtops will be full PCs running Windows XP - rather like the pricey OQO. Built-in WiMax will provide wireless connectivity. Intel expects the first handtops to appear by the second half of next year, though these won't be all-day low-power systems.These are among the benefits touted for Intel's new micro-architecture, which focuses on processing power per watt, rather than raw performance. In the past, Intel has produced chip sets optimised for three markets: mobile, desktop and server. Only mobile processors needed to be low power, while desktops are aimed at performance.Today, laptops outsell desktops, and users need better performance on the move. Also, rising energy costs mean low-power PCs are increasingly attractive at work and at home.But Intel isn't starting from scratch: it is bringing together features from its existing Pentium 4 NetBurst and Banias (Centrino) architectures. The new chips will have the same "Ts" as the current generation of desktop and server processors, alongside mobile processor power optimisations. The "Ts" provide a range of extra features, from chip-level virtualisation to onboard management tools. For example, the VT chip-level virtualisation technologies will make it easier for virtual machine software such as VMWare, Xen or Microsoft Virtual Server to host and manage operating systems, while AMT's active management can be used to monitor PCs and servers, keeping them secure and up to date.Intel also has decided the future is going to be multi-core, with more than one processing element on each chip. By 2007, it expects to ship nothing but multi-core processors to server and workstations customers, and predicts they will be used in more than 90% of desktops and notebooks. Today's single-core chips will survive only in the cheapest desktops and laptops.Intel now has 15 multi-core projects under way. All its next generation of processors will be at least dual core, even for mobile machines. Pentium D and Extreme Edition dual-core systems are already shipping. The server processors, code-named Paxville, will be here by the end of the year, with the mobile Yonah processor following early next year.Sossaman, a Yonah derivative, will bring multi-core to low-power servers - especially blade systems. (Lower power blades will make it possible to increase data centre density, without generating more heat.) A family of four-core devices, codenamed Whitefield, is also due to be launched in 2007.Yonah (Pentium M) chips will drive next year's laptops until they're replaced by even more efficient Merom chips in the second half of the year. These don't use less power than current chips when running at full speed, but Intel promises they'll deliver two or three times the performance for the same amount of current. Also, any part of the chip that isn't actually doing anything gets turned off to save power. As part of its Napa mobile platform, Intel is also promising longer battery life, better graphics and Wi-Fi improvements.Built-in software will look at what you're doing. For example, if you're watching a DVD and there isn't enough battery power to play the whole disc, the system will turn down the backlight enough to get you to the end of the film. The graphics in Napa, code-named Calistoga, also include the facility to plug your laptop into a TV, and can smooth out the jagged edges on video recorded from TV.Napa notebooks will have three flavours of Wi-Fi (a/b/g), and instead of connecting to the network with the strongest signal will automatically choose the access point that will provide the best bandwidth. If you're using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) via a Wi-Fi connection, your phone call gets priority ... as long as the access point supports the same Quality of Service standards that Intel is using.These improvements reflect a world where chips have to do more to earn their keep. Power has to mean what you can do with a PC, not what it takes to keep it running.&#183;Mary Branscombe attended IDF as a guest of IntelThe Viiv vibeIntel has launched a new brand for PCs for digital homes. Viiv (pronounced "vive") signifies a PC with a dual-core processor, Windows XP Media Center Edition with remote control, plus an integrated media server that converts files automatically so you can watch content from your PC on your TV. The idea is to make it easier to pick a PC with the right components for home entertainment. Expect the Viiv branding to appear on PCs early next year.Developing worldPersonal computers are designed for a world of clean power and an always-on internet - which are hard to find in the developing world. Intel used IDF to demonstrate PCs that can cope with poor power supplies, while recovering automatically from problems just by pressing a button. It also showed a research project that has developed a store-and-forward method of internet networking that copes with intermittent connectivity. This could link villages with the rest of world, helping with things such as telemedicine.Digital healthcareSensor networks that keep an eye on elderly patients at home sound like science fiction but Intel hopes they will save money by enabling people to live at home for longer. More prosaically, Intel is working to solve the problem of linking medical equipment by helping define open standards for interfaces. But the biggest difference to health could come from a common format for medical records, so that they can follow you from doctor to doctor, and from home to hospital and back.Power on the moveOne way to get longer battery life is to develop processors that use less power. Another is to improve battery technology. Exotic ideas such as fuel cells are on the way, but Intel showed a new battery from Panasonic (on sale next year) that adds nickel to Lithium Ion to get 30% longer battery life. Intel Research is also experimenting with replacing inefficient voltage regulators with a system that responds to falling power requirements, and this could extend battery life by another 15-30%.Getting connectedArguments about technology mean we won't see the faster 802.11n Wi-Fi standard decided until the end of next year. The good news is a bandwidth of 100Mbps with fewer "dead spots" in the average building. Intel is also working on a proposed standard for mesh networks over Wi-Fi, and is hoping to revive HomePlug - which carries Ethernet over the mains - for home networking. Current WiMax trials include rural broadband in Canada, the canal network in Rotterdam and Intel's factory in China.
What's your involvement with the PSP Amaze Me project?Having been interested in identities, I've asked people to come and show me, without using words, something about their identity. I'm looking to be intrigued by how people present their identity as if they were doing it to an alien. By opening with SHOWStudio, it's like an extension of what we do with the magazine. The installation will be at Comme des Garcons, Dover Street Market, London from September 5 to 30.Is the internet a good showcase?It's not a final solution; it's part of a process. It's a bit like how the telephone was a major step in communicating and now you can use the internet - I have a camera above my Mac so if I want to have a dialogue with my son in New York or see my granddaughter in LA, I can use iChat, which is like science-fiction. It's not the same as a physical print you can carry around with you, but it's one of the new processes of communicating. It then needs an editing process.Is it a problem that all the information out there needs editing?Brain-scrambling has made the role of things like magazines even more important because if, as a physical product, we have something that's edited, then you have a different process of digesting it - that's the strength of it. The two have interlinking roles, which we're keen to explore in the future.Is that where the downloadable e-Dition of your magazine comes in?We wanted a digitised version of the magazine (www.i-dmagazine.com) so that if you were somewhere where it was impossible to get a physical copy, then you can download or view the magazine online. People are plugging in but I think people still want the hardcopy so they can archive it.Where do magazines go in the digital age?There's going to be different kinds of magazines - those that are information-based are obviously having to change. It's going to depend on consumer preference. I don't want to spend hours sitting in front of a computer screen, but everyone I have working for me spends their working day at them. It's maybe generational. The print magazine has a validity in its own right that's physical and can't be replaced.Where do you stand on usability versus aesthetics?The principle with our site is that we're still putting the plumbing in. We've spent five years doing that. What's interesting with Nick Knight is that SHOWStudio did it the other way around, with high-end art projects and design &#91;at the start&#93; and now he's coming back to a more instant feeling. The future will be something between the two.How do you feel about blogging?I'm interested - the way the BBC has used bloggers is really interesting. With iD, all our funds go into producing the magazine. When someone gives us extra funding, I think we'll explore it. People are becoming used to getting free information, and what we've tried to do is raise the quality of what one can produce in print that you can't get online.Terry Jones's bookmarkswww.apple.com/macosx/features/ichatwww.i-escape.comwww.showstudio.comVisit:www.i-dmagazine.comandwww.showstudio.com/pspamazeme&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
As befits an item that has been hyped since last year as the must-have gadget of 2005 - despite the fact that two-thirds of the year have elapsed before it reached UK shops today - Sony's PlayStation Portable is about more than mere videogames.Its large, crisp and contrasty screen is ideal for displaying movies, it can play MP3s and is even equipped with Wi-Fi. But can it challenge Apple's iPod to be the nation's favourite mobile entertainment device?The answer to that would have to be "No". While the PSP's multimedia capabilities are decent and, in the case of video playback, exceptionally good, it takes an &uuml;ber-geek with plenty of time and patience to unlock them. Frustratingly, at every turn the PSP provides evidence of why Sony, even with its valuable and much-loved Walkman brand, consistently fails to come up with an MP3 player that can challenge the iPod. And, worse, it constantly reminds you of Sony's arrogant insistence on retaining control over proprietary file formats that no other manufacturer would dream of supporting.That said, the PSP is a mighty fine movie playback device. At the time of the UK launch, you can buy 32 movies on the machine's Universal Media Disk (UMD) format, including Spider-Man 2, Hitch-Hikers Guide to the Galaxy, xXx, Alien and Sin City. UMD movies operate just like DVDs - pop them in your PSP and they will launch automatically; you can fast-forward to scenes and so on.You have to fiddle around in the video settings if you want to hear sound through the speaker, but it makes more sense to employ the PSP's headphones. Visually, playback from UMD movies is stunning. Considering its size, when viewed as a movie playback device, the PSP is among the best on the market.But are we really going to re-buy our entire DVD collections on UMD, just so we can watch them on our PSPs? Sony has been crowing about how well UMD movies have sold in the US, but we won't take to them so enthusiastically over here - especially at the rather steep price of &pound;19.99 each. No other nation is as movie-obsessed as America, where home cinema set-ups are the norm rather than the exception.Fortunately, it is possible to rip the home movies you already own onto Memory Sticks for playback on the PSP. There is a free encoding software package specifically designed for the PSP, called PSP Video 9, available fromwww.pspvideo9.com/. This works well, offering decent control over bit-rate and therefore the quality versus compression trade-off. Crucially, it will also automatically create the arcane folders required on your Memory Stick in order to let your PSP know that it has video files on it. Sony makes a similar program called Image Converter 2 but, cheekily, will charge you $20 for it.It is well worth trawling the web for all the PSP support software you can find, because the PSP's firmware (essentially its hardware-stored operating system) is pretty dire. It is over-basic, clunky and unfriendly. The main problem is that it lacks basic file structure, so you have to create precisely named folders and sub-folders for video, audio and still photography on every Memory Stick that you insert into it - otherwise, it will not be aware that those files exist.Although applications like PSP Video 9 will automate that process, getting any files on to a virgin PSP involves much use of the manual. Sony refuses to learn the lesson that ease of use is paramount in consumer multimedia devices, as taught so eloquently by the iPod.Sony has missed another trick: one rival handheld device, the Gizmondo, has a dedicated, automated music download service, which the PSP glaringly lacks. The company may initiate one at some point - for details, keep your eye on the official website,www.yourpsp.comThere is light at the end of the tunnel, though: once you connect your PSP to your wireless network or connect it to a computer, you can automatically download firmware updates. The PSP hooked up to my network without any fuss, bringing up the possibility of web browsing. Again, the PSP's browser is pretty basic, and hamstrung by a text message-style soft keyboard - but it works. Keen browsers should invest in portable keyboards for their PSPs.The PSP's video, photography and audio playback applications support the most popular file formats, such as MP3, MPeg4 (not AVI) and JPeg.Storage is a slight issue. Memory Stick is the most expensive and confusing form of Flash memory - it comes in several flavours and shapes, and a 1GB Memory Stick will cost at least &pound;70, compared with &pound;45 for the equivalent Compact Flash or SD Card. And a 1GB card is essential for anyone with a PSP - you could just about squeeze two movies on to one.While the PSP has multimedia capabilities, which vary from adequate to exceptional, unlocking those capabilities is much more fiddly than it ought to be. Firmware updates and improvements to the currently uncommunicative Your PSP website will help, but Apple executives won't be losing any sleep over this launch.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
