Dave Winer has posted an interestingpieceon his DaveNet site about website archives. He mentions the BBC and Guardian as both having intact archives of what's appeared on our respective sites over the years - we had a briefexchangeearlier today about the Guardian's uniqueownership structure.On the matter of charging for archives, he cites the New York Times as having an archive system that's "good enough". The NYT charges for its archives - except when the reader looks at the archive via an RSS feed (provided in partnership with Winer's company, Userland).That's well and good, and I suppose the NYT deserves praise for not sticking up the shutters completely. But I'd disagree with his analysis that this is an arrangement other publications might want to follow. For all but a very few publications, charging for archived content will mean many researchers - and readers - look elsewhere when they want to look back. Business titles and academic journals might fare better than generalist newspapers, but even if newspapers can make money from archives, it's not necessarily a good idea to do so.Charging means a title's heritage - the reputation formed over weeks and years that has readers coming back for more today - is lost behind a credit card form. It opts out (at least partially) of being seen as a source for information it has already gathered, for being consulted on events it may have a unique perspective on. In return for what? The NY Times might argue its archive is "profitable", although such a term is pretty loose and impossible to properly measure without detailed knowledge of how that statement is arrived at. What costs get counted against the archive revenues, for instance? Server costs? Staff costs? The costs of creating the story in the first place?Besides, it misses the point: news media makes money from getting information (and advertising) out to readers, fast. I've a hunch that, as technology develops, new delivery mechanisms - and systems to add new bells and whistles to what's delivered - will be the things that drive revenues - not archives.
BT is abandoning attempts to lure high-speed internet customers with its own content and services and is merging its much-criticised Openworld service into a new venture with Yahoo!.Six months after the BT chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, said he was "firmly committed to the future of BT Openworld," the former telecoms monopoly said it was folding Openworld into a new endeavour called BT Yahoo!.The move is likely to anger commercial rivals, who  have criticised BT on issues such as predatory pricing and prevaricating the roll-out of "broadband Britain".Under the terms of the pact, BT will provide the high-speed lines needed to get the internet and broadband, in addition to controlling areas such as customer service and billing. Yahoo!, meanwhile, will provide a range of services and content "not available elsewhere" on the internet, the two companies claimed.Despite a major advertising push in February and price cuts a month later, BT has struggled to make Openworld pay. Earlier this year BT's new chief broadband officer, Alison Ritchie, said Openworld was profitable in terms of narrowband customers, but not in terms of broadband subscribers.Known by disaffected customers - and some BT insiders - as "BT Openwoe", the service has been dogged by accusations of poor service. Last December Openworld was mauled by telecoms watchdog Oftel after attracting the highest number of complaints of any ISP.In a bid to win more broadband subscribers, BT launched a range of services aimed at gamers, music fans and sports aficionados, but they were moved into the BT Retail division at the end of last year.Despite BT Openworld's chequered history, the two companies said they were confident the new venture would prove attractive to subscribers.The managing director of BT Openworld, Duncan Ingram, claimed BT Yahoo! broadband will offer a "vastly superior customer experience," while Terry Semel, the chairman and chief executive of Yahoo!, said the combination of the two companies would "help drive increased DSL adoption in the UK".BT chief Mr Verwaayen has called for BT to hit a target of 5 million broadband subscribers by 2005. It currently has just over 1 million.BT Yahoo! is due to launch to new customers in September while existing Openworld subscribers will be phased across to the new service.&#183;To give MediaGuardian a story emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Interestingnewstoday that BT is partnering with Yahoo! to sell broadband services, dropping its Openworld brand. Essentially, BT goes back to doing what telcos do best - providing pipes - while Yahoo! provides the content. BT's long been edging this way, and it's a sensible move for them. It remains to be seen, IMHO, if people really want premium content bundled with their internet access (just ask AOL) - there are lots of "free" benefits to broadband outside these packages.It also creates a conundrum for BT's telco rivals - do they attempt to follow BT/Yahoo down the pipesandcontent route, or do they attempt to compete only on the pipes? The former is an expensive, tricky option; the latter is OK if you own your own networks, but price competition is sure to become increasingly tough there. Has thereeverbeen a good time to be an internet service provider?
Big Brother on the telly, sweaty trips on the tube, streaming faces from the grass pollen, Wimbledon fortnight approaching: yes, it's the height of an English summer - just the time for John Lewis to invite us to its Christmas 2003 preview on July 9th...
"The people blamed for incentivizing companies to repurpose, build mindshare and utilize change agents have taken aim at their own lingo," saysThe New York Times[free reg req'd]. It says Deloitte Consulting has developed a free program,Bullfighter, to identify jargon in documents..... It's "a future-proof asset that seamlessly empowers your mission critical enterprise communications," as the site, wittily, says.
I thought Who Remembers Me (in Web watch) had an amusing URL --http://www.whoremembersme.com/-- in accidentally incorporating whore members, but this pales before the URL used by Powergen's Italian company,http://www.powergenitalia.com/Thanks to the currentNTK#294 for the link.
In a piece in theOnline Journalism ReviewNick Denton, the acceptable face of commercial blogging (as opposed toTony Perkins, it seems) suggests he might be considering weblog launches in LA and London. That might surprise those who read histhoughtsearlier this year on the English capital - "Occasionally, London plays to stereotype, and there is no use pretending it's a hip happening place... the only A-list celebrity to move east across the Atlantic -- Madonna -- has had enough of the weather. She's back in LA". I wonder if we can expect Nick to reverse the unhappy trend? ;-)
"Microsoft Corp. said Friday it will no longer develop versions of its popular Web-browsing software for Apple Computer's Macintosh system, saying Apple's own browsing software is a logical choice for Mac users," reports AP. "Sommers said Apple is in a better position to create a browser with more features and that offers a smoother experience because "Apple has access to functionality in the (operating system) that Microsoft doesn't." ... It's a complaint that has been leveled at Microsoft in the past by outside software vendors, who said Microsoft's access to its underlying code gave it an inside track on making its own add-on products run more smoothly than others."
I agree that spam is a complex issue for internet service providers (ISPs), legislators and regulators (You've got spam, June 13). And I also agree that ISPs should not become the custodians of free speech. There is a strong case for email filtering, but a heavy-handed approach risks blocking legitimate mail. Anti-spam blacklists run the risk of punishing the innocent and a levy on all email to create a cost barrier to would-be spammers defeats the purpose of email as a fast and inexpensive way to communicate - why tax all users to deter a small but persistent minority? The best way to fight spam is for the ISP to divert it to a separate inbox that is easily accessible to the user. It can be kept in this holding tank for 15 days or so before it is automatically deleted. If users want to wade through the latest offers for Viagra, inkjet cartridges and Russian marriage proposals, then who are we to stop them? What we can do is ensure this deluge of spam doesn't bury their personal email.Duncan IngramManaging director, BT Openworld&#183;I used your "send it to a friend" email facility to forward Victor Keegan's article to a colleague. His reaction? "Stop sending me spam"!Ian d'AltonNaas, Co Kildare
A group of middle-aged engineers popping champagne corks and taking photos in the New Jersey suburb of Piscataway might not sound like 'hold the front page' headline news.But bubbly and snapshots are a ritual undertaken by boardmembers at the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) to celebrate the finalisation of a new standard. Earlier this week, they delivered news both PC and consumer electronics manufacturers had been hankering for. After two years of discussions, a new wireless standard, 802.11g, has finally been ratified.Until recently the dominant wireless standard was 802.11b. Businesses, and indeed an increasing number of consumers, bought equipment that used the standard to create a wireless system in which they could share a broadband Internet connection, and data and entertainment files between several computers.But despite its popularity, the 802.11b standard has one fairly significant flaw. Its transfer rate is quoted as a maximum of just 11mbp/sec, and its real world data transfer figures are nowhere near that figure. While 802.11b has proved ideal for web surfing and streaming MP3/Windows Media Audio music files, it isn't fast enough to cope with high quality video files. Systems can stream compressed video (using standards like MPEG4) from one PC to another, but the quality was far short of what consumers had come to expect from DVD.The buzz surrounding 802.11g is because many in the computing industry believe the format will be the vehicle by which the cable-free home of the future becomes a reality.Everyone from Microsoft to Sony is currently working to a roadmap that is centred around the concept of the wireless home. They believe a server (powerful PC with a high storage capacity hard disk), will stream content such as audio, data (the Internet, e-mail and video) to a number of screens and devices in the home.802.11g uses the same frequency as its predecessor - 2.4Ghz - and is backward compatible with it. So you could, for example, have a laptop with 802,11b cards running off an 802.11g system. But where the new standard really scores is that it offers significantly faster data transfer speeds. The format's maximum speed is 54mbp/sec, and though its true speed is likely to be 20mbp/sec or even less, that should still be enough to deliver higher quality video. Some manufacturers such as US Robotics have already applied their own systems to the format, upping the speeds to figures of more like 100mbp/sec.In reality, 802.11g systems that adhered to a draft version of the format have been available since the end of last year. Apple's Airport Extreme uses the system, while companies like Linksys and Belkin have been very successful with their 802.11g wireless access points and cards. Owners of these 802.11g products will need to add firmware upgrades to their equipment to ensure it is compatible with the ratified version of the format.The ratification means the ball is now very much in the court of the consumer electronics manufacturers. Almost all the key players, including Sony, Philips, Panasonic and Toshiba, have displayed prototypes of video streaming equipment. Yet they have held back from launching, apparently until the standards issue was resolved.At a press conference in Holland this week, Philips paraded the latest version of its Streamium - essentially a hi-fi micro system that connects via a cable to a PC so that MP3 tracks and internet radio stations can be heard in another room. Only this time, the Streamium MX-i6000 has wireless functionality built in, and is capable of video streaming, either via the web or from a PC's hard disk. Those videos can be displayed on any TV, not just Plasma or LCD screens.Designed to be sited next to a TV, Plasma or LCD screen, the unit also sports a DVD player and Dolby Digital surround sound. In Holland Philips displayed compressed MPEG1 quality video running over 802.11b, but at the IFA show in Berlin in August it will show MPEG2 standard (DVD quality) video streamed via 802.11g. The new Streamium is likely to be on sale in January 2004.Philips also unveiled the SL300i Streamium Linx - a video and audio streaming device without the MX-i6000's additional home cinema type facilities. The unit is upgradeable and when it goes on sale in November will work with either 802.11b or 802.11g systems.So the wireless confusion is finally over. Or is it? After polishing off their champagne, the IEEE board got back to the next item of their agenda - 802.11n, which promises data transfer speeds of up to 300mbp/sec. Given the snail-like progress of 802.11g though, don't expect it to arrive for at least a couple of years.
Nintendo has stirred up gamers and games importers by announcing that it is cracking down on the sale of its imported software and hardware.It is also demanding that companies selling US and Japanese Nintendo merchandise should hand over details of their suppliers."Nintendo has issued a cease and desist letter to a number of independent retailers," Nintendo Europe's head of PR, Shelly Friend, said in an interview with MCV magazine. "It rigorously protects its worldwide trademarks and, in doing so, ensures fair play in the market for all retailers."In the past, Nintendo has taken action against several retailers, including Computer Exchange (CEX) and TQ Games, for selling imported goods.The move seems draconian, as neither Microsoft nor Sony has ever taken such measures against importers."Nintendo has a long history of treating the European market poorly, with games being released over here much later than in Japan or the US," explains UK developer Kevin Clarke."Often, these are poor conversions, and sometimes the game is not released in Europe at all. Dedicated fans feel they have no choice but to buy imported consoles and games to guarantee that they don't suffer such delays or disappointment."Cracking down on importers is not the solution to this problem. Treating the European market as an equal to Japan and the US is."Nintendo's move means that gamers will no longer be able to get hold of popular titles such as Animal Crossing and Soul Calibur. These games have done very well in Japan, but have not been released in the UK yet.Animal Crossing was released in Japan more than 14 months ago, and the fact that it has still not reached these shores means that many UK players have had to resort to buying it from import shops, such as CEX, or importing it themselves, which can be costly.Mr Clarke's sentiments are echoed by Brian Baird, a programmer from Paradigm Entertainment. "The best way for Nintendo to prevent importing of their titles would be for them to get the games released over here faster, instead of waiting up to six months or not getting them at all," he said."Their strongarm tactics suggest that they completely misunderstand the market."&#183;Finding love online is not just confined to chatrooms and personal ads: you could run into the love of your life in a computer game.A survey called The Norrathian Scrolls: A Study of EverQuest, reported that 14.5% of female players and 3.3% of male players had formed real-life relationships with people they met during the game.Phantasy Star Online developers Sonic Team has taken things further with the announcement that, for a brief period of time, it will be installing an altar in one of the game's communal lobbies.While the Wedding March plays in the background, players will be able to tie the knot in a cyber ceremony, and even receive a digital marriage certificate from the developers. Who says romance is dead?Unfortunately, any digital divorces and pre-nuptials will have to be organised at the players' discretion.&#183;Crash Bandicoot competition winnersKevin Williamson (Harrow)Andrew Trevarrow (Heywood)Andy Leeke (Lancs)&#183;Top 10 games: all platforms(compiled by ELSPA)1) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.992) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.993) Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.994) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.995) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.996) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.997) Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Operation Resurrection (PS2) Activision - £39.998) Championship Manager 4 (PC) Eidos Interactive - £29.999) Midnight Club II (PS2) Take 2 - £39.9910) FIFA 2003 (PS2, XB,GBA, PL) Electronic Arts £34.99
"Muktidham crematorium's managers toldAFPFriday the facility was set up to enable friends and relations of the deceased in far off places to take part in the ceremony if they were unable to personally attend," says France's infinitive-splitting press agency.
"A long-awaited standard for wireless LANs that offers more carrying capacity than the current IEEE 802.11b specification while using the same frequencies has won final approval," reportsIDG News. People who have already bought systems that turn out to be non-standard should be able to get the upgraded. Comment: The numbers given for speed, of course, bear little relation to reality. The "54Mbps" claimed for 802.11g is more like 12Mbps (for a single user at 20m) compared with 3.5Mbps for 802.11b and 30Mbps for 802.11a. Remember, 802.11g is not a different technology, it is just 802.11b plus a crippled version of 802.11a that runs at the same radio frequency. In real life, 802.11a is still about 2.5x quicker .... and they are all a lot quicker than your retail BT ADSL at 0.5Mbps.
Tony Blair is one of the few public figures to avoid the curse of the information age - spam email. This is because, as was admitted this week, he has no email address. That is not a solution available to most people for whom email has become a necessity.Yet only six years ago, Andy Grove, chief executive of Intel, the microchip manufacturer, warned a stunned audience in Davos, Switzerland, that Europe was falling behind in the productivity race because use of email and the internet was only 20% of US levels.Not any more. Britain and   the rest of Europe have largely caught up and are suffering from an epidemic of emails. There have been gains in productivity - instant access to peers, instant decisions, and the ability to speedily send complicated documents and pictures. But these are in danger of being overwhelmed by the anxiety generated by hundreds of unopened emails, most of them junk, and the time it takes to get rid of them. And this is without counting the time wasted by employees emailing each other and friends. Emails now follow people home, extend work to weekends and negate the therapeutic value of holidays by piling up in their hundreds to await your return.Spam - named after the famous Monty Python sketch - looks set to account for half of all emails. According to the Radicati Group, a market research company, 14.5bn spam messages will be sent   each day this year (the equivalent of more than two for every person on the planet), rising to 58bn by 2007. This not only annoys recipients but also takes up valuable "bandwidth" on the internet.In the past six months the familiar diet of junk mail (clear your debts, take out a cheap mortgage, etc) has been joined by an avalanche of sex-related emails, including thrice-daily offers of Viagra or member enlargement, plus access to "horny" web cameras. For most people these are merely an irritant - but the messages are also received by children. A survey by Symantec, an internet security company, of 1,000 net users between seven and 18 years of age, showed that 47% had received emails with links to X-rated sites. Although 51% said they were annoyed by such mail, 38% did not tell their parents what they had seen and 22% said their parents never talked to   them about spam.What can be done? The logical reaction - to reply by asking to be taken off the emailing list - should be avoided at all costs. It simply tells the spammer that yours is a "live" email address and so worth exploiting further or selling to someone else. Super-spammers send up to half a billion messages a day. If only 100 recipients take the bait, it is worthwhile since emails cost next to nothing to output.Most computers come with filtering software that siphons messages that have been mass mailed (plus any unwanted addresses) into a separate folder. This can be viewed from time to time to see if anything worthwhile has slipped through.There are also companies such as Brightmail (www.brightmail.com)that sell counter-spamming software and voluntary movements such as Spamhaus (www.spamhaus.org)dedicated to eliminating the problem. But these approaches merely treat the symptoms, not the causes - the spammers themselves.The good news is that spam has become such a problem that politicians are waking up. The EU will have legislation in place by the end of the year under which bulk commercial emailers will be able to email only   those who have "opted in" to a mailing list. But that won't stop rogue operators who will merely move their operations offshore. In any case, Europe is responsible for less than 10% of offending emails.Spam is overwhelmingly an American phenomenon, or more correctly a Floridian one. Steve Linford, of Spamhaus, estimates that fewer than 150 spammers are   responsible for 90% of spam received in Europe and the US - and at least 40 are located in the Boca Raton area of Florida.After years of dilly- dallying, Congress is conducting hearings on the subject and several bills have been put forward. The trouble is that less than 5% of bills become law. But others are moving faster. The California senate passed a bill last month outlawing junk email, which will enable recipients of unauthorised messages to get state backing to sue for $500 for each "slice of spam" received.This week the US Federal Trade Commission asked Congress for controversial powers to secretly investigate senders of unauthorised mail and also to track down spammers who dispatch their wares across international borders. Orson Swindle, FTC commissioner, argues that "spam has become the weapon of   choice for those engaged in fraud and deception."In Britain, Derek Wyatt, chairman of the Commons all-party internet group, is holding a "spam summit" in London on July 1. He said yesterday that the problem would not be solved until a worldwide body was able to enforce the necessary changes. Others say that if charges were levied for email, spamming would no longer be economic and mass mailers would disappear. But such a move would be controversial- it goes against the free-to-all spirit of the web and would require radical changes in its infrastructure.It looks as though it will be some time before the problem is eliminated. Until then there is no alternative to palliative action. Unless, of course, we take a lead from the prime minister.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
British experts have found the first hard evidence that hundreds of thousands of computers were deliberately infected with viruses by spammers who used the machines to distribute pornography and junk mail.The Gloucester-based computer security firm MessageLabs established that a virus which was sent to up to 1 million computer users over two days last week was the work of a spammer trying to gain access to machines to distribute ads for websites carrying incest pornography.Internet security experts and anti-spam campaigners have suspected for some time that spammers would use viruses to access computers, but the MessageLabs investigation is the first conclusive proof.Matt Sergeant, the company's senior anti-spam technologist, told the Guardian: "This is a massive discovery. It completely undermines the spammers' claim that they are legitimate marketers and shows that they are nasty insidious hijackers who drive me and the vast majority of computer users nuts."The spammer who sent the virus put spoof email addresses in the "from" line, using domains owned by the Hong Kong-based webmail company Outblaze, which has about 30 million customers worldwide and owns domains such as email.com and usa.com.Suresh Ramasubramanian, Outblaze's postmaster, said: "This is a very disturbing trend. For our customers it is doubly infuriating because not only are they receiving the most disgusting spam they are also discovering that their computers are being hijacked illegally to send the stuff out."The discovery came amid dire predictions about the future of email if spam is allowed to proliferate at the current rate. Last month it accounted for almost 50% of all emails sent, according to anti-spam company Brightmail, clogging up millions of inboxes with unsolicited adverts for penis enlargement potions, lottery games, cheap mortgages and extreme - and often illegal - pornography.Although most people deleted the emails instantly, a response rate of as low as one in 100,000 is enough for the spammers to make a profit.As consumer confidence in the email system is eroded by spam, there is also growing concern about the indiscriminate nature of the material. A survey this week by computer security firm Symantec found that 80% of under-18s received "inappropriate email" every day.But it is the new evidence that the spammers have strayed into the highly illegal world of computer hacking that is likely to provoke most fury.The "trojan virus" involved attempted to exploit a vulnerability on Windows PCs known as an open proxy. Proxy servers are designed to allow the machine to link to the internet through a local network, but if left open they allow a back door into the computer for hackers.A substantial number of open proxies are found on home PCs because they are   installed open by default by software companies. Users are generally unaware of the security risks they are running.The expansion of "always on" broadband internet connections has made life easier for the spammers, who have developed sophisticated software which scans the internet to find open proxies. Up to 65% of spam is distributed using   this method. With anti-spam companies and internet service providers becoming better at detecting and closing open proxies, the spammers are being forced to use viruses to break into computers and open up the proxy server to allow them to continue to expand their spam output."Open proxies are becoming the spammers' lifeline so they are always looking   for more. Now we know how they are going about it," said Mr Sergeant.Further research by MessageLabs suggested that the Outblaze attack was not an isolated incident. The company found that more than 160,000 computers which had sent out a virus since January 1 also sent out spam.Last night anti-spam campaigners   called for law enforcement agencies to crack down on anybody who used viruses to break into computers and distributed junk mail.Steve Linford, who runs the UK-based Spamhaus Project, which specialises in blocking unsolicited junk mail by tracing it back to its source, said: "They are already sending out about 50m spam emails a day, and now we can see that they are clearly prepared to go to any lengths to send even more. This is unambiguously illegal so whoever did this should face criminal charges."Unfortunately, it may not be that simple. MessageLabs has so far been unable to establish the identity of the spammer.One reason spammers are so fond of hijacking open proxies is that they make it virtually impossible for the true source of the junk mail to be traced.There are also political hurdles. The EU is to introduce laws to curb spamming in October, but the world's 150 most prolific junk mailers are all based around one town in Florida, where there are no anti-spamming laws."The bad news is that there is no technical solution to this problem - there are only palliatives that lessen the pain a little bit," said Richard Clayton, a Cambridge University computer security expert and trustee of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, who receives up to 5,000 spam messages every day."It is up to the British and other European governments to put pressure on the US and force them to pass proper laws that will stop these people operating for good."
George Keane's inbox was steadily filling up with the usual junk mail yesterday. Although George, who lives in London, is only 12, the emails were promoting everything from interest-free loans to penis enlargement treatments and hardcore pornography.Among the more printable offers were "Watch these sloppy teen girls get it all over" and "Watch her do anything and everything live 4 U"."They normally come between five and 10 in the evening, so when I get home from school it isn't too bad," he said. "By bedtime there are at least 30, and if I leave it for as long as a week there can be as many as 300 in my inbox."That can be really annoying, as the inbox goes over the allowed limit and the email account gets disabled until some of the messages are deleted."This stops the emails I actually want to receive from getting through."I really don't know why they send them, as I never read any of the junk mail that I get. It isn't anything very interesting. It is either really disgusting or advertising mortgages and things."Sometimes it can be very confusing when you get an email from a named person with a subject like   'Have you lost your keys?' or 'Hi, how are you?'."It makes you think it's someone you might know, and so you open it and it just turns out to be advertising. Once you have opened those then loads of other boxes pop up advertising other things. It takes ages to shut them all down."It started from the beginning when I set up the account but the more websites I have visited the more junk mail I have got."I had another account before this one but I went on holiday for two weeks and when I got back it was so overloaded that it had shut down totally."I think it is really bad, because people who are even younger than me might get some of these kinds of messages and open them without really realising what is going to appear."When I log on I don't even bother reading the subject headings properly any more. I just delete them. It can take up to 10 minutes to delete 20 messages, as they are often big files."The problem is that it isn't as simple as just changing your address, because then you have to tell everyone you know, and at the end of the day it will just start happening all over again. So what's the point?"
Today is Thursday so the newOnlineis now online....
Rather than downloading expensive video clips of (say) football highlights, why not just watch them free on your TV phone? Samsung's SCH-X820 does the job and should be very handy, if you live in South Korea.IDG Newshas the story.
The answer is not as simple as it appears, because while SCO got the code, the trademark and spec are owned by an industry consortium, The Open Group, as explainedhere. (There's a little more on The Open Group's lawsuit against Applehere.) It'snot obvious but Allen Brown is CEO of The Open Group.
New devices will accompany the updated version of today's PocketPC 2002 software, reportsIDG News. "It will also be optimized for Intel's XScale processors, according to an industry analyst."
Net programmers who are also into blogging may be familiar with the Microsofties who have blogs atGotDotNet. Seems they may be joining the more diverse community atASP.net, according to Mary Jo Foley'sMicrosoft Watch.
Intel is using the technology developed for the Centrino to push Mobile Pentium speeds to new heights, reportsCNet.
"The enthusiasm isn't about Linux, it's about access to Intel and the ability to run Unix on what seems to be a cheaper platform," according to Robert Youngjohns, Sun's executive vice president for global sales operations --Reuters. "But, while the platform is cheaper, Linux brings with it its own costs, including fragmentation of the operating system into multiple distributions, and cost of supporting the systems, Youngjohns said." Comment: Just don't mention the fragmentation of the original (as opposed to cloned) Unix, which Robert undoubtedly remembers from his days flogging AIX on IBM RS/6000 minicomputers in the UK. Sun and IBM were on opposite sides in the Great Unix Wars between Sun/AT&amp;T (Unix SVR4) and IBM/DEC/HP (Open Software Foundation), which split the industry and opened the door to Microsoft's Windows NT.
'This is the frightening part for everybody: each user leaves his personality on his computer," Chris Watts, a senior computing investigator tells his audience of IT staff from state and private sector organisations. "We know their likes, their dislikes, their hobbies, their educational level, their friends, their contacts, who they are writing to. You can even find their sense of humour. So all of you, go home and sanitise your computer."And your desktop or laptop has more to betray. "It can have your accounts and your off-record accounts. Your appointments, email and internet activity - that which you meant to look at, that which you did not," adds Watts. Of all the computers seen by his firm, Vogon International, 95% contain some kind of pornography.Vogon provides services such as recovering the contents of faulty hard disks and providing expert witnesses to police forces, lawyers, organisations and individuals. Staff stress that it is near impossible to delete activity from a computer: the only reliable methods are to incinerate hard disks or sand off their surfaces.Deletion is even more difficult with a network, where files may be copied automatically to servers and storage systems, or manually to CD-Roms and tapes. With the last, even fire does not always do the trick: Vogon has recovered data from tapes half-melted by flames.This near-indestructible quality extends to material within documents. Tony Dearsley, computer investigations manager, asks the audience if they ever email reused documents, and then points out that material they have deleted with formats such as Microsoft Word files (those ending in .doc) remain within the emailed file, although hidden from view. Even something as simple as opening, printing and saving a Word document generates up to seven copies on the hard disk.However, as the data is quite fragile, investigators have to be very careful. Clive Carmichael-Jones, Vogon's operations director, says turning on a standard PC can alter 47 files and change the date-stamps (which users see under the Modified column in Windows) in 2,374. "That's a best-case scenario," he adds, where no software is set to run on start-up. "In a worst case, a virus scanner kicks off and changes the dates on every file. The red light showing the hard drive is working is like driving a bulldozer through the scene of the crime."The date-stamps help show that evidence has not been tampered with. They can be forged by tweaking the date or time on the computer, but this leaves traces such as impossible date jumps in the logs of a daily virus-checker or in the physical sequencing of documents on the hard disk.Vogon's first move is usually to "image" the hard disk: mirroring its contents without booting the computer. This takes from two to 12 hours, depending on the disk's capacity.This complete copy can be scanned for files invisible to the user. There are system data files and documents that have been deleted and not yet overwritten. The average desktop computer only starts doing this when it has run out of unused space, so deleted files can stay on the hard   drive for years. Even then, they may only be partially overwritten by shorter files.Intellectual property theft is a common computer-related crime, such as when a salesperson leaves a firm with a copy of the customer database. One way of tracking this is to include dummy clients in a database, using the addresses of friends or family. If anything arrives at these addresses from a rival firm, the database has probably been compromised.But there are more serious cases. Dearsley was as an expert witness in a court case involving two engineering companies. A new firm set up business near the original one, with directors and employees from the former firm, and quickly produced more than 1,000 detailed computerised designs.Under a court order, Dearsley im aged the new firm's computers. Using copies of the design files obtained, Dearsley evidence suggested that staff transferring to the new firm had taken these designs with them. Although the designs carried the new firm's name and logo, alterations invisibly retained within the files - in the same fashion as with Word documents - showed that the old firm's name and logo had been there originally. "It was the theft of a complete business," he claims. The old firm was awarded substantial damages and costs.Fraud is another issue. Dearsley mentions one case where a contractor defrauded a multinational of about &#163;1m by setting himself up as a dummy supplier in the accounts system. His account was distinguished from a genuine procurement agency by an extra space between two words in its name. He was imprisoned.Child pornography is perhaps the most disturbing crime investigated by Vogon, whose staff deal with it from a controlled-access room. "You don't get used it," says Ailsa Brown, an investigator who, like many of her colleagues, used to work for the police. In her case, it was the Serious Fraud Office. "You just switch off.""It could be stopped, but there's good money" for internet service providers and those providing the credit card transactions, she says.But Brown adds that its appearance on someone's hard disk cannot be taken as proof of guilt. She describes clicking on any web-site link as "a step of faith", as you never know what is about to be downloaded and permanently recorded. "You have to knowingly possess &#91;such images to be guilty&#93;." She has helped find three people not guilty in the past year.
It is surprisingly hard to find the primary school in High Ercall. Down twisting country lanes and amid farms on the outskirts of Telford, the school is a study in rural education."Some of the children live in isolation," says Adrian Shorthouse, who has taught at the school for seven years. "They may live on farms and once they go home, they don't see any other children until the next day."The necessity of connecting with the outside world in such communities is substantial, so the broadband initiative in place at Higher Ercall primary school - and throughout Telford - may prove to be nothing short of a revolution in teaching. While internet access has long been used in schools, the introduction of real broadband at 155Mbps - 310 times faster than BT's ADSL offering - at Higher Ercall primary school, along with allied technology such as digital screens, has made innovations like videoconferencing possible."There's an awful lot of potential," says Shorthouse enthusiastically, sitting surrounded by seven talkative children in front of a television screen. "There's not that breadth of community here and some kids are not streetwise. The ability of a rural   school to communicate with the wider community is very powerful."On the table, a small mounted camera follows the voices, focusing on the speaker. It can also be programmed to focus on one aspect, such as the glasses of the teacher. The children watch those at another school, some miles away, on the main television screen, with their own image darkened in the bottom right.Shorthouse says the children can make friends and discuss what they have learned with other children, as well as sharing ideas and speakers; when Online visited the school, an argument about the national media ignoring rural communities was raging with children from an urban school.While videoconferencing and broadband access are not new, the structures that have been built to allow them to operate are. And all 86 schools in the Telford &amp; Wrekin borough are connected, in addition to some businesses and libraries."The clever part is that there are no servers in the schools, instead we have big nodal points around the towns," enthuses Graham Foster, head of planning and resources at the council and, some say, the force behind the setting up of the network."The schools don't have to pay for IT technicians, content or licences. We buy concurrent licences so we get massive economies of scale."Instead of every school in the borough employing an IT technician, the council centralises the maintenance with just eight employees. All schools are connected by hard-wire cable, and all receive a broadband connection of 155Mbps to their desktop. Equipment such as overhead projectors, laptops and videoconferencing hardware are also provided.Such technology does not come cheap, and the council had to persuade all the schools to pool their local authority money to invest in a longer-term project."That was the hard part," admits Foster. "The schools needed cajoling to pool resources rather than buying individual computers. For nearly two years, while everyone was getting new equipment, they had nothing. They needed to have faith." He says the response from the schools has proved the approach worked."It's making a real difference on the ground. Now we have the network, we can put money into continuing professional development for teachers. It has been really good for recruitment and retention of staff." One teacher admits it would be difficult to work anywhere else. "Schools that don't have it are disadvantaged. It would be like going backwards."Shorthouse dismisses the idea that this is technology for its own sake. "It's not a gimmick at all. You can put something on the screen and the kids can manipulate it, particularly vectors and geometric shapes. I'm able to show rather than tell them. It can help teach kids regardless of their learning styles."Laura Griffiths teaches the four to six age range and often utilises "smartboards" - large digital boards linked to the computer network that function like computer screens. When a pupil answers a question, he gets up and touches the screen. Often a small animation is played, as in a computer game."The children have adapted really quickly," she says. "As soon as I showed it to them, they could use it. It has had a real impact on learning - as soon as it comes on they sit up and listen. If there's work on the computers, they are excited by it. Their attitude to interactive learning is really good."The beauty of the system, says Griffiths, is that because she is linked to the other schools in the network, she can create resources on a particular topic and share them with other teachers, saving on duplication.And the children seem happy to embrace the technology. "You really enjoy doing it," said one 11-year-old of videoconferencing. "It's not something where you're just writing it down. You can relate to what they're saying and it's interesting to see what they think."
The music and film industries took a blow in April when a Los Angeles federal judge pronounced that Grokster and StreamCast Networks weren't doing anything illegal by providing the means to share files.The argument was that cassette tape manufacturers BASF, for example, would be in breach of the law for providing blank cassettes for taping music on, and so would Sony for providing the video recorder.The judge's ruling appears to leave one option open to the smarting entertainment companies: email the individuals using these peer-to-peer networks and threaten them with court action. Peer-to-peer (P2P) networks are open, anyone can join the fun and anyone can snoop. So what would be the holy grail for avid file-swappers? Why, a private, secure P2P network, of course. Cue Justin Frankel and Waste.Two weeks ago, Frankel, the director of AOL's Nullsoft division, posted just such a program on the company website, without his employer's permission. AOL had been using Waste to send files between its Dulles headquarters and Nullsoft's offices in   San Francisco. It is a very useful program, incorporating instant messaging and file swapping in a secure environment.There are many corporations and government agencies that would love such an application, as would the usual bogeymen of the internet: terrorists, paedophiles and drug barons. The networks are private, and a maximum of 50 users can join. It's ironic that it should be an employee at the media company that is busy trying to crack down on piracy, who releases the first encrypted file-swapping system on to the web. Now, people can freely share their music without fear of prosecution.All they have to do is download the tiny Waste application (the zipped program is only 170K) from one of the hundreds of websites on which Waste is mirrored. Of course, AOL pulled the link to Waste from the Nullsoft website as soon as they clapped eyes on it.They even issued a stern warning: "You acquired no lawful rights to the software and must destroy any and all copies of the software, including by deleting it from your computer. Any license that you may believe you acquired with the software is void, revoked and terminated." I took that as an invitation to try it out.It seemed simple enough to install. All you have to do is generate a private and a public key, then send the public key to the friends with whom you'll be communicating. They send their public key to you, and you import it. Now you enter their IP address in the "network status" window, and off you go.Well, almost. After an hour of messing about, I gave up and contacted Shawn Yeager, a technology consultant, based in Toronto, Canada, whose website published a copy of Waste soon after it was posted on the Nullsoft website. The problem was that I'd filled in an optional field called Network ID. Apparently, the software won't work if you do this.As I had a professional on the line, I decided to try connecting to his PC. It was another half-hour struggle before Yeager suggested I disable my firewall (temporarily, of course). That did the trick. We chatted securely, knowing that no one could spy on us. There is also a facility to browse for files and to download them. The screens are simple and uncluttered. There is no help, but if you're a bit of a hacker, you can easily get hold of the code, as it has been released under the GNU General   Public License. Whether Frankel had the right to release Waste under GNU is a matter for the courts to decide.Frankel, one of the creators of the Windows music player Winamp, has been a thorn in AOL's side ever since they bought his company, Nullsoft, in 1999 for $86m. Frankel, a college dropout, was just 19 years old at the time. AOL got Winamp, but that was just the start.Frankel and his team went on to develop the p2p program, Gnutella, before AOL pulled it from the Nullsoft website. But Gnutella proved harder to stamp out than Napster. Where Napster relied on central servers to trade files, Gnutella didn't. You'd have thought incidents like this would have set off alarm bells. Especially given that AOL was in merger talks with Time Warner Inc at the time.A year later, Frankel created and posted AIMazing, a version of AOL's instant messaging program, AIM. AIMazing combined Winamp and internet chat, but without the banner ads you get with AOL's AIM. Frankel called it a "cute innovation". What's AIMazing is that AOL didn't sack him on the spot.Now it looks as though Frankel is ready to jump before he gets pushed: "For me, coding is a form of self-expression," he wrote in his most recent weblog posting. "It's probably the form I'm most effective at. Everything I code is arguably owned by the company. The company controls what I do with my code &#91;in the past, it seemed I had freedom, but it turns out all of that was not really the case - rather, I was somehow avoiding the control illicitly (for 4 years)&#93;."The company controls the most effective means of self-expression I have. This is unacceptable to me as an individual, therefore I must leav &#91;sic&#93;. I don't know when it will be, but I'm not going to last much longer. I have nothing but respect for the company - I've just come to realize that it is time to do something different."I can almost see the music industry executives and FBI agents reaching for their hankies as they read Frankel's swan song.When I tried to find out why AOL didn't get rid of their loosest of cannons ages ago, an AOL spokeswoman said the company wasn't commenting on Frankel or Waste. I think it is too busy scrubbing egg off its face.
Employers must inform staff in advance if they plan to monitor their emails, phone calls and internet use, the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, warned yesterday.Employees must be told why the monitoring is being done, and employers must first do an audit to make sure the benefits outweigh the intrusion into privacy.Only in rare cases, involving, for instance, criminal conduct or equivalent malpractice, will covert monitoring be justified, according to the code of guidance issued yesterday.The employment practices data protection code covers a range of surveillance activities including opening emails or voicemail, checking internet usage, and CCTV recordings. It warns employers that they could face enforcement action if they flout the Data Protection Act and the "lawful business practice regulations" covering the interception of electronic communications.Employers must also ensure that they comply with article 8 of the European convention on human rights, which concerns privacy. Mr Thomas said any monitoring had to be with the knowledge of staff.The TUC, which yesterday launched an online guide to surveillance at work on its site, workSMART.org.uk, welcomed the code. Brendan Barber, the TUC's general secretary, said: "Some workplaces resemble TV's Big Brother, only without the prizes. Workers do have rights to privacy, but they need to be aware of them in order to stand up for them. Staff, unions, and employers need to arrive at a solution which balances business needs with the right to individual privacy."A survey by KLegal and Personnel Today magazine last year found that 20% of firms carried out daily monitoring, some breaking the law by not telling staff about it, and that disciplinary cases for email and internet abuse at work in the previous year exceeded the total of those, for health and safety breaches, dishonesty, and violence.
Europeans are getting up there with the US in  their passion for online  shopping, according to  surveys emanating  from industry analysts.Online sales doubled in Europe  last year, claims one. Europeans  spent 430m euros buying online  between August and October,  gaining ground on American  shoppers, who blew 543m euros in the  same period. More Europeans than  Americans say they expect to buy  more over the web (45% to 41%).But before you start celebrating  European web-readiness, consider  that you only stand a one-in-three  chance of getting the goods you  ordered from a European website."Cross border e-commerce in the  EU is a good shopping alternative  unless something goes wrong,  which it frequently does," is the  Consumer Centre's Network, a  pan-European consumer protection  group.The researchers admitted they  were taken aback by the results,  which also revealed that a third of  web traders refused to take back  goods, and when they did, nearly  a third did not refund money. Half  of the time when goods were  refunded, the trader did not  reimburse the delivery fee.One of the benefits of European  internet shopping, especially with  the advent of the euro, was supposed  to be a new ease in comparison  shopping across borders,  which would increase web shopping  by bargain hunters. It was  also envisaged that the single  currency would encourage those in  the UK to buy abroad.But the survey demonstrates in  are directed primarily to the home  market. So few e-commerce sites  were in more than the home-country  language or would deliver  goods beyond national borders  that the ECC had difficulty  conducting the survey. Only 24% of  262 sites assessed had information  in more than one language.Sometimes, the service bordered  on the prosecutable. One British  trader delivered an ink cartridge to  Germany 40 days after the purchase  was deducted from the consumer's  credit card. A T-shirt took 67 days  to reach Luxembourg from Austria.  And a Danish researcher had  to wait 77 days for a product reimbursement  from a Swedish trader.Websites were also reticent  about informing consumers of privacy,  return and payment policies,  even when legally required to.  have a greater awareness of their  rights when buying online. For  example, buyers have the right to  return goods and do not have to  supply a reason (a quarter of  traders asked for one); merchants  cannot deduct funds from credit  cards before dispatching goods  without consumers' permission (a  quarter did so), and traders must  give consumers information about  after-sales service, warranties and  guarantees (only a third did).E-commerce may be growing, but  the evidence is that a large number  of European web traders are offering  shoddy service. If Europe does  not start to get online shopping  right, sloppy traders may seriously  damage a nascent and economically  important market.
Connoisseurs of the British biscuit and a cup of tea will need to bookmark a new internet page:www.nicecupofteaandasitdown.comStewart Payne, 39, a web site developer from Cambridge, launched the site two years ago as a forum to express his love of the tea and biscuit ritual.Now the site is getting 4,000 hits a day and manufacturers from as far away as New Zealand have sent him samples, soliciting a favourable review. But Mr Payne stresses: "I'm an enthusiast, not an expert."
ShatteredAfter an hour of working with a CD using a program that was constantly reading the disc, a bit of plastic flew past my ear and landed eight feet away. I found the CD had shattered into about 15 pieces, jamming the drive and writing it off.David HerbertJack Schofield replies:CDs are known to shatter, and with a 48x CD spinning at about 9,600rmp, a bit of plastic could be ejected at up to 200mph. This has been of particular concern in the education market. Viglen has published a safety statement that says: "It is important to understand that the problem will only occur when a defective CD is used in the CD-Rom drive" (www.viglen.co.uk/Framed/CD-ROM_Safety_Statement.asp). I assume this includes cases where the defect is invisible to the naked eye, but you should certainly avoid using CDs with known defects. When it comes to buying a replacement, bear in mind that for a single user, there is little practical advantage in having anything faster than a 32x drive, and slot-loading systems (as fitted to Macs) should be safer.No wiresWe need to move our PC into a room that does not have a telephone extension and it would be difficult to run a wire from the extension on that floor. Is there such a thing as a wireless telephone extension? The only option we've seen is a wireless home network   set up at about &#163;200. This seems overkill for one PC.Jacqui RylandsJS:Yes, the DECT (Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications) system was supposed to provide standards-based wireless home networking, linking multiple phones and computers to voice and data services, more than a decade ago. If you are using a dial-up modem, BT's website says the "On-Air 1800 incorporates digital cordless voice and data transmission through one analogue line allowing you to connect to the internet wirelessly" (www.bt.com/on-air/). It costs &#163;149.99 so it is not a cheap solution. Readers may know of better options, but Wi-Fi seems to be taking over this market.Ad blockThank you for info about the tilde file on my desktop (June 5) but how do I stop those Windows Messenger Service pop-ups?Sioned WynnJS:This is covered in Microsoft's online Knowledge Base article 330904 (http://support.microsoft.com/?kbid=330904). Also see: Stopping Advertisements with Messenger Service Titles athttp://masl.to/?G23525244/.I answered the question on March 6 (http://masl.to/?X2F152DD4) and May 1 (http://masl.to/?Q3C122DD4). Apologies to readers who could not find the answer using the Ask Jack search on Online's website: the database has now been updated.AgainThank you for supplying information about blocking pop up messenger ads. What about pop up ads?John ModellJS: The best pop-up ad blocker I know is The Proxomitron, which is free. It is a bit geeky, but it will block pop-up ads on websites, Macromedia Flash ads, banner ads, and sound files. In fact, if you write your own filters, you can block almost anything in HTML. If you can't write filters, you can get them from other users. It looks horrible but pressing the Config button and ticking "Don't use textures" solves that problem. You can download Proxomitron fromhttp://home.arcor.de/six/. Read the introduction athttp://sankey.ws/proxomitron.html. You can get help from the forum athttp://asp.flaaten.dk/proxo/and via the Yahoo Group, prox-list. For extra filters, seewww.laudanski.com/proxomitron/andhttp://mail.bazafirm.pl/~drwolf/proxomitron.html.Backchat* Alasdair Beal has also suffered from Toshiba Satellite laptops overheating and shutting themselves down (Hot Tosh, last week). He says: "There is a simple fix. Go into the Toshiba Power Saving controls and for mains use change the processor setting from Maximum Performance to Performance. In theory, there is a loss of performance but in practice this is barely noticeable. ... At least this 'workaround' provides a way of getting on with life with minimum hassle."* Another way to keep a notebook cooler is to use a stand, such as Kellys Laptop Stand with USB Fan. James Cross spotted one in an ad for Office World. Online they cost &#163;19.99 (http://masl.to/?C37B22DD4).* You usually can't send mail remotely from Outlook 2002/XP (and probably other packages): you have to be there to click Yes or OK. This is a problem for some people using Pocketwatch's PocketHub software on a mobile phone. Terry Shuttleworth says one solution is Express ClickYes: "It runs in the background and automatically clicks Yes when the 'Do you want to allow access' dialogue box appears." It's a free download fromwww.express-soft.com/mailmate/clickyes.html.Send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but please include full details with your query.
Six of the bestSlashdotter's Guide to the Galaxywww.everything2.orgFacts behind the newswww.wikipedia.orgBBC's Douglas Adams wannabeswww.bbc.co.uk/h2g2London, by Londonershttp://grault.net/grubstreetUK net biz historyhttp://londongeek.org/Skateboard nationwww.knowhere.co.ukNew &amp; notedIraq war scrapbookwww.20daysinspring.netCampaign against Comic Sansbancomicsans.20megsfree.comCats in hatswww.petoffice.co.jp/catprin/english/The Eighties Tarotwww.notsoswift.com/amindandacard/80starot
Engage the borgThe original Memex was devised by hypertext pioneer Vannevar Bush in 1945, a hypothetical device in which "an individual stores all his books, records, and communications", and which is "mechanised so that it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility". Interactive media artist Rokeby's contemporary interpretation involves turning himself into an Art Cyborg, equipped with wearable computer, digital camera, GPS receiver and EEG brainwave monitor, then touring sacred and spiritual locations around London in a 40-day odyssey entitled Memex: A Cyborg Pilgrimage in the Age of Amnesia. His largely baffling website promises he'll be delivering a "Cyborg performance" outside Buckingham Palace this Saturday, transmitting his brainwaves live to the internet during most of next week, and concluding the project with a summer solstice recital of brain activated music.www.memex.org.ukwww.ibiblio.org/pioneers/bushBye bye BuffyFans and academics alike will mourn the final episode of Buffy The Vampire Slayer - rapidly becoming the most over-analysed series in media studies history. The Buffyology page provides comprehensive links to Slayer-inspired articles, plus the peer-reviewed International Journal of Buffy Studies. Meanwhile, a paper examining the threat of biological terrorism published in September 2001 by the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies is also available online.www.geocities.com/buffyologywww.geocities.com/buffyology/Vampire_Ecology/vampire_ecology.htmlwww.csis.org/burke/hd/reports/Buffy012902.pdfLife of O'ReillyPublisher of every programmer's favourite reference books (the white ones with the animal engravings on the front), Tim O'Reilly arrives in the UK next week to celebrate the company's 25th anniversary. He'll also be speaking to the UK Unix User Group and the Birmingham LinuxUser conference at the end of the month, on the topic of the Lamp (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP/ Perl/ Python) open source paradigm. The company seems largely tolerant of spoofs such as the O'Really range of T-shirts, but asking O'Reilly to sign your guide to "Windows NT User Obliteration" might be pushing your luck.www.ukuug.org/events/TimOReillywww.linuxuserexpo.comhttp://bofhcam.org/co-larters/The naked brunchIntriguingly named badminton-free webzine The Brunching Shuttlecocks recently called it a day, bowing out after nearly six years of cutting-edge web comedy. On the plus side, their complete archive is still online, allowing you to enjoy the delights of The Alanis Morissette Lyric Generator - create a complete 1998-era Alanis song using the names of a thing you really hate, your favourite poet, and your ex.www.brunching.com/archiveHold the friesDespite a chorus largely consisting of the words "McDonalds, McDonalds, Kentucky Fried Chicken, and a Pizza Hut", the debut single from The Fast Food Rockers is "not promoting fast food", according to the Facts for Parents section of the band's official site. Quite the opposite, in fact. The performers claim to be "keen to promote healthy eating", and hope to use the song to raise the issue of "healthy alternatives to fast food" on tour. The song itself derives from a traditional children's campfire singalong, though the Fast Food Rockers have toned it down, eg, the vomiting gesture associated with another US restaurant chain.www.fastfoodrockers.co.ukwww.scoutscan.com/songs/Boring for BritainBritish sites didn't do too badly in this year's Webby awards. But if there's one area where the UK indisputably leads the world, it's producing boring weblogs. Well, one in particular - the author of the internationally acclaimed "Dullest blog in the world" has revealed himself to be Dave Walker, a 32-year-old cartoonist from Cookham, Berkshire. A gentle satire on the daily minutiae that some bloggers see fit to share with the world, Dave posts regular updates on matters as unenthralling as "Walking along at a steady pace" and "Making a note of something on a piece of paper".www.webbyawards.comwww.showstudio.comwww.wibsite.com/wiblog/dull
No empty spaceIkarugaGameCube, &#163;39.99Treasure/Atari,4 starsIt has taken a while but Ikaruga, which went down a storm in Japan, has finally made it to these shores - and on the game-starved GameCube, to boot.Its gameplay is pure retro. At first, it appears to be a mere vertical-scrolling shoot-'em-up similar to popular games of the 1980s. It is not exactly hi-tech, either: although the backgrounds are 3D, your ship and enemies are two-dimensional.But what makes it worthwhile is a clever twist. The storyline states that there are two polarities in space combat: black and white. You can reverse your polarity at any time, so that if you are hit, say, by a black bullet when your ship is black, you will absorb it; if you shoot a white enemy with a black ship, meanwhile, you will cause twice as much damage as you would to a black ship.Before long, you find that gameplay becomes intuitive, swapping polarity in an almost rhythmic way. The 3D backgrounds contribute, too, and the overall effect is psychedelic.The levels, after an initial period of saminess, exhibit plenty of variation, particularly bringing an element of manoeuvrability into the equation. Somehow, despite its ultra-simple, old-skool gameplay (you only ever need to hit two buttons plus, occasionally, one of the shoulder buttons), Ikaruga leaves you with the impression that it is one of those rare games that could almost be a work of art - which is something at which Japanese developers excel.SBCell pays offSplinter CellGameCube, £39.99Ubi Soft,4 starsSplinter Cell has rightly conquered every other format with its seamless integration of stealth and strategy. The GameCube version improves on the others in many respects, but it also cuts back in some other areas.The good news is that it plays brilliantly - in fact, better than either Xbox or PlayStation 2 thanks to a rethinking of the control interface, which makes it simpler to pull off more moves.Once again, the level of realism is stunning. Stealth games have been done before, but only Splinter Cell delights you with little details: plastic room dividers flapping in the wind, panic-inducing guards who relentlessly home in on your position yet are just fallible enough to elude. This is great stuff on any format, and the GC version also benefits from a hidden treat. If you own a Game Boy Advance, you can link it up and use it as an extra LCD radar scanner.On the down side, all the levels seem smaller. Let's face it, Splinter Cell was on the short side anyway, and this really rubs it in. Good will possibly see the end of the game on the same day they bought it. Still, if you own a GameCube, this is one of the best games to appear on it in ages. Enjoy!MASpace craftinessEve OnlinePC, £29.99, then $10.95 per monthCCP/Crucial Entertainment,3 starsIn space no one can hear you scream, let alone your polite request for assistance. And with the steep learning curve here, you'll need any help you can get. Eve Online is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) set in space. Has the gaming dream of an online elite finally come to fruition?In many respects, the answer is yes. Eve Online is a highly ambitious gaming endeavour, let down by some clumsy interface deficiencies, including poorly designed and unintuitive icons. Luckily, the game itself is worth persevering with. Starting with a puny craft, your first challenge is to raise some upgrade cash. This can be done by running errands, trading or finding a helpful fellow pilot.The beauty of Eve Online is that you can do pretty much anything. Fancy hunting for lost cargo ships? How about some interplanetary mining? Combat relies on tactics rather than reflexes. As you progress, your character grows, learning skills and allowing you access to better equipped ships. At the same time, you may want to join, or form, a corporation. These groups offer help, money and a common cause. Yes, there is a plot, too, with four factions fighting tooth and nail.Sadly, as with every MMORPG, there are technical barriers. Hefty "patches" need to be downloaded and crashes are fairly common. For newcomers, Eve Online can be a harsh and unforgiving environment, with death a regular occurrence. But once you get proficient, and your allegiance to your alien alter ego grows, you can kiss goodbye to your social life. GH
Who serves whom?Microsoft's decision to pay &#163;500 million to AOL to resolve their legal dispute will have little impact on the corporate user of IT. The members of the blue chip association I represent, The Corporate IT Forum, a group that spends more than &#163;20bn each year on IT, see the resolution as shutting the stable door once the horse has bolted.The Microsoft Windows product is a dominant force in the market and has been for some time. The "browser war" waged between the two companies since the early 90s is a drop in the ocean compared to the dominance of Microsoft's complete product portfolio. We must now make sure that dominant IT suppliers such as Microsoft don't abuse their position. Microsoft mustn't forget that it is there to serve the needs of customers - not the other way around.David RobertsChief executiveThe Corporate IT Forumwww.tif.co.ukSalve to conscienceThanks to Mike Petty (Feedback, May 29) for bringing to my attention the existence of the Emusic website. The &#163;6.20 a month subscription fee is peanuts for the treasures available.The follow-up letters were appalling. It's the music that counts. Having a wonderful hi-fi set-up is one thing but, in the end, an electrical hum is nothing compared to the music it allows you to hear.Since the Beeb has started "mucking" around with the Andy Kershaw program, it's been hard to obtain (via "downloading" on to cassette!) the records he plays. But the internet and, in particular, sites such as Emusic, allow those of us on lower incomes to access various genres of music at a very reasonable cost. I'm not comfortable with pirating and find a Emusic subscription eases my conscience no end.Peter Robinsonp.robinson@tesco.netQuality a bonusAdam Williamson (Feedback, June 5) wrote that the AAC format is a proprietary Apple format. In fact, AAC is standardised as an ISO/IEC specification by AT&amp;T, Dolby Laboratories, Fraunhofer IIS, and Sony Corporation. Since AAC is a standard supported by many hardware and software manufacturers, an AAC user is definitely not tied to Apple hardware or software.The main reason for the use of AAC over MP3 as a format for the electronic distribution of music by Apple's online iTunes music store is that AAC offers a level of protection for the legal rights of artists and music companies. The MP3 format offers no means of digital rights management, a key to encouraging artists and music companies to explore commercial means of electronic sales and distribution of music. It is a bonus that AAC format also has higher audio quality than MP3 format.Williamson's comparison with VQF, developed by NTT for Yamaha, is not appropriate since Yamaha kept the VQF format proprietary.David Buckdavid.buck@dragonbrands.comFair playRegarding High Standards (Feedback, June 5), the AAC format is not a propietary format. What is propietary is the Apple Fairplay system, which implements their fairly relaxed DRM. The easy (and allowed) way around this is to simply burn any downloaded music to CD.Stephen Haunchsmhaunch@mac.comRemember itCan't help feeling thatwww.whoremembersme.com(Web watch, June 5) will have at least as big a problem as Scunthorpe!J David Lewin,D.Lewin@rl.ac.ukUK fictionRegarding the article on online fiction (Don't write off the net, May 8), I noticed that many of the sites mentioned were non-UK. I would like to draw attention to the British online fiction magazine Pulp Net, currently the UK's most active online magazine of original short fiction. We aim to be more selective than some of our competitors and limit the number of new stories each month to three. We also carry reviews and live lit listings.We provide PDF downloads for offline/printed reading and pay contributors a fairly respectable fee even by print standards, thanks to support from the Arts Council of England.E Palmer &amp; A GentryEditorial team, Pulp Neteditor@pulp.netPerfect flatmateSean Dodson recently mentioned some flatsharing websites (Web watch, May 29). Having checked out the highlighted sites, I was disappointed to find they were simply a notice-board facility.Two years ago, I was looking for a flatmate and did not have the time to look through notice boards, having also found them unreliable. I came up with the idea of a dating agency-style accommodation website, where individuals log on, fill out a comprehensive questionnaire, then wait for potential matches to be provided. Much hard work, argument and discussion later, my father and I launchedwww.perfectflatmate.comin February. As with the sites mentioned in your article, we do not have a big money machine behind us and rely on word of mouth.Emily Binghamemilymbingham@hotmail.com
AOL Time Warner is following the successful launch of Apple's iTunes service by selling music downloads featuring artists including Madonna and Radiohead to customers on a pay as you play basis.Apple's service, introduced in the US in April, has registered more than 4m downloads from customers paying 99 cents (60p) a time, and has convinced the major record labels that legal online ventures could be a success.America Online, the internet arm of AOL Time Warner, confirmed yesterday that it will begin its own music download service in the US this year, offering tracks at the same price as iTunes."We have experimented with with digital downloads and 99-cent singles on a trial basis   so we're building on that and the success with music generally," an AOL spokesman said.Later this year, AOL will also move into competition with retail sites such as Amazon by selling CDs and DVDs through its website.The move is part of AOL Time Warner's attempts to revive the fortunes of its troubled online division by increasing the number of paid-for services and making better use of its film and music assets.The new venture will offer a wide range of tracks from its Warner Music labels. AOL also plans to include tracks from other labels. However, initial access to the service will be restricted to AOL's 26m subscribers.Other leading online players including MSN and Yahoo! are keen to jump on the music   download bandwagon as the major record labels begin to accept that the only way to compete with illegal swapping services such as Kazaa and Grokster is to beat them at their own game.Apple hopes to introduce a European version of iTunes before the end of the year and will shortly unveil a version for PC users. At present only Apple Macintosh users, about 5% of the total computer market, can access the service.AOL said that the new launch would not affect its involvement in subscription service MusicNet, which began operating in late February and has more than 75,000 subscribers.MusicNet has been more successful in luring customers away from illegal sites than the rival PressPlay service, which was set up by media groups   Sony and Vivendi Universal but still has only a fraction of the users who continue to download free music.Last month, PressPlay was sold to software company Roxio, which plans to use it as the basis of a relaunched Napster service. At the height of its popularity in 2000, more than 80m web surfers were using Napster's library of free music.It caused panic in the record industry, which was already suffering declining sales due to non-internet piracy and increased spending by consumers on other leisure products.Napster closed in July 2001 after the big music groups won an injunction forcing the site to remove all copyrighted songs from its database. It was then bought by BMG, which failed to make it work as a legitimate service.
Let's call it feature puke - the tendency to overload IT systems with a ridiculous list of functions to cater for all conceivable needs. If you've ever accidentally opened an obscure and unexpected dialogue box in Microsoft Word, you'll know the feeling.The bigger the software project and the more people involved in specifying it, the bigger the risk of feature puke. Public sector projects are particularly prone. Unlike a commercial firm, a government office cannot leave functions out of a system just because they are rarely needed or uneconomic.If the government project involves healthcare, the complexity increases by an order of magnitude. That's why specifications for hospital IT systems typically run to thousands of pages, setting out requirements for technology years into the future, to deal with situations that may never arise.Against this background, it is a remarkable achievement of the NHS National Programme for IT to fit the specification of its national electronic health record, the Integrated Care Records Service (ICRS), into a mere 570 pages. The output-based specification circulated to would-be bidders does this by scarcely mentioning technologies, only desired "outputs" such as enabling patients to see their own medical records on the web.This novel approach to specification bears the stamp of Richard Granger, the former management consultant hired last year to procure and implement a &#163;2.3bn IT infrastructure for the NHS. Granger knows that any attempt to specify technical requirements in fine detail is doomed, not least because over the seven years of the project's life, technology will evolve in unforeseen ways. Even if he wanted such a specification, Granger doesn't have the time. To fulfill political imperatives such as e-booking, major contracts have to be drawn up and signed in as many months as would normally take years.The resulting specification is less a systems architecture than a statement of what the NHS does, and how it will change over the next seven years under the prime minister's plans. It is fascinating.What's odd, and disappointing, is the decision to keep the specification secret. When asked why, Granger's office comes out with the tired "commercially confidential" excuse often used to keep documents out of the public eye. But nothing in the specification copies I have seen is remotely commercially sensitive - nor can it be when the same document has to be sent to every bidder.Letters going out with the specification bear another Granger touch. They require the recipients to agree not to talk about any aspect of the project and warn of dire consequences in the case of a leak. There are good reasons to control certain disclosures during public procurements, but the approach here looks heavy handed. Apart from anything else, it encourages damaging rumours that the whole procurement is a stitch-up.The NHS should publish the output based specification for the service on the web immediately. After all, we're paying for it.
Windows users can now look forward to a period of stability, if only because of Microsoft's late deliveries. Software is taking longer to write, partly because of the pressure of its belated Trustworthy Computing initiative. Microsoft is also testing programs for longer, to try to deliver more reliable products.Microsoft Office is still coming out every two years, and Office 2003 will appear later this year. But the gap between server launches threatens to extend from three to four years. Windows Server 2003 was a year late, and at this month's TechEd conference in Dallas, Microsoft senior vice president Paul Flessner pushed delivery of the new SQL Server 2000, codenamed Yukon, to the second half of 2004.Users who skip alternate upgrades can therefore plan to use the same software for six or seven years. The only proviso is that they have to pick the right products to install. Windows 2000, for example, was a big win for early adopters who could skip XP, and Server 2003 could deliver similar benefits for some 9 million Windows Server users.Server 2003 is not big on new features, but one of its design goals was performance: it is noticeably quicker than 2000 and NT4. Windows/Intel systems have long dominated the Transaction Processing Performance Council's TPC-C banking benchmarks, for price/performance, and Server 2003 now occupies the top four places. But Microsoft also wants to dominate the benchmarks for raw performance. Server 2003 took the   top spot for non-clustered systems last month, and it already has three of the top five places, split by systems running versions of Unix - IBM's AIX 5L and Sun's Solaris 8.In theory, longer delivery times should have no effect on Microsoft's income because of its Software Assurance licensing scheme, whereby companies make annual payments and get free upgrades. Paying 25% of the cost of a program every year and getting an upgrade every two or three years looks a reasonable deal. But if users only want to upgrade every four to six years, it's a terrible deal.But Flessner's division is doing other things with its annual $1.7bn R&amp;D budget to try to grow Microsoft's minority market share. The big idea now is Windows Server System: a "cohesive and integrated server software architec ture". This will include support for operations (Operations Manager, Application Center, Systems Management Server, Windows Storage Server), applications (SQL Server, BizTalk e-business server, Content Management Server, Commerce Server, Host Integration Server), and Microsoft Office (Exchange mail server, SharePoint Portal Server, Project Server, Real-Time Communications Server for instant messaging).Microsoft also wants to increase the number of third-party Windows Server applications from about 2,500. It is spending $450m on a community support programme for developers: webcasts, free on-site training, seminars, roadshows and 125 new books. More applications will make Windows Server more useful and, Microsoft hopes, harder to replace.
Java pushSun Microsystems took a leaf out of the Wintel (Microsoft/Intel) book on Tuesday, with the launch of the Java-equivalent of Intel Inside. At the Java One conference in San Francisco on Tuesday, Sun's Jonathan Schwartz unveiled a new Java logo and "Java Powered" marketing campaign. Sun also aims to unify Java, which is used on a wide variety of products from smart cards and phones to corporate servers.Look aroundHewlett-Packard is expected to release an "immersive teleconferencing system", currently named Coliseum, before the end of the year. Each participant has five miniature cameras mounted on a 180-degree arc, and their video streams are combined to produce different perspectives. The net effect is that each user sees other participants as though they were all sitting around a conference table. Gestures, such as looking towards the image of the person being addressed, shows other participants which users are interacting, thereby emulating a real-world conference. The idea was first mooted at Xerox's IT think-tank, Palo Alto Research Centre (Parc). Coliseum makes teleconferencing more natural, HP claims.www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2002/HPL-2002-351.pdfHack policeIT professionals will be recruited as special constables to hunt down hackers and virus writers, if plans laid by the Home Office get the go-ahead. Computer experts will be trained in network forensics to gather evidence in the hope of pinpointing the lawbreakers and increasing the number of successful prosecutions. The Home Office is working with Eurim, a UK-based parliament-industry information lobby, to develop a strategy before the next session of parliament begins in September. The initiative forms a backdrop to calls from the Crown Prosecution Service to increase the maximum sentence for hacking from six months to five years.Billion upIntel has shipped a billion x86-compatible processors, according to Mercury Research, which has calculated that the milestone was passed in April. The first 8086 was shipped 25 years ago   last Monday. The 1978 version had 29,000 transistors and ran at 5MHz. According to Intel, today's Pentium 4 (which should have been the 80886) has 55 million transistors and runs more than 600 times faster at 3GHz. Mercury Research reckons that AMD has shipped about 200m x86-compatible processors, and their combined shipments of x86 chips should reach 2 billion by 2007.Oracle jumpsPeopleSoft executives are locked in a $5.1bn (&#163;3bn) take-over struggle as Oracle attempts to push through a hostile bid for the company. The move follows last week's announcement that PeopleSoft would acquire competitor JD Edwards and leapfrog Oracle in the rankings of enterprise software companies. This deal is now in question because Oracle chief executive Larry Ellison has no desire to complicate the acquisition and no interest in JD Edwards, said a source close to Oracle. JD Edwards executives have called the offer "half-baked" and claim it would limit competition in the business software market and raise antitrust concerns.Just the ticketTransport for London (TfL) will introduce contactless travel smartcards by the end of this month, probably on the week starting June 23, for monthly and annual season tickets purchased through its website. The infrastructure for the Oyster cards has been installed and TfL and London Underground staff have been using them since November.The new reusable cards work even when left in wallets, as they respond to a radio signal when within a short distance of readers. This should speed up barrier operation, compared with the magnetic stripe cards which need to be inserted into a reader.http://masl.to/?A18B251E4Buy CorelCorel, the troubled Canadian PC software company, is being taken over by a venture capital company based in San Francisco, Vector Capital Corp. Vector did not comment on whether there would be lay-offs but said it was "very committed to all of Corel's major products". Corel became well known thanks to the success of CorelDraw on Microsoft Windows 3, and later picked up WordPerfect - originally from WordPerfect Corp - and other office applications from Novell.Interface projectsAt the DUX2003 (Designing for User Experience) conference in San Francisco last week, human/machine interfacing specialist Bill Buxton, associate professor at the University of Toronto, called for a new approach to interactions with computers. The arrival of Tablet PCs and the growing number of handheld and wrist-borne devices will change the face of computational devices. Buxton added: "Wristwatches with greater powers are possible but the small interface offered by the watch face limits their usefulness. The future lies in developing laser technology in the watch to project the screen on to any flat surface." Buxton also accused software developers for pen-based Tablet PCs and handheld devices of being constricted by mouse-based thinking. "The pen can be used to make more subtle gestures than the simplistic point and click uses of a mouse," he said. This could revolutionise the interface and replace pull-down menus with floating selection palettes that follow the movement of the pen.www.dux2003.org
Most email users will be acquainted with advance fee fraud, in which you are asked for help in spiriting millions of pounds out of a crisis-hit country - in return for a generous commission, of course. Most claim to be from Africa - this kind of fraud is also known as 419, after the part of the Nigerian criminal code it breaks - but a few weeks ago, the Guardian Diary received one supposedly from Iraq.In 2001, the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) estimated that Britons lose &#163;150m a year to such fraud. If victims get invited to travel abroad to "assist" with moving money, they are at risk of robbery and worse.Fraudsters used to rely on posted invitations, and the NCIS, police forces and the Royal Mail removed hundreds of thousands of their letters each year. But this isn't possible with email - now the source of nine in 10 419 invitations, according to the service - where the message can appear to come from anywhere.Police forces will investigate such fraud when a victim comes forward. But what about stopping the emails in the first place?Until last year, the NCIS provided a central email address for citizens wishing to pass on 419 emails. But responsibility has now been passed to individual police forces."This was basically because local forces couldn't really see the impact of 419 fraud on their area, and there was a need for them to have the knowledge to deal with it themselves," says the NCIS, adding that there is no published list of email addresses, as it would become a target for the fraudsters. However, one source suggested that the change was made as the NCIS did not have the staff to cope.The result is that, if you want to report 419 emails, you need to get in touch with your local police force.Some squads say they do want your 419 emails, but warn that they rarely investigate individual cases if no one has handed over money.Detective Inspector Dave Edmondson, of Thames Valley police's fraud squad, says they collate 419 emails primarily because the NCIS has asked them to. "If they said they didn't want them, we wouldn't bother," he says. "Because of the volume, there's very little we can do because of resources, or the lack of them." He does add that overall, the emails can be useful in revealing changes in fraudsters' tactics."I don't know why they're bothering," counters Gordon Stevenson, managing director of IT security investigator Vogon International, which provides services to several police forces. "I think they have to be seen to be acting on this." He says that it makes more sense to track more damaging kinds of spam, such as offers of pornography or viruses.But 419 fraud can be very damaging for a small percentage of people. "We have had victims absolutely convinced that &#163;30,000 is coming their way," says Det Insp Edmondson, recalling someone who had already paid out to help release fictitious funds, and had to be restrained from wasting yet more money. "We do what we can, but nine times out of 10 - 10 times out of 10, in my experience - when the money is passed over, it could go anywhere in the world. By far the best way is to stop it happening in the first place."Sound advice&#183;Never reply to the email, even asking to be taken off the email list. Your own online identity could be stolen for future fraud attempts and, as with all spam, an address confirmed as live is much more valuable - so you will probably get much more spam.&#183;If you want to do something about the fraud, forward it to your internet service provider's anti-spam department. Most will attempt to block further mail.&#183;Ask your local police force (www.police.uk) if it is interested in receiving the emails. If so, these will probably be used for intelligence rather than individual investigation.
Why should IT be treated differently from any other industry or product? Are PCs in your company really any different from light bulbs and delivery vans? A recent article in the Harvard Business Review by economist Nicholas Carr argues that like electricity and rail transport, technology is becoming cheap enough to be ubiquitous. If every business makes the most of IT, how can there be any strategic advantage?Oracle's chief executive, Larry Ellison, says the IT industry "is in the inevitable process of maturing" (for which read: no technology recovery). With IT budgets falling, industry standards and open source software giving businesses more options and suppliers battling to differentiate themselves and their products, have the white heat and the golden age of IT really passed? And if they have, would it be such a bad thing?The value of IT can be nebulous. Despite all the talk of total cost of ownership and return on investment, Hewlett-Packard research shows that while financial directors insist IT justifies new spending with business benefits, cost savings or both before a project starts, they seldom return to measure them. If they do, it's hard to track costs in a complex project that's changed along the way, let alone measure the business value.HP's solution is the Utility Data Centre. The idea is to use only the computing resources you need, accessing extra resources on demand and auditing exactly what each individual system or department is using. Outsourced or in-house, high-density blade servers are nothing new and IBM already provides American Express with on-demand computing; the development is tracking costs and passing those on to the departments incurring them.Micro-billing for units of computing puts a precise cost on technology. But what about value? It's difficult to measure the worth of IT's contribution to a company unless the business understands what the technology can do and the IT team understands business processes.The rarity of that understanding makes Carr's comments on reining in IT costs and concentrating on increasing security and reducing risks, rather than developing opportunities, strike home. Companies are still suffering from financial indigestion after Y2K spending and dotcom investment with few visible returns. Carr's suggestion of waiting six months for falling hardware prices to increase return on investment is common, but businesses who've been putting off PC upgrades since 2000 are feeling the drag of old hardware.Outsourcing is the obvious way of commoditising IT, but there's still the issue of deciding which IT functions are strategic because they add value and give you competitive edge, and which aren't. Concentrating only on savings risks missing out on infrastructure investment where payback may be years down the line on projects you haven't thought of yet.When times were good, Marks &amp; Spencer invested in an architecture for moving information between departments and stores; some years later when it needed to cut costs, it turned out to be ideal for passing information about fraudulent transactions to members of staff quickly enough to catch the fraudsters. The savings paid for the development of the Profit Protection scheme in six months, but only because the infrastructure was already there.Too often, technology isn't compared to other business processes and systems, but Martin Curley, Intel's director of innovation in IT, sees this changing. Airlines are managing PCs the way they manage their fleet, oil companies are treating IT projects as a portfolio with a spread of risks and returns, like other business developments. Intel manages internal IT like its production facilities; Curley says it's about IT speaking the language of the business and one key word is agility.The Future Foundation's survey for Microsoft says businesses see agility as the second most important key to success, after good leadership. In uncertain markets, agility is as much about the connections that IT enables within and between businesses as being adaptable to circumstances. You don't have to be the first to launch a product if you're fast enough to respond to the market and get the right product out at the right time.Gordon Smillie, director of Microsoft's enterprise and partner Group, says businesses will spend money to achieve that: "If it's anything fancy 'we ain't doing it' - but they will improve systems that deliver better service to customers, they will invest to take out cost, to make people more productive and to get to a long-term more flexible model that allows them not to be in this situation again."Many people are looking for a Next Big Thing as big as the internet, and arguing that if there isn't one then, like history, IT is effectively finished. But most growth in the technology industry has been driven by continual improvements and the snowballing network effect that makes technology more valuable the more you connect to it.Carr calls IT "essentially a transport mechanism" for carrying information the way pipes carry water or roads carry vehicles. The difference with IT is the range of what you can do with information, and the increasing value of having more available. There's no network effect with light bulbs or lorries and you can't keep finding new things to do with them, use them to replace existing assets or improve business processes by managing a just-in-time supply chain.As Intel chief executive Craig Barrett points out, unlike most industrial technologies that make or move materials, "IT is the vehicle by which you turn ideas and content into intellectual property products" - whether that's Intel's next chip, Boeing's next plane or drugs tailored to individual DNA. At the London Stock Exchange, chief information officer David Lester is responsible for nearly 50% of business because the exchange sells information and prices. Spending a third of the company budget on IT is unusual - but so is halving the cost and time of developing new products.The pattern of growth and slowdown isn't new in IT. Developments come in waves: as one technology moves into mass adoption, early adopters are already looking for advantage from the next. Intel says the onward march of improvement - at the same pace Moore's law has set since 1965 - will continue to 2012 and beyond, and just about everyone picks mobility as the next growth area. A bigger question is whether spending on technology will continue to outpace economic growth.While the only safe prediction in IT is that there are no safe predictions, technology innovation hasn't stopped, and businesses will carry on looking for creative and profitable ways to use new developments. If the price of making that worth doing is that the computing platform you build on will be mature, sensible, boring, reliable, bought by the yard and designed to give every company the advantage of best practices, it sounds like a bargain worth looking forward to.
'My old website was based on a &#163;50 software package. In the initial stages of the web, everyone rushed out and had to make a website in five minutes. It was like tunnel vision," says Stephen Ridsdale, director of Leeds-based Dale Photographic Ltd.Like many part-time e-commerce experts, Ridsdale's has kept his website much the same. With a business selling expensive camera equipment, and two out of three orders coming in by mail order, his website's lack of sophistication is a block on the company's growth. But with limited technical skills, and limited funds to employ an agency to develop a new site, Ridsdale was stuck.By chance, he found the training he had been looking for five miles away at the offices of e-commerce software provider ShopCreator. In 2001, its chief executive Andy Kitchener noticed that many potential customers were stymied because they didn't know the potential of e-commerce.Kitchener and his staff responded with the e-business driving licence, or EBDL. Awaiting accreditation as an NVQ, the week-long course covers the full range of e-business subjects: everything from generating an online brand to creating revenues from mobile commerce."The whole idea is to make people independent of software houses," he says. "There are a lot of subtleties to e-commerce at the moment, and no one understands them except a few techies - and they aren't sharing."Ridsdale agrees. "Finding this training course is the best thing we could have done. It made us look at the bigger picture. They made us look at the wider business strategy, marketing, branding, even logos, and I don't even know how to programme HTML." When the newwww.dalephotographic.co.ukgoes live, Ridsdale will be using ideas, such as an online tool for obtaining quotes on equipment in a local currency, which owe more to innovative thinking than intricate coding.The &#163;400 EBDL is aimed at SMEs who want their web sites to work harder for the business, not simply more efficiently on the web server.For larger businesses or more experienced programmers who still want a business qualification, the Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) e-Biz+ certification is designed to "validate the basic concepts, key issues and critical technologies of e-business". The exam is taken worldwide - the 20-year-old non-profit CompTIA has a presence in 89 countries. Half a million people hold one of its certifications."All our certifications are skills-based: we're trying to certify skills and experience - not just knowledge," says Eva Chen, CompTIA's senior certification program manager. "To get our certification, you have to understand infrastructure, that's a technical discipline. But there are four parts to the certification, and technology is just one element."With a minimum of one year of e-business experience before you can take the course that leads to the exam, e-Biz+ certification is not for novices. Chen says it is more portable than a vendor-based qualification. "Many companies can deliver e-commerce training on their software. We are filling a need for something vendor-neutral in the market," she says.Not every employer trusts e-commerce qualifications. Kevin Brown, chief executive of 13-person Affilatewindow.com, an online event travel company, taught himself e-commerce the hard way - by trial and error. "I can't imagine a course that would work for what we need from our staff," he says.Brown had an early experience of vendor-based e-commerce courses. Brown typifies the attitude of many of the "survivors" of the original dotcom boom, but not all of them. In larger organisations, says Gary Manning, account manager at recruiter Reed Technology, IT directors are thirsting for qualified e-commerce techies with broader business qualifications. "The non-technical side has been overlooked in the past," he says. In a survey of 50 IT companies conducted in February by Reed Technology, one in three was channeling cash into business courses for its IT staff."One of the IT directors I spoke to was putting a special emphasis on the ability to cross sell - encouraging his IT staff to be so business-savvy that when they solve an IT problem, they can identify other areas they could help with.The government is helping to bridge the gap, too. "There's a real need to develop the e-commerce skills of our business leaders - and that means the thousands of owner-managers out there, too," says Liz Grant, the director of the DTI project UK Online for Business. "We are talking to several organisations to pull together these threads. We need pragmatic and practical courses."Grant is promising three projects in the next few months to provide exactly this type of training.However, Manning warns that: "If an e-commerce job says you need five years experience managing a team, going on a course for a week isn't going to bridge that gap."
Mobile videoVision on the moveFancy watching Big Brother on the bus? French manufacturer Archos is now offering video on the move via its lightweight (350g) AV320 personal hard disk-based device.The &#163;550 AV320, on sale this week, features integrated video and audio (MP3 and Windows Media Audio) players and 20GB of storage. The breakthrough feature is its 3.8inch LCD screen - much larger than those found on rival products. To view TV programmes, users take its accompanying DVR 100 module, connect it to a TV or a PC and press record. The device converts the video into the MPeg4 format. Archos claims viewers can store around 50 of their favourite movies on the device.Later in the year, a batch of similar handheld video devices using Microsoft's Media2Go operating system are expected to be launched.www.archos.comWireless networks: GPRS and Wi-Fi PCIf you want GPRS and Wi-Fi on your laptop there's a good chance you will need two PC Cards, which, annoyingly, have to be swapped as you move between networks. Fortunately, several Far Eastern companies have come up with the obvious solution and are working on joint GPRS/Wi-Fi cards. BenQ is likely to be first off the blocks. Its card arrives in stores in Taiwan this month with a worldwide rollout expected later in the year. Other companies, including Nokia, are said to be considering similar launches. Meanwhile, Motorola is working on a joint GPRS/Wi-Fi phone that's scheduled to reach US stores by the end of the summer.Handhelds: Wireless Cli&#233;Sony has unveiled the latest in its range of Palm OS-based PDAs, and this time the emphasis is on wireless features. The Cli&#233; PEG-NX73V has Bluetooth for easy connection to a mobile phone, and a CompactFlash (CF) slot ready for an additional Wi-Fi card to access the internet via wireless hot spots. These retail for around &#163;100. Like previous Cli&#233; PDAs, the model has Sony's unique flip and rotate design, includes a VGA standard digital camera and has integrated music playing software (MP3 and ATRAC3). It is powered by a 200MHz processor and has 16MB of memory. It goes on sale at the end of this month for around &#163;380.New TreoSmartphone manufacturer Handspring may have recently been purchased by personal digital assistant giant Palm, but the deal hasn't curtailed its rollout of new products. At a recent conference in Dallas, the company demonstrated its next generation model, the Treo 600. The key difference between the new phone and the current Treo 270 is that it is smaller and lighter (with a more compact screen and keypad), features an integrated digital camera and will offer more storage. The Treo 600, or a product very like it, is expected to arrive in the UK in late autumn for the Orange network.www.handspring.co.ukCameras: Kodak's sun snapsWith the summer snapping season almost upon us, digital camera manufacturer Kodak has paraded a trio of new models pitched at very competitive price points. Top of the range is the DX6440 zoom, a four megapixel compact camera that sports a 4x optical zoom, a host of manual and creative controls and a large-ish 1.8inch LCD screen. It will go on sale in August.At &#163;200, the CX6330 zoom will be one of the cheapest three megapixel cameras on sale. Due later this month, it has a 3x optical zoom and a 1.6inch LCD monitor. Offering two megapixels for &#163;100, the CX6200 has no optical, just a 3x digital zoom, and a 1.6inch LCD screen. It is due in August. All three models can transfer their images by pressing one button via Kodak's &#163;60 EasyShare camera docking system.www.kodak.co.ukMobile phones: Three championsIt might boast video calling, Premiership football clip downloads and high-speed internet access, but 3G mobile phone network 3 has plumped for the low-tech route of pulling in more customers. It is offering cheap voice calls. Earlier this week it introduced a pair of new payment options, VideoTalk 500 and VideoTalk 750, which offer the most competitively priced voice airtime in the UK. With the cheaper &#163;25 per month VideoTalk 500 plan, customers get 500 minutes of voice calls, plus &#163;10 worth of video/internet calls or downloads. For an extra &#163;10 per month, VideoTalk 750 adds 250 more minutes of voice calls plus a further &#163;10 of video calls/content. The company has also slashed the price of its handsets with all three of its models (NEC e606, NEC e808 and Motorola A830) down from &#163;200 to &#163;150 on the VideoTalk 500 tariff and &#163;100 on Videotalk 750.www.three.co.ukMotorola's first picThe first picture phone from Motorola is long overdue. Weighing in at only 111g, the new model is an upgrade of Motorola's popular T720 and comes with a detachable camera and picture messaging capability.Six clicks to take a picture robs any camera of spontaneity and unfortunately this is the case with the T720i. There is also a slight screen lag.It is not all bad. The quality of the pictures is the best I have seen on a computer screen. The new handset also offers an excellent battery life with 230 hours of standby time and 6.5 hours of talktime. Even heavy users, like me, need only recharge about once a week.The handset comes without an alarm clock and is loaded with a single, and rather tedious, ringtone. The T720i is far from feature-rich but, taking pictures aside, it is simple to use. And with some operators bundling it for under &#163;100, it is a bargain.Nlackberry gets some new juiceResearch In Motion (Rim) has just launched new versions of its Blackberry emailer, the hand-held that became a must-have tool for corporate America. The new models (with colour or monochrome screens) are aimed at business professionals. They offer the main selling point of the original Blackberry - emails that arrive on your screen automatically without having to be called up - at considerably less cost. What you don't get is secure access to your office emails. For that you will have to pay a lot more.The new models - the 7230 and 6230 - with blue facias, weigh in at 136g, complete with built-in phone, and fit much more snugly into the hand than their big brothers. They retain the "thumb typing" keyboard and navigation trackwheel of the original and will clearly appeal to professionals, especially in smaller companies, even though internet access is fairly limited. Made in Canada, they are being marketed in the UK by T-Mobile International at around &#163;200 for the colour version and &#163;100 for the black and white.
How did you get the job designing the icons for the first Apple Macs?I got an interview with the Macintosh group thanks to Andy Hertzfeld, a high school friend, who was working on system software that needed bitmap images. He knew I designed graphics.Did you have computer experience?No formal experience. I had used an Apple II (www.old-computers.com/museum/computer.asp?c=68) but not extensively. I loved the Mac from the first prototype I tried.Was it exciting to work with Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs as they put    Apple together?Unfortunately, I never worked with Woz (www.woz.org), but I'm a huge fan. It was great working with the whole Apple group. Steve Jobs had an amazing ability to focus on and contribute to almost every aspect of the product.What was your criterion for designing the desktop icons?It was explained to me that the computers were being designed for "mere mortals", not engineers. So the graphics should be able to be understood by a wide audience. There were size constraints, mostly 16 x 16 pixels and 32 x 32 pixels for icons, and it was in black and white.Were you limited by the memory size of the early machines?I thought of it more as a design situation with parameters, rather than limits. There was a great deal of freedom even with those parameters. It was terrific once there   was an icon editor and a font editor; then I was free of graph paper and able to iterate easily. There were only 256 numbers available for new fonts in the original Mac but that seemed a lot.How did designing the early Windows icons differ from your work for Mac?It was interesting at both. At Apple, I was an employee and a member of a team for a few years. At Microsoft I was on a contract so was less involved. I enjoyed getting to work in colour, though.What are your thoughts on the Apple and Windows graphics now?The current icon guidelines focus so much on illustrative style. My first priority is developing simple and memorable symbols. The best icons function more like signage than illustrations.Any favourite fonts over the years?I'm partial to the classics. My favourite is traditional Garamond (www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_100.jhtml) with old style numerals. I also love the bitmap fonts of Miguel Hernandez at atomicmedia.net (www.atomicmedia.net/hernandez.php).Do you use a Tablet PC?No, as I'm comfortable with drawing via a mouse. I use both Mac and PC as I do a lot of work on applications for PCs.Any particular favourite software?I tend to use Photoshop and Illustrator almost every day. Same with Google. I look up tons of images, as the internet is such an amazing source. I do a lot of image research.Visit:www.kare.comandwww.atomicmedia.net/karefonts.phpSites:www.k10k.orgwww.infinitewheel.comwww.ferryhalim.com/orisinal/Software:www.adobe.com/products/photoshop/main.htmlwww.adobe.com/products/illustrator/main.html
Jeff Hawkins, designer of the Palm Pilot handheld computer, is returning to the company he co-founded, in a $169m share-based deal that involves Palm rescuing Handspring and its Palm-based mobile phone, the Treo Communicator. The deal will lead to 125 layoffs and savings of about $25m a year. At the same time, Palm has finally spun off control of its Palm OS operating system to a separate company, PalmSource.Palm's president, Eric Benhamou, said in a conference call with journalists and analysts: "These two bold moves will serve as a powerful catalyst to transform the landscape of the handheld industry."The moves resemble ones that Britain's Psion made five years ago when it spun off its EPOC operating system into Symbian. It recognised that PDAs were becoming a commodity business and that the emphasis would shift to smart phones -though while it abandoned the consumer PDA market, Psion never launched Odin, its prototype smart phone. It also recognised that a single company could not withstand the efforts of tens or hundreds of manufacturers supporting a common   platform. Psion described this as "avoiding Apple's mistake".The Palm takeover must come as a relief to Handspring, which was starting to run out of cash. In its latest financial quarter, ending March 29, sales almost halved from $59.7m to $30.8m as Visor sales declined while Treo sales failed to take off. The company lost $90.4m, though $75.9m of that was a charge for restructuring the lease on its building in Sunnyvale, California. In the same quarter in 2001, Handspring's turnover peaked at $123.8m, so sales had halved and halved again.Palm also went through hard times as its growth went into reverse. Annual sales plunged from $1.6bn in 2001 to $1bn in 2002, and it lost $427.6m in two years. Under attack from Sony in the consumer market, it failed to make the transition to phone-based products, and it tried to sell consumer-oriented PDA's to corporate buyers. Palm was criticised for offering an underpowered Dragon ball processor, low-resolution screens, lack of support for Wi-Fi and VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol), and limited internet connectivity.Palm's struggles contrasted with the success of Research In Motion's Blackberry handheld (see page 26) in   the corporate market, and small but growing sales of PDAs running Microsoft's PocketPC operating system. Microsoft targeted corporate buyers with facilities such as its Terminal Services client, powerful browser, and support for virtual private networks, 802.11b Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.But Palm has made good progress since then. It brought in people and technology from Be Inc to enhance its OS 5 operating system, and moved its top-of-the-range hardware to the ARM-based processors like the ones used in the Compaq iPaq and other products. These moves make the new Tungsten range much more attractive, while retaining Palm's superiority in ease of use.Nor has Palm abandoned the consumer market. It has sold more than a million of the low-spec but low-cost Zire handheld, which was introduced at a US street price of $99 in October. This has much the same functionality as the original Palm Pilot models, which sold for $299 and $369 in 1996.Finally, Palm has improved its management operations under Todd Bradley, who will be chief executive officer of Palm Solutions Group - basically Palm without PalmSource. Handspring's president, Ed Colligan, who was involved from the beginning of both Palm and Handspring, will return to Palm to run the smart phone operation.Having the Treo will strengthen Palm in its battle against PocketPC suppliers, especially in the smart phone business where Microsoft has stumbled badly. However, Palm still has to compete against the might of Nokia, Samsung and Sony-Ericsson in the smart phone market.Bradley said that spinning off the operating system would lead to "the creation of a level playing field among current and future licensees", bringing in more licensees and developers and growing "the Palm economy". This idea is based on the success of the PC market and other platforms open to all comers, and the failure of most closed proprietary systems.However, what works in a fast-growing market may not work if your market is in decline - as Apple found when it belatedly tried licensing its proprietary Macintosh to "cloners" such as Motorola, Umax and Power Computing. And in the current economic climate, the Handspring takeover represents consolidation rather than expansion.
Imran is a thirtysomething street vendor in Karachi. He earns a daily wage of 150 rupees (about &#163;1.67) selling seasonal fruits and shares his two-bedroom shanty flat with seven other family members, and often wonders where his next meal will come from. Nevertheless, he sports and owns something that adds a definitive edge to his business: a shiny Nokia 3310 with a set of blue and red changeable covers to boot.A little over two years ago, this would have been a distant dream for people like Imran. When Mobilink, the country's first GSM mobile phone operator, introduced services in Pakistan in 1994, the mobile phone was strictly for the rich and famous. Why, you wonder? Telecom regulations in this part of South Asia, unlike those in Britain, meant that customers with mobile connections had to pay for calls received as well as calls made.This was all to change with the introduction of the Calling Party Pays (CPP) regime in 2000, which suddenly multiplied users and service providers. "Pay as you go" phones, as they are known in Britain, became, and still are, all the rage.Now Imran pays 500 rupees (&#163;5.56) for a pre-paid Mobilink Jazz connection and is linked to a network of other vendors, most of whom are equipped with similar pre-paid connections. Imran's Jazz connection is good for at least three to four months as he keeps outgoing calls to a minimum and uses his mobile phone mostly to receive calls.His cousin, Iqbal, who lives in a village in the heart of the Punjab, has a rival network connection from Instaphone. Both cousins can now even stay in touch with their uncle Shahid in Manchester via SMS. This had previously involved costly international calls from the village, which still only has four land lines.From "txt" mad teenagers, to bearded mullahs receiving the Quranic verse of the day via SMS, the mobile phone is the companion of choice. Even the Iraq war did not dampen mobile spirits, and Imran was one of many who passed around the following SMS at the expense of the Americans: "Congratulations, you have just won a 3 night stay at Hotel Baghdad - complimentary fireworks supplied by the United States Air force..."Mobile phones are also affordable since most people prefer to buy secondhand. Swapping sets after a few months' usage is also common, and Iqbal intends to trade in his Siemens model for a trendier, but equally affordable, Samsung phone.But it has not always been so easy for mobile phone users. In the mid-1990s, the government ordered a complete shutdown of mobile services to prevent the politically active and those closely associated with the underworld from communicating with one another. The largest service provider, Mobilink, is widely known as "Maybe-Link" and people still bemoan the fact that inter-service SMS is not fully operational.There is no denying, however, that the turn of the century really has added the mobile edge to Pakistan and many who, under normal circumstances, could not afford a land line can now conduct day-to-day business via their mobile.The last time I saw Imran, he had just received an SMS reminder for midday prayers. As he dashes off to the mosque, he asks me if he should change the cover of his Nokia to red to match the watermelons he is selling.
As the European Parliament's draftsperson on the EU directive on the patentability of computer implemented inventions, I would like to correct some of the myths, misinformation and inaccuracies in last week's article by Richard Stallman and Nick Hill.First, the EU directive is not proposing to patent all software, it is limited to genuine inventions. Software as such cannot be patented.Second, my "cosmetic" amendments to the European Commission text are proposing a more restrictive interpretation of the law in Europe, to try to stop the drift towards the US practice of patenting business methods.Third, I have included a new article to allow decompiling and reverse engineering as requested by computer programmers.Fourth, this directive will not have any adverse effects on open source software development. Even in the US, where the patenting system is more liberal, the Linux operating system proudly declares a 50% growth in world wide shipment of its operating systems, with the Apache system dominating the internet web server market with 66% market share. With a more restrictive EU law, the open source community has nothing to fear.From medical inventions to household appliances, mobile phones and machine tools, inventions involving software are increasingly a fact of life. With many of our traditional industries migrating to the Far East leaving behind job losses, we Europeans are having to rely on licensing out inventiveness to generate income and create jobs.Numerous people from small to medium-sized enterprises have written to me in support of my proposal .It is time some of the "computer rights campaigners" got real. Patents for software inventions will not go away. It is infinitely better for the EU to harmonise laws across the EU with a view to limiting patentability, than to continue with the mess of national courts and European Patent Office (EPO) systems, and the drift towards US patent models.This directive will provide legal certainty for European software inventors. We have an obligation to legislate not just for one section of the software industry who seeks to impose its business model on the rest of industry, which moreover is not "free", but is actually a different form of monopoly by imposing a copyright licence system on users.We must legislate to ensure our inventors are not put at a disadvantage in the global market place. If we fail to offer European industry the possibility of patent protection, we will   hand over our inventiveness and creativity to big business, who can cherrypick ideas and patent them. The perverse outcome would be that European originators of those inventions face infringements proceedings from the big players. It is this that will lead to job losses, less choice and higher prices!If the EU does not take the step to develop its competence with regard to computer-implemented inventions, then the EPO and its board of appeal will continue to be the main arbitrators of the law. This will continue to create confusion and uncertainty and will sidestep the democratic scrutiny of the EU.
Before you go shopping for a new computer, it's a good idea to list what you want it to do. That's what the Department of Health has done for its giant new IT system, the integrated care records service (ICRS), the centrepiece of the government's &#163;2.3bn plan to modernise the NHS.The service will create an electronic record of every individual in England, for use by doctors, ambulance crews, social workers - and patients. It will also enable patients to choose where they go for treatment. Eventually, we'll be able to book appointments via the internet or digital TV.All this is set out in a document called the output-based specification. It's a substantial read: 570 pages over three volumes. It specifies a system to manage everything from conception to the mortuary (and beyond: IT must be able to deal with people who have risen from the dead).Copies of the specification have been sent to 22 companies in the running for contracts to supply the system. However, the people who will use the system and pay for it are not allowed to see what is being bought in their names. "It's commercially confidential," says the office of Richard Granger, the NHS IT tsar.Those who have seen the specification are banned even from talking about it. A gagging letter, signed by all recipients, bans "any public announcement or disclosure (whether for publication in the press, the radio, television or any other medium) of any matter concerning directly or indirectly your interest... without our prior written consent". Anyone breaking the gag faces dire consequences. The letter warns that damages alone "may not be an adequate remedy for breach of any provision of this letter"; in the event of a breach, the department will "be entitled (subject to the discretion of the courts) to interim relief and/or specific performance and/or other equitable remedies with respect to any threatened or actual breach". In other words, it is threatening leakers with commercial ruin.However, copies of the specification have found their way to the Guardian. The document contains no commercially sensitive details such as prices and payment schedules. However, it contains a large amount of previously undisclosed information about how the national health records scheme will work.It suggests that one of the central pillars of the NHS plan, the electronic transmission of prescriptions between doctors and pharmacists, is running late. The specification also appears to pre-judge the outcome of ongoing consultations about access to personal health data.The specification opens with a grand vision. "ICRS will be integral to delivering the NHS of the future - an NHS that truly puts the patient at the centre of everything that is done." In this IT-enabled future, "the population as a whole will take more ownership and personal responsibility for their own health and in turn this will ensure more appropriate emphasis is placed on disease/illness prevention and health promotion rather than cure." It even hints at a return to the days when doctors made house calls, or, at least, of "clinicians moving between different settings... rather than asking the patient to travel as is the case at the moment".Much of the specification is taken up with ensuring that would-be IT suppliers (mainly by US-based firms) understand the NHS's size and scale. It predicts that by 2010, the patient population will number over 50m, making up to 310m GP consultations a year. Chiropodists alone will deal with 5,295,000 "patient encounters" a year.Six contracts are on offer to supply the service. One is a national contract to design and run the central service, a "spine" connecting health records systems. The others are local deals to install the system in hospitals and surgeries across five "clusters" of health authorities in England. (The first two clusters will cover London and north-east England.)The spine will link systems within and outside the NHS, such as local authority-run social care. It will contain a summary of the patient's family and social history. "Users outside the NHS who have the appropriate level of authorisation will enjoy role-based access to information on the spine."Each time a healthcare professional logs on to the system, he will see a personal home page allowing him to combine a number of screens. He will be able to search for a patient by a 10-digit NHS number or a known detail such as name, date of birth, age, sex, phone number or GP.Patients will be able to see their record and eventually become involved in planning their treatment via the Myhealthspace feature on the NHS Direct website.The spine will go live in three phases: the first - core - service including some patient records will be running by December next year. By the end of 2006, it will be ready to cover the entire population. The final vision will be achieved by 2010. The specification recognises that by that time, the IT world will have moved on. "Therefore, the solutions that are ready for delivery at the time of award of contract will be very different to those that will be being deployed in 2010."The ICRS spine will only be as good as the databases from which it draws information; the everyday clinical IT used for recording and planning care. Running these and plugging them into the spine will be the job of five local contractors. The specifica tion warns companies bidding to become "local service providers" (LSPs) that today's NHS systems are "highly disparate and are largely organisation-based. In addition, today's systems generally fail to support the care delivery at the point of care and lack close integration with the business and clinical processes". Local service providers will have to take over the running of existing systems and migrate to new systems (without losing data). "It is expected that, by December 2010, there will be a vastly reduced number of systems operating and each of these system will operate on one version of the software."As each cluster will have up to 80 trusts and around 2,000 general practices, this will be a hefty inventory of legacy systems to take over. The specification does not dwell on the political difficulties of persuading doctors and other professionals to switch to a standard system different from the one they picked for themselves or, even in some cases, designed.Significantly, the specification says little about technology or how systems must be designed. The emphasis on "outputs" is designed to avoid repetitions of previous government IT disasters in which systems were specified down to the last detail, ignoring policy changes around them.Rather, the approach is to set out long tables of "overview requirements". These include:&#183;E-booking. GP and hospital systems must work with the national e-booking system being set up to realise Tony Blair's plan of offering NHS patients a choice of where they are treated.&#183;Electronic transfer of prescriptions (ETP) between doctors and pharmacies. This was a major part of the NHS IT plan, but is now being downplayed. The specification says that "it is assumed that this... will be rolled out using the same model as described for eBooking".Suppliers have to explain how their systems will deal with emergency cases, people who are unable to provide information about themselves, especially sensitive services such as contraception and the recording of overseas visitors, who are in theory charged for NHS care. In the event of a patient rising from the dead or, more likely, being wrongly labelled deceased, "dates of death shall also be capable of being removed and the closed episodes re-created".The most controversial part concerns the sharing of information among organisations. Raising the lessons learned from the Climbi&#233; case and other tragedies, it says the ICRS must ensure that care is coordinated. "This is particularly important for children who are considered to be at risk, who must have a multi-agency action plan agreed between the NHS and social services... No child can be discharged from hospital without a documented plan for their future care, including follow-up arrangements."When it comes to adults, however, sharing personal health information is more contentious. A section on "information governance" sets out procedures for protecting confidential information. "If a patient refuses for his or her personal data to be made available through the spine for individual clinical care, then the refusal, and the date of refusal, will be recorded... Personal data can be accessed from the spine without patient consent as long as the clinician is able to justify the use (e.g, in the public interest, or in a medical emergency)."This procedure may interest many in the NHS, which is still consulting on a code of information governance. Over the past decade, health planners have quietly conceded that the old assumption that health records are held by GPs on behalf of their final owner, the secretary of state, is unacceptable. The ICRS specification seems to accept the up-to-date view that we own our records. It says that patients will be allowed to put parts of their record into sealed envelopes. However, such requests may be over-ridden, for example, if a patient who continues to drive tries to conceal the fact that he suffers from epilepsy.All this adds up to a formidable list for the ICRS, but there's no time for quibbling. The NHS is drawing up its short list of suppliers, to begin awarding contracts in October. It's one hell of a shopping trip.online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What a great idea. Gizmodo, the gadgets weblog,goes back to 1983to look at the gadgets rocking the early 80s. There's the latest Sony Walkman - "Music isn't going to get any easier to carry around than this" - and a new hi-fi component: "First digital music player, which instead of albums reads 'compact discs' where the sound is encoded as digital bits rather than as an analog signal." I wonder what Onlineblog 1983 would look like? One for you, Jack? :-)
Jason Shellen, associate program manager at Blogger, is delivering a keynote here in Boston. He's just made very clear what some of us already knew: any suggestions that Google will remove blogs from its main index is simply not true. "We are not removing blogs from Google," he said. Doesn't get any clearer than that.What Googleisgoing to do, btw, is create a weblog search tab, in the same way they do specialised searches of newsgroups, shopping sites and so on (Update:Jason fact checks my ass in the comments box attached: not a searchtab, something else :-)). There are some semantic arguments to be had about what goes in that blog search, but they appear to be working on that...
eWeek:"Apple Computer Inc. is nearing the release of desktop systems featuring IBM's 64-bit PowerPC 970 chip, sources report—but a 64-bit version of Mac OS X may lag behind by a month or two." The company's expected to be showing off Panther later this month though.
