ISS 2 Pro EvolutionSony PlayStation 	&#163;29.99 Konami	*****When it comes to videogame soccer, it's a top of the table clash between EA Sports' FIFA series and Konami's ISS Pro Evolution. But while the former is a glossy take on the beautiful game - 7-6 scorelines and overhead kicks are common - ISS is the choice of the footy connoisseur, with a realism as yet unmatched.The true football fan, those who appreciate hard fought 1-0 away wins, will find ISS as mesmerising as a Giggsy dribble. ISS 2 Pro Evolution is the latest in the series, although the title is indicative; this is definitely evolution rather than revolution. Instead, the absorbing gameplay has been subtly tweaked, improving certain areas even if it is initially disappointing. The pace   is slow while the delicious through-ball - a key element of the original - is now largely redundant as it forces your player wide rather than through the middle. But by the time of your first tactical triumph all this matters not a jot, as the enhancements become obvious.Players now control the ball much quicker, with far less stumbling than before. Crossing is a joy, allowing you to whip the ball across in front of onrushing attackers, rather than limply dropping it on to a defender's head.Tactics are still vital and make a real difference, especially as the artificial intelligence has been upped. And you'll need all the help you can get as the main one player attraction, the Master League, has been extended to two divisions. Most of the players now have their real names, too.But in reality, the original ISS Pro Evolution was pretty much perfect, with this latest version simply nudging it a little further towards videogame immortality. (GH)Zone of the EndersSony PlayStation 	&#163;39.99 Konami	****Take control of an enormous robot, fly over futuristic cityscapes, and hit other enormous robots with a sword. Or guns. Cool, huh? Zone of the Enders (Zoe) toys with the conventions of the mech genre, which is usually notable for its baffling complexity. But Zoe finesses its ancestors with a simple, intuitively engineered control interface, and an extraordinary visual style. Your robot (or "orbital frame") comes as standard with a laser cannon for long-range attacks, and a sword for close-up slashing. Joyously satisfying power-up weapons    include the Geyser (bombs), the Halberd (a massive light-sword) and the Phalanx (a really, really big laser).Dogfighting in 3D space is assisted with a Zelda 64-style enemy lock-on. It pays to be careful, though, as the city can suffer collateral damage. If too many buildings are set ablaze, or too many civilians get killed, you might fail a mission. Zoe combines the Japanimation mech style with stan  dard videogame symbolism (lock-on reticules, time meters, colour-coded health). But it is the relentless choreography of weapon blaze that induces retinal rapture. Zoe's astonishing lighting effects offer perhaps the most potently seductive aesthetics of destruction in any videogame so far. Often, elaborate pyrotechnics can alienate the player, relegating him to the sidelines as a mere spectator, but Zoe avoids this pitfall    because its controls remain impeccably responsive. The downside is the plot. As is standard in the mech genre, your giant robot is actually piloted by a cutesy kid. And this cutesy kid is a dumb whinger, always complaining about how he doesn't really want to kill his enemies. The game's director, Hideo Kojima, had a strong anti-war theme running through his last work, Metal Gear Solid, but such sentiments don't gel with the fantastic nature of this work. At bottom Zoe is a refreshingly old-school, thumb-twitching shoot-'em-up. It doesn't require much in the way of strategic thinking, and it can get a little repetitive. But it is a dazzlingly beautiful work of dynamic art. Oh, and it comes with a playable demo of an obscure little work-in-progress called Metal Gear Solid 2, which might be worth looking out for later this year. (SP)Settlers IVPC 	&#163;34.99 Blue Byte	***After three successful games, the Settlers series still proves to be a very acquired taste. First glances are rewarded with gorgeous graphics, unusually detailed for an RTS and almost good enough to just sit around and watch. Little men make bread, little men replant forests, little men do almost everything a real peasant would, albeit very slowly and very repetitiously.Only once the novelty has worn off do you realise that little men also stand around, for hours on end in fact, while buildings slowly crumble, supplies run short and armies invade. Quite why all the Settlers games share this epidemic of sleeping sickness is anyone's guess, but it's here again. All of which makes the interface (where you cannot control their actions directly) doubly irritating.The second problem is the    complexity of the economy. You have to consider almost everything. While there are dozens of buildings to construct, doing so in the same tedious order, waiting ages for them to be completed and then having to instruct them   to turn out just the right commodity at just the right time, soon becomes a chore. Yes, you can speed up time by pressing a key, but this just means you spend most of the game pressing the same button.After about half an hour,   you should be in the position to create soldiers, and here the game's pace does pick up a bit. Armies are never large and always difficult to control, but there are plenty of catapults and siege devices to liven things up. And once you start building fleets and priests (who have access to magical and healing powers) things can get pleasantly strategic. Even then, however, warfare feels like an afterthought to a game rooted in micro-economics. The obligatory nod to diplomacy does not help things, with the usual sequence of broken treaties and unreliable alliances ensuring that, like every RTS before it, nobody would choose to be a Robin Cook rather than Stormin' Norman.And so, after several hours of waiting for each settlement to grow, I decided that some civilisations simply deserve to die out. Settlers IV is a deep and complex game, full of graphical splendour but apparently designed by the devil himself.If you have hours of spare time and the patience of a saint, there is plenty here to enjoy - if not, try Cossacks, or Rise of the Dragon.  (MA)
It has been a mixed month for the betting industry. While it has suffered from the cancellation of last week's Cheltenham horse racing festival at the hands of foot and mouth disease, it has also celebrated the chancellor's decision to axe betting tax in the bookies' high street shops.For the online betting websites this has had a much lesser impact - they don't rely on a chain of high street outlets broadcasting horse racing for their income, and the UK market represents an ever-diminishing slice of their revenue. Instead they increasingly seek to feed the global appetite for betting on an array of sports and esoteric products.An example of this demand for a greater variety of betting vehicles is the hamster racing that online gambling operationBluesquareruns each day. This follows the company's successful season of snail racing last year. Ed Pownall, public relations manager for Bluesquare, says: "It's good fun and has been perfect timing with Cheltenham called off. We took 324 bets on the first race on March 5 - double anything we took on the snails. We even had a bet of &#163;100 at 9/2." The company is also considering hog racing but has discarded greyhound racing - unlike specialist website 24dogs.com - as it can lead to a blurred image on live webcam recordings.Although this may all be   particularly quirky and amount to small change in the annual &#163;1 trillion that makes up annual global betting turnover, Pownall says it highlights the changing nature of betting being led by the online operators.Renowned bookmaker Victor Chandler, chairman of Gibraltar-based offshore operator Victor Chandler International, agrees that the online players are driving change in a sector that is forecast by research company Datamonitor to grow from a current $7bn a year turnover to $123bn by 2004. Chandler says: "I always had a feeling that technology would change the world. With the advent of mobile phones you now can't hide from your wife. And I think there will be more to come."Chandler says he has also recognised the growing interest by women in gambling online and to tackle this he recently launchedThe Spin Room. A &#163;2m investment provides punters with a   range of 10 online casino-style games including blackjack, roulette and poker. "The proportion of women is high in casinos - this is a great surprise to many," he says.However, Pownall tempers this. "The idea that everyone is betting is a myth. That every Mrs Mop is having a bet on Eastenders is not true." But he doesn't deny that the internet is expanding the demographics of gamblers beyond the typical over-45-year-old male who regularly visits his local bookies.The Spin Room follows on the heels of the launch by Chandler of BetFC - a standalone football betting site - and is part of his attempt to move away from his reliance on horse racing. He also has plans to introduce a 3D online casino and Spot the Ball competitions.Although he still takes a greater volume of bets on the horses, he says average wagers on football are much larger, with three times the amount of money being bet on the UK's national sport. Unlike the horses it is also a   global sport and is part of the reason why 60% of his business now derives from South-east Asia. "The growth there is enormous. In Singapore every home has broadband," says Chandler. This is helping the company to shift more of the 30% of the bets it takes over the telephone onto the internet.Mark Blandford, founder and managing director of Alternative Investment Market-listed Sportingbet.com, has reduced this to only 15% (85% internet) as he also attacks the global betting market. Only 7% of its &#163;103m of turnover for the last quarter of 2000 was derived from the UK. The remainder was made up of 50% in the US, 10% in Canada, 20% in South-east Asia and 13% elsewhere. Like many of the online players, Sportingbet.com offers a diverse array of events to bet on including 19 soccer leagues around the world, US Indy car racing and American football, alongside horse racing.Blandford says even the name of his business was created with global expansion in mind. "Our brand is purpose-designed for being global. It says what it does - it is generic and translates into all languages. I doubt whether there is a Cantonese translation for Ladbrokes. They have a hard job on their hands to leverage their brand from the UK where it is strong."Bluesquare is hoping to be successful overseas by this same route. "It's easier to springboard overseas for us   with a strong UK base. Take the Japanese, they love the idea of the Jockey Club," says Pownall, who cites this betting-mad country as accounting for 66% of the world's legal horse racing betting.Once overseas, Bluesquare will hope to replicate some of its success in the UK where it has signed up around 110,000 registered users. The company also employs 15 full-time odds setters, since this will make it a creator of markets and give it more credibility. "The big punters want to be secure so they prefer to deal with you rather than many of the smaller players who copy the odds of the larger operators," explains Pownall. As a result, the company was the only operator to make an online book on the US presidential election farce when it took &#163;80,000 - but made a small loss.Bluesquare is equally keen that its novelty bets are both competitive and appealing. "They are proper bets - Elvis doesn't have to turn up and shoot Margaret Thatcher for the customer to win," he says.But on one site, it is up to the punters themselves to ensure that bets are appealing. Person to person betting site Flutter.com acts as a platform for individuals to post bets and for these to be matched by opposing punters. In the process, Flutter.com takes a 5% commission on any winning bets. Although Chandler says there is a place for Flutter.com in the market, he adds that   "people need confidence and many people don't know it's out there".This certainly isn't because of a lack of media attention, since the company has enjoyed plenty of column inches since it launched 12 months ago. But Josh Hannah, co-founder of Flutter.com, says it has been more difficult than he imagined to explain the concept of person-to-person betting. "It has been surprising to me as it seems so obvious but it's a continuous challenge to us," he says.It is certainly no challenge for its customers to think up a myriad of bets and there are thousands of unusual bets available on the site at any one time. These include whose picture will be on the front page of the newspapers tomorrow. Surprisingly, Tony Blair is often quoted but is not pictured that often. There's even a bet on whether Flutter.com will go bust before the end of August. Having raised $38m in May and spent little on marketing, and delayed expansion overseas, the ungenerous odds of 2/1 not surprisingly raise a smile from Hannah.Despite its core market of novelty, under-&#163;10 bets, Flutter.com - in contrast to the other online operators such as Victor Chandler that will easily take a single &#163;10,000 wager - has turned to horse racing to help drive-up its turnover.It hopes to grow its horse racing revenue from a current 5-10% of turnover to equal football, which accounts for 50% of Flutter.com's income. To do this, on Tuesday it launched a radically overhauled racing section where punters can now change their bets in real time and more easily post bets on all horses in a race to create their own book.Over 700,000 bets have been placed on the Flutter.com site since launch, but the company will not disclose the all-important number of how many of these have been matched, and so how much commission it has earned. It is certainly hoping to maintain its position as a major player in the online person-to-person betting market that Hannah confidently forecasts will account for as much as 30% of total online gambling. What odds would he quote on that, you wonder?So, although the internet is clearly breathing new life into the betting industry, Flutter.com is proving that there is still life in the old dog that is horse racing.But the online specialists undoubtedly have lots of new tricks up their sleeves.
Travel Guidehttp://britannia.com/celtic/wales/Virtual Waleswww.red4.co.ukWales Wide Webwww.grossi.co.uk/wales/Welsh Genealogywww.genuki.org.uk/big/walCastleswww.castlewales.com/home.htmlLinkswww.data-wales.co.uk
Bush netBush Radio is again trying to marry PC and TV technology. Due in July for around &#163;1,000, the Ultimate MM is billed as an "entertainment PC that sits under the TV". It combines a TiVo-style personal video recorder with a DVD player and net access.The video recorder, which features programming facilities more akin to those in VCRs than that offered by TiVo, records shows on a 40 gigabyte hard disk. Users will be able to pause and rewind live programmes. They can also download and store MP3 files and stream radio and TV via the net.Bush is also launching a hard disk video recorder without an electronic programming guide, the &#163;400 DVR-2001, in the summer.On sale next month are a pair of widescreen TVs, the &#163;599 28-inch DVD660 and &#163;799 DVD760, which feature integrated DVD players. In June, Bush is launching a budget take on the personal DVD player/LCD screen   combi -the &#163;500 PDVD 1000. A screenless personal player, the DVD1000, goes on sale for &#163;150.Bush's sister company, Roadstar, has come up with an ingenious solution to the problem of keeping youngsters entertained in the car. The &#163;300 Watch'N'Go 4PKWNG4, a portable in-car video system, features a mini-sized VCR and a 4-inch LCD screen tucked inside a rucksack-style bag. When the pack unravels, its handles can be used to attach it to the back of a car seat. The unit is powered via a car's cigarette adaptor. A DVD version is expected next year.Hitachi's RAMHitachi's long-promised DVD-ram camcorder finally makes it to the UK this month. The &#163;1,800 DZ-MV100E uses double-sided 8cm re-writable DVD-ram discs to store up to 2.8 gigabytes, or an hour of high quality MPEG2 video (two hours if standard mode is used).The discs, expected to retail for around &#163;20, are compatible with DVD-ram PC drives and video recorders, available later in the year.The camera creates a visual table of contents for each disc by displaying a still image of the beginning of each section of footage. Users can either access those scenes, or create a play list of scenes   for transferring to a PC, videotape or, in the future, DVD.The DZ-MV100E also takes digital still images with a resolution of 1.1 megapixels. Other facilities include a 12x optical, and 4x digital zoom, image stabilisation options, auto-exposure modes and 3.5-inch LCD monitor.Summer hootSony is planning new digital camera models in the high-end Cyber Shot and entry-level Mavica range.CD-RW compatibility has been added to two new Mavica models - the MVC-CD200 and MVC-CD300. The new 156MB 8cm CD-RW discs, which will retail for around &#163;13, allows users to delete images without reducing the amount of space on the disc. The CD200 has an image resolution of 2.1 megapixels and a 3x digital zoom and is likely to retail for around &#163;700. The &#163;1,000 CD300 is capable of 3.3 megapixel images, has a 3x digital zoom and   sports a Carl Zeiss lens. Also new are a quartet of Mavica models that store images on a standard 3.5-inch floppy disk.The Cyber Shot range, which use Sony's Memory Stick storage system, has three additions, the DSC-75, DSC-P50 and DSC-P30. The top-end model, the DSC-75, features an image resolution of 3.3 megapixels, a 3x optical and 6x digital zoom, a Carl Zeiss lens and comes with an 8MB Memory Stick. Prices are not available. (AN)1GHz to goNotebook PCs have always used slower chips than desktop models, because of the twin problems of dissipating heat and extending battery life. Intel narrowed the gap slightly this week by launching a 1GHz Mobile Pentium III, and a string of PC companies announced new models based on the chip, including Compaq (Presario 1800) and Hewlett-Packard (Omnibook 6000). However, the 1GHz processor is very expensive ($722 each if you buy a thousand) and it uses Intel's SpeedStep technology. In other words, it normally runs at 700MHz when on battery power, and at 1GHz when the notebook is plugged in to the mains. For value-conscious buyers, Intel also introduced    a 900MHz Mobile Pentium III ($562) and a 750MHz Mobile Celeron ($170). AMD is expected to announce a 1GHz version of its Athlon processor for notebooks in the summer.PocketsHewlett-Packard could attract a wider range of buyers to Microsoft's Pocket PC system with a cheaper Jornada 525 palmtop computer, announced today. The 525 is slim and stylish but only has a 256-colour LCD. This does not look as good as other Pocket PC screens, but it still has the higher resolution that makes it much easier to read than the Palm IIIc and similar Palm OS models with colour screens. HP has also launched its own plug-in digital camera for HP Jornada Pocket PCs, the camera electronics being developed at HP's research lab in Bristol.  Users can add voice annotations to their pictures and email them to friends, because the Pocket PC mail software can handle attachments. Finally, HP has produced a slightly cheaper version of the    clamshell-style Jornada 720, which has an outstanding tiny keyboard. The Jornada 710 looks to be the same but leaves out the modem.Palm offLast year, Microsoft stole a march on Palm by launching its Pocket PC software, which included an MP3 player, electronic book reader and other advanced features. Handspring also stole a march on the market leader by launching Palm-compatible machines with Handspring expansion slots. Palm has now responded. It plans to ship two new V-style palmtops, the m500 and m505, with multimedia and e-book software included in Palm OS 4, and SD expansion slots. Palm has also taken over Peanut.com, an electronic book publisher. The Peanut Reader software is being renamed Palm Reader. While adding an expansion slot was long overdue, buyers of Palm OS handhelds will face a plethora of incompatible choices: SD, Springboard, Sony Memory Stick and CompactFlash. (JS)
Have you a preference between console and PC games?It depends on the game. I like real-time strategies and they translate better on a PC. I like Quake 3 on PC but I don't really get it on the Dreamcast. My least favourite are ones that don't entertain, inspire or educate. I get a pang of guilt slamming a product someone's worked on for years but it's my job to sometimes say: "Don't spend &#163;45 on this because it'll be a disappointment!" Star Wars Phantom Menace was a disgrace! I get angry at bad games because they're a waste of time.What will the next generation of computer games bring?It seems like there's the capability to bring out more emotionally involving, adventure-driven games. There was all the hype about the Emotion Engine with the PS 2, which was just a marketing term - but the machines weren't available! People are moving away from shooting gallery type games and want something more extreme. However, there is still something to be said for the old-school games. After all, there's still a Disneyland!Is broadband going to enhance the UK's online gaming experience?I think it's a lot of hype. To use a well-worn simile, if you've got a 56k modem you're driving the equivalent of an average car, whereas with broadband you're effectively driving a Ferrari. You're going to get to the point faster but you'll still have the same bottlenecks. What would change online gaming more would be things like free ISPs and phone calls.Any difference in gaming habits between the genders?Women tend to play on their own. They prefer drawn-out adventures whereas men like instant gratification. Over the next five years there's going to be a huge increase in the number of women playing console games because they've been brought up with it. There's also a huge amount of marketing targeting women, particularly in Japan with games like Dance Dance Revolution and Happy Diet.What was your earliest encounter with computers?I had an old IBM PC, which was a word-processor, but I played loads of text-based adventures on it. I then had a colour Mac (www.tne.net.au/~sambler/MacRefDocs/Mac68k/maccolourclassic.html. Now I've a Compaq Armada laptop running Windows 95 and anAMD-K6 desktopwith a huge monitor. I've become addicted to a keyboard and have a hard time writing without it!Any favourite websites?I'm a fan of web-based email but I also like fun stuff likeFurniture Pornand theAurora Borealis site. I likeLonely PlanetandFestivals. My favourite gaming sites arewww.ign.com,www.gamesup.com,www.gamesrankings.comandwww.gamesup.com. I wouldn't shop or bank online because I know too many hackers who are way too good!Visit:www.4later.com/bits
A British robotics team yesterday unleashed the RS-01 RoboDog, which is much bigger, stronger and smarter than Sony's Aibo. In fact, it would not be going too far to call this the Formula 1 version of a robotic pet. The RoboScience design team was led by Nick Wirth, who was responsible for the SimTec Formula 1 cars, before joining the Benetton team as chief designer.The new RoboDog was created using similar design techniques and carbon-fibre construction, and the eight-strong design team completed the RS-01 in only seven months. The result: a labrador-sized robot that weighs only 12kg but can lift twice its own weight - something roughly the size of a five year old child, according to RoboScience.RoboDogs will be hand-built in a limited edition, each   customised to its owner's needs. They can also do some impressive tricks that are rarely if ever performed by real dogs, such as perfectly controlled head-stands (or, more accurately, nose-stands).In autonomous mode, a RoboDog will explore its environment until it runs out of power, after about 90 minutes. It will then go to its base station for a recharge. In explorer mode, the dog will recognise 60 verbal commands, or can be controlled from a PC via a standard wireless network. Wirth says: "Half   its brain is in the owner's PC, communicating via IP &#91;Internet Protocol&#93;, so the internet is kind of in its blood."RoboDogs can also perform useful functions, such as photographing remote locations using built-in colour cameras, or reading email aloud.Since the RoboDog is based on a PC running Microsoft Windows 98, it can collect email just as easily as a real dog could pick up a newspaper. "If you plug in a keyboard and screen you can do your tax returns on it," he says."The whole point of using the Windows platform was to help us with   the development, because we could tap into all the resources available," Wirth adds. "There are many companies working on PC-based vision systems, for example, so if you wanted face recognition - it can't recognise faces at the moment - you could plug it in. Windows is not a good operating system to control a robot in real time: it's caused us a huge amount of pain to achieve what we've achieved. But it has been worth it."However, don't expect to see any RoboDogs trotting round to the local newsagent, or even the tax office. They will either be collectors'   pieces or toys for the very rich: the price is &#163;20,000 each.Wirth readily admits that the RoboDog wasn't designed as a product: "It was meant to be a technology demonstrator, but it was so popular, we decided to make a limited number available. The indications are that they are going to sell out quite quickly, but the success of RoboScience is not down to the success of the RoboDog."When you see our next product, you'll say 'Well, I would never have expected that', but 80% of the technology is the same."www.roboscience.com
Costly lessonI   read your article on technology in the classroom (How to learn the hardware way, March 15) with the same kind of despair that I experienced traipsing around the BETT show in Olympia earlier this year. It made me feel like a Dickensian waif staring in the rich family's window watching them tuck into a slap-up meal. The new technologies have a lot to offer the classroom of the future, but the big drawback is that these wonderful devices come at a price.The raw economic truth is that those of us in the bottom half of our two-tier education system are simply doing our best to keep our heads above water. Year on year our budgets are cut, even though our pupil numbers increase. We are told that all secondary schools have achieved a pupil-computer ratio of at least 8 to 1 and will be at 5 to 1 by 2004; the truth is that we are struggling to hold it at 13 to 1.I'm afraid the cold reality for many of us at the chalk face bears little resemblance to the brave new world that you describe.Jeremy Smithjd.smith@ukonline.co.ukI was interested to read about the interactive whiteboard (whiteboards replaced blackboards years ago) and that teachers are enthusiastic about it "not least because lessons can be prepared at home (where else?) on the laptop". Would this be the laptop that will cost me more than one-tenth of my annual salary? Government help with hardware is only available for maths teachers of 11 to 14-year-olds.Victoria PaleitSouthmoor, OxonFlash floodNick Clayton (Second Sight, March 15) is absolutely right: it's time for the Flash Back(f)lash. To all the Flash animators out there I say this: you know that bit where it says "Skip Intro"? That's where I click, every time. And if there's no "Skip", I just hit the stop button in my browser and go elsewhere. Some of the worst offenders are the biggest companies in the world, and its time to name and shame.Perhaps the Guardian should feature a regular chart of the biggest time wasters? I nominate Volkswagen, which has a golden opportunity to tell you everything about its cars, but tells you next to nothing.The Campaign for Pure Text starts here.Dr Robert McMinndrbob@jigsaw24.comNick Clayton is right to believe that many web designers use Flash to indulge their egos at the expense of usability. But Flash itself is an extremely powerful technology, if frequently misused. It can be used to create very small files that play as they download; Flash movies can scale to fit any screen size or resolution; unlike HTML, Flash will play back more or less consistently whatever the browser or platform; and Flash can be used to create user interfaces that are more intuitive and responsive to use, not just pretentious intros. See the Flash showcase atwww.macromedia.comfor some excellent examples of Flashed sites.I would also ask Nick to stop perpetuating the stereotype of the black-clad designer conning naive company directors into parting with cash for "spinning logos" and other gimmicks. Good design is central to usability and has a direct relation to the success or otherwise of commercial websites.The web appears to be an immature medium because it is full of appalling sites created by companies who treat design as an afterthought, and believe that they themselves (or their IT department) can do a good job of it.Mark Croxtonmark@croxton.co.ukI would be the first to agree with Nick Clayton that there are a great many annoying and unnecessary Flash intros to websites.However, Flash has many more uses than just creating pretty intros. Flash can do anything that can be done in HTML and far more. It can interact with databases, XML files, accept user input and is excellent for creating animated tutorials. As a web developer (no Nick, not all people who create websites are designers), one of the advantages of Flash is that it frees the website authors from having to worry about writing HTML/DHTML that will work in a myriad of different browser types and versions, which, in my experience, is one of the most time-consuming aspects of website authoring.Also, there are more browsers now that have the Flash plugin than have Javascript enabled which makes it a surer bet for delivering any type of dynamic content.I would also agree that many websites suffer from a lack of text content which for some sites is a problem. This, however, is not a result of using Flash. There are just as many websites with too many animated Gifs or Java applets, or even just plain images. This is down to the site design, not the tools used or methods in which that design was implemented.Finally, I would also like to point out that although you can't put a Flash graphic into a search engine, you can't put any other type of graphic directly into a search engine either. Search engine placement is partly driven by the text content of sites, but that's not the only criterion.I would also have to say that personally I think the web would be a very boring place if all sites entirely consisted of text content.Mike Annesley(email address supplied)Morons.comI see the blame culture is at it again (Lost stock &amp; two smoking analysts, March 15). The only people that dot.com investors really have to blame is themselves for their sheer stupidity.Anyone who believes that it is a good thing to buy shares in a company that doesn't (and won't in the near future) make a profit is quite simply a moron. There's a lot of it about it seems.Colin Millarnafurahi@totalise.co.ukWrong manI, too, have noticed the iffy service from Telewest (Feedback, March 15) but the deal I am getting disinclines me to protest too much. What does slow the service is the 80% crap emails I get and cannot stop. The world seems to think that, because I am 57, I smoke (I don't), I am overweight (I'm not) and I need Viagra (I don't). How does one set the record straight?Ken Baldryken@art-science.com
As the music is slowly stripped from Napster by a combination of court injunctions and record company      persistence, thoughts are beginning to turn to the alternatives. Napster will probably hang in there for months      yet, offering unlimited downloads from a dwindling collection of licensed tracks, but the genie of free music is      definitely out of the bottle and thieves are not noted for their loyalty."Hey - has anyone tried Limewire?""Yep - it's rubbish, almost as bad as Bearshare."Such exchanges are now common in the Napster chatrooms as users try to work out whether their craving for      free music can be fed elsewhere. Naturally, there are already plenty of alternatives. The question is: are they      any good and how long will they last before the record companies notice their existence and shut them down      too?For those who may have missed the Napster revolution, the key jargon to remember is Peer to Peer (P2P).      When you download a file from the internet, it is usually stored on a server somewhere, taking up disk space      either owned by a private company or donated to users by ISPs.This system has served the web well since its inception. However, the growing availability of multimedia files      (in particular music and video) causes a huge capacity problem. Not only are the files larger, but should they      prove popular it is easy for users to jam that server with their download attempts.This is already a major problem for the porn industry, with servers crashing on an hourly basis and ISPs - like      Yahoo - imposing strict download limits on thousands of accounts. P2P avoids this problem by putting all the      strain on the user. Companies like Napster simply provide a window; the tracks you download are coming      directly from some other user's hard drive, and they in turn are uploading material directly from yours. When      it works, it works brilliantly.When it fails, it exposes your PC to greater risk from viruses, hackers and      unexpected crashes. You have been warned!Finally, do remember that the transfer of copyright material other than for personal use is illegal. However,      as these programmes can be used for legitimate sharing of your own files (photos, music etc) we feel obliged      to tell you what works and what will simply mess up your system. How you choose to exploit this advice is a      matter for your own conscience.       Bearsharewww.bearshare.comis the most prominent new file sharer and, like the others, free to      download. The interface is unusually drab despite the highly colourful website from which you download it.Unfortunately, the main problem with Bearshare is that it doesn't seem to work! Despite multiple attempts I      could not even make it perform a search, while its own bulletin board strongly suggests the problem does not      end there. As one user put it, with remarkable restraint, "I appreciate the effort to help us, but I think I speak      for a large group of people when I say that I can not download anything !"Limewire ( www.limewire.com ) is a nicer looking interface with some useful gimmicks, for example, the ability      to perform multiple simultaneous searches, each of which is tabbed in the main window.       Also useful is the ability to define your minimum download speed, so if you have ADSL or cable and wish to      avoid users with humble 56k modems, you can. The searches are quick and unusually productive (I found over      3,000 Madonna files in seconds plus most of the UK top 20).However, 20 attempts to download the same      track all ended in a connection failure, and the one success I did have (downloading a 15mb mpeg file) took      over an hour to complete despite my ultra-fast ADSL connection.       The prettiest file sharer around is probablyGnotella. It is also one of the easiest to use,      accepting both Bearshare and Limewire users and clearly marking which clients are using firewalls, which may      make the files harder to download. Once again you can perform multiple searches and the results were both      faster and more plentiful than Limewire.There's even a snazzy window to show how your transactions are      eating up the available bandwidth. However, the success rate was appalling, with fewer than two files      transferring from the 50 or so I tried, and it was appallingly slowly given both parties were using cable      modems.       The final site,Gnutella, has been around for a while now. It originally provided the      core code for the first true alternative to Napster, but is now more of a community for other P2P engines.The key advantage of using a Gnutella variant is that you can swap almost any kind of media file over them,      including pictures (JPEGs and GIFs), MPEG or AVI video files or small application programmes as well as the      most popular MP3 music format. For an introduction to P2P file sharing and a mix of some of the best engines,      this is a good place to start.The more you use P2P programs, the more you appreciate the sheer genius of Napster. Here was a fluid and      functioning music sharing system, with a world class search engine, one of the best instant messaging      facilities around, and a built in media player so you could preview files as they were downloading. In      comparison, the new wave of P2P engines are slow, inaccurate and largely ineffective.Admittedly, some of      this is down to the nature of the files - an MPEG video is much bigger than an MP3 file, consequently the host      you are trying to download from handles fewer simultaneous connections, each taking longer to deal with.       There is, of course, another problem with most of these P2P programs. Once activated, the software will scan      your drive for files you wish to share with fellow thieves (sorry, users). Unfortunately, once the world can see      your own files, it also knows a fair amount about your personal habits. Got any embarrassing JPEGs? (be      honest, now). Well, prepare to let colleagues, friends and file sharers see them too. Admittedly, there are      ways of selecting which files you choose to share, but as many users will use the same folder for uploads and      downloads, red faces are probably inevitable.All in all, however, if this is the future of P2P, Metallica has nothing to worry about. Napster's children ain't      half as dangerous as the old man was.
Accenture, the new economy business service formerly known as Andersen Consulting, posted record UK revenues yesterday and expressed confidence despite declining hi-tech stock prices.Ian Watmore, UK managing partner of the global business, said that the bursting of the dot.com bubble had actually benefited the partnership by enabling it to continue recruiting staff in a tight labour market and to focus on solid companies with revenues which exceeded costs."We still see growing demand for our services across the board," he said. "We are watching stock markets like everybody else, and see gloom on the other side of the Atlantic, but to date that hasn't translated into falling demand for our underlying services."Accenture's revenues in the UK last year were $1.13bn (&#163;787m), an increase of 19% over 1999. On a global basis, the Asia Pacific region accounted for the largest percentage gain in overall rev enues of $10.3bn, with growth of more than 20%.Mr Watmore said that after a first-quarter lull, following the millennium computer bug scare, the firm enjoyed strong growth in business related to the digital economy last year.This included IT outsourcing deals from blue-chip companies such as Sainsbury, which demonstrated the breadth of Accenture's exposure to the hi-tech economy, and the signing of alliances with Microsoft and BT."We always try to do business across a diverse range of businesses, including the more recession-proof industries as well as the more rollercoaster industries," he said."&#91;Hi-tech&#93; stock prices have obviously fallen massively yet there are still many respectable business out there like Nokia - demand for handsets is still massively up, just not as massively up as they were. These companies are still growing and need information support services."Accenture started a rebranding exercise at the beginning of this year including TV and newspaper advertising and sports sponsorship to ingrain the company's new name, adopted after the high-profile divorce from Arthur Andersen, in the public mind.It is now seeking to reinvent itself as the "market-maker, architect and builder of the new economy".With more than 7,000 people in 46 countries, the firm says it is building a network of businesses to meet the full range of client needs, including consulting, technology, outsourcing alliances and venture capital.A partial public flotation of the firm is being considered.Globally, the firm has five units. The products unit, which includes the company's retailing and manufacturing clients, registered the strongest growth rate in 2000, increasing its revenues by 21% to $2.1bn, followed by communications and hi-tech, which grew by 18% to $3bn. Revenues for the financial services and government units increased by 3% each, to $2.7bn and $811m. The resources unit remained unchanged at $1.7bn.
Schools are to be advised not to place individual photographs of pupils on their websites and to take measures to "anonymise" children's email addresses, under new government guidance to be published today.Teachers will be asked to ensure that all pupils using the net at school are protected by filtering systems which ensure they do not visit inappropriate websites.A police officer also warned parents yesterday to move the home computer out of their children's bedroom and into the family living room and not to leave them surfing alone to protect them from potential child abusers.The details of the Department for Education's new "safer surfing" guidance are to be disclosed as the home secretary, Jack Straw, announced there will be a meeting next week of internet companies, child welfare charities and the police to tackle sex offenders who exploit the 100,000 internet chat rooms available to British children.A report by the Internet Crime Forum published yesterday urged internet service providers to promote chat services specifically targeted at children and ensure they are supervised with a simple way of reporting any incident in a chat room for investigation.The forum's chairman, Detective Chief Superintendent Keith Ackerman, said that more than 5m children were now online in Britain and girls aged 13 to 17 were the most likely targets of predatory adult sex offenders who   exploited the anonymity of chat rooms. "Too many parents are technophobes," said Mr Ackerman. "The computer is nearly always put in the wrong place - in the kiddies' bedroom. It is then not a family pursuit. The child is to a degree abandoned to look at the internet themselves. Proper supervision in a more public area like the lounge or dining room is required so the parents can learn from the child and vice versa."The advice to parents will be supplemented today by official guidance to schools working to meet the government's pledge to provide every child with access to the internet and their own email address. The Department for Education guidance will stress the need not to publish individual photographs of named children on school websites and to "anonymise" children's email addresses so that they cannot be individually messaged by strangers outside the school.This might involve giving each child a numerical email address for use outside the school which translates into an address using their own name when used on a school computer. So somebody who is known to the outside world as "pupil20.4thyear@bashstreet.sch.uk" would be on the school system as "joannasmith.4thyear@bashstreet.sch.uk".The Internet Crime Forum's report, Chat Wise, Street Wise, published yesterday, said parents need to be educated about the risks of their children using chat room services and it suggests that a kitemarking scheme be introduced to identify sites which are safe for children.
Stepstone, the online recruitment group, is expected to write off around 4m euros (&#163;2.5m) as part of a restructuring of its business.Stepstone, which has expanded into 18 countries, yesterday said the charge would cover the closure of a number of regional offices on the continent and payments to redundant staff. One hundred employees in southern Europe have already left the business.The group is reducing the number of telesales staff it employs and taking on more IT workers, expecting the restructuring to reduce its overall costs.Giles Clarke, Stepstone's chief executive, denied that the reorganisation followed a downturn in the company's markets across Europe. But he did admit the group was facing cautious attitudes from European companies.Mr Clarke said he expected to see significant growth this year, despite the economic climate and a slow start to trading in 2001.According to the company it is restructuring because the nature of its business is changing. "We are doing a lot more web-enabled business and we are moving into software and IT which requires different sorts of people, so in some of the countries we are in we don't need the people that we have," Mr Clarke said.The group was looking to employ 50 or 60 IT staff and did not rule out the possibility of more job losses. A company spokesperson said there had been a slowdown at the beginning of the year but it was more "sentiment" than anything else.The company's sales for 2000 were just over &euro;60m, nearly four times more than 1999, and revenues were up by 327% to &euro;52.2m. Operating losses were &euro;138.7m, compared with a loss of &euro;24.4m in 1999, due to the group's rapid expansion throughout Europe. The company said that the online recruitment market in Europe was estimated to have reached 2% of the print classified market last year.
A restaurant worker is suspected of using the identities of some of America's richest celebrities and executives in a scam which the local authorities describe as the biggest identity theft in internet history.Abraham Abdallah, 32, a convicted fraudster, has been arrested, accused of infiltrating the financial accounts of more than 200 people on Forbes magazine's annual list of richest people in the US.His alleged victims include Steven Spielberg and Oprah Winfrey from the world of entertainment, and Ted Turner, Warren Buffett, George Soros, Michael Bloomberg and Larry Ellison from the financial world.Mr Abdallah is accused of using the web and his local Brooklyn library to track down confidential information and access bank, brokerage and credit card accounts.One piece of evidence found by the police was a well-worn copy of Forbes magazine with home addresses, telephone numbers, bank accounts and mothers' maiden names scrawled beside the billionaires' biographies. In several cases their all-important US social security numbers had also been written down.Mr Abdallah allegedly used web-enabled mobile phones and virtual voicemail services to track packages ordered in his victims' names and pick up messages from anywhere in the US.Detective Michael Fabozzi of the New York police department told the New York Post: "There were so many packages going to so many places at one time, it's impossible to figure out how he kept track of it all ... but he did."The department believes Mr Abdallah cloned the identities of his victims, setting up hundreds of bogus New York addresses for postal deliveries,   before raiding their personal accounts.The police, who arrested their suspect as he picked up a delivery a month ago, are still trying to discover the extent of the fraud, which they believe lasted more than six months.Mr Abdallah has been charged with criminal possession of forged devices and stolen property and criminal impersonation. He denies the accusations.The case began in December when the NYPD was alerted to a suspicious request to transfer $10m (&#163;7m) from an account belonging to Thomas Siebel, founder of Siebel Systems, an electronics firm.Merrill Lynch, the brokerage firm, had contacted Mr Siebel about the request because it conflicted with the requirements of the account. He said he knew nothing about it.The fraud squad traced the request to two Yahoo! email addresses. Merrill Lynch then found the same email used for five more billionaire clients.Requests to other Wall Street firms, which handle the personal accounts of America's wealthiest people, uncovered similar coincidences.The police found that many of the business addresses given to set up the accounts either did not exist or were shared by two billionaires at a time.
&#149; Executive change Internet media company Yahoo! said it had appointed Gregory Coleman executive vice-president of its North American operations. Mr Coleman, 46, will start in late April.&#149; Barrier raised Vodafone's German mobile phone unit, Mannesmann D2, is against sharing 3G infrastructure with rivals and will cut handset subsidies, D2 chief J&uuml;rgen von Kuczkowski was reported as saying yesterday. Mr von Kuczkowski said that the firm was spending DM300 (&#163;97) in subsidies per handset for new customers.&#149; Upbeat Market research firm Gartner Dataquest expects global sales of mobile phones to reach 507m this year, 50m above most handset makers' forecasts. "This is our reasoned view," said Telecom analyst Peter Richardson, "It's certainly not our best case scenario." He said a reasonably bullish view was warranted because the only soft market was the US.&#149; Refocus Engineering company TT Group said it was pursuing a demerger of its glass container packaging unit to focus on electronic and electrical operations. It expected to complete the demerger before mid-year.
A "virtual Commons" where voters can debate issues and quiz MPs online should be set up in a bid to fight voter apathy, an influential thinktank claimed today.The specially commissioned report by Citizens Online and the Institute for Public Policy Research also calls on local councils to install kiosks where people can log on and give their views on issues affecting their town or region.John Fisher, the chief executive of Citizens Online, said: "This is an opportunity to realise democracy online and should be at the heart of the modernising government agenda."This is not just about emailing the prime minister or watching a video stream of the budget - it's about creating a new and innovative component for representative governance in the 21st century."The document, titled "Realising Democracy Online; A civic Commons in cyberspace", criticises the mass media for "sucking both the substance and spirit out of the politics it projects." It warns that this reliance on newspapers, TV and radio makes people sceptical about the quality of the information they are getting, and forces politicians to use soundbites to get a message across rather than spelling out their ideas in detail.The report goes on to suggest that the internet has the potential for creating more of a dialogue between those governed and those in government."We feel that the needs of the citizen and democracy are not very well served by the present mainstream, mass media-based communication system," said Jay Blumler, emeritus professor of public communications at the University of Leeds.   He is co-author of the report with Stephen Coleman, the director of the Hansard Society's e-democracy programme.The report makes the point that the chancellor produces a pre-budget consultation paper which is only circulated in the City - it adds that if this was opened up to the web, more people and professions would be represented in the thinking behind treasury decisions.It goes on to contrast an "inert and sulky" concept of citizenship where an ill-informed public switches off from political life, or an empowering dialogue between elected representatives and the people.Prof Blumler said the age in which people were happy for politicians to make decisions without consulting them was coming to an end.So far, politicians have done little to tap this surge of opinion, few MPs are contactable via email and even fewer have their own website.Useful linksThe IPPRCitizens OnlineSpecial reportsElection countdownNet newsRelated articles19.03.2001: Labour MPs 'web summit' vision collapsesComment, 19.03.2001: Can politics spin its own web in time?DebateThe net election: are you ready?
British children are not properly protected from paedophiles on the internet, a Home Office-sponsored report says today.The Internet Crime Forum - who represent police, social workers, the internet industry and civil liberties groups - spent nearly two years examining cases of abuse of children through the net.The study  - called "Chat Wise, Street Wise - children and internet chat rooms" - urges a review of the law to tackle adults who target children for abuse on the internet.Numerous examples of abusers "grooming" children, often through winning their confidence by pretending to be teenagers in online chat rooms, were looked at.Although it does not call for a sweeping reform of the law, it does recommend internet service providers set up "safe haven" spaces within their domains.  It also calls for cyber police to monitor the areas, and some form of "kitemark" to reassure parents the sites were safe.Children and parents are also to be given advice on net etiquette, such as never giving out email or home addresses, their phone number or details about which school they attend.  A special police hotline will also be set up for parents to report suspected cases of grooming.More than 5m children under 16 in the UK are online, with 1.15m admitting to using chat rooms. There are thought to be around 100,000 chat rooms on the web.The report - which will now go to the home secretary, Jack Straw, for consideration - comes as concern over the safety of children on the net grows in the UK.London's Saatchi gallery was forced to defend an exhitibition of photographs containing pictures of naked children after an expose in a Sunday tabloid newspaper.The paper claimed the photographs had already been posted on child porn sites on the web.More than 2,000 men in the USA have been convicted of internet sex offences in the past six years - but prosecutions are more rare in the UK as defence barristers can argue any police operation constitutes entrapment.Last year one of the designers of the Lara Croft computer game, Kenneth Lockley, was jailed for 18 months after trying to incite an undercover police officer to lure child for sex.Special reportNet newsUseful linksInternet Watch FoundationInternet FreedomRelated articles18.03.2001: 'Chatrooms are great - except for the liars'11.08.2000: Regulating the netComment30.01.2001: The internet is a friend of freedom
It is not often that the Government does something right, so let us raise a glass of free-range champagne this morning to the pinstriped officials of Her Majesty's Patent Office.They have for some time been pondering the questions of whether UK patents should be granted for (a) computer software and (b) new ways of doing business. And they have come to broadly the right conclusions.On the first question they have decided to reaffirm the principle that patents are for technological innovations, and that 'software should not be patentable where there is no technological innovation, and technological innovations should not cease to be   patentable merely because the innovation lies in software'. Amen.On the second issue - of whether so-called 'business method' patents should be allowed under UK law - they have rightly decided that these legal abominations have no attraction for this country.This is an important and possibly far-reaching victory, because the Government is now committed to trying to persuade its European partners to take the same enlightened view.A business process or business method patent is essentially a business idea - which may or may not have a technological basis - which is granted the protection of patent law. Going shopping on Wednesdays in a yellow car would be an example of a 'business method' within the meaning of the act. More famous instances are the patents Amazon.com holds on   its 'one-click' online ordering process, and on its 'affiliates' programme - under which an affiliate site that signs up with Amazon gets a fee every time a book is bought from Amazon as a result of a click- through from that site.Now both of these are smart business ideas, but they are not rocket science. Indeed they are not science of any description, and they do not deserve to be protected by patents. Until 1998 they were not, even in the US, despite many hopeful arguments to the contrary by men in suits.In 1981 the suits got as far as the US Supreme Court - which ruled that methods of doing business were not patentable because they were nothing more than abstract ideas. And abstract ideas (along with 'laws of nature' and 'natural phenomena') were deemed to be beyond the reach of US patent law. This doctrine became known as the 'business method exception'.All of this changed in 1998 when the US Court of Appeals decided that the exception was, in modern circumstances, 'ill-conceived' and ruled that that a patent claim may be 'directed toward or   otherwise involve' a method of doing business.This judgment opened the floodgates to a raft of business method patents like Amazon's infamous pair. The result is that virtually every conceivable online business idea is now patented by US entrepreneurs.The long-term insanity of this has been eloquently pointed out by Lawrence Lessig and other distinguished commentators. The unique thing about the internet is that it is the first communications network we've had which is not owned by anyone and which is entirely permissive in what it is used for. Exploitation of the web is limited only by the ingenuity of those seeking to exploit it - which is what has given rise to the explosion of economic and other creativity generated by the web.But that explosive creativity is precisely what the business method patent is designed to choke off. It means that the first employee a start-up will henceforth require is not an engineer or a gifted marketing director but the lawyer needed to find out who owns the business patents that the new firm intends to exploit, and how much a licence will cost.This is the nightmare scenario that the UK Patent Office has decided to avoid. So let's hear it for the pin-striped suits.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
If you read this paper a year ago you would have been looking at what online publishers liked to call a 'legacy publication' - one printed on paper. The term summed up what they thought of newsprint: outmoded, outdated and soon to be sent the way of the telegram.In those good old days, before the dotcom dream collapsed, online publishers could afford to be confident that the nimbleness of the internet would give them an edge over old media. When Slate and Salon were launched five years ago, it was amid claims that 'webzines' would become multimillion-dollar businesses and ruin print publications by stealing their readership and advertising. They were flush with venture capital, internet advertising was increasing, and readership was on the rise.Even last year, when the important-sounding Powerful Media launched media website Inside.com just as the tech-stock bubble burst, confidence was still on their side. Not only would Inside.com have 30,000 subscribers forking out over $200 for the service within a year, but within three years that number would climb to 100,000 and it would be in profit. But like most businesses with a dotcom suffix, the reality turned grim. In the past year, subscriptions have dried up and advertising has deserted the internet. A dozen web-only publications have folded; others have had to retrench and revise their plans.'Things look really bleak right now' for online content companies, says an analyst at Jupiter Communications. Many have given up trying to charge subscriptions and are instead building relationships with healthier partners. And with an irony not lost on 'legacy publications', many webzines have turned to what they once scorned - print.'We realised pretty early on that being an independent, web-only provider was not entirely viable,' says Michael Hirschorn, editor and co-founder of Inside.com, which recently launched a   print edition. Salon.com has cut staff and branched out into newsletters. Rival Slate, though somewhat protected by its owner, Microsoft, has also launched an edition that can be downloaded and printed out. They all have one aim: to build readership and hang on long enough for someone to work out how to make money publishing on the internet. That does not look likely to happen soon. Inside.com is understood to be looking for a buyer before it suffers a cash crunch; it is even holding talks with arch-rival Variety.But analysts say the retrenchment does not signify a retreat from the internet as a means of communication. According to Jupiter Media Matrix, a New York research firm that tracks online readership, the number of people who go online for news and analysis is growing faster than that for any other medium. A similar pattern was observed   during the infancies of cable, television and radio. This supports the argument that to judge the internet solely by stock valuation and profit is to miss the point. Slate publisher Scott Moore argues that the audience that matters is not Wall Street analysts and media critics but the readers. After all, Slate on the web attracts 2 million visitors a month.'From my perspective, a lot of the negative stuff that has been written about internet content is from the perspective of Wall Street,' he told the  New York Times . 'If you look at it from a users' perspective, online content is not only alive   and well but thriving.' Some webzines, including those that found readers were unwilling to pay subscriptions, such as TheStreet.com, hope to start charging for their stories at some point. Others are likely to increase the space given to advertising. Currently online publishers devote only about 20 per cent of screen space to ads; the proportion for newspapers is 60 per cent.Web content businesses are not alone in feeling a cold draught. Established print media companies have also cut back staff and investment in their online editions. Last week Pearson slashed $75m from the budget for FT.com. It was a significant move. Pearson poured $294m into its web operation last year, with the aim of making FT.com the world's 'leading global business portal'.In recent months, companies from CNN to Cond&eacute; Nast have scaled back their web ambitions, and the retrenchment mirrors a downturn in newspaper business. Last week, two of America's most powerful newspaper companies warned that they had been hit by the economic downturn. Dow Jones, publisher of the  Wall Street Journal, said it would earn about a third as much as analysts had expected in the first quarter and would shed staff. The  New York Times issued a similar earnings warning, and the  San Jose Mercury News, in once-booming Silicon Valley, has also said it will lay off some employees.Few online content businesses are immune. Last summer, book publishing    giant Random House announced the debut of an e-book imprint, AtRandom.com. The company proclaimed that tech-savvy readers could use their computers to download the prose of writers such as Elizabeth Wurtzel,  New Yorker staff writer Tad Friend and dotcom chronicler Po Bronson. New titles by these authors would be available only as e-books. But Wurtzel's  Radical Sanity was downloaded just 40 times in the first two weeks of release. At $10 each, she has now sold 100 copies. Random House recently reversed its pledge and announced that it would, after all, offer print versions of its e-books.'Words printed on a page provide a reading experience that is one we're accustomed to, but also, as it turns out, one that is extremely efficient,' says AtRandom.com editorial director Mary Bahr. 'A paperback is not enormously expensive for us to produce, or for the   reader to buy.' Her sentiments are similar to those heard across business as the commercial realities of electronic information delivery become clear.In the absence of revenue, a system launched last month by Amazon allows internet users to give money to their favourite, struggling webzines. The company launched the Amazon Honor System to take advantage of its 30 million credit card database and allow customers to donate. Surfers at participating sites can click on an image and be whisked to Amazon.com, where they can decide how much money to give, with donations beginning at one dollar. Amazon's servers recognise the person as a customer, charge the amount to the customer's card and pass the money to the website, minus 15 cents per donation, no matter what the size, and 15 per cent of the total as commission.For some, the service has already    proved a boon. Journalist Andrew Sullivan, former editor of the  New Republic, raised more than $5,000 in the first 10 days his site andrewsullivan.com was hooked up to the system.But others have yet to reap a windfall. In the first five weeks of operation, Modern Humorist has raised $565.99, SatireWire has pulled in $657 from 153 donors and E &#91;as in Environmental&#93; magazine just $11.The programme launched with 50 sites, and Alan Kaplan, Amazon's vice-president of payment services, says that 'thousands' have signed on since. Chank Diesel, editor of Chank.com, says about $50 a week is flowing into his company through the honour system. 'We're not getting rich, but we're getting something,' he says. 'I guess you could make a living at it, but it's the honour system. You give people a choice to pay or not pay, and most aren't going to pay.'
ONdigital's ambitious plans to generate substantial new earnings by offering subscribers internet access through its pay-TV services received a dramatic setback last night.Granada, joint owner of ONdigital, is to stop selling the ONnet box in its 500 Box Clever stores. The box makes its TV set-top devices capable of accessing the internet. An   internal memo sent to store managers states: 'Sales of ONnet boxes have been lower than anticipated through Box Clever and other retailers, as a result of which we will cease to stock this product.'News that Granada is to pull the product will surprise media analysts. In January, ONdigital chief executive Stuart Prebble said he was 'very pleased' that ONnet - which launched last September -   had attracted 70,000 subscribers, each of whom pay &#163;5 a month for the service.Until recently, the company, whose other shareholder is Carlton Communications, has seen ONnet as a platform for delivering a range of interactive services. In addition to offering users email services, ONnet also provides secure online shopping facilities - opening up potentially lucrative e-commerce revenues to ONdigital.The company's promotional material boasts: 'Fifty six brands have now signed up to provide content to the ONnet portal. ONnet is adding new partners virtually every week.'Analysts have expressed concerns that French firm Netgem, which makes the ONnet boxes, has seen demand level off.
Information technology still puzzles many adults, including most parents. Kierra, 15, said: 'My mum is crap at anything with an "on" button really.' And her mother is typical - a survey by Amazon.com, the internet bookshop, last year found that 75 per cent of children had helped their parents to solve computer problems.More mystifying still are the chat rooms - websites where complete strangers can talk to each other about whatever they like, with as much anonymity as they wish. 'Chat rooms are great,' said Ben, 14, 'because you can make up so much about yourself.'But there are people, such as paedophiles, waiting to take advantage. Kierra said: 'Bad things about chat-rooms are people who lie all the time. Like, "Honest, I'm 14." Except I'm a 55-year-old bald man named Malcolm. Or he'll say, "My name's Sadie, I'm 13 and I like Barbie. Do you?"'Unlike Kierra, many teenagers don't recognise the dangers. Rachel O'Connell, director   of research at the Cyberspace Research Unit, in Preston, Lancashire, said: 'When teenagers go online for the first time, many are not aware of the warning signs - like when somebody asks for personal information, or asks to meet them offline &#91;in the real world&#93;. Those kinds of requests should set off alarm bells in teenagers' heads, just as the sound of an oncoming car would warn them not to step out into the street.'But some parents tend to overreact. O'Connell said: 'It would be such a shame if parents panicked about the internet and stopped their children using it, because it's such a wonderful place.'A much more effective way to ensure a child's safety would be to go through the safety guidelines with them. Just as they would teach a child to cross the road safely, parents should initially accompany their children online.'Safety guidelines are freely available on dozens of websites, including cyberangels.com and chatdanger.com. O'Connell is working on an EU-funded project to bring education about online safety into schools and homes.&#149;  Children's Express is a programme of learning through journalism for young people aged from eight to 18. This article was produced by Abeyna Jones and Tinu Adeniji-Adele, 17, and Jonathan Hudson, 14.Related StoryOur worst nightmare
Whatever else it betokens, the management turmoil at Yahoo represents the spectacular collapse of one of the main load-bearing beams of the internet economy: the stock-option culture, no less.The scaffolding remained in place a bit longer at Yahoo because the company is profitable - just (it forecasts break-even this quarter).Yet in the past few weeks the roof has fallen in. Although he remains chairman, the departure of chief executive Tim Koogle puts the cap on an exodus of management talent that has included the heads of European and Asian and Korean operations. More departures are predicted to follow.Meanwhile, and not coincidentally, Yahoo has become a member of the dreaded 90 per cent club of companies whose share price has shrivelled by that amount from its all-time high.Yahoo is not alone in its disarray. Lycos, Alta Vista and broker Ameritrade are other dotcoms sporting high-profile vacancies. No fewer than 26 of them lost their chief executive officer (CEO) in January, according to  Business Week.This falling masonry is the result of several powerful tremors that have opened up the ground beneath new-economy hopefuls. The first, and most spectacular, is the stockmarket meltdown, which has had the unanticipated effect of yanking all those hand-crafted option-based incentive schemes into reverse. Instead of holding the company together, they are now pulling it to bits.'Virtually all dotcoms have relied disproportionately on stock options as a form of pay,' says Vicky Wright of remuneration specialists Hay Management Consultants. 'This is tantamount to letting the stock market decide your pay policy.'The danger is obvious. When the price tanks, so does the incentive for the best people to stay - exerting further pressure on the share price, since people are most companies' best asset.The consequences ripple outwards from there. Companies' initial response was to reprice their options to a sharply lower base, or issue new ones. But persuading investors to dilute their   anaemic stock still further is getting harder, even in the US. A full 15 per cent of Microsoft is under option to its employees. 'There has to be an end to that story,' says Wright.The other alternative - redeeming the equity element by raising all cash salaries 50 per cent - is also fraught. Equity payments don't figure on income statements.Cash payments do. So paying people a normal salary may double your losses, or reduce profits by half (that was the point of using options in the first place).It is not just employment costs that have been kept artificially low by stock options. Dotcoms have habitually also used them to pay suppliers - especially professional advisers. In reverse, removal of the option alternative can thus have the effect of substantially raising the cost base.This makes struggling dotcoms less attractive to potential buyers. So do 'change of control' conditions attached to senior remuneration packages. These often specify that if a company is acquired, all outstanding options vest (that is, they become immediately exercisable). In that case, 'the handcuffs are loosed,' says Professor Tim Morris at Imperial Management School. Either the former captives leave at once - or they must be   offered shed-loads of options to stay. 'It's a high-pressure, fluid market anyway - this just increases the fluidity,' notes Wright.A second source of instability is growing pains within the companies themselves. Entrepreneurs will jump through almost any hoop for the sake of a &#163;10 million option payout, points out John Stork of career strategy adviser Stork and May.But this isn't normal behaviour and it doesn't necessarily make them good executives - sometimes the reverse - warping judgment and distorting behaviour.Either way, says Stork, these are tense and uneasy partners for the more sober and grey heads increasingly being sought to drag the dotcoms into the real world.Enter at this point the third   element in the triple whammy that has sent the dotcoms' management structures reeling: a growing revolt against 'always-on' internet work cultures.For Stork, this is the reason that CEO jobs generally - and especially those at dotcoms - are getting harder and harder to fill. 'People say to themselves, "Been there, done that",' says Stork.'They know the markets will give them at most four years. Why should they continue to sacrifice their health and families to the impossible job of holding the share price up against impossible economic conditions?'Morris sees the same current at work in ranks below the top brass. Commitments to employers and work status are becoming more instrumental and short-term, he   believes; commitment to self is correspondingly stronger. Thus, when the option dream dies, people suddenly realise that it came at a cost: absurd hours, often not very good working conditions and mediocre pay. Even if the company survives, it's unlikely to be enough to compensate for the 'quite complex' mental processes of disappointment, Morris believes.How can the dotcom remuneration framework be stuck together again? Not easily, experts reckon. Even if stockmarkets boom anew, for obvious reasons it's unlikely companies or their employees will turn to share options with their former abandon.For one thing, the employment landscape has been permanently changed by the events of the last few years. For companies, the account ing authorities will eventually disallow the fiction that options somehow aren't a cost, while all the signs are that individuals will continue to shift their priorities towards a work/life balance.Few companies, notes Wright, have been as creative in working out how to pay their people as they have in their internet accounting. One exception is the free-form Brazilian company Semco, where staff have a menu of 11 different payment options to mix and match. A few others are allowing new hires job portfolios at different firms.Others had better follow suit fast. Otherwise, as the stock options that inflated the internet bubble explode, they will take the houses that Tim, Jeff and Meg built down with them.simon.caulkin@observer.co.uk
Trinity Mirror yesterday became the latest traditional media firm to scale back its investment in the internet when it announced the closure of several websites and the loss of 60 jobs.The company, owner of the Mirror newspapers and the largest publisher of regional titles in Britain, has reduced its online spend from the &#163;150m flagged 12 months ago to &#163;90m in the next three years.It is closing the icShowbiz and icSport websites and has abandoned the launch of lifestyle site icChoice. Trinity Mirror confirmed that talks have opened for the sale of its internet service provider, ic24, which has 240,000 active users.The shake-up is part of a wider review of the group formed from the merger of Trinity and Mirror Group more than 18 months ago. The review began in November   and will see the sale of the magazines and exhibitions division which includes specialist medical and housebuilding titles. PA Sporting Life which comprises Sportinglife.com and Totalbet will also be sold.Analysts estimate the magazines will fetch around &#163;50m, Sportinglife another &#163;25m and ic24 about &#163;12m.Philip Graf, the chief executive, said Trinity Mirror had learned a lot from its experiences with the internet and underlined the group's commitment to a network of regional websites using the "ic" brand.He said: "Some of the early predictions of the shift of revenues from newspapers to the internet were clearly overdone. We had thought it would be enough to be a top five player but with the advertising market online not as big as some had anticipated you really need to be top three."Mr Graf added: "We are still very confident of the opportunity provided by the internet where we have a distinctive capability, like the regional network."The online division, which employs around 400 people, is forecast to record revenues of around &#163;25m this year and will have 12 regional sites up by the end of the month.Despite the retrenchment, Trinity Mirror pleased investors with a strong set of full year results for 2000. Pretax profits before internet losses of &#163;42m were 12.2% higher at &#163;196m. Revenues were 5.3% better and just exceeded &#163;1bn.The company also provided positive news of the present trading environment. Mr Graf said advertising revenues across the national titles were 9% higher in the first two months of the year, while the regional titles were 7% higher.The shares climbed 27.5p to 486p.
A scheme aimed at preventing the emergence of a "digital underclass" is to provide internet and digital access to 12,000 homes in six deprived communities across England.The Department for Education and Employment today revealed which areas would benefit over the next year from part of the 10m wired up communities programme.Announcing the successful schemes Michael Wills, learning and technology minister, said: "There is a gulf emerging between those who have access to new technologies and those who do not - and it's a gap that must be narrowed if we are to create a fair and prosperous society."He added: "We know that only one in five members of the poorer social groups have used the internet compared with two thirds of professionals - and this is a digital divide that must be overcome."Four of the poorest urban areas and two deprived rural areas will benefit. They are:&#149; The Carpenters estate, Newham, where all 750 homes on the estate and the local primary school will be wired up.&#149; Whitebirk estate, Blackburn, where five schools and 2,500 homes will benefit.&#149; As part of the East Manchester New Deal for Communities project, 4,500 homes will get either recycled PCs, set to boxes, or laptops.&#149; Brampton upon Dearne, a former pit village in South Yorkshire, which will get 1,500 Ondigital set top boxes.&#149; Framlingham, Suffolk an area of low population density and poor communications where half of the 3,000 homes will be connected and a school intranet scheme for home based students will be funded.&#149; Alston in Cumbria, one of the areas worst hit areas in the foot and mouth outbreak, will get internet access for more than 90% of the homes including several isolated farms.Daniel Heery, development officer for Voluntary Action Cumbria, who has coordinated Alston's bid said: "There is a real problem for rural communities getting broad band access to the internet, because if you do not have the market, firms like BT won't bother putting in the infrastructure. Without this, rural communities will get left behind."He added: "It's an hour's bus trip from Alston to Carlisle college, this will provide a way of getting training courses down the line."Steve Mather, director of employment, training and business development for East Manchester New Deal for Communities, said: "In a short time this area will go from limited exposure to information and communication technology to above the national average. It's a massive massive boost."He explained that as part of the scheme a website has been set up. It provides residents with a link to the local police to report crime, and links to the local housing office to report repairs, as well as access to local jobs information with software to calculate the benefit implications of taking up a job.
The sounds of some of Britain's finest hours - or at least the soundtracks to the film versions - have been saved for the nation by a dot.com in a victory over Hollywood rivals.Sound-effects-library.comhas bought, for an undisclosed sum, a collection of 4m sound recordings from Cinesound, said its managing director, Lloyd Billing.The library spans decades of film and real-life history. From the movies come the sound effects from every James Bond film, Zulu and the Battle of Britain.Original sounds include recordings of the second world war bombing of Portsmouth harbour, Sir Winston Churchill's state funeral and a rare recording from the Bismark.The archive has been kept on record and tape in Cinesound's vaults. It will now catalogue and transfer the entire library online.This will be available to filmmakers, musicians, web designers, theatres, schools, museums and production companies, who can listen before buying.Mr Billing, of the Tape Gallery in London, said he would honoured to digitise the archive. "This collection is truly unique. It has been recorded by the world's greatest sound recordists, it contains sounds that no other library could possibly achieve, like huge crowd scenes from the movie Cromwell and multiple Spitfires passing dangerously close overhead."
Fear Effect 2: Retro HelixSony PlayStation 	&#163;29.99  Kronos/Eidos 	***The original Fear Effect was released last year and proceeded to entice and frustrate in equal measures. The biggest snag was the tortuous loading sequences that had to be sat through every time you died. And   unfortunately, this was a frequent occurrence given the difficulty of the game, leaving many to simply give up after the 74th battle against the first boss character. Thankfully the sequel has rectified some of the problems: load times have been slashed but the challenge remains high.As before, the game mixes Resident Evil-style control methods with a gritty urban environment to create perhaps the last "adult" game for the original PlayStation: FE2 depicts more violence and heaving cleavages than the average title.Controlling one of the four characters, you uncover a plot that, while cliched, offers far more than the videogame norm. From New York to ancient China, the mixture of stealth, action and brainteasers quickly becomes addictive.It is fairly easy to work out your route, with plenty of opportunity to sneak up on unsuspecting guards. However, while the graphics, all-moving backdrops and stylish animation are impressive, the game suffers from some irritating flaws. The controls are still clumsy, with   characters possessing the turning circle of a tractor, while aiming at assailants can be rather hit and miss.And then there are the puzzles. Initially, the chance to use your brain rather than trigger finger is welcome, but it is not long before the obscure conundrums become too much.Nevertheless, on every level, Fear Effect 2 is an improvement on the original and comes recommended to adult PlayStation owners looking for something a little different.  (GH)Point Blank 3Sony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Namco/Sony	****If you are ever dragged into an arcade, look for a shooting game: they are great fun to play, and the learning time is less than 30 seconds. If you will never be dragged into an arcade, wait for March 23. Then you can run out and buy Point Blank 3 and a Namco G-Con45 Light Gun. Preferably two.Point Blank is a shooting gallery series of games called Gunbullet, Gunbarl and Gunbalina in Japan. Half the fun is in the imaginative cartoon targets you have to blast, and the tricks of the game designers, who try to lure you into shooting the wrong target. One false hit and you lose a life. Since you may be firing off more than 100 shots a minute, you certainly have to think fast.The capers are hosted by Don and Dan, who could stand in for Bert and Ernie on Sesame Street. The different arcade galleries are based on a wide range of things, including old video games such as Centipede, Missile Command, Galaxians and PacMan. Klonoa, Mokuji and other Namco game characters also make cameo appearances.Some of the 80+ levels have educational value. For exam ple, in one stage you are given a digital time and have to shoot the analogue clock that shows the same time - in less than a second. However, this game is officially not recommended for children under 11, though Jack Straw is not in a position to enforce that. Yet.PB3 is pretty much the same game as earlier versions, but it has five game modes and can now   handle up to eight players (two teams of four) sharing two light guns. Two players can also compete in Versus mode using one light gun. There are also training and endurance modes. In fact, the whole game could be considered training for Namco's serious light gun-shooter, the forthcoming Time Crisis: Project Titan.  (JS)Fighting Vipers 2Sega Dreamcast	&#163;32.99 Sega/AM2	*Here's a challenge: describe Fighting Vipers 2 without using the words "rip-off", "cheap", "flaccid" or "parthenogenesis". Um...Fighting Vipers 2 is a cheap, dull rip-off of any beat-'em-up you care to name. Darn. Well, at least I didn't use parthenogenesis.No, seriously, this is poor. FV2 is a substandard port of a three-year-old arcade game, and the arcade game was nothing special even then.A 2D fighting game in 3D clothing, it offers 11 characters to choose from, all plucked straight from the Observer's Book of Japanese Fighter Stereotypes: the fat guy, the cool guy, the cute girl, the girl who flashes her bum when she kicks.There really aren't any unique selling points here, although the programmers might point desperately at the sealed-off arenas, which allow you to hurl opponents into (or occasionally through) walls, or the characters' individual accessories (bike, skateboard, guitar, teddy bear), which they use in their special attacks. When you randomly hit on the right combination of buttons, of course.The various game modes are as standard as bogs get: arcade, versus (two-player),   random and survival are all stultifyingly self-explanatory.The most depressing feature is the graphics: the backgrounds are flat, the character models bland, and the special effects are anything but special. Nor has any effort been made in the presentation: the intro sequence borders on the insultingly short, and there doesn't appear to be an end movie at all.Some may glean meagre entertainment from the obligatorily poor English translation - "You beaten 2 opponents in succession", "You are F grade viper" - but even that old trick soon gets tiring here.The bottom line is that Fighting Vipers 2 is an unreconstructed, unadorned and wholly unnecessary game.  (AB)
Boy, oh boyNintendo of America is poised to launch the next-generation Game Boy Advance handheld games console on June 11.The system will sell for $99.95, with games priced at $29.95 to $39.95.More than 60 titles have been scheduled, including Super Mario Advance and F-Zero: Maximum Velocity (Nintendo), Rayman (Ubi Soft), Ready 2 Rumble Boxing: Round 2 (Midway) and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater (Activision).In Japan, Tsunekazu Ishihara, who is in charge of Pok&eacute;mon production, said a new series of Pok&eacute;mon games will be launched for the Game Boy Advance next year.These will use a new GBA peripheral, the E-Card Reader. Pok&eacute;mon E-Card trading cards will hold up to 2K of data on creatures using a barcode-style system called Scan Talk, developed by Olympus Optical.Myst takenUbi Soft, the fast-growing French software house, has confirmed that it is taking    over The Learning Company's games business. The division's 88 titles include Myst III: Exile, which is likely to be a best-seller, Pool of   Radiance, Prince of Persia, Chessmaster, Dogz, and Catz. Ubi Soft has recently taken over Red Storm in the US and, last month, Blue Byte in Germany. Toy manufacturer Mattel bought TLC for $3.8bn in 1998. Last October it gave TLC to Gores Technology Group for an undisclosed share of future profits.Hard luckSony PlayStation 2 owners can now store their saved games on a PC hard drive instead of using a memory card. Once saved, the game data can be e-mailed to friends or uploaded to the net. What makes this possible is Datel's &#163;29.99 X-Port    system, which includes a USB cable and software for Microsoft Windows 98/Me. However, you have to save games using a standard memory card before you can transfer them to a PC. Datel is selling X-Port online atwww.d3world.com.Strip offSex and football are being combined in Swing Entertainment's new quiz game, The Daily Sport Football Strip. The &#163;14.99 game features four girls stripping off their kit when fans answer questions correctly. It will be published on March 30 by Virgin Interactive.
With every question, the arms of the year six class at St Marks primary school in North London, are strained skyward, fingers wriggling. Maths never used to be like this.The school, off the Holloway Road, is among the first in Britain to ditch the blackboard and introduce the white board - an internet enabled piece of kit that looks like a giant computer screen and appears to have hit the spot as far as this group of 10-year-olds is concerned.On the schedule today is numeracy, more specifically the relationship between fractions, decimals and percentages. One exercise uses a line on the board marked from 0.1 at one end to 1.0 at the other. Beneath are a jumbled series of fractions or percentages which the children successively drag across the board to put in the right place under the line, using a marker "pen".Another exercise has the children "dipping" the marker in various coloured inks on the sidebar and joining together the fractions/ decimals/percentages that equal each other. On the classroom door, a homemade poster using pasted-on circles with segments cut out to illustrate fractions is curling up at the edges and looking distinctly forlorn.The white board has a familiar Windows appearance with a drop-down menu,   and it can go straight online to access any websites, including prepared lessons from the manufacturer RM. It is also linked to a series of PCs in the classroom allowing the pupils to continue the exercises on their own.Clive Wisby, the school's deputy head and the class teacher, has had the technology installed for around nine months and has noticed a significant change. "It has increased their motivation levels. The kids interact more and discuss things more," he says. "It is particularly good for low attainers who need the graphic representations that they are now getting. The technology also gives the lesson more pace."Wisby's comments are borne out by research which has demonstrated the link between better performance in classrooms and investment in new technologies. The British Educational Communications Technology Agency (Becta) recently found that 54% of schools with good levels of technology rated above the national average in English and 58% in maths.But the white board used by St Marks is still only scratching the surface of the potential for change being   wrought on education by web-based technologies. The potential use of the internet for learning also has profound implications outside the classroom. In the adult education market, distance learning has been transformed by the internet.The advantages of using the net in the classroom add up to far more than the ability to access text books online. Applications in web-based technology, particularly the provision of diagnostic tools for pupil and teacher to provide constant assessment, are over and above what could be achieved through traditional teaching methods.In the US and some parts of the UK, schools have already started using handheld wireless devices to answer questions, much like the audience in Who Wants to be a Millionaire?", enabling a teacher to instantly analyse whether what they have been saying has sunk in. Each of the students inputs their answer to a question. This not only tells the teacher whether the material needs further explaining but also singles out students having difficulty with a subject. If used properly, the devices could mean fewer children get left behind."The average primary school teacher gets about two minutes one-to-one contact with each child every day and it can be very difficult to work out in that time who has got problems and why," says RM's chief product evangelist Russell Prue. But the gadgets (officially called ATOL   keypads) are not cheap - a batch of 30 costs around &#163;5,000.The political will to improve educational standards on both sides of the Atlantic has led governments to commit significant amounts of cash to getting schools online.Last year, another &#163;1bn was earmarked for investment in new technology for schools as part of the National Grid for Learning in Britain. The government's stated aim is a computer for every five pupils, compared with one for every nine in 1998. In the US, the number has fallen from 16 students per computer in 1992 to four last year.The investment bank Merrill Lynch estimates the global e-learning market is currently worth $3.5bn but will grow to $25bn by 2003. In the US there are 15 stock market listed e-learning companies offering everything from corporate tuition for executives to interactive history lessons for kids. Only one - the University of Phoenix - is currently profitable. It delivers degrees over the web.Nevertheless, Colin Hughes, the publisher of the Guardian-backed education portal, Learn.co.uk, says education has a bright future online. "Along with sex and sport, education is one area with a guaranteed future on the internet," he says. "Education is fundamentally about access to resource and communicating and those are two of the net's biggest strengths."Combine that with the predictable growth of computing in schools and it makes online education one of the few areas that investors are prepared to put money into during this time of dot.com misery."The internet is also allowing students to customise their learning, developing at their own pace. In the US, it has proven particularly useful in multi-cultural classrooms where lessons can be delivered in different languages.Marjorie Scardino is chief executive of Pearson, which is developing a wide range of internet-based educational products. She says: "Until now the teacher has stood there facing 30 kids and they have all been taught in the same way. With the internet, they can be reached on their own terms, in their own way and in their own time."Less attractive to some pupils will be the idea of extending the school day and being under the more watchful eye of parents. Products coming onto the market - one from Pearson's NCS4School - include software linking schools and homes, allowing parents to look at attendance records, test results, homework assignments and the curriculum. Tests can also be marked online. The next time a parent asks their child what they did at school that day and the reply "nothing" comes back, they will be able to check.Getting children to take part in interactive homework lessons may   involve some solutions, Prue says. "We can now deliver our products over Sega's Dreamcast system. Two-thirds of 14-year-olds have games machines at home but only a third have PCs."Spark Island is another interactive online education channel aimed at three to 12-year-olds, their parents and teachers. For a &#163;200 annual fee, schools can access a range of age-related and curriculum-based learning resources across English, maths and science, as well as lesson plans, articles, news and links to other sites. Parents who pay &#163;49 a year can access a series of articles covering everything from curriculum concerns and how to choose a school, to relationship and health matters, as well as a buying guide for books, tapes, software, toys and games.Two million school pupils regularly use RM's portal Internet for Learning at   school, while Living Library - an online research tool containing tailored information on every aspect of the UK curriculum from Roman settlements to earthquakes - is in 35% of primary schools.Other products in development include the Ebrary, an online library from Pearson, which owns the education business of Simon &amp; Schuster, alongside fellow publishers, Random House and McGraw-Hill. Users will search and view books for free, but to print or download costs 15 to 25 cents a page.The BBC already offers a series of web-based education services including BBC Schools Online. But the corporation is, controversially, planning a substantial increase in investment to &#163;135m to cover every subject in the curriculum. The proposed scheme is being piloted in 50 primary schools but is classed as a new service and   as such needs to gain approval from culture secretary Chris Smith.The BBC plans are for individual computers and the interactive whiteboard. Like other programmes already available, the digital curriculum would give teachers the facility to customise material for individual pupils and keep track of their progress.The corporation would make it available for use at home and in local centres in the community, as well as the classroom. The service would be delivered primarily through the internet, but it would also be adapted for interactive digital television.For the BBC, like many others in the same space, broadband is the goal, allowing the corporation to incoporporate video from its substantial library. Pearson has also begun trials of a broadband product using its extensive back library of video from its television arm.The ability of internet-based technologies to make a deep impact will however depend on three factors: funding, teachers and parents.St Marks bought its white board with backing from the North Islington Education Action Zone - one of 25 in the country which are joint funded by business and local education authorties.Most schools don't just rely on initiatives like the EAZs or the government's National Grid money in order to fund their Information and Communications Technologies resources. Most also set aside money from their standard school budgets to fund ICT purchases which, with the internet, are increasingly no longer one-offs. The advent of the 'net, including content subscriptions, means planning ahead for ongoing costs.Wisby reports that teachers at St Marks are generally enthusiastic about the equipment - not least because lessons can be prepared at home on the laptop. Industry estimates suggest 50-65% of teachers will be new in the next five years, either straight from university or the private sector, where they will be comfortable with internet use.The role of parents is more debatable. Whether the availability of tools to play a bigger role in their children's school life will encourage more participation or create a wider social as well as digital divide, will need to be monitored.Pupil eyes up education market with teaching resourceTom Hadfield, at just 18, may appear a little young to be building a website that aims become "the number one teaching resource for parents and teachers" but few doubt his credentials.The A level student from Brighton in Sussex was the creative force behind Soccernet, a popular football website backed by Associated Newspapers and then sold to Disney for &#163;40m - all before he had received his GCSE results.Now, with the help of his former journalist father Greg, Tom is running Schoolsnet, a website that they hope will become an indispensable educational tool for teachers and pupils alike. Resources include a guide to every school in the UK, an online library with more than 20,000 titles, schools sport news and some interactive lessons and revision packages. Revenue comes from advertising, sponsorship and sales of items such as books and stationery.It's a potentially large market but one that several bigger players are eyeing. Experts say it is a huge undertaking to address all the necessary areas of education comprehensively.Many of Schoolsnet's potential rivals have more resources and stronger strategic partners. The   BBC, with a long history of providing educational programming, is expected to become the market's most important player. Meanwhile, Channel 4, which has proved adept at building niche websites, has several sites including Homeworkhigh.co.uk and 4learning.com. Cash-rich Granada Media is also spending heavily on various projects, although rivals say that it lacks brand awareness in schools.Learn.co.uk, a Guardian Newspapers Limited backed venture, entered the market last May planning "to cover every dot and comma   of the National Curriculum". It hopes to license content to bigger portals or sell subscription packages.The expectation that not everyone in the market will succeed has been underlined by the closure of Learnfree.co.uk, a site affiliated to News International's Times Educational Supplement.Greg Hadfield acknowledges that Schoolsnet has a battle on its hands. "We're seeing a settling out of the players but I'm confident we will be one of the ones that survives," he says.Schoolsnet attracts around 212,000 visitors a month. Of these, 40% are   teachers, 40% are parents, and the rest are pupils."More than half of our adult users have bought online and we are working on converting more visitors into buyers," he said.Schoolsnet, which last April raised cash from newspaper group Newsquest and an IT firm based on a valuation of &#163;40m, expects to break even in 12-18 months' time. However, it does not disclose current revenues or cash burn. Analysts believe that the company needs to bring in a strong strategic partner to ensure its long-term survival.  (JC)PC evangelist sets sights on kit for kidsProfessor Henry Beker is a man on a mission. The founder of internet security specialist Baltimore Technologies wants to give every child in the UK access to a computer at school.It's a project that is likely to cost in the region of an eye-watering &#163;8bn. The e-Learning Foundation, the charity he founded in 1999 to improve technology access in school, is not picky about whether the device is a laptop, a desktop or a palmtop computer - it just wants them in pupils' hands."With skills shortages now rated by British industry leaders as their single most important   concern - ahead of even competition and regulation - the time is right for this bold new initiative," says Beker.The initiative runs in parallel with the National Grid for Learning's programme of getting every school in the UK online by 2002 and improving the IT literacy of the next generation of workers.Tony Blair and   Gordon Brown have endorsed Beker's efforts. David Blunkett's education and employment department has made &#163;500,000 available to the project this year with the express aim of helping low-income families and children from disadvantaged areas.But most of the funding will have to come from the private sector. Microsoft has led the way by committing &#163;1m over two years. Meanwhile, other companies large and small are being courted for donations.Parents will be asked to contribute &#163;5 per week to help cover the cost of laptops.Beker's background includes degrees in mathematics and electronic engineering and a PhD in mathematics. He founded Baltimore, which for a brief period last year was one of Britain's 100 most valuable stock market listed companies.  (JC)
Sony desktopSony is to make its long-promised move into the UK desktop PC market in early summer. At a press conference last week in Munich, Germany, it unveiled the PCV-LX1, a PC similar to models recently launched in Japan and the US.In typically bullish Sony style, the company promised to "add excitement and originality to the PC market". And while the PCV-LX1 doesn't exactly turn PC design on its head, it does sport an innovative dual hinge LCD screen that can be used either upright or virtually flat on a desk.Sony is keeping the model's full specification under wraps, although it did   confirm that the PC will run Microsoft's Windows Me (Millennium) operating system, feature an integrated CD-RW/DVD drive and arrive with a selection of Sony and Adobe digital imaging software installed. It also has a generous array of sockets, including five USB ports, an Ethernet port, two iLink connectors, and slots for memory sticks and PC cards. The PC is expected to retail for between &#163;1,800 and &#163;2,000. Other desktops are to follow later in the year.The company has also announced upgrades to its Vaio notebook PC range. Due shortly are five new models in the desktop replacement FX series, two new ones in the high-end portable Z600 range, and a new lightweight SR model. Also new is the PCG-QR10, a take- anywhere budget notebook PC that sports black casing and an aluminium handle designed for easy carrying.   The model's fairly basic specification includes an Intel Celeron 650MHz processor, 64MB of memory, a 10GB hard drive, a 13.3-inch TFT LCD screen and an integrated CD-rom drive and modem.The major downside is the inclusion of the large Vaio logo on the casing, which not only gives free advertising to Sony, but also alerts would-be thieves that the user is carrying a laptop PC.Due to arrive in UK shops in the next couple of weeks is Sony's long-awaited take on the PDA - the Clie. The slim purple-and-silver handheld PC marries traditional Sony Vaio features, such as a memory stick slot, digital-imaging software and a jog-dial   control, with the Palm PDA operating system. Sony has also promised users that a selection of Clie gadgets, which fit into the unit's Memory Stick slot, will become available over the following months. These include a digital camera, a GPS system and a fingerprint detector. A connector for hooking the unit to a mobile phone, allowing the Clie to browse the web using its integrated AvantGo software, is also on the cards. However, potential buyers should note that the lead is only compatible with Sony mobile phones.Also due in the stores shortly is a 128MB version of Sony's Memory Stick storage card, which is to retail for around &#163;200.Finally, in among a host of DVD players, surround sound systems and hi-fi components, Sony announced it would feature two potential replacements for the VHS VCR in 2002. Video fans will be offered both a DVD recorder, compatible with the rival DVD+RW and DVD-  RW recording formats, and a hard disk-based recorder, almost certainly developed in conjunction with the TiVo group in the US.Digital takeOlympus has unveiled a digital take on its best-selling Mju range of film cameras. The new model, the Camedia C1, shares its siblings' sleek minimalist styling, although as it has to accommodate extra digital features and a SmartMedia card slot, it is slightly larger.Targeted at non-technical users, the C1 has a budget   price tag of around &#163;275, which is reflected in its modest selection of features. Image resolution is rated at 1.34 megapixels - significantly less than most Olympus digital cameras. Still shots (there is no moving image facility) are stored on the 8MB SmartMedia card that accompanies the camera.Other facilities include a 3.8cm TFT LCD screen, a 2x digital zoom, a selection of pre-programmed auto-exposure modes, and a self-timer.The Camedia C1 goes on sale next month.
The Queen's "annus horribilis" as a dot.com investor took a turn for the worse yesterday after shares in the fledgling internet firm she has backed slumped a further 42%.Shares in aerial photography specialist Getmapping.com fell 11.5p to an all-time low of 15.5p. They have dropped 94% from the high of 237.5p they touched shortly after floating last year.The Queen has a 1.5% stake in the firm. At one stage her investment was worth more than &#163;900,000 but last night it was valued at just &#163;67,000. However, she is still making a   paper profit. She paid &#163;50,000 for the shares when Getmapping was a private company.Dealers blamed yesterday's fall on a shareholder offloading a large line of stock.Getmapping is compiling an aerial photography map of Britain which it aims to sell over the internet to estate agents, civil engineers and local authorities, as well as private individuals.Its share price has fallen in line with those of many other dot.coms and it has said it that sales have been disappointing.The company's stockbroker, Peel Hunt, predicts that loss-making Getmapping has enough cash to get it through   2001 but after that it will be relying on an overdraft to take it through to profitability. "This is quite a long-term story," said analyst Peter Joseph. "It's only selling a tiny number of maps over the web to private individuals but it shouldn't have to raise more money before it hits breakeven."He estimated that Getmapping had about &#163;2.7m cash in the bank at the end of December and would report a loss of about &#163;2.5m when it publishes results for 2000.Sales of a Doomsday millennium map dedicated to the Queen - the product that attracted her to the firm - have been particularly poor.
Double upLast year, I read in Online that there would be new motherboards that would use two chips instead of one, and that it would be cheaper to buy a 1,000 megahertz machine with two 500MHz chips than one 1,000MHz chip. Now I see PCs coming out with 1.3GHz processors, and presumably by the end of this year they will have gone up past 2GHz. Does this mean I should wait and buy a machine with the new architecture? Of course, next month is always the best time to buy a computer, but what's your advice on this?Jason Pennellsjason_pennells@hotmail.comJack Schofield replies:Two-processor motherboards have been available for years, but    Microsoft Windows 95/98/Me is a single-processor operating system. For two you need Windows NT/2000 or similar alternative, and they are not widely used by consumers. Maybe things will change when Windows XP appears, but it will take years. Also, overproduction of memory chips, competition between Intel and AMD, and the threat of a market recession has brought down PC prices faster than expected. You can now get a 1GHz PC for about &#163;700 and a great machine from a direct supplier for about &#163;1,000.The next two months should be a good time to buy a new system - or pack the one you own with more memory, before memory prices recover. I am shopping for two new PCs myself. Faster, cheaper machines will be available next year, as always. However, this year's systems will have no problems running Windows XP, Office XP and any other software on the horizon.Top marksI have bookmarks in three different places: two on networks, one on a standalone PC. How do I create a common list that I can use in all three places?Dave Shepparddsheppard@charter.southwark.sch.ukJS:One idea is to make a text file of all the addresses (including the http:// bit) and post it to a Yahoo or similar mailbox. (Don't use Hotmail, which opens links inside Hotmail frames.) Netscape keeps    its bookmarks in one file, but you can create one very easily in Internet Explorer by selecting File|Import and Export, and using the wizard to export your "Favorites" to a file called Bookmark.htm However, I suggest you use one of the many websites that will store your bookmarks online so you can get at them from different computers. Examples include:www.favoritesanywhere.com,www.bookmarksplus.com,www.blink.com,, andwww.mybookmarks.com.How the cookie crumblesI used to be able to use the Postcode Finder atwww.royalmail.com/trackandtrace. Now I get a message: "This site requires your browser to support and accept cookies. Please enable and accept cookies." Can you help, please?Bob Huttonhutton@ukonline.co.ukJS:Cookies are small bits of text that record your visit to a site. They are kept in the Cookies folder in the Windows directory. To enable your PC to accept cookies, run Internet Explorer, select Tools|Internet Options and click on the Security tab. Click the button marked Custom, scroll down to the section headed Cookies, and click on the two radio buttons marked Enable.Sticking pointIn Windows Explorer, folders can be viewed in    four different ways: large icons, small icons, list or details. Mine persist in opening as large icons, but I want the default view to be details.George Katritzkygkatritzky@lineone.netJS:This happens a lot. The cure is to open Windows Explorer and select View|Details. Next select View|Folder Options (right at the bottom), click the View tab, and click the button Like Current Folder. Click Yes to confirm your choice, then OK to exit. This should make it stick - until it doesn't, of course.Thumbnail viewsI have Windows 98 and need the use of thumbnails in My Documents.  Recently, after I installed a virus scan program, my thumbnail facility disappeared. Please can you help me retrieve it?Yvonne Kedgey.Kedge@lineone.netJS:Go to your directory in Windows Explorer and select View|Folder Options. Click the radio button for Web Style folders. Next, right-click on the folder name, in the left-hand pane, and select Properties. Put a tick in the lowest box on the Properties sheet, which says Enable Thumbnail View, and click OK. Select View again, and this time you should see a new entry for Thumbnails, just above Large Icons. If you select that, your thumbnail    views should magically reappear.  This works on my PC but Microsoft says it only applies to Internet Explorer 5 (which I use) if the Windows Desktop Update is installed.This comes with Windows 98 and Internet Explorer 4: see http://support.microsoft.com/ support/kb/articles/Q176/8/ 82.ASP If you just want to handle thumbnail directories of images, thenIrfan View,Thumbs Plus (www.cerious.comandACDSeedo the job competently. Irfan View is good and free for non-commercial use.ExcellentI want to scan/copy documents such as bank statements into Excel worksheets. Do you know if this is possible?Tom Clydetclyde@moneymanagersltd.co.ukJS:It is easy if the type is legible and the columns are regular. Scan your statements and save them as plain text files, then clean them up in a word processor if necessary. Start Microsoft Excel and use File|Open to find the directory containing the file you want to load. In the Files of type box, click Text Files, then double-click the file you want to import. Excel's Text Import Wizard will then let you choose how to divide the text into columns. However, the value of the result will depend on all numbers being recognised correctly. And you can't find errors with a spell-checker.Seek and you shall findAfter complaining about Adobe Portable Document Files that were hard to read, I praised Google for a new feature: it indexes PDF files and holds a plain text version. "However, there does not seem to be a way to limit a Google search to PDF files," I complained.John Kingjohn@kingshome.co.ukhas provided a helpful answer from the Search Engine Report: the undocumented inurl command. For example, try searching Google for this: "Jack Straw" inurl:pdf  I also complained about the difficulty of saving streaming RealMedia files.Gavin Brelstaffpoints out that you can useTotal Recorderto capture RealAudio streams. However, unlike Streambox VCR, it cannot capture streaming video. Finally, John Nicholsonj.nicholson@cableinet.co.ukpoints out that there is a much simpler keyboard shortcut to close down Windows, bypassing the Start menu: just press Alt-F4. This is, of course, a standard way of closing down Windows applications. Why didn't I think of that?
I hate Flash. And I do not know any regular web users who do not feel the same way about it. For those of you that do not know are not familiar with it by name, Flash provides those animated introductions to websites that may possibly be fun once, but soon become an irritation.My theory is that these Flash intros are the result of a conspiracy between web designers and company bosses who do not know any better.I can picture the scene. At one end of a room with a big screen behind him stands a man in black with piercings. At the other end sit the suits. They watch as the company logo spins round and some sort of techno music comes   out of the speakers. "Great," think the suits. "This is just like our own little TV programme." After all, they never use the web and television is the obvious point of reference. This will probably be the last time they ever look at their company website.The man in black is happy because he picks up the cheque. His staff get to have fun showing off the tricks they can perform with Flash. Only the poor surfer who is trying to get a bit of information off the site is fed up.This whole situation is a symptom of the immaturity of the web. The medium is getting in the way of the message.More than 30 years ago my parents had a friend whose entire record collection con sisted of Herb Alpert and test tones. He did not particularly like Herb Alpert. I do not think he actually liked music. But these recordings showed off the wonders of his hi-fi system.More recently the birth of desktop publishing (DTP) did terrible things to design. The people with the technical ability to use the software measured success by the number of fonts and special effects they could get onto a   single page.Fortunately DTP has grown up. The programs have become easier to use and have moved out of the hands of the techies and into the hands of the designers. The world is a better-looking place for that.That is not true of the web. OK, the people creating the sites are called designers, but it is still their technological prowess, the graphical tricks they can do, that is the measure of their ability. It is not the images that are losing out. It is the words.Look at the top ten websites visited by UK surfers according to online researcherMedia Metrix. It is entirely filled with sites that have virtually no graphics on their opening pages. The sites   are all household names run by Microsoft, Yahoo! Freeserve and the BBC.Research involving individual surfers points the same way. At the end of last yearForrester Researchsaid that high-quality content was the number one reason, cited by 75% of respondents, for returning to a website."Content" is an admittedly vague word that can cover everything you see on a website including games, graphics, streamed media and all the other wonders of the net. But the principal form of content is text. Another piece of research, this time by the prestigiousStanford Poynter Institutein the United States, tracks users' eyeballs and finds that   they go straight to text on a page rather than the more obvious graphics or adverts.The lessons from this are not being learned by most website owners. Recently, for instance, my television gave up the ghost and I decide to buy a new one. All the major electrical retailers have websites with illustrations of their products. The problem is that a portable looks the same size as a home cinema. Without clear, written descriptions, the graphics are meaningless.Whoever coined the phrase "A picture is worth a thousand words" is largely to blame. Take a look through this newspaper and see how many photograph would mean anything without a caption to explain who the participants are and what they are doing.   Not many pictures are worth a thousand words.Even sites where the sole reason for their existence is content often fair poorly. Newspapers, magazines and broadcasters, with a few honourable exceptions, tend to shovel what they use elsewhere straight onto the website. There is no concern as to whether it is appropriate for that medium.The problem throughout is that while companies are   willing to spend substantial amounts of money on website design and backend systems for e-commerce, words remain the poor relation. This should not be the case. Creating a good-looking website is nowhere near as difficult as it was even a couple of years ago. That should free-up cash for content.There is also a commercial logic from another medium. Only one of the 10 largest- circulation magazines in the UK is not branded by a well-known business. The companies are spending their money to attract revenue from their customers.Often spending it on their websites would make far more sense. Instead of a customer having to visit a shop or at least pick up the phone,   they are only a mouse-click away from buying something.But it is not enough to bung text created for another medium straight onto a website. Surfers first want descriptive headlines, bullet points and short summaries. But behind that bite-size content they want to be able to dig deeper. That is where the internet really comes into its own because there are none of the physical limitations imposed by the printed page or broadcasters' time.The final argument for the importance of words on the web is simple. You can't put a Flash graphic into a search engine.&#149; Nick Clayton is managing director of internet content company Penpusher.com
Watery gaveThames Water is supporting a click-and-donate site calledGive Water, which aims to give &#163;100,000 to provide clean water to the developing   world, and encourage visitors to donate as well. Just go to the site and click on the water carrier; once 250,000 clicks are received, Thames Water will make the donation to the charity WaterAid. But you can also sign up to donate cash yourself, or set up a standing order.Sounds goodThe legal UK peer-to-peer music file sharing siteWippitis going to start using copyright protecting software on the MP3 files it makes available to subscribers. Cantametrix   makes the software, called MusicDNA, which allows Wippit to track which files from which record companies are downloaded. The software also maintains quality control on the files. You probably know how annoying it is to go through a 15 minute Napster download only to discover you're missing the last two minutes of your chosen tune.Easy listeningBored with the old illegal Metallica MP3s? Then why not try compositions based on sequences from the human    genome, fractals and earthquakes? Brent Hugh's 'music in math and science' page onMP3.comhas to be one of the quirkiest and most delightful musical spaces on the web.Why not download Hugh's Fractal Variations, Music of the Human Genome, or Earthquake Fugue (for Six Elephants)? Other composers have such offerings as Mathscendence II, Fractal Dream #5: Strange Attractors, and Cosmic Times (based on deep space radio signals).Net well soonHelp save the net economy by, er, buying something. San Francisco e-marketing firmIconocasthas come up with the idea of Back the Web Day on April 3. They figure that if everyone demonstrates that they are willing to buy or donate online on this day, it will raise a defiant fist in the face of the mockers and "help the net regain its respect". They've even got a manifesto and an official anthem.Soul traderNeed a "dark gift" but not sure you want to enter a Faustian pact with the devil? Why not visit theLease Your Soul website, which wisely counsels: "No need to sell your soul with today's flexible financing", just lease it instead. The site provides an easy application form so that your soul can be considered, and there's a simple checklist on which prospective lessors can indicate which dark gifts they would like to receive. Other services include "Cash advances on reality checks."Door stopAlthough the credit card companies themselves recently reported that online fraud is minuscule in comparison with the millions lost annually in "real world" fraud, consumers continue to worry about their card details going AWOL over the net. For wary web shoppers, the venerable security firm Securicor has a new online offering that it hopes will quell such fears. ItsSafeDoorservice is an online shopping mall with a difference - the merchants never see card details, which are held solely by Securicor and protected by digital certificates and encryption. More than 40 merchants should be on the site by the end of the month.Brain waveNational Brain Injury Week runs this week, from March 12-18, and a new study for Queen Elizabeth's Foundation on this subject reveals that approximately one million patients in the UK present to hospitals each year with head injuries. But little government or social help is offered for rehabilitation aftercare. The Foundation hopes the report will help raise awareness and spearhead a change in brain injury rehabilitation delivery in the UK. Find out more about brain injury and the Foundation atwww.qefd.org.New &amp; noted&#149;  Indie music sitewww.theknowledge.com has added an extensive dance section.&#149;  Get a head start on finding something for mum atwww.beeb.com/mothers_day.&#149;  TheIrish Bluetooth Users Forumhas its first meeting March 28.&#149;  Madforsport.com caters to sailing nuts atMadforsailing.comand will soon have a scuba section.&#149;  The almost dot-bombedwww.Letsbuyit.comis back online after a bail-out.Six of the bestSt Patrick's DayHistory and morewww.saintpatrickcentre.comEncyclopedic St Patwww.newadvent.org/cathen/11554a.htmEvents guidewww.ireland.com/events/st.patricksIrish eyeswww.ireland.com/liveviewsSend a cardwww.bluemountain.com/eng/stpatrickLinkshttp://uk.dir.yahoo.com/Society_and_Culture/ Holidays_and_Observances/Saint_Patrick_s_Day/
How the mighty have fallen. Little more than year ago, Jeff Bezos was flying high. The price ofAmazon.comshares was in the stratosphere and the company's beaming 38-year-old chief executive was being lionised as Time magazine's Man of the Year. Supported by the enthusiam of fawning Wall Street analysts, Bezos - like much of the internet world - could walk on water. But no longer: As the internet economy has collapsed, not even the golden calves of IT are immune to the sour mood of the market.And no one is more out of favour than the Wall Street analysts on whose every pronouncement - "buy", "sell", "hold" - investors once took as gospel. As the Nasdaq dipped below 2,000 this week, more than 3,000 points off its peak of 5,049 just one year ago, the analysts who promoted the tech boom are now being held responsible for the billions lost by investors, many of them individuals seduced into the markets by the lure of easy money.Call it the blame game: the press blames the analysts, the dot.comers blame the venture capitalists, the venture capitalists blame the markets and almost everyone blames the media. But it is the cheer-leaders of the new economy - analysts - who are taking the heat for the collapse of technology stocks. "The Age of the Analyst is dead," proclaims this week's New Yorker. "In the last five months the clued-in analyst has been exposed as clueless and the equity-analysis game has proved to be   something of a sham."A year ago, Morgan Stanley's Mary Meeker was basking in adulation. She had been dubbed Queen of the Net by supporting Amazon. She had been subject of a glowing profile in the New Yorker in 1999, named the third most powerful woman in business by Fortune (and put on the cover) in the same year and invited to speak at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Meeker became the highest paid woman on Wall Street with a reported base salary of $15 million a year.Then there was Merrill Lynch's Henry Blodget, Wall Street's loudest cheerleader for internet stocks. Named King Henry by the Wall Street Journal, the red-haired Blodget was an obscure stock picker before he predicted in December 1998 that Amazon, then trading at $240, could hit $400 a share within a year, pushing the stock up 20% in a day. That made him the media's favourite internet talking head.From the day he burst into the headlines in 1998, Blodget has been mentioned 95 times in the Wall Street Journal, 66 times in the New York Times, 53 times in The Washington Post (which ran a huge profile of him last year) and 27 times in Business Week. Since the beginning of last year, he has been mentioned (or interviewed) on television 816 times.Then the internet bubble burst. Meeker's stock picks - Ask Jeeves, Drugstore.com, Priceline.com, Women.com - have fallen by as much as 96%. Blodget's top recommendations have plunged   79% - including eToys and Pets.com, both of which have shut down.The pair are rarely on television now. Meeker hasn't been on CNBC since October. The New York Times says Blodget and others like him need to go "a long way toward explaining why the market for technology stocks has crashed," despite the fact that, like many, they have now changed their tune.But the story of how Meeker, Blodget and others encouraged investors to bid stocks up to levels they now admit were unjustifiable goes a long way toward explaining why the market for technology stocks has since crashed.Looking back a year after the peak, it is clear that prices hit astronomical levels in part because of a euphoria infecting not just day traders but giants like Merrill Lynch. "When someone appears to be right, they become larger than life," says Peter Bernstein, a veteran consultant to big money managers.As the Nasdaq soared, it was considered imprudent to get too particular about business models, let alone poke around at individual valuations. After all, Amazon's stock, like so many internet stocks, relied on the dreams of small investors fed by upbeat TV sound bites from Blodget, Meeker and the rest. And Amazon, perhaps more than any other firm, had a lot to thank the analysts for - and a lot to lose if the sentiment reversed.Take Amazon: within   weeks of its initial public share offering in May 1997, the company was trading below the offering price and Wall Street wags had nicknamed it Amazon.bomb. But by the time Meeker started promoting it three months later, the internet was becoming a mass phenomenon, not just a gathering place for geeks. Amazon, Meeker wrote, "is the leading retailer/ merchandiser on the 'net.""The great paradox of the analyst's reign was that, as their stature grew, the quality of their analysis plummeted," noted the New Yorker. "With few exceptions, analysts did not see trouble coming and didn't warn their investors to get out of the way."For her part, Meeker says she was always worried about becoming a posterchild for dot.com mania. "I did not aspire to be a media celebrity in any way, shape or form," she says. "I felt uncomfortable being in the limelight." Blodget, too, has taken a fall. "Things change," he said last week. "The market went from saying, 'We like companies that are growing quickly but are losing a lot of money' to saying, 'We want to see earnings.' It's very hard to predict a 180-degree turn like that."But some heroes have emerged. Although seen as a heretic when other analysts were still feeding investor euphoria, a 29-year-old Lehman Bros analyst named Ravi Suria issued a scorching report in February saying Amazon would run out of   money this year.Suria had already set himself up as Bezos's nemesis-in-chief. Last June, the then-little-known analyst sounded the first warning, arguing that Amazon was showing the "financial characteristics that have driven innumerable retailers to disaster throughout history". His analysis created a sensation.The company called it "hogwash", and chief executive Jeff Bezos personally disputed the conclusions. Investors, however, voted with their wallets, sending the shares down nearly 20% in a day. At that time, Amazon stock was trading at around $45, and has fallen ever since.In theory, the report should have made Suria's career. After all, Meeker and Blodget had become Wall Street and media darlings after writing about Amazon. But they, of course, were on the side of the vast e-commerce company which sells about 11% of all goods sold online and which - along with the auction house eBay - is probably the dot.com most beloved by its customers. But unlike eBay, the strength of Amazon's balance sheet is constantly in dispute.For Suria, who likes to smoke cigars and skydive, and lists an interest in   imported bottled beer, taking on ever-sunny Bezos meant taking on the whole internet economy.Already irked by Suria's warning last June, the subsequent report on Febuary 5 started a war. "Obviously, you can't take this seriously," Amazon spokesman Bill Curry said. "It's a silly report that's chock full of errors."According to the New York Observer, Amazon went to considerable lengths to quash Suria's predictions. When Amazon executives learned of the report's harsh nature - that the spectre of bankruptcy was being raised - they leapt to the phones. They held up publication for 10 days, it is claimed.Whether Suria's predictions prove right or wrong (in the aftermath of his report, half a dozen Wall Street analysts have downgraded Amazon shares, some even saying the company may still be overvalued) he may have changed the nature of the tech analysts' trade."Whether or not the Lehman analyst is right to take a bearish stance on Amazon.com, give him credit for taking a much-needed skeptical (sic) stand," said   TheStreet.com.Of course, Bezos strongly denies Amazon is in trouble. But the company has been getting bad press for plans to make severance packages for some 1,300 employees laid off last month, conditional on their continued silence with a "non-disparagement" clause.And, earlier this month, Bezos completed his third sale of small portions of his Amazon holdings, which total more than $1 billion at current market prices.In late 1998, Bezos's sales brought him about $23m. Last May it was $20m. This month it was $12m.And, in the wake of this latest report, even Blodget has downplayed expectations for the firm by saying: "still comfortable, but on alert".Suria is confident that he will be vindicated after months of having his credibility questioned; Bezos is adamant he will not. "The company has never been in better shape," he said recently.The same cannot be said of the analysts' trade.
Online comedy has come a long way in the past year. Only last summer C4's abysmal Dotcomedy series could find nothing more amusing than a stream of sexual perversions and a simpering Gail Porter, one of the reasons it was unceremoniously axed at the end of the first series. Now, however, comedy is alive and kicking hard - providing a foothold to many a struggling writer and offering unlikely hope to internet content providers looking for instant stickiness.Stickiness is already the big buzzword of 2001, as websites struggle to find content which will see users returning again and again, thereby seeing more of their precious banner advertising. Traditionally, the ultimate in sticky content has been porn and competitions, with news trailing in a poor third and comedy almost nowhere to be seen."Comedy can be very sticky, if properly executed" says Mike Ragsdale, one of the three founder members of Hecklers.com, the US site launched in 1995 which now boasts 400,000 unique visitors per month and a claimed   advertising click through of 3%, when the industry average is 0.5%. Interestingly, Hecklers not only applauds this loyalty but relies upon it. "While some comedians have to hope that their writers can come up with a few good laughs here and there, all we have to do is hope that of the 5,000 emails we receive and review every day, that a handful of them contain an hilarious joke that would have otherwise gone untold, and unrecorded."In the past, bandwidth restrictions ensured online comedy catered for the lowest common denominator, with the likes ofwww.jokeindex.comquickly replacing the old Xerox funnies which used to   be stuck to company notice-boards, if not gaining a reputation for originality. This too is changing, as improved download times make both animation and video a feasible part of comedy output."The problem with internet comedy_" explains Charlie Brooker, co-founder of the UK comedy collective Zeppotron, "is that the user is sitting in an uncomfortable chair with one hand on the mouse and there's a million things they would rather be doing. You have to keep things short. Five minutes is too long, two minutes is about our maximum."Zeppotron was founded at the end of last year from the writing core of the 11-o'clock show and is best known for the Radio Times spoof TV Go Home and the animated series Office Romance. The TV Go Home page alone boasts 40,000 unique visitors a month with an average visit lasting 14 minutes - highly sticky by anyone's standards. Using this brand-based approach has already worked in mainstream broadcasting for decades. Indeed, the company is 25% owned by Endemol, responsible for TV hits such as Big Brother and Ready Steady Cook - all   simple formulae, relentlessly hammered home."You do have to be fairly unsubtle," says Brooker. "You have to convince people quickly that's it's a good thing to hang around, which lends itself to sledgehammer tactics. The problem with instant publishing is that writers tend to get carried away and not edit themselves."However, there is a worry that comedy could go the same way as porn, with users gravitating towards harder material which would be   shunned by mainstream broadcasters. Popular spoof-site The Onion may be consistently funny but veers perilously closer to slander. It boasts a steady million visits per week."It's really hard to imagine online comedy becoming more radical, if you're talking about the subject matter." concludes Ragsdale. "I mean, at this point online, is there  anything we haven't already seen, in terms of sexuality or violence or taboos?"Advertisers simply aren't   comfortable supporting "Rated-X" and even "Rated-R" humour. Believe me, we've tried. And without advertisers or some major corporate backing, it's hard to imagine how a large comedy media company could ever evolve."All of which puts comedy back where it started, coming to terms with new technology but wrestling with its conscience as to how far to push it. As many a struggling comic has already discovered, being radical is all well and good -but it rarely pays the bills.The web's idea of funnywww.theonion.comAn accurate pastiche of both Yahoo and CNN, the Onion maintains a hectic stream of very amusing spoofs. While the site is primarily US-oriented, headlines such as "Sociologist Considers Own Behavior Indicative Of Larger Trends" has to be worth further consideration.www.e4.comC4's new digital channel has already managed some pioneering comedy such as the excellent Banzai, and its new website delves into original online material too. Unfortunately, the site is unnecessarily Flash-heavy, making it hard to navigate for those using slower PCs.www.hecklers.comInventive American slander, broken into bite sized chunks.www.disappointment.comLike most comedy, this quirky, low-budget shrine to tasteless observation divides those who comes across it. The Net recently voted it one of the 5 un-funniest on the web; the author's own girlfriend, described as "crushingly dull and looks like a pig" would be likely to agree. Others, however, think it's hilarious.www.zeppotron.comThe Zeppotron site focuses on their three best-known comedy brands, TV Go Home, Office Romance and Unnovations. All very funny, for those not easily offended, and much of the content is fast approaching the best standards of TV comedy.
Have you ever had the feeling that someone is looking over your shoulder? That your every move is being scrutinised? You have? If press reports of email and internet monitoring at work are anything to go by you're not alone. But is the coverage of employer monitoring of email and internet use based on fact?There is scant evidence that employers spend a great deal of effort spying on their staff, and that employees feel that their privacy is violated in this way. If employers are   keeping an unnecessarily watchful eye on employees then they are simply poor managers, who will ultimately damage relationships with staff, and consequently their business.Despite the hype, there are very good business reasons for employers not to engage in large scale surveillance activities. The huge level of resources that would be required to do so for one. Large organisations would need teams of people to read emails and check every website visited in today's technology-driven workplace. Even if wrong-doing was detected, it   would be unlikely to warrant such expense.Employers are, however, concerned to protect employees and themselves from inappropriate emails or internet use by individual workers. Many organisations use software to scan emails and web sites visited for particular words that could indicate abuse of the company's system. And some industry sectors such as finance monitor staff more closely to protect against fraud. As customers, we would not want it any other way.Indeed most reasonable employees would accept that   some monitoring of their performance and behaviour is required. Legally, they are entitled to have their personal information treated in confidence by their employer. Employees should also generally be aware of when and how their work will be monitored. Covert surveillance of employees can only ever be justified in limited circumstances, such as the detection of criminal activity.For their part, employers have legal obligations to employees, customers and shareholders that require them to conduct some monitoring of staff. Fraud, the downloading of illegal software and time wasting on entertainment sites are just some of the uses of the internet by employees that businesses need to prohibit.Employers also need to protect their reputation, which may be harmed by inappropriate emails from the organisation's system. At the start of the year, Royal &amp; SunAlliance suspended 80 employees following a complaint by a member of the public about lewd images sent by email. These have been described by the company as offensive and "of a highly graphic nature". Investigations have so far led to 11 dismissals and resignations by seven people.Employers can also be held liable for employees' actions. Following defamatory emails sent by one of its staff, Norwich Union was obliged to pay Western Provident Association &#163;450,000 in costs and damages. Similarly, inappro priate emails can constitute sexual harassment. If the employer did nothing to prevent the mischief, they could be held responsible.Despite the existing legal obligations and responsibilities it is clear that there is confusion about what employers should or can do to monitor staff use of email and the internet. The situation needs clarifying. Unfortunately, the position will not be helped by recent proposals from the UK's Information Commissioner, who is responsible for promoting and monitoring good use of personal information.The Commissioner's public consultation exercise on a draft code of practice on the use of personal data in employer/employee relationships ended earlier this year.If issued as presently written, the code would place considerable restrictions on the monitoring of employees' emails and their use of the internet. The purpose of the code - to provide guidance to employers on how to protect employees' personal data - is welcome. However, rather than establishing basic principles that are readily understood by employers and employees, the code is overly prescriptive, with 44 'standards' proposed that organisations would have to follow.Given the restrictions on their operations and bureaucratic burden these would impose, there is a risk that the code will encourage employers to ban workers from using email and the net for personal use, currently allowed by many organisations. As the code covers workers' personal information, employers could regard this as a way of protecting themselves from legal claims by employees. This means that employers would be unable to take as reasonable an approach as they might otherwise like.The problem with the draft code is that it fails to take account of the array of circumstances in which it would have to be applied. What is important for the relationship between employee and employer is that monitoring of staff is conducted at a level appropriate to the business, in a way that is fair, and seen to be fair.Good employers achieve this by developing organisational policies, with employees' input, that spell out what is reasonable for their particular organisation. In this way, everyone knows where they stand, and why. The mutual trust that this inspires is the basis for a healthy relationship between employee and employer. This would certainly not be achieved by employers engaging in Orwellian "snooping" tactics.&#149; Diane Sinclair is a policy adviser to the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development
Electronic mail is one of the main reasons why people go online. Everyone wants to communicate, and email is one of the fastest, cheapest and most efficient ways to do it. And today, you don't even need to own a computer. Web-based mail services let you send email from an office computer or a cybercafe. The main disadvantage is that you usually have to be online to use them.Web-based email accounts, such asHotmail, are easy to use, and free. It is therefore worth having one as a back-up when other services are not working properly. You can even set up "junk accounts" to give to websites that require registration, and to people you don't trust.However, they do not   provide anonymity. Even if you sign up under a false name, the service is probably logging your IP (Internet Protocol) address, which can be used to trace you.All web-based mail services are much the same. Hotmail is the most popular and has the advantage that you can also collect mail using Outlook Express 5. However, I recommend Yahoo's email service (http://mail. yahoo.com) for two reasons. First, it provides six megabytes of storage, which should be enough to hold 500-600 email messages. Second, you can use Yahoo mail even with JavaScript and other advanced browser features blocked - athough you do have to allow "cookies" (small text files stored on your hard drive).Even if you do not object to scripting, you may sometimes want to collect mail from a handheld computer, network terminal or other device that does not have all the facilities of a personal computer.In Internet Explorer 5, the settings to control Active Scripting, Java and ActiveX programs, and cookies are in the security section. Go to the Tools menu, and select   Internet Options. When the tabbed dialog box appears, click on Security, then on the button at the bottom, marked Custom Level. This will reveal a set of options with radio buttons that let you select Disable, Enable or Prompt.The Prompt option means the browser will ask whether or not to allow a particular feature to run on a page-by-page basis. Prompt is fine in theory but tedious in practice. Most commercial sites now use scripting and huge numbers use ActiveX.Whichever web-based mail service you choose, it should at least offer folders and an addressbook. Folders work like directories. You can use them to file away mail that you don't want to delete, but still don't want to see every day.Hotmail and Yahoo provide folders to store incoming and outgoing mail, draft mail, bulk mail and trash. Draft is used for letters you have started writing but are not ready to send. Bulk mail is used for junk mail or "spam": if the system thinks it sees unwanted commercial email, it will put it in the Bulk Mail folder instead of your Inbox. The Trash folder is used to store deleted   email in case you have second thoughts and want it back. Click on the Empty button, however, and it has gone forever.It is easy to create new folders by typing in a name and clicking the Create Folder button. You can use them to store emails from specific people or about chosen topics. You can even have incoming mail diverted into these folders by setting up "filters" or "rules". To try this in Yahoo, click the Options entry on the left, then click on Filters. Both services also allow you to block mail from specified email addresses.It is also important to be able to store email addresses: you can't possibly remember them all. To do this in Yahoo, while reading mail, click the Add Addresses button on the right-hand side and fill in the form. Click on Add More Detail to enter phone numbers, nicknames, birthdates and so on. To enter names in Hotmail's much less powerful addressbook, click Save Address, at the end of the From: line.I have almost 1,000 addresses on Yahoo because I synchronise it with Microsoft Outlook on my desktop PC and with my   handheld computer. However, some addressbook features require JavaScript.Web-based email services are much more sophisticated that they used to be, and most have features that few people know about or use. In Yahoo and Hotmail, for example, you can sort mail by date (ascending or descending), sender, subject, or size, just by clicking the labels at the top of the columns.Yahoo can also collect standard (POP) mail from three other accounts, and Hotmail from four. Finally, under Options, both let you set a different Reply-To address, such as a home or office mailbox.But if you use web-based email, you must keep an eye on it. The world is full of extremely inconsiderate people who send out attachments that take up 500K or more space. A couple of those can easily fill up a mailbox. After that, any further mail will be "bounced" - returned to the sender.Clear out your mailbox at least once a week or you could miss important mail, and upset the people trying to send it to you.
You've just had a row with your boss or a fellow worker and you want to let off steam, so who do you turn to? There are your colleagues, but suppose discretion is required.Nyasha Poe would argue that such a situation is tailor-made for her company, friendly-ear.com. Carrying a steaming kettle as its logo, Britain's first online corporate counselling service was launched last month. In an increasingly time-starved society, friendly-ear offers immediate advice from qualified counsellors through email or on the phone.No prizes for guessing that online therapy was pioneered in America. Last year, there were 200 websites devoted to mental health issues and about 350 individual therapists on the web. The premise is that online therapy can rake in the bucks in a society notoriously in a rush - at least in the world of upwardly mobile professionals. Be that as it may, the proliferation of online therapy in the US has thrown up a host of regulatory and ethical concerns. Virtually all the American sites are unregulated, many are unlicensed, so consumers may be at the mercy of fly-by-night therapists.Mindful of such concerns, some online therapists under the umbrella organisation of the internet healthcare coalition have crafted voluntary guidelines known as the eHealth code of ethics. The rules ask sites to disclose financial ties or their commercial sponsors to give accurate and well-supported information, while safe guarding privacy and confidentiality.Anticipating those kinds of issues, Poe insists that her team of therapists, employed on a freelance basis, belong to the British Association of Counselling. Most have been trained at the Tavistock British Association of Psychoanalysis. Poe, who is of Zimbabwean origin, was nominated as business woman of the year in 1998. Before launching a career as an internet entrepreneur, she founded a fostering agency called Banya that placed difficult children for local authorities. She has now left Banya in the hands of her partner to concentrate on friendly-ear, so she has a chance of working directly with people again. Poe tries to spend a couple of hours online a few mornings a week, although her main focus will be to get the business up and running.Poe's idea for friendly-ear came from her "quite lonely" experience as a businesswoman. "Sometimes family members are not the best people to encourage you, and sometimes it's hard to talk to your partner about such matters," says Poe.She believes the anonymous nature of email can entice people into greater openness than if they were in   face-to-face situations. "It's a bit like confession. I think anonymity is a strength rather than a weakness."Anonymity is a hotly debated issue in the US, with some psychologists highly critical of the inability of therapists to interact properly with clients in cyberspace. They argue that patients are short-changed if the therapist cannot read the body language that can reveal so much. Poe admits that over the phone or by email, the therapist has to read between the lines. On the plus side, besides the notion that people will tend to be more upfront on the phone or via email, she cites the convenience factor. Workers do not have to leave their desks to receive advice and the service would be available 24 hours a day.The site already has had positive feedback from customers such as Peter Davids, senior partner in an accountancy firm, who said: "We can't quantify the benefits of using friendly-ear in monetary terms, but we have seen tangible benefits to our performance in the business and have increased profits."Poe plans to make her pitch to City firms where stress and burnout are high - and of course, where the big money is. The plan is to win contracts with City firms that will offer friendly-ear's services to its employees as part of the overall package. The fees friendly-ear charges will depend on the number of employees the firm has.She will argue to the human resources department - who will be her ultimate employer - that her company can help boost productivity by reducing stress, sick days, absenteeism or 'duvet days'. Poe believes that a company like hers will find a niche as employees are more   likely to turn to an outside agency than risk the stigma of going to human resources, because it is seen as an extension of management.But it is debatable whether City firms really do care about high turnover and burnout since they seem to be essential features of life in the fast lane. Despite all the government talk of productivity loss from sick days and stress, do City firms really give a fig about employees who cannot hack the macho culture?In offering a 24-hour ser vice, friendly-ear may also be biting off more than it can chew. Although Poe can call on some 60 freelance counsellors, some of the big firms may prove too taxing for a fledgling company like friendly-ear.Still, Poe is confident of the soundness of her concept. She argues that employees will want to talk about issues that are bothering them, such as bullying - apparently an extremely common workplace problem.She in adamant that firms   will want to offers the services friendly-com provides as one of the perks offered to potential employees."With low unemployment, firms need to finds ways to retain people beyond just offering the gym. They have to include staff support such as coaching and therapy," Poe says."Companies have to take a holistic view of their employees. You turn up at the office as a person, not just a worker, with home and personal problems."
In the early 90s, Ed Colligan, along with Donna Dubinksy and Jeff Hawkins, dreamt of a handheld PC that would change the way people lived by offering quick and easy access to their personal information. Almost a decade later, their innovation, the Palm, is the most popular personal digital assistant in the world.Now Colligan, the senior vice president of sales and marketing at Handspring, stands at another crossroad. Behind him is the phenomenal growth of the Visor range of PDAs (almost 2m units have been sold in the US); ahead is the prospect that the market he helped create is set to change forever. The PDA is about to get connected."In five years' time I see a Handspring that is slim, ultra fast, rich in colour, permanently on line and maybe even streaming audio and video content," he predicts.The difficulty for Colligan is that his dream PDA sounds remarkably similar to the prototypes of other high-end phone devices paraded by companies from Motorola to Psion.Internet-linked smart phones from Ericsson and   Nokia that use the Symbian operating system are already available. Microsoft's Stinger smartphone technology recently featured on a Sendo mobile, and after re-establishing itself in the mobile market last year, Sony has designs on what could prove to be a very lucrative market.Due to launch in the UK in the next few months is the Visorphone, a GSM add-on that fits into the Springboard expansion slot at the top of Handspring PDAs. Users can then make voice calls, send text messages or surf the net using the new Blazer web-browsing facilities. It will transform the Handspring from a personal information manager to a web-browsing smart phone. But at around &#163;300 will there be many takers?Colligan has the bigger picture in mind. "I think we'll look back on these early models in the   same way that people remember the first Apple computers. Within a few years 80% of all handheld sales will be models permanently connected to the web using packet technology."He is adamant that Handspring won't be intimidated. "The phone manufacturers' expertise is in voice communication. We are experts in data communication and that's the way the market is moving. Software is another area that will become vital and, again, it's an area we excel in."The first shots in the smart phone battle could be fired in the UK. "The American mobile phone infrastructure is a mess, with no consistency in terms of coverage," he explains. "The situation is different in the UK. I think you may find that communication products are released here in the UK first and then in the USA."Ultimately, Colligan knows that Handspring is about to move into a huge market. "The mobile phone market is so large that to take even a small piece of that business would be a massive win."Colligan is in the UK to promote the launch of the latest in the Handspring handheld PC family, the Visor Edge. This model takes Colligan's old company Palm on at its own game, in that it is ultra thin and is finished in an attractive metal casing. Yet the Edge still features the Visor trademark in the Springboard slot - the place where users can slip small modules that add MP3, digital camera, GPS functionality and so on.The Edge has two other trump cards. It uses the DragonBall VZ 3MHz processor, making it the fastest moving Palm operating system device on the market. It also has   excellent battery life with the lithium ion batteries running for a claimed 40 hours before needing recharging.With Palm beginning to work on accessories for its PDAs, and Handspring now parading a Palm V-style model, it appears that the two ranges are moving closer.Colligan doesn't see it that way. "We've had this Visor ready to go for sometime, but decided we wanted to get a colour Handspring (the Prism) to the market first. A lot of the ideas we are working on are totally different to Palm."He expresses cynicism about the e-wallet project (in which your PDA stores credit card details and beams them to special terminals to pay for items), which Palm announced in January.January also saw the first public demonstration of a voice control system for the Microsoft Pocket PC PDA   platform. But Handspring won't be following on Bill Gate's coat-tails."I've seen impressive voice command demos for 10 years, and I'm still not convinced it will work with a PDA."He also feels that Bluetooth could be a "potential red herring". "Sure, people will use it to connect phones to their organisers, but as for location-based services where shops send you messages when you walk buy - that's just a pipe dream."When we worked on the Palm, we knew we were on to something big. It was just that for a while we were the only people who believed we could pull it off."There's a similar cynicism about the migration from PDAs to connected devices now. Maybe in 10 years' time, Colligan will be saying something similar about Handspring, too.
How did you first use computers?I started my career working for Siemens as a budget analyst, which was my introduction to using PCs and very early spreadsheets like VisiCalc (developed by Dan Brinkman for early Apple II machines) and SuperCalc. I encountered the net quite early on through content management and setting up websites as an advertising vehicle. Now, with e-mail and so on, I would consider myself to be a fairly heavy user.Has there been a reappraisal of e-commerce after the dot.com slump?I think there's been a return to "is there really a business here?" We started in 1995 about six months after Netscape went public. So we started this because there was a real business need, not because the internet was there. The net has opened up the world and allowed us to use new technologies to proliferate and build our business, but I think the markets are saying "let's get back to basics. What's your business model and what is the value that you're trying to deliver to your customer base?"Is the UK's net infrastructure in need of an overhaul?Not for what we do. All companies, buyers and suppliers need to use our technology is access to the web. I think the net is well entrenched in the UK, and throughout Europe, and most people have good access to it.So how does the UK compare in terms of e-commerce?I think there's a little bit of scepticism but in general the UK's a bit more adventurous and open to new things than what we see on the continent. On the Continent companies are more risk averse, so I think the UK is more closely aligned with the US in that regard.Your website talks a lot of e-sourcing - what is it?E-Sourcing culminates in an online auction but we se it as a combination of market-making services, global supplier information and the technology for the online auctions. It's a process of identifying what is appropriate to put on an online auction, providing services to help prepare request for quotations that differ from those put together for a manual negotiation. Also, providing services around training and working with the company's existing suppliers, and introducing new suppliers.How does your Quick Source technology work?It's a technology that allows a company to set up its own branded marketplace. It means that more of the sourcing process is left up to the customer.Any favourite websites?So much of our business is done over the net that I tend to gravitate towards the content aggregators such asYahoo!andAOL. They're logical portals to a whole variety of other services. Probably two or three times a year I purchase books atAmazon. I don't keep a tremendous number of bookmarks.Visit:www.freemarkets.com
What is going to happen when UK hard man Charles Bronson finally gets out of jail? Readers of hiswebsitecan be reassured. He has a lot of "straight work" to keep him occupied: "I will be doing talks, book signing, parties, TV interviews, radio interviews", he tells Kevin M, who has emailed Charlie to ask if he will ever "go back to blagging".Charlie's webmaster is helping him while away those long hours in solitary by passing on the responses to his site. You can, if you are female, send in a picture of yourself (preferably in something lacy and not very large) to enter Charlie's cellmate of the month competition. Or bid in a cyberauction for one of Charlie's possessions, such as his knuckle duster, or even his brain (a deal to be honoured post-mortem, to prevent the Home Office nabbing it) - all proceeds to "Bronson's Children" charity, which aims to raise a million for a further prosecution of Myra Hindley and Ian Brady.That life on the outside can be one long Rent-a-Memory played out for an uncritical audience is exemplified byMad Frankie Fraser, the former Kray associate who is currently selling his own interactive CD-rom ("chilling, unrepentant and at times funny and heart-warming", according to the sales pitch). Frank is also available to act as your guide for a Gangland Tour through London's East End.These sites form part of the UK Hardman and Gangster Web Ring. You can link up to the entire list atwww.davecourtney.org.uk. Dave Courtney, whose career inspired the Vinnie Jones character in Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, has two websites, the flashier of which is atwww.davecourtney.com. Here you will find sound, streaming video, and a collection of articles about the man they call "the original fun-loving criminal".Criminals' sites are often managed by fans, whose own lives appear to be a million miles away from anything approaching the underworld. Mike Grey, who styles himself as "the owner of the largest collection of Biggs memorabilia", helps runwww.ronniebiggs.comfor the Great British Train Robber, still holed up in Rio, aged 71. Grey's fascination with the robber began when he had to do an   A level English project on any news story in 1974 - and he chose Biggs.On the whole, the fans seem internet-literate and dedicated enough to put in the hard work that maintaining a site demands.The introductory page ofThe Krays, however, has yet to acknowledge Reggie Kray's death in October last year - a conspicuous oversight, especially as the rest of the site appears to be up to date.The Krays has a long and apparently sincere bulletin board-style condolence book. Anyone suggesting that, actually, the streets weren't safer when the Krays were about, or that, truth be told, not everyone adored them, is quickly frowned on. Rather optimistically, contributors are confident that all three Kray brothers "are now in heaven", and they are "loved by millions". Spelling is, however, erratic. At one point, Charlie Kray is described as "a lovable rouge".Of course, they tend to do things bigger in the US. Organised crime UK-style is a vicarage tea party compared to the viciousness of La Cosa Nostra. For a detailed    overview of the whole scene, visitJerry Capeci's Gang Land. It was on to this site that young Meadow Soprano (of the hit HBO series The Sopranos) logged to convince her kid brother that when dad Tony said his job was in waste management, he wasn't exactly telling the whole story.The Sopranos naturally has itsown site. And while we are talking drama, the highly recommended Godfather Trilogy - the Website You Can't Refuse atwww.exit109.com/~jgeoff/ godfather/godfathr.shtmlhas whole scripts, and a set of frequently asked questions to satisfy the most trivia-obsessed. However, to find out whether the horse's head in the bed was actually a different horse from the one seen earlier in the stables, you will need to visit Nitpickerswww.nitpickers.com/movies/ nitpicks/titles/88174.html.If you want to understand underworld lingo, either real or fictional, check out the difference between a BG (someone who has not yet shot anyone) and an OG (someone who has) and other US gang argot athttp://linz.orf.at/gast/shocky/gang-slang.htm.For UK prison slang, HM Prisons issues a primly sanitised glossary of terms seewww.hmprisonservice.gov.uk.To read lively and not always politically-correct discussion of crime and punishment, fromliberal left through to authoritarian right, see the newsgroup uk.politics.crime.
Interest waneI couldn't help feeling slightly envious of David Birch's experience with NTL (Rebel with a cable, March 8).I don't think he knows how lucky he's been. I'm sorry if I sound a bit jaded, but my opinion of NTL as a company has been prejudiced by my experiences with it in the past (also with its predecessors Videotron and Cable &amp; Wireless). Recent contact with NTL has really underlined what a feeble position the lone residential client occupies in the company's scheme of things. I was hoping to upgrade my TV/phone package to digital. Its glossy brochures urge you to "Jump into a world of choice". The details of my new contract were completed over the phone and I was given an appointment. It was on the day of the appointment that the field engineer rang to say that it would be impossible for me to convert to digital.The street box is filled to capacity and would need upgrading to provide the digital service/broadband internet access the company is so cheerfully promoting. NTL will not say when this might happen. I can see its strategy is to attract new customers, but I could not work out why it is so poor with existing customers. Then, in Friday's Guardian, I read an article about NTL and the penny dropped.It has made 11 acquisitions in the past 18 months and is $10bn in debt. It is simply not interested in upgrading any existing customers where it may incur some cost to them. Far better to concentrate on take-up.So my chances of being a rebel with a cable will have to wait for the interest payments on NTL's debts fall to a more manageable level.Barry Campbellbarray@dircon.co.ukHalf rightPlease stop plugging cable internet access every week. My student house has several PCs networked and accessing   the net through NTL and we have no wish to see the speed of our connection drop.Seriously though, NTL's promotion has been non- existant, despite halving the cost to &#163;20 (just after we signed up). In addition, customer service is horrendously difficult to reach over the phone. So, a great product, but a shame about the service.Dan Windwooddan_windwood@hotmail.comStealth bombWhen I read last Thursday's article about cable modems I was sceptical of the &#163;20 a month figure quoted, but NTL's website confirmed this (though it is &#163;25 if you also rent the modem) plus &#163;25 installation. Unfortunately, I live in a Telewest cabled area, and its offering is much less attractive: &#163;33 a month with compulsory modem, plus &#163;50 installation.I also wonder just how reliable the service will be. Using Telewest's dial-up unlimited service, I have experienced its stealth rationing of access. Instead of an engaged tone or a failure to log on, I can often connect, only to find that any attempt to access mail, Usenet or Web servers times out (this morning it took six attempts to connect to my mail server).After several frustrating calls to technical support, one engineer eventually admitted that this happened because there was too little capacity. Is the same thing going to happen if I sign up for their cable modem service?Richard Williamsrwilliams79@compuserve.comNo putdownWhy do you repeatedly denigrate BT Highway-ISDN (Online, March 8)? If one has only a BT phone line then all the other possibilities are simply out of reach.ISDN has at least two advantages for me. Firstly speed, as connection to my ISP is much faster and data download is overall more than twice as fast. Secondly, thanks to the second line, no longer do I hear the cry: "Are you still on the phone?" Yes, the ISDN adaptor costs more than a 56k modem and there are BT's additional charges, but set against these are the reduction of the time dialling and being online. As far as I am concerned it is well worthwhile.G M Brewingmbrewin@waitrose.comStill growingI was fascinated to read your article last Thursday detailing the history of Acorn computers. You suggest these machines are no longer used and are not being developed.I am writing this on a RiscOS RiscPC - the most recent Acorn reincarnation - still developed and sold by several manufacturers. We eagerly await a new machine, the Omega and a new version of the operating system Risc OS 4.5 this summer. There are many advantages - intuitive drag and drop, virus resistance and reinstall in a couple of minutes.Dennis Mewsdennismews@lineone.netNut caseNice to see your Acorn article pay a deserved tribute to a British success story - congratulations! However, it failed to mention that the operating system, Risc OS, has survived and is prospering, both in desktop form and in set-top boxes/home entertainment systems with Pace. There is a chance that, by the end of this year, more people in the UK will be using Risc OS (even if they don't know or care) than use the Mac OS.George Greenfieldfree080.isp@ukgateway.netSteam ageIt is a shame that no mention of the excellent work that has (and is) being done by Pace and Risc OS and all the companies making new machines and developing the OS (as well as new software) were not mentioned last week. Risc OS has a future, not only in education but in all spheres of ICT - it's just that the weight of American imperialism steamrollers any signs of British innovation. Very sad.Neil Turnerphilip.turner1@ntlworld.comFare enoughRe ordering a taxi via SMS - What a brilliant idea! From a woman's point of view, nothing could provide greater piece of mind. How refreshing to be able to order a cab and feel safe and secure in the knowledge that there is a clear audit trail of who picked you up, from what company, at what time and in what car. No more hanging around street corners looking for cabs, thanks to Obvious Solutions.Fran Jacobsonfran.jacobson@gs.com
Yahoo!yesterday fuelled speculation of a deepening boardroom split over its future direction when it lost another high-profile member of its management team.The Silicon Valley-based company said that vice-president of business operations Anil Singh, the man widely credited with building its crucial advertising and marketing platform, was retiring "to spend more time with his family".Mr Singh's departure is likely to increase the sense of crisis at the internet portal which last week surprised investors by announcing a profits warning and the resignation of its chief executive, Tim Koogle.Advertising and marketing accounts for about 90% of revenues at Yahoo! and Mr Singh's departure is likely to be as keenly felt as the recent resignations of the heads at its European, Asian, South Korean and Canadian operations."Under &#91;Mr Singh's&#93; leadership the company built a top sales organisation from the ground up and pioneered the concept of online advertising," chief operating officer Jeff Mallett said.Yahoo!, which was once valued at more than $100bn (&#163;69bn), is now worth less than $10bn and has come to symbolise the boom and bust of the dot.com cycle.Advertising revenues are now on the wane as advertisers, cautious of a slowing economy, rein in spending. Yahoo! has been unable to find other ways of making money out of its 185m users and for the first time since the fourth quarter of 1996 it is unlikely to turn a profit.Merrill Lynch said it expected the online advertising market to decline 25% this year and for Yahoo's market share to drop from about 16% to 11% in 2001.Analysts believe that it could now be forced to sell up to an older, established media company, in a move that would raise questions about the long-term survival of even the strongest of internet brands.Viacom, Vivendi-Universal and Disney have all been mooted as possible buyers of Yahoo! but several of the portal's senior board members are thought to be against any takeover. Reports suggest they would prefer to introduce some form of subscription fee that would charge users for accessing content that is currently free.AOL, Yahoo's biggest rival, last year stunned the financial markets by agreeing a "merger of equals" with Time Warner. That deal has given AOL access to a wide range of revenue streams that Yahoo! has little chance of emulating as a stand-alone business.Mr Singh was Yahoo's 21st employee, joining in 1995 what was then a fledgling firm. He was the first sales executive but rose through the ranks and eventually became chief sales and marketing officer with responsibility for worldwide ad sales, corporate marketing, promotions, direct marketing and distribution.Three months ago the company indicated that he would move from his day-to-day sales role to focus on strategy but in May he will leave the company altogether.
Computacenter, Europe's biggest PC retailer, yesterday said it was "cautiously optimistic" that the poor trading conditions seen over the past year were finally improving.However, it admitted that it could not be more upbeat while uncertainty still hangs over the financial performance of its biggest customers and the wider economy shows signs of slowing.The company, which was forced to issue two profit warnings last year as big clients reined in spending, may not yet be out of the woods due to its dependence on big contracts with telecoms firms, analysts said.Sales to firms such as debt laden BT and crisis-hit Cable &amp; Wireless account for around 14% of revenues.Chief executive Mike Norris agreed that it was prudent to remain cautious until it became clearer whether Computacenter would be affected by any slowdown in the growth of the US economy."We've had a satisfactory start to 2001 and we're looking forward to a more normalised year of trading, but we will remain cautious for a while yet," he said.Shares in Computacenter bounced up 7% in early trading yesterday amid relief that figures for the year ending December 2000 were in line with the reduced analysts' expectations which followed the profit warnings. The shares closed up 25p at 385p.Group turnover climbed 13% to &#163;1.99bn, but profit before tax and investment in its Biomni e-commerce venture fell from &#163;75m to &#163;59m."Some of our peer group in Europe racked up huge losses during this period so we're doing well to be in positive territory," Mr Norris added.Analysts are cautious about the shares' prospects of climbing while market recovery remains slow and the big PC manufacturers increasingly seek to bypass resellers by selling more of their products direct to end users.Lucy McFetrich, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, predicts that low levels of demand, higher competition, pricing pressures and low levels of profitability in the industry makes consolidation in the sector likely.Investment in Biomni, which had been eyeing a stock market listing, cost &#163;3.6m and is not due to be profitable until 2003.Ron Sandler, the former chief operating officer at NatWest bank, is to take over from Philip Hulme as the group's non-executive chairman.
Razorfish, the internet consultancy that briefly became one of the new-economy stars in New York, is to cut more jobs just weeks after shedding 20% of its staff worldwide.The company, which was founded in 1995 and has 11 offices and 1,600 employees around the world, offered workers in its London, Boston and San Francisco offices voluntary redundancy at the end of last week. Staff have until today to decide whether to accept the terms.The company refused to say exactly how many people would lose jobs, but a spokesman said more than 20% of the 160 staff in the London office are likely to be cut.The job losses will include creative staff, strategists, technicians and back-office workers, and will be finalised at the beginning of next week. Many will stem from the merger of management and back-office functions at the London and Amsterdam offices.The firm, which focuses on interactive TV, the internet and mobile technology, has seen its market value collapse from$4.6bn last February to less than $100m.There are no plans for office closures and the company, which had been reported to be seeking additional funding, yesterday said it hoped it would not need to raise more money to remain afloat."The aim of this cost efficiency is so that we won't need more funding",the spokesman said.It is Razorfish's third round of job cuts since October.
In better times Martha Lane Fox might have spent yesterday morning surfing the Lastminute.com website for gifts for her staff to mark today's first anniversary of the e-commerce firm's stock market flotation.Instead she was stuck in a taxi on an industrial estate on the outskirts of Paris, simultaneously trying to explain to her driver in her best French that Lastminute's local office was only a couple of blocks away and to the journalist on the other end of her mobile phone why better times were just around the corner.But, as far as the London stock market is concerned, Lastminute is only going in one direction: south.Yesterday the shares were on the way down again, ending 2p above their all-time low of 52p, as technology stocks across the board came under heavy selling pressure.Exactly a year ago the rush to own a piece of what was Europe's hottest dot.com catapulted Lastminute shares to an all time high of 555p and a valuation of around &#163;800m. It was briefly valued at more than the WH Smith retail chain - even though its turnover was less than an average WH Smith store.Today, following a 90% fall in its share price, Lastminute's business is deemed to be worth &#163;27m, after the &#163;65m cash it has in the bank is stripped out.Despite the torrent of negative personal publicity Ms Lane Fox and co-founder   Brent Hoberman have endured since then, the 27-year-old refuses to be beaten. "We're more determined than ever," she said yesterday. "If you look in the flotation prospectus at where we said we'd be by now and at what the analysts were expecting, you'll see that we're way ahead of where we should be."It's just a great shame that there is such a huge disconnection between investor sentiment and customer satisfaction."Brent and I obviously would like to do something for the poor shareholders who bought in and now find themselves sitting on paper losses but we always said that this was a long-term vision and it was not for people looking for a quick gain in a month or so."Lastminute has doubled in size since the float by buying French e-commerce firm Degriftour and brought a wise old head on to the board in the shape of former Asda boss Allan Leighton.Yet that has counted for little in share price terms as technology shares across the board have come under heavy selling.The Nasdaq and Techmark indices have more than halved in value since a year ago, with e-commerce firms particularly hard hit.Analysts warn that the 200,000 private investors who bought shares in the Lastminute flotation should not expect any upside soon."The market is currently in a state of realism," said Phil Clarke, analyst at Goldman Sachs. "It is becoming clear only a small number of consumer e-commerce companies have sustainable long-term business models. The next 12 months for Lastminute will be all about getting their heads down, growing the business and consolidating the acquisition."Mr Clarke does believe Lastminute will be one of the few survivors because with &#163;65m in the bank it has enough to take it through to break-even, forecast for September 2003.Others are less sure. They were disappointed by the company's decision to stop disclosing how each international division is performing.Heidi Fitzpatrick, a Lehman Brothers analyst, said: "It is disappointing that their disclosure has become more cloudy. They have built a fabulous brand that has become very well known for very little money and I'm an admirer of the management team."But when a company stops disclosing certain figures it can often be a red warning flag. The next two quarters are very important." Ms ane Fox dismisses the fears. She said Lastminute would continue to broaden its offer beyond travel-related items, which account for around 60% of revenues."The question is how far can they diversify from their core offering and take their customers with them," said Mr Clarke.Observers believe the slowdown in advertising spending, which accounts for about 25% of Lastminute's revenues, could force the company to cut costs and possibly lay off some of its 600 staff. Ms Lane Fox denies such suggestions.She is aware that the company needs to convert more of its 2.8m subscribers into customers. So far only 234,000 have ever bought from the site.Analysts see a takeover of Lastminute on the distant horizon. "I can easily envisage Lastminute forming part of a greater entity. I don't think they'll be independent for ever." Mr Clarke said. Possible buyers could be big portals looking to strengthen their commerce offerings, leading US players looking for a local presence in Europe or bricks and mortar travel agents.
The equivalent of 360,000 email messages are sent every second in Britain, underlining the spectacular growth in use of the internet, new figures revealed yesterday.According to data from the London Internet Exchange, or Linx - a non-profit making group linking the networks of its 120 service provider members in the UK - for the first time last week the peak flow of internet traffic rose to six giga-bits per second.This measure means the equivalent of 360,000 email messages are sent through cyberspace every second, and the announcement marks a 20% growth of internet traffic in the past two months.The level is more than three times that which it reached nine months ago. At the beginning of last year Linx carried just over one gigabit per second of data through exchange points at peak times. The five gigabits level was passed in early January.Linx handles more than 90% of the UK's internet data flow and is responsible for predicting traffic growth and efficiency of data movement. Mike Hughes, head of network architecture, said: "A good rule of thumb through the late 1990s was that traffic doubled every 100 days. We have seen a slight slowing down in growth over the past 12 months by that standard, but we are still adding 20,000 emails per second every month."The peak daily level, according to the group, is reached in late afternoon and early evening - which reflects the growth of home users, including the rise in the use of broadband, "always-on" connections.The rise in traffic is not only due to emails. It can come, for instance, from users accessing and browsing websites and downloading, which is recorded as a much heavier traffic flow than emailing.More people are going online, too - the latest survey from the office for national statistics shows 7.8m households in Britain have web access, a 5% increase on the previous quarter, and those already connected are increasingly using the web as well as emailing more often.According to Dan Stevenson, an analyst at Jupiter MMXI, the net research specialist, online use is increasing because cable companies are now offering internet connection for a fixed fee."We are seeing &#91;service providers&#93; growing very quickly in the UK. For the first time people don't have to worry about how long they are online for because they are using unmetred access products. People are staying online for longer because the cost per hour is no longer an issue," Mr Stevenson said.&#149; Net penetration in EU households grew a staggering 55% between March and October 2000, according to data from the European commission yesterday. In the period between March and October 2000, net access in households of the 15-nation block rose from 18%to 28%, while users totalled around 40% of the EU's 375m citizens. "Europe now has about as many internet users as the US," the commission said in a statement.
A cyber-stalker who conducted a campaign against a young woman by setting up a website which invited strangers to rape and abuse her was yesterday jailed for seven-and-a-half years.Donald Ridley, 37, from Poole, Dorset, pleaded guilty to 25 offences relating to "internet stalking" and child pornography at Bournemouth crown court.The court heard how Ridley, who had met the woman six years ago, sent her a Valen tine's card when she was 17. At one point his victim was receiving around 30 emails a day from people who had seen the website, and a number even turned up at her home, the court heard.Detective Constable Rupert Evernden, from Dorset police's vice squad, said: "The victim started getting emails from people trying to contact her - that is how we first became aware of it."Ridley was finally caught after officers raided his home as part of a separate investigation into child pornography.
UK internet traffic has reached a landmark peak figure of six gigabits per second, according to figures published by the country's main internet exchange.The London Internet Exchange (Linx), which records internet traffic data on a continuing basis, handles more than 90% of the UK internet's traffic flow. Its figure of 6 Gb/s is equivalent to 360,000 emails being sent every second.The figure represents an increase of 20% on the peak traffic flow for January 2001, and is double that for June 2000."This entirely predicted rise has been attributed to both the steady growth in the number of internet users and each individual user's increasing demand for internet content," a spokesman said.Chris Fletcher, head of technical development for the exchange, said there was no substantial increase in the rate of traffic growth. "We are not seeing a huge increase in growth," he said. "But it is a huge amount of traffic."The rise in use of unmetered internet access has undoubtedly had an effect on the figures. But Mr Fletcher added there would have to be substantial growth in the take-up of ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) broadband technology before its effect would be reflected in UK traffic figures.Traffic levels would also increase slightly over time as more ISPs signed up to the exchange, Mr Fletcher said.At the moment, traffic peaks between about 2pm and 9pm GMT. Figures for the last 24 hours show traffic peaking at about 6.3 Gb/s at about 5pm yesterday, and sinking to a low of about 2 Gb/s at 5am today.Linx is a non-profit partnership between ISPs, which provides a physical connection through which its members can exchange traffic. It publishes its internet traffic data on its website at http://ochre.linx.net/.A Guardian/ICM poll in January showed that 49% of all British adults had access to the internet, either at home or at work.Recent articles11.02.2001: BT faces Oftel internet order24.01.2001: Britons grasp net, ICM poll showsSpecial reportNet news: internet accessUseful links:London Internet ExchangeLinx traffic statisticsNua internet surveys
Many companies advertising goods for sale over the internet are breaching trading standards regulations, the Office of Fair Trading said today.An inspection of 637 UK websites selling a range of products found that 52% failed to meet basic legal requirements.Consumers shopping over the internet are entitled to protection under the Distance Selling Regulations, which came into force last October.These include the right to clear information before placing an order, written confirmation of a purchase, a cooling-off period during which an order can be cancelled and full refunds if goods are not provided by an agreed date.Inspectors from 28 trading standards authorities and the OFT surfed websites for products including books, music, toys, software and clothes.One of the most common failings was not providing information on refunds and exchange.John Vickers, director general of the OFT, said: "Consumers are now entitled to clear information when they buy from home, whether over the internet, telephone, digital TV or by mail order."Failure to tell consumers about their right to cancel and to a full refund is a breach of the new Distance Selling Regulations and something which must be put right."It is in the interests of consumers and good businesses to make ways of buying from home as robust as possible."The OFT's results have been forwarded to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, for inclusion in an international survey. These will be published shortly by the Australian body.Recent articles:25.02.2001: Women seduced into debt by web21.01.2001: Wary about shopping online30.09.2000: Interview with OFT director generalUseful links:&lt;A HREF="http://www.guardianunlimited.co.uk/shopping"Guardian Unlimited ShoppingUseful sites:OFT: adviceOFT: press releaseACCC: International Sweep DaysInternational Marketing Supervision NetworkConsumers International
Direct Line admitted yesterday it is selling only 500 cars a month through itsjamjar.comwebsite, despite spending &#163;10m on television advertising.On that basis the commercials cost &#163;1,666 for every car sold, but jamjar.com says it expects sales to double by mid-year. Direct Line, owned by Royal Bank of Scotland, is investing &#163;50m in jamjar and expects to break even this year.Jamjar said it was selling as many cars in a day as a small forecourt dealer would in a month. However, even if it achieves 1,000 sales a month its share of new car sales will remain below 0.1%.About 2m new cars are sold annually in Britain, and the biggest dealer, Dixons Motors of Doncaster, account for 75,000 of them.Jamjar spokesman Justin Skinner said: "What we are building is the UK's leading online car retailer. We are not saying that it will replace traditional dealerships. The advertising campaign has resulted in very high name awareness; the cost per customer at the moment is misleading because what we are doing is building a brand."Jamjar claims to have saved its customers a total of &#163;2m since launch nine months ago by undercutting manufacturers' list prices. It said its best-selling car is the Ford Focus, where it offers savings of more than &#163;2,000 on Ford's list price.
Ebookers.com, the online travel firm, yesterday announced it is to list its shares on the London Stock Exchange, shrugging off the turmoil in the hi-tech sector.The London-based firm, already listed on Frankfurt's Neuer Markt and the Nasdaq, also confirmed that it aims to move into profit by 2002.Navneet Bali, Ebookers' chief financial officer, said the company was seeking a London listing to give it access to future funding from UK-based investors, even though it is not raising any new money at the moment. Despite the negative sentiment about online companies, it had decided to stick to its plans rather than waiting for a market recovery."The move brings us closer to our investor base in our largest market," Ebookers said. "It is expected to allow us access to institutional funds that could not previously buy Ebookers.com stock."Mr Bali emphasised that the firm, which raised $45m from European institutional investors last July and has $50m in the bank, has enough cash to take it into profitability."We are not raising new money." said Mr Bali. "It is just a technical listing that allows our ordinary shares to be traded." Ebookers hopes London trading in its stock will begin before the end of March. It has no plans to change its listings on Nasdaq and the Neuer Markt at present.The news came as the company reported a fourfold increase in fourth quarter sales to $36m (&#163;24.5m), up from $9m for the same period in 1999. Full year sales reached $123.5m, up from $23m in 1999, with registered users increasing from 740,000 at the end of the third quarter to 850,000 at the end of 2000.Ebookers said its pre-tax loss, excluding stock compensation, was $40m - compared to $7m in 1999.Chief executive Dinesh Dhamija said: "Losses have gone up so much because we spent a lot more on sales and marketing in the first half of last year."Mr Bali said sales and marketing costs would continue to be reduced. As a percentage of sales, they fell from 34% in the first quarter of 2000 to 17% in the fourth quarter."Since mid-1999 we've grown tremendously, and obviously we've had to invest a lot in technology as well as sales and marketing to build a brand," Mr Bali said. "All that is behind us now."Analysts were yesterday positive about Ebookers' results."They seem on target to be profitable at the end of 2001 or the start of 2002, and revenues were pretty good for an online business", one analyst said.However, the analyst was sceptical about the interest the firm could expect to receive from institutional investors because of the relatively small size of the business.Mr Dhamija also admitted yesterday that Ebookers, which has expanded into 11 countries including Spain, Switzerland and Ireland, is on the hunt for acquisitions."We want to go into Italy and into the business side of travel," he said. "I would also like to acquire larger leisure companies in Germany and France." Shares in the company have plunged in line with the rest of the technology sector - from a high of 44 euros in March they fell yesterday by 0.27 euros to 3.33 euros.
