The Anonymous hacking collective claims it has compromised US Federal Emergency Management Agency (Fema) servers and has posted the contact information of people connected to the agency online.Anonymous said it released the information because recent events, including the NSA surveillance revelations, have brought "oblique and cowardly implied threats against Anonymous very much back into the forefront of the hive's consciousness".The release includes the names, mailing addresses and email addresses of contractors, subcontractors and government employees linked to Fema, including private defense contractors, federal agents and local authorities.Much of the information was already accessible online to someone determined to find it, though Anonymous said it redacted social security numbers and login information because its "intent is not to harm, merely to issue a firm warning".However, the mailing addresses connected to some of the people listed on the release are not publicly affiliated with their employers and Anonymous referred to them as home addresses in an email. It did respond to a question asking why this does not fall under the banner of harmful information.Anonymous said it targeted Fema because of a training exercise the agency used in 2012 to prepare employees for a cyberattack. In the scenario, a fictional group called "The Void" launches a cyberattack on US businesses and infrastructure.Anonymous sees The Void as a stand-in for their organization and feels that the training exercise made some unfair implications about the collective. It said actions taken by The Void "implicitly link financial gain and fraud to activist hackers". Anonymous was also upset because it believes the exercise implies the collective is anti-American.Fema did not respond to requests for confirmation on whether its servers were compromised.The Fema exercise occurred in 2012, but Anonymous said in a statement that it believes the exercise was used "as part of the ongoing justifications for Prism and the other NSA spy programs". With these recent developments, Anonymous said it wanted to show it "does not wave the white flag".We are not fighting any one government or corporation, we are fighting any enemy of freedom of speech and anyone compromising the right to remain anonymous online, without fear of reprisals from governments or corporations with the legal authority or financial resources to destroy the lives of anyone who dares express opinions contrary to their own official line.Anonymous seemed to imply a threat of its own at the end of the release and said: "Also, please return to us Barrett Brown, we are asking nicely. Pretty please, with sugar on top."Brown has been imprisoned since Septemberafter being accused of 17 offenses springing from his affiliation with Anonymous. Brown is not a hacker but had close ties to the collective and helped publicize some of their most renowned hacks including the Stratfor hack in 2011.The Fema exercise was co-ordinated byhomeland security consulting company Obsidian Analysis, who appointed formerFema chief of staff John McNamarato be company vice-president in May. The National Level Exercise: Cybertop Capabilities Tabletop Exercise,can be downloaded from the Fema site here.
Google received another warning on Wednesday that it is edging closer to a legal showdown with the European Commission over the way it displays search results.The search giant, which has about 90% of the European market, was told by the antitrust head of the European Commission that it must come up with new ideas for its presentation of search results to allay concerns that it is stifling competition.More than a year afterGoogle first offered its suggestionsfor tweaking how it shows results to the EC, and two months after they were made public, Joaquin Almunia of the EC's antitrust arm said that "I concluded that proposals that Google sent to us months ago are not enough to overcome our concerns". He said he has written to Google chairman Eric Schmidt "asking Google to present better proposals."Google had suggested that it would put "frames" around promotional links offered on its results page, such as its paid-for Shopping results and other Google-owned properties like YouTube or Maps.But those were bitterly criticised by opponents. Fairsearch, a lobbying group whose members include Microsoft and Nokia, as well as smaller British, French and German web companies, said that anything which gave Google's own products more prominence would increase, rather than reduce, its dominance.The basis of their complaint is that Google unfairly promotes its own services while downgrading rivals'.Almunia put Google's proposals to a "market test" in April, only to see themrejected almost immediately. If the rivals had agreed to Google's suggestion, the conflict would have been over.Instead Fairsearch pointed to a survey by US group Consumer Watchdog which said that more than half of people in a survey did not realise that Google Shopping links were paid-for. It also pointed to a study by two American academics of 1,888 British users carried out in mid-June which found that "Google [services] benefit from better placement, richer graphics and better visuals than it permits competitors" - which resulted in one in five people clicking on Google's services, but only 1 in 200 on rivals'.The disparity was even greater on mobile phones, where the smaller screen severely limits the number of results - and rival links - that can be shown.They concluded that Google's previously suggested tweaks to its search results would have little if any impact on the existing monopoly - and might even strengthen it.The EC's key remaining concern is over Google's promotion of its other services such as Shopping, Maps and others in its results when it presents search results. Google has argued that the services are offered as part of its "universal search" results - although Maps, Shopping and YouTube can be found at their own URLs, and have their own downloadable apps for mobile phones.The EC investigation was triggered in November 2010 by a complaint from British "vertical search" company Foundem, which demonstrated how results for Google-owned properties consistently scored higher than its own, despite no obvious differences in the content or quality of the results.Fairsearch has called for Google to make public the criteria that it uses for promoting some search results above others, so that there would be a "level playing field" for those competing to be at the top of the search rankings. Around 90% of all clickthroughs on desktop results pages come from the results displayed on the first page.Joaquin Almunia, whose team has been investigating Google's dominance since November 2010, has hinted previously that if Google does not provide a satisfactory solution then the EC might take court action. That would be a lengthy process but could see Google fined up to 10% of its worldwide revenue for "abuse of a monopoly position".The EC's hard line is in contrast with the US, where the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) carried out a similar investigation into Google's search results over a two-year period. Although the Guardian understands that FTC staff were keen for the agency to pursue a full investigation, a majority of the five FTC commissioners - who have to decide on actions - were not in favour of action.If Almunia prevails, Europe will be the only area in the world which has successfully forced Google to alter how it presents search and promoted results.A Google spokesman said its proposal "clearly addresses" the four areas of concern laid out by EU authorities, which relate to promotion of its own services, "scraping" of other sites' content, portability of advertising campaigns between search engines, and display of rivals' adverts on the same pages as Google ones."We continue to work with the commission to settle this case," the spokesman said.Both sides have said that they are committed to reaching a settlement.Fairsearch alsofiled a formed complaintof "anticompetitive conduct" against Google's Android operating system, claiming predatory pricing, on 25 March.
Elon Musk has flown so high, so fast, it is hard not to wonder when, and how, he will crash to earth. How could he not? Musk is so many things – inventor, entrepreneur, billionaire, space pioneer, inspiration for Iron Man's playboy superhero Tony Stark – and he has pushed the boundaries of science and business, doing what others declare impossible. At some point, surely, he will fall victim to sod's law, or gravity.He is only 41, but so far Musk shows no sign of tumbling earthwards. Nasa and other clients are queuing up to use his rockets, part of the rapid commercialisation of space. His other company, electric car manufacturer Tesla Motors, is powering ahead. Such success would satisfy many tycoons, but for Musk they are merely means to ends: minimising climate change and colonising Mars. And not in some distant future – he wants to accomplish both within our lifetimes.Musk has a reputation for being prickly but when I meet him atSpaceX, his headquarters west of Los Angeles, he is affable and chatty, cheerfully expounding on space exploration, climate change, Richard Branson and Hollywood. Oh, and what he would like written on his Martian tombstone."The key thing for me," he begins, "is to develop the technology to transport large numbers of people and cargo to Mars. That's the ultimate awesome thing." Musk envisages a colony with 80,000 people on the red planet. "But of course we must pay the bills along the way. So that means serving important customers like Nasa, launching commercial broadcasting communication satellites, GPS satellites, mapping, science experiments. "There's no rush in the sense that humanity's doom is imminent; I don't think the end is nigh. But I do think we face some small risk of calamitous events. It's sort of like why you buy car or life insurance. It's not because you think you'll die tomorrow, but because you might."Musk does not look the stereotypical plutocrat. He wears jeans and a T-shirt and sits behind a rather ordinary desk overlooking a car park, beyond which is Hawthorne, California's answer to Slough. He occupies the corner of a ground-floor, open-plan office that barely constitutes a cubicle. Walk just 40 metres, however, and there is a sight to quicken the pulse: SpaceX's factory, a 1m sq ft sprawl where engineers and technicians work on rockets, propulsion systems and casings for satellites. Suspended over the entrance is the cone-shaped capsule ofDragon, which last year became the first commercial vehicle in history to successfully dock with the International Space Station. SpaceX's next step is to fly humans, up to seven per Dragon, starting between 2015-17.Space odyssey ... The SpaceX Dragon-2 spacecraft leaves the international space station. Photograph: AP Photo/NasaThe final frontier has fascinated Musk since he was a boy. Growing up in Pretoria, the son of a Canadian mother and South African father, he taught himself coding and software, mixing geek talent with business nous: he designed and sold a video game, Blastar, by the age of 12. He later studied economics and physics in Canada and the US and moved to Silicon Valley, resolving to focus on three areas: the internet, clean energy, space.Musk made his mark by co-founding PayPal, which transformed e-commerce, in 1999. He sold it three years later to eBay for $1.5bn. When, armed with this fortune, he turned to space exploration, the consensus said he was nuts. Building and launching rockets was the preserve of states – big states, because small states tended to spend a fortune trying and still fail.He was influenced, he says, byIsaac Asimov's Foundation series, a science fiction saga in which a galactic empire falls and ushers in a dark age. "It's sort of a futuristic version of Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. Let's say you were at the peak of the Roman empire, what would you do, what action could you take, to minimise decline?"It takes me a moment to realise it's not a rhetorical question. Um, poison the barbarians' water supply, I joke. Musk smiles and shakes his head. The answer is in technology. "The lessons of history would suggest that civilisations move in cycles. You can track that back quite far – the Babylonians, the Sumerians, followed by the Egyptians, the Romans, China. We're obviously in a very upward cycle right now and hopefully that remains the case. But it may not. There could be some series of events that cause that technology level to decline. Given that this is the first time in 4.5bn years where it's been possible for humanity to extend life beyond Earth, it seems like we'd be wise to act while the window was open and not count on the fact it will be open a long time."The SpaceX factory is vast and employs 3,000 people but is remarkably clean, bright and quiet. Technicians are casually dressed in shorts or jeans, sneakers or sandals. One group checks on a Falcon 9 launch system; across the corridor another works on protective fairings to encase cargo; a few yards from that a guy with goggles produces spare parts from a 3D printer; in a sealed lab next door colleagues with hairnets and blue coats inspect equipment for a launch later this year, the company's third supply mission for Nasa.The factory exudes Silicon Valley's no-fuss ethos, a streamlined contrast to Nasa bureaucracy and bloat. The space agency, having retired its shuttle fleet, increasingly outsources launch services to Musk. SpaceX's focus on reusable technology has slashed costs – the company says it can get an astronaut to the space station for $20m, versus $70m charged by Russia for a seat on a Soyuz rocket. SpaceX is testing reusable prototype rockets that can return to Earth intact, rather than burn up in the atmosphere. If successful, rockets could be reused like aeroplanes, cutting the price of a space mission to just $200,000, for fuel.'There are some important differences between me and Tony Stark' ... Elon Musk. Photograph: Bryce Duffy/Corbis OutlineOffering cheap, reliable delivery services to Nasa and commercial clients such as broadcasters is for Musk a means to perfect the technology that can get humans to Mars. He believes it could happen within decades – giving him a chance to live his last days there. "It'd be pretty cool to die on Mars, just not on impact," he jokes. Turning serious, he adds: "It's a non-zero possibility. I wouldn't say I'm counting on it but it could happen."Other private companies are filling the void left by diminished, budget-squeezed state programmes, but Musk doesn't seem to worry about the competition. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos is making "relatively slow" progress with his companyBlue Origin, he says. When I ask aboutVirgin Galactic, which is due to start commercial flights later this year, Musk chuckles, then turns diplomatic. "We're not really in the same ..." he pauses, looking for the right word, "the same area. What Richard [Branson] is doing is creating a sort of fun sub-orbital ride which lasts five minutes. [He's] trying to create something that's entertaining and exciting ... which is fine. But I wouldn't say we're competitors."After a decade Musk's other company,Tesla Motors, is now also reaping success: booming sales of the all-electric model S have put it into profit and driven the share price to over $100. Last month Consumer Reports, an independent testing group,rated the car 99 out of a 100, saying it performed better than any other car – electric or conventional – it had tested. Tesla is now investing insupercharger stations across the US, and speeding up battery swaps, so drivers can travel coast to coast without worrying about losing power. The same will happen in other countries. A diminished band of sceptics warns that technical and distribution challenges may yet dull Telsa's sheen, and they could be right, but there is no denying Musk's feat in breaking the auto industry's paralysis to make a profitable, zero-emissions car. He plans to celebrate its coming of age by driving his children from Los Angeles to New York in a Tesla later this year.Musk is evangelical about weaning us off fossil fuels. He is chairman of SolarCity, which provides solar power to California, and this week he revealed more detail on perhaps his most intriguing business idea yet, something some consider one of history's craziest-sounding transportation fancies:the Hyperloop, an 800mph self-powered ground-based system that could zip between LA and San Francisco in half-an-hour. On Monday he promised toreveal an "alpha design" by August 12.  The project has geeks and transport wonks buzzing – Musk, after all, is Tony Stark, minus the goatee.He squirms a bit when asked about the comparison. "It's kind of cool, I suppose. Obviously there are some important differences between me and Tony Stark, like I have five kids, so I spend more time going to Disneyland than parties. I feel a bit like Tony Stark's dad. I do like parties though." (Musk, twice divorced, has denied rumours he is dating Cameron Diaz.)He made a cameo in Iron Man 2, playing himself, but prefers the latest film. ("It was quite a bit better. I liked it. The Mandarin could have been a better villain, maybe.") Musk laments that there has yet to be a great Mars movie (Arnold Schwarzenegger's Total Recall was "fun, but ridiculous") and says he has urged James Cameron to make one. "Does the world need Avatar 3? The world could use a good movie about establishing a base on Mars."The world could also do with a wake–up call about climate change, he says. "Most people don't really appreciate the magnitude of the danger. The glacier melts are very stark. As you heat the planet up it's just like boiling a pot." The single most important counter-measure is to tax carbon, he says. That would, of course, benefit SolarCity but he denies commercial self-interest. SpaceX rockets use jet fuel and Tesla cars rely on carbon since fossil fuels produce about half of US electricity. "The reason we should do a carbon tax is because it's the right thing to do." Carbon dioxide's production of greenhouse gas is not factored into its price – in the jargon, an unpriced externality, he says. "It's economics 101, elementary stuff."Musk acknowledges limited progress by the Obama administration but avoids criticising the president, which may or may not be related to a $465m federal loan guarantee which helped Tesla make the model S. He already funds environmental groups, and battles by proxy; would he consider setting up his own? He looks thoughtful. "I may need to do something like that."One reason for caution, however, is the fiasco over Fwd.us, an immigration reform lobby group set up by Mark Zuckerberg, the objectives of which include "securing the borders" and "attracting the world's best and brightest workers". Musk signed up, along with other Silicon Valley luminaries, only to quit over the group's tactics."In order to get support they compromised and agreed to pay for essentially anti-environmental ads for a couple of key conservative senators. And that was not right. You should fight on the merits of the cause, not play some Machiavellian game where you agree to support things that are bad in order to get some things that are good passed."The interview time is over and a queue of SpaceX managers and engineers has formed behind me, waiting to speak to the boss. Some clutch odd-looking tools and instruments, widgets in Musk's plan to fly humans 33.9m miles through space and land, safely, on the red planet. If all goes well he will be able to go himself, an elderly man taking a one-way trip. If he dies there, what should be engraved on his tombstone? Musk frowns a moment, then grins. "Holy shit, I'm on Mars, can you believe it?"
Björk has released her Biophilia album-app for Android, two years after its release for Apple's iPad.The appcosts £8.49 on the Google Play store, and like the iOS version contains 10 individual sections: one for each song on her Biophilia album, including mini-games, interactive art and music creation tools.Björk is releasing the Android version as part of her Biophilia Educational Program, which uses the app as part of workshops about science and music for students in regions including South America, east Asia and Africa."It's had a great run so far, but in order to reach more people, we decided it was important for the apps to be available for Android phone as well," explainsa blog post on Björk's website. "Björk's vision of the Biophilia app has always been for it to be available as widely as possible, and Android is an important factor for this."Björk had hoped to fund the development of the Android Biophilia app, as well as a Windows 8 version, through a crowdfunding campaign on the Kickstarter website. It launched in January 2013 seeking £375,000 from fans, but wasclosed 10 days in after only raising £15,370.After that, Björk and creative partner Snibbe Studio found a partner, mobile tech firm Apportable, to port the iOS app to Android."They came up with a new way of converting apps to Android that costs a whole lot less and takes far less time than previously expected. So we withdrew the Kickstarter campaign and a few short months later, they're telling us the apps are ready," explains the blog post."Luckily for us, technology had developed so now it is possible to do this at a fraction of the cost."The Biophilia Educational Program began as a series of workshops for students in Iceland, before transferring to New York in 2012, as part of Björk's residency at the New York Hall of Science venue.They have since been held in Paris, Oslo, São Paulo, Buenos Aires, Manchester, Los Angeles and San Francisco – the latter alongside Björk's latest US tour."We set up the Biophilia Educational Program as a non-profit project with the aim of making the ideas from Biophilia available to teachers and children around the world," explained theKickstarter campaign page."In each city, the Biophilia Educational Program has worked with local school authorities to create lessons, complete with a core syllabus and curriculum topics. In dealing with these topics, it aims to bring together knowledge of nature and science, music and technology."The app's Android release comes amid renewed interest within the music industry in delivering albums through mobile apps.Lady Gaga announced earlier this month thather next album ARTPOP will have a companion appwhen it is released in November, promising "a musical and visual engineering system that combines art, fashion, and technology with a new interactive worldwide community".Meanwhile,Jay-Z's new album Magna Carta Holy Grailwas given away for free to up to 1m owners of Samsung smartphones via an app this month, three days before its official release, as part of a deal struck with the handset maker.Data-access permissions sought by that app, along with its feature getting fans to post messages to social networks in order to view the album's lyrics, have proved controversial in the US, with privacy advocacy group the Electronic Privacy Information Centrecalling for regulators to launch an investigation into the project.
What looks like the skeleton of a desk-size, inkjet printer sits in the offices of TeVido BioDevices in Austin, Texas. The cartridge, which usually holds ink, is filled with living human cells. Where you might expect paper in the tray, a specialized gel sits ready to catch the finished product. A computer-programmed script instructs the printer to deposit the cells in layers upon layers, slowly forming a vaguely biological shape.As the printer wends its way back and forth with a scratchy, buzzy sound, a transparent, gelatinous substance starts to pile up. It bears an uncanny resemblance to colorless Jell-O.In fact, it's breast tissue.Its destiny, as planned by TeVido, is to become an implant for one of the 200,000 women diagnosed annually in the US with breast cancer, 60% of whom choose lumpectomies that leave their natural breasts abnormally shaped. "Having got through the whole emotional trauma that they may die, many women are left disfigured and have to deal with that, also," said Laura Bosworth, CEO and co-founder of TeVido.But before that implant can be made and sold to breast-cancer patients, TeVido faces a grueling and unprofitable years-long trip to perfect the technology.Skeptics abound. No printhead design has produced the detailed resolution needed for fragile cells that constitute tissues and organs, said Linda Griffith, director of the Center of Gynepathology Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In addition, the long time it takes to print in high resolution requires better methods to keep cells stable during the lengthy manufacturing process. Even if TeVido can solve such scientific conundrums, making the technology practical and cost effective will prove a great technical challenge, according to Griffith."If you 3D print a dress, or a gun, it is pretty easy to tell right away if it works," she said. "The assays to tell whether bioprinting works are really, really time consuming and expensive."For TeVido, Bosworth estimates seven more years and $40m of tests, including innumerable grant applications and attempts to woo reluctant venture capitalists. At the end, if TeVido succeeds, it might be fighting for only a tiny portion of a market that will grow to a negligible $1.9bn in value by 2025, according to Lux Research, a research firm for emerging technologies.Welcome to the revolutionary, maddening, promising and currently very unprofitable world of bioprinting.3D guns and 3D tchotchkes are already de rigeur conversational topics for policy wonks and science magazines, but fewer people talk about the booming field of 3D printing for human body parts. Scientists at Cornell University have bioprinted prosthetic human ears, while agriculture-focused Modern Meadow is printing meat and leather.San Diego-based Organovo, one of the pioneers in the field, is experimenting with bioprinted liver tissue prototypes. The vision is that within decades, scientists will be able to take a biopsy of the liver of someone needing a replacement and then print a new 3D version – "the Holy Grail of what this technology could do," according to Bosworth.But it's early days, and bioprinting companies are scrambling for money to fund their utopian ambitions. Organovo's losses from operations, for instance, have far outpaced even its rapidly growing revenues. While revenues doubled to $1.2m between 2010 and 2012, losses increased nearly eight-fold to $9.3m in the same time period. Mikael Renard, executive vice president of Organovo's commercial operations, says more funding would likely enable the company to succeed in a shorter timeframe, though for now 3D printed organs remain decades away.TeVido is facing a similar financial wall. It is testing its breast tissue on mice through a National Science Foundation grant, and it will need about seven years before getting to human trials. That leaves Bosworth, the CEO, scratching her head about where to find the $40m needed to get her technology to market. Following the path of many similar startups, the company plans to cobble it together, hoping for $15m in grants and the rest in private capital from potential partners and venture capitalists.The latter, however, have not been lining up, overcome by caution in the face of a very young, emerging technology. It remains a challenge to get venture capitalists interested in technologies whose development could take in excess of 10 years, according to venture capitalist Bijan Salehizadeh, co-founder of  NaviMed Capital. Salehizadeh has yet to invest in a bioprinting company, though he's invested in other types of healthcare companies dealing in biopharmaceuticals, diagnostics and medical devices.In the hierarchy of venture capital interest, software companies are at the top, boosted by their comparable ease and low cost despite their high rate of failure. Healthcare comes after, promising excellent long-term returns if investors have the patience. Bioprinting is somewhere near the bottom, requiring patience for long-term investment and US Food and Drug Administration hurdles.The result is a gulf between potential and realization that will take decades – and billions – to work, but it's anyone's guess if the industry has the luxury of either. The business model is likely to change if bioprinting can deliver on its promises, and churn out organs enough to save millions of lives.In the meantime, it's vanity that may pay the bills. TeVido's potential solution for lumpectomies, for instance, could expand to the billion dollar US market for breast augmentation, printing implants and nipples, which currently are often tattooed back on.Those companies that do survive will have to fight for their pennies. The market for 3D printing is expected to grow to $8.4bn by 2025, according to Lux Research's report. Bioprinting's contribution will be negligible by that stage, said Anthony Vicari, a research associate for the report. Most of the medical industry's $1.9 billion share of the market will come from 3D printed medical devices and orthopedic parts.But that shouldn't put off investors, Salehizadeh said, who pointed out the time it took after the birth of the computer era before its technology took off and proved profitable – Microsoft was founded in 1975 and didn't go public until 1986. Furthermore, backing bioprinting could prove profitable beyond just the bottom line."We should all as citizens of society want these companies to succeed as they're working on improving everyone's quality of life," Salehizadeh said. "This is a rare area of venture capitalism where investments lead to tangible benefits."
Researchers at mobile security company Lookout discovered a security flaw in Google Glass which allowed them to capture data being sent from the head-mounted device to the web without the user's knowledge.The flaw used the fact that the head-mounted Glass camera scans any photo it takes for a QR code in order to set up Wi-Fi or Bluetooth connections to a smartphone for internet access.Whenever the Glass software detects a QR code, it decodes it to see if it names a Wi-Fi network to connect to. It will do this even if the code does not occupy the whole of the frame - so a hacker could get a Glass owner to hack their own device just by standing near a printout of special QR code."We created a QR code that told Glass to connect to a Wi-Fi network of my choosing and started sending data to that," Marc Rogers, principal security analyst at Lookout, told the Guardian. "We could become the middleman, and if we needed to strip out the encryption on the connection. Then we could see the pictures or video that it's uploading. We could also direct it to a site on the web which exploits a known vulnerability in Android 4.0.4" - used by Glass - "which hacked Glass at it browsed the page."Rogers says that he discovered the flaw - which was disclosed to Google, and has since been fixed by a software update - on 17 May after about a week of experimentation. "I tried to work out where it was different from its parent smartphone," he said.At Lookout, Rogers hasblogged about the attack, pointing out that as the "internet of things" - connected devices - becomes larger and more prevalent, unexpected vulnerabilities may appear which would not be predictable through standard analysis.Lookout has also confirmed the existence of a serious vulnerability in Androidpotentially affecting 99% of smartphones running the system, which was reported by Bluebox Security, a security startup based in San Francisco. Bluebox said that there is a "master key" which would let hackers modify the code of a downloadable app to turn it into a Trojan while retaining its old cryptographic signature on the Play store.Though Google has taken measures to prevent that, Lookout has confirmed the flaw's existence and is rolling out a fix for customers using it software.The Google Glass vulnerability meanwhile points to a new challenge as "connected devices" become more widespread - especially if, like Glass, they lack standard input systems such as keypads and so must rely on image recognition for control."Both the vulnerablity, and the way it was delivered, are unique to Glass - a consequence of it being connected," Rogers said. "I don't think anyone's hacked a device with an image before."Google updated the flaw two weeks after being told about it, Rogers said.Asked whether he thought there would be other flaws discovered in Glass, he said: "Every piece of software and hardware has flaws. What's particularly impressive is that Google realised there's a limited subset of people capable of finding these bugs, and has seeded Glass to them before releasing it to consumers." That means that the most obvious security flaws should be discovered before consumers use them, he suggested.But he said that he was "absolutely" sure more flaws would be found: "I'm looking forward to looking for more bugs." He wouldn't say whether Lookout had found more security flaws in the two months since reporting the QR code flaw to Google.Google said in a statement: "We want get Glass into the hands of all sorts of people, listen to their feedback, see the inspirational ways they use the technology, and discover vulnerabilities that we can research and work to address before we launch Glass more broadly."
This week on the podcast,Jemima KissmeetsJill StelfoxfromZebra Technologiesto discuss the Cowview app, developed with developed withGEA Farm Technologies, and how technology is changing dairy farming.And the tech team discuss some of this week's big news stories, includingThom Yorke's outburst against streaming services like Spotifyandrevelations surrounding the NSA's access to Microsoft messaging and email services.FinallyAleks Krotoskicontinues her audio essay series, this week looking at the consequences of a web that never forgets.
Instant messaging app WhatsApp Messenger has more than 250m active users, making it bigger than Twitter.Now the company has changed its iPhone app from a paid to a free download, while introducing the $0.99 annual subscription that it already charges on Android and other devices."We are updating our business model for new iPhone users going forward. As you know, we used to charge iPhone users a $.99 one time payment, while Android and other platforms had free service for the first year and paid $0.99 a year after that,"explained WhatsApp in a blog post."From now on, we've simplified our business model so that all users on all platforms will enjoy their first year of WhatsApp service for free, and only pay $.99 per year after that."Existing users of WhatsApp on iPhone won't have to pay the annual subscription, however: "WhatsApp will be free of charge for the rest of your life," promises the company, which also sets out grand ambitions for its life as a fully-freemium product."We feel that this model will allow us to become the communications service of the 21st century, and provide you the best way to stay in touch with your friends and family with no ads getting in the way."WhatsApp has been at the forefront of a new wave of messaging apps that have been causing headaches for mobile operators' text messaging revenues, as well as existing social networks like Facebook and Twitter.It launched in July 2009, and three years later is processing more than 8bn inbound and 12bn outbound messages.In April this year, industry analyst Informa Telecoms and Media estimated that daily traffic from WhatsApp and other "OTT" [over-the-top] messaging services hadalready overtaken daily text-messaging traffic. The company predicted that by the end of 2013, 41bn OTT messages will be sent every day, compared to 19.5bn SMS texts.WhatsApp has stuck doggedly to an ad-free model for its app, in contrast to some of its larger rivals in the social networking space."We do have a manifesto opposing advertising. We're proud of that. Who likes advertising?"said chief executive Jason Koum in Aprilat the D: Dive Into Mobile conference."We're so bombarded with ads so much in our daily lives and we felt that smartphones aren't the place for that. Our phones are so intimately connected to us, to our lives. Putting advertising on a device like that is a bad idea. You don't want to be interrupted by ads when you're chatting with your loved ones."WhatsApp's competitors are trying other ways to get users to spend money, including virtual stickers and social games.New features are also being added with every new update to WhatsApp's app. Besides changing from paid to freemium, the latest version of the iPhone app includes support for Apple's iCloud to store backups of people's conversation history.The company has also launched "developer hooks" to make it easier for other applications to connect to WhatsApp on iPhone.
Microsoft is planning to reinstate key digital features of the Xbox One console, a senior executive has claimed. Inan interview with US game site IGN, chief product officer Marc Whitten hinted that the promising "Family Sharing" feature, which would allow Xbox One owners to share their digital games with up to 10 friends, could make a return after the machine's launch.The concept was removed in June when Microsoftreversed on its initial plansto make the new console effectively a digital-first machine, complete with daily user authentication and a limit on physical used-game sales. Since then, however,insiders have been questioning Microsoft's decisionto throw out all of its new digital features.An online petitionhas been started by Xbox fans, requesting that the company reverts to its original plan – especially the "Family Sharing" mode.Responding to the petition, Whitten said that although there was no "road map" to reintroduce the function, it was a distinct possibility. "If it's something that people are really excited about and want, we're going to make sure that we find the right way to bring it back," he said. "A 'road map' sort of implies more like 'on date X it's back' than I think exists, but we believe really strongly in how you build a great experience on Xbox One for me as an individual, but also for my family. Family Sharing is a great example of how you do that with content. I think you're going to see us, both with examples like that and with other things, keep pushing on how that's something great. An example is some of the stuff we're doing with what we announced around Gold, where other people in the house get the advantages of Gold when I'm a Gold member. You're going to see us continue to push in those areas."After the new console was revealed in May, Microsoft failed to answer questions about how pre-owned game sales and offline play would be affected by its digital rights management, authentication and digital distribution plans. An online backlash grew over the following weeks culminating in Sony's combative E3 press conference, in which the PlayStation manufacturer assured viewers that pre-owned game sales would be fine on PS4, and that no DRM would restrict offline play. A week later, then-Xbox chief Don Mattrick released an online statement rescinding most of the digital planning for Xbox One, including the Family Sharing function.At the time, the removal of several more attractive features was criticised by some pundits who claimed Microsoft was throwing its digital toys out of the pram. Whitten denies this, claiming that, to facilitate offline play and a pre-owned market, the company had to redirect resources. "To add it to the program, we had to make room, just from a pure engineering perspective, to be able to get that work done. So taking Family Sharing out of the launch window was not about 'we're going to take our toys and go home' or something like that. It was just sort of the logistics of 'how do we get this very, very clear request that people really want, that choice, and how do we make sure we can do an excellent job of that, get to launch, and then be able to build a bunch of great features?'"Since the reversal in June, Mattrick has left to join social gaming company Zynga, and Microsoft has shaken up its corporate structure, promoting Julie Larson-Green from Windows to the head of the entire hardware division. Gamers and industry insiders will be watching carefully to see how she adapts the Xbox One proposition from here. Originally, alongside the family sharing concept, it was hinted that the machine would also allow the resale of downloaded titles, bringing a second-hand sales market to the digital model. If Larson-Green wanted to make a positive impression before the launch of the Xbox One and PS4 later this year, bringing both of these features back into the mix my well be a smart manoeuvre.
Still think photo and video-sharing app Snapchat is a novelty sexting app for teenagers? If 5m daily active users and arecent £38.9m funding roundhadn't changed your mind, new figures published by analytics firm Onavo might.The company claimsSnapchat was used by 18.6% of all iPhone ownersin the US in June 2013, up 10.5% month-on-month, making it the ninth most popular iPhone app there in terms of usage.Snapchat – which lets people send photos and videos that self-delete after between one and 10 seconds after being viewed – is still a long way behind Facebook (used by 72.5% of US iPhone owners) and Instagram (36.6%), but Twitter's 26.7% market share is within Snapchat's sights.Bear in mind that these figures are for one country and device only: Snapchat has been installed between 10m and 50m times on Android smartphones according to the stats on the Google Play store.In June, Nielsen claimed thatSnapchat had more than 8m monthly active usersin the US across iOS and Android, but its survey only covered adults aged 18 and above.Snapchat's iOS popularity isn't a new trend. Earlier this year, another analytics company – App Annie – estimated that it wasthe most-downloaded non-game app on iOSglobally in May 2013, overtaking YouTube to top that chart.Snapchat's funding round in June valued the company at $800m, despite the fact that the free app has yet to make any revenues at all: it doesn't include ads or charge its users via in-app purchases, although it's expected to add the latter in the coming months.Dennis Phelps, general partner at Institutional Venture Partners – one of the companies investing in that round –claimed at the timethat Snapchat's growth was on a par with some of the biggest existing social networks and apps."The growth and engagement metrics are off the charts. Seldom have we seen a consumer application with this type of user momentum and excitement," he wrote. "Think Twitter ... Think Instagram … Think Pinterest … and Snapchat is just getting started."Onavo's stats only cover the US, although for now, that's by far Snapchat's most popular country. Chief executive Evan Spiegelsaid at the Dive into Mobile conferencein April 2013 that 80% of its users were in the US at that time, with 20% overseas.
Now in its 11th year, France's Japan Expo is the largest celebration of Japanese culture in Europe. It fills no fewer than five adjacent Earl's Court-sized exhibition centres with a vast array of cultural paraphernalia, including entire halls dedicated to anime, fashion and art. It is so immensely popular that, in 2005, the event had to be cancelled due to fears that the unmanageable numbers of incoming attendees could not be accommodated safely.When you enter the cavernous Paris-Nord Villepinte exhibition centre, the first Far Eastern import that greets you is the temperature. It's the heat of a Tokyo summer, which is perhaps best described as the heat of a parked car, leather sweltering in the noonday glare, a jungle air that dulls the lungs. One enterprising company near the entrance doles out sensu – paper-folding fans used to paddle the heat away – in exchange for your email address. Send me all the spam you can conjure, my resourceful tomodachi: just give me the damned heat-beater.This warmth isn't just a product of the weather, although Paris is baking in a gas mark 7 sort of throb this weekend. It's the people. Over the exhibition's four days, a quarter of a million Franco-Japanophiles move through the exhibition centre, chomping sushi, drinking cups of clear sake and clutching paper bags filled with Jap-tat.Some of the visitors come dressed in traditional kimono, but many more are decked out in cos-play, meticulously costumed to look like their favourite video game or anime characters. It's one of the few times when Princess Mononoke rubs a fur-draped shoulder with Street Fighter's Chun Li. At least, one of the few times when there isn't a rotund man dressed as a Marvel superhero taking snaps of the encounter from the sidelines: unlike this week's Comic-Con, this expo is purely eastern in its focus.But while the bustling manga and anime stalls bespeak an industry in rude health, the video game contingent appears less flushed with success. Apart from Nintendo – whose huge, white, spacious stand becomes a hub of StreetPass activity for visitors as they happily queue to play the company's forthcoming Wii-U titles – Square-Enix (Final Fantasy, Kingdom Hearts) and Namco-Bandai (Pac-Man, Tekken) are the only Japanese video game publishers to make a show. Sony, whose PlayStation 4 console will launch later this year, is nowhere to be seen, having long discarded its Japan heritage from its western corporate image. Indeed, the heart of the new PlayStation has, for the first time in the company's history, been designed by an American, one-time Atari employee Mark Cerny.The great declineThe apologetic thinness of video game presence in the Villepinte exhibition centre is understandable: the Japanese have little to celebrate when it comes to the industry they helped define. In 2002, the country was the dominant cultural force in the medium, accounting for around 50% of the global market. In 2010, that share had shrunk to just 10%, a decline fuelled by a concoction of economic recession, the rise of American studios and publishers and, some would argue, a whiff of complacency. Japan or, more specifically, Nintendo, rescued the video game industry from the great crash of the early 1980s, brought about by American greed and unscrupulousness. Video games were Made in Japan, even if specific titles weren't.But in 2009, Square-Enix's then-president Yoichi Wada described Japan's video game industry as having become a "closed environment" and "almost xenophobic" in the Financial Times. He admitted a "clear lag with the US." The same year Keiji Inafune, one of Capcom's star designers (in the late 1980s he designed Street Fighter's Ryu and Ken), said the Japanese games industry was "finished". Another Square-Enix executive, Kouji Taguchi, claimed the company had only managed to save face by acquiring Eidos, the western publisher of the Tomb Raider series, describing the nation as having experienced a "humiliating decline" with regard to games.At the Japan Expo earlier this month, there were many opinions on how the Japanese industry reached this low point, but few offered solutions. "There are so many great challenges facing the Japanese games industry right now," said Katsuhiro Harada, project director at Namco Bandai and the creative face of the Tekken series. "It's not that there's a lack of ideas from Japanese developers, it's just that the system has changed. Japanese games companies are entirely focused on short-term profits today."In video games, it's very hard to take your idea and have it ready in a format that people can see and buy into. That takes money and months of work. It used to be that one company would come up with an idea, create it, take it to market and then, if it was a success, improve it in a sequel based on feedback. Now it's all divided up to spread the risks. One company will have the idea. Another company will make the game; still another will sell it and liaise directly with the consumer. I think this lack of a unified creative process has had a profound effect on the industry."Pac in the dayPac-Man Party 3D – there’s obviously nothing for Japanese video game creators to worry about.Ryo Mito, another Namco-Bandai employee and producer of Saint Seiya, a fighting game adaptation of a popular Japanese anime series, believes that Japan is still king when it comes to building strong series. "Japanese game creators are more successful at creating characters that companies can then build a series around," he said. But for Komori Kumito, the man now responsible for Pac-Man, the medium's oldest megastar character, basing games around a fictional personality has problems over the long term. "We're still eager to make Pac-Man games for the people who are familiar with the arcade games from the 1980s. That's why we have the Championship Edition titles. But, on the other hand, they are now the generation of mothers and fathers. Their children don't necessarily know who Pac-Man is."For Namco-Bandai, the solution has been an animated series featuring the character that's aimed specifically at young children. But Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventures, which debuted in the US and the UK in June 2013, is an American and Canadian co-production, hardly the great Japanese cultural export that the original arcade game represented. "Pac-Man is loved in Japan, but in America and Europe he's even more popular," says Kumito. "I don't know why. Perhaps it's because Pac-Man appeals to [the] female market as well? Perhaps this is the solution for Japanese games."The Japanese video game industry has certainly failed to stay abreast of its western rivals on the technological front. Just last week Hideo Kojima, director of the Metal Gear Solid series and Fox Engine, the highest profile game engine in Japan tweeted, somewhat mournfully, that the Grand Theft Auto V trailer made him depressed as "I don't think our V [Metal Gear Solid V] can reach that level." Hideo Baba, producer of the Tales series of RPGs, which enjoy a huge audience in Japan but struggle outside of their home nation, agrees. "In western development, we see a high degree of realism and detail," he said. "To be honest, I don't know if we can compete on that front. But we can compete on anime-style visuals, which I think are still beautiful. We have to keep working on this to make this style more recognised by a broader audience."But for Hashimoto Kunio, producer of the Dragon Ball series of video games based on the hugely popular anime, fundamental changes in approach are needed. "Japan has to become more aggressive and offensive in order to find something new in games," he said. "Of course, in terms of working with existing IP, if something's good and has an audience, the trick is to mix in new ideas with the old. But we always need to bring new things to our video games, otherwise people quickly grow bored."All of the negativity surrounding the Japanese video game industry has, arguably, shaken the nation's designers, producing a new strain of self-doubt. In the UK, the video game industry continues to lobby hard for tax breaks for games that pass a cultural test by demonstrating that they communicate a certain British-ness. It's a worthwhile campaign, and one that has benefitted the British film industry greatly in the past.But the truth is that all creative goods exhibit the cultural conditions in which they were created. It's not only the art style or music composition that reveals something of the nation of origin. Our interests, preoccupations values and worldview all infuse the things we create. With that in mind, it is perhaps disheartening to hear Koji Nakajima, producer of the One Piece game series, say at the Japan Expo that, "cultural barriers need to be overcome territory by territory. You can't just aim for the world. You have to begin by learning about a certain culture and tailoring what we create accordingly."America is the greatest consumer of video games and, as such, exerts tremendous influence over a publisher or developer's creative process. Many designers curve their creativity towards the American market or demographic (real or imagined). But Japan cannot lead by following. It's a lesson that appears yet to be learned.
US teenagerRebecca Black's Fridayso-bad-it's-still-bad video made her a laughing stock in 2011, until it went viral. 55m YouTube views later, Black has arguably had the last laugh.Now a singer named Tay Allyn is seemingly trying to repeat the feat with a song and video called Mass Text. But is she for real?Published on YouTube last night, the song takes the formula that made Friday and runs with it, complete with an oh-so-2013 "Why didn't I get your mass-text? I'm in your contacts!" hookline. It is, frankly, horrifying.In fact, it's very difficult to believe that the song isn't a carefully-crafted parody and/or performance art project.Allyn's biographyclaims she's a 23 year-old recent graduate from the USC School of Theatre and Music, who's been adopted by Justin Timberlake and the relaunched Myspace as a 'Top New Artist of 2013':"She has created a new breed of Pop that's like Ke$ha without the sex, and Lady Gaga without the avant garde— what are you left with? Tay singing about mundane things of everyday life to hot beats!"If this turns out to be a satirical Daily Show skit, it wouldn't be a huge surprise. Or, more likely, a viral for Myspace itself.But the point about Rebecca Black was that her video wasn't intended to be a viral hit, although she adapted with good humour when it became so. Since then, Korean rapper PSY has redefined the scale of viral success on YouTube, with 1.7bn views of his Gangnam Style video so far.At the time of writing, Tay Allyn's views are in the mid hundreds. Just how viral a video can go when its desire to go viral is so apparent remains to be seen.
Early adopters of Google Glass get a palpable thrill out of saying "OK Glass" before speaking commands to Google's voice-activated augmented eyewear.But how much more thrilled would they be if the activation phrase was "Glass Alive", "Go Go Glass" or "Pew Pew Pew"? These, according to product marketing manager Amanda Rosenberg, were among the rejected options in the early days of Glass' development.She has published a list of so-called "hotwords" supplied by Glass product manager Mat Balez, although he may well have had tongue firmly in cheek when compiling it.Rosenberg revealed the list as part of an explanation of how "OK Glass" got the nod, after she came up with idea over dinner with Balez and his wife shortly before getting her job on the Glass team in 2012."He then asked me if I had any ideas for the hotword. In that moment the only phrase I could think of was 'OK Glass'. I didn't tell him straightaway though. Instead, I continued to look pensive and muttered something about 'looking into it' just to appear as though I was going to put more than 3 seconds of work into it,"wrote Rosenberg on Google+."When I got home, I tried my best to think of something else, anything else so that I could at least have a few options to send to Mat. Alas, I could not think of any others. I've been fortunately cursed with a one-track mind. So, I decided to put all my Glass eggs in one basket and send over a rationale for 'OK Glass'... A week later, it was implemented."Rosenberg has published the email she sent to Balez in April 2012 making the case for "OK" as "the most frequently used word on the planet. Denotes approval, acceptance, agreement, assent or acknowledgment, but is also a frequent expression used for transitions in conversation".It's the list of alternatives that were supposedly being considered, provided by Balez in 2013, that's raising chuckles today. The examples pulled out by Rosenberg:Listen up GlassHear me nowLet me use Glass toGo Go GlassClap onDevice, please3, 2, 1...GlassicusGlass alivePew pew pewThe most striking point here, though, is the human element of the anecdote.Despite everything you've read about Google's famed love of iteration through exhaustive A/B testing –40 shades of blue linksand the like – the potentially-iconic hotword for Google Glass was a Eureka moment for one person, in a car back from dinner, racking their brains for a better alternative.Not that testing didn't play a role. "Coming up with the phrase was the easy part. Figuring out if it would work, was another story. There's a whole team at Glass who worked very hard testing and implementing it before it was adopted," writes Rosenberg."It's hugely exciting to hear "OK Glass" being used today. That said, 'Device, please' is growing on me."Did the Glass team miss a trick though? "OK Glass" seems set as the activation phrase for now, but feel free to suggest your own alternatives in the comments section."To me, to you", "Check this Maven out right here" and "ALRIGHT NOW!" (bellowed like Reef's Gary Stringer in Place Your Hands) being my suggestions – or at least my strong evidence for why Google has never tried to poach me for a product marketing job.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Sony abandons appeal over PSN security-breach fine | BBC NewsThe final act in the extraordinary PSN hacking story:Sony has dropped its appeal against a £250,000 penalty imposed after its PlayStation Network was hacked in 2011.The UK Information Commissioner's Office imposed the fine in January, finding Sony negligent for failing to protect PSN users whose login and credit card details had been leaked.On Monday, Sony said it still disagreed with the verdict but continuing to fight it would risk exposing sensitive security data.PS4, Wii U, Xbox One combined unit sales to be 5% lower than current gen – research firm | VG247Cloud-based streaming won't be a selling point for next-gen consoles, according to a new report from ABI Research, which also doesn't expect unit sales to reach those of current-gen systems within the first five years at market.The research firmpredictsthe combined unit sales of PS4, Wii U and Xbox One to hit around the 133 million mark within the first five years of launch – a 5% decrease compared with current-gen unit sales of 140 million.ABI Research feels the decline in unit sales will be due to the current availability of less expensive streaming devices such as "Roku, Netgear, WD, Apple and Seagate, among others," along with Ouya and the 13-year lift on the console ban in China.Did anyone actually argue that cloud-based technology would be the key selling point of the next-gen consoles? It's important of course, but I don't believe many people were ever going to rush into Game with a fistful of cash shouting, "give me the best machine for distributed computing!"News: Three lead SimCity devs quit Maxis, form indie studio | CVG UKThis could be interesting:SimCity creative director Ocean Quigley has announced his departure from Maxis and EA to found a new indie studio called Jellygrade.Quigley is joined by two fellow former Maxis devs, Andrew Willmott and Dan Moskowitz, who were SimCity's simulation architect and lead gameplay engineer respectively.I met Willmott at EToo and he had intriguing things to say about SimCity, and about his ambitions for the new studio. More soon...How to attract more women into game development | PolygonMedia Molecule studio director Siobhan Reddy wason Woman's Hourrecently talking, among other things, about the paucity of women in game development:She was asked how women might best be attracted to working in gaming. "That's the million dollar question," she said. "I'm involved in a BAFTA group looking into why young girls aren't going into technology. There are some sad statistics on why young girls, by year 8, have been put off working in tech or games within the home, or by a teacher or by friends.Mike Bithell: My best meeting at the Develop Conference | DevelopI love this blog post from Mike Bithell, the developer of indie hit Thomas Was Alone, who while queuing for lunch at the recent Develop conference in Brighton, got into an unexpected conversation:In front of me in the queue stood a short, elderly lady, politely waiting her turn to be seated. We bonded, mocking the complexity of the breakfast buffet's seating arrangements, and the manager's insistence on precision. I think the manager may have overheard my giggling, as she came over and suggested that as we were 'getting along so well, maybe we'd like to sit together to take up less room'.Read on for the twist in this 'nice developer talks to old lady' tale...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Mark Zuckerberg's former speechwriter has warned that Facebook users should be wary of sharing their personal data with the site, highlighting yet more privacy concerns as the site launches its social search toolgraph search.Katherine Losse, who spent five years at Facebook until she left in 2010, told the Guardian that while theNSArevelations have left many social networking users concerned about government access to their personal information, employees at the fledgling social network had access to data including user passwords.This is especially concerning as many Facebook users still use the same password for multiple accounts elsewhere on the internet."Users of social networks generally assume that they are the only ones that can access the information they input, and in most cases at most companies that is most likely not true, because at least some of the staff need to have access to user accounts in order to do their jobs," she said. "There has to be a way for the staff to manage and repair user account issues, and for this reason user data within most startups, especially when they are young, is never completely locked up from company staff."She added that in light of monitoring undertaken by US intelligence agencies, the idea of private data is certainly no longer true. "Even if an average staff person can't access it, the information may still be recorded somewhere for the NSA."Last year Losse wrote the bookThe Boy Kings, exploring social technology and its impact on the world.When she joined Facebook as its 51st employee, the site had less than 5 million users, and customer support staff were each handed "a master password by which we could log in as any Facebook user and access to all their messages and data".She added that as the social network grew, "more secure forms of logging in to repair accounts" were implemented. Losse worked on customer service and later as founder Mark Zuckerberg's personal speechwriter.It is understood that Roose is regarded by Facebook as a rogue former employee.A spokesman stated that Facebook is very highly regulated with regards to user data and in the EU is regulated by the Irish Data Protection Commission. A recent audit into employee access to data concluded that the site has an accurate framework in place to ensure access to data is on a need-to-know basis.Losse caused a small fracas in March when she criticised Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg's new bookin an article for Dissent magazine. "Lean In bears more in common with a well-funded Silicon Valley startup than a grassroots feminist organisation," she said.Losse also claimed that although her managerial duties and workload increased under Sandberg's tenure, she was refused a raise on the grounds that engineers (largely males who often earned at least double her salary) had not recently been given one.Facebook's former PR chief Brandee Barker, who left the company and has helped promote Sandberg's book, responded furiously onTwitter.A private message that Barker sent to Losse on Facebook – "There's a special place in hell for you" – was made public by the latter, who uploaded a screenshot of the message to both her Facebook and Twitter profile."Maybe sending Hellfire and Damnation messages is part of the Lean In PR strategy. LEAN IN OR ELSE YOU'RE GOING TO HELL,"she added.Wow.pic.twitter.com/rEizuleV7P&mdash; kate losse (@fake_train)March 27, 2013
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInstagram lead designer Tim Van Damme headed to Dropbox &gt;&gt; AllThingsDPrior to his time at Instagram, Van Damme was an in-house designer at the location-based mobile startup Gowalla, which, like Instagram, was also bought by Facebook a few years ago (though Gowalla was "acqhired," while Instagram was acquired outright). And before that, Van Damme was lead designer at TenForce, and also a freelancer building websites for companies.Van Damme is one in a string of Facebook design staffers moving over to Dropbox in the past year. Late in 2012, Facebook designer Soleio Cuervo also announced he was joining Dropbox. And former Facebook designer Rasmus Andersson also joined Dropbox in March of this year.After one year as CEO: Can Marissa Mayer engineer Yahoo comeback? &gt;&gt; latimes.comJessica Guynn:No question Marissa Mayer has star power. But can she lift Yahoo out of its doldrums?One year ago the aging Internet laggard's fortunes suddenly seemed brighter: It recruited the prominent Google executive. Overnight, Yahoo was splashed across headlines: not for its past foibles and failures, but for new hope that it could stage a comeback.But in attempting to make Yahoo cool again, Mayer faces a central challenge that stumped all of her predecessors: how to put an end to the steady, years-long decline in advertising revenue and the daily drubbing from competitors Google and Facebook.With employees heading for the door, Bitly looks to reboot with new CEO ?? The VergeBitly, the link-shortening service born at Betaworks, has had a turbulent 2013. In March, CEO Peter Stern stepped down. In June, the company's chief data scientist and VP of engineering both left their full time gigs. And this week The Verge learned that Matt Lemay, head of consumer products, and Tim Devane, the director of sales and business development, have also headed for the door. Morale is low, say insiders.But fresh leadership is on the way.Just going out for a moment. Checking some links are OK. For a friend.Peak PC and Microsoft's dilemma &gt;&gt; ComputerworldGregg Keizer:Tablet shipments, said [Sameer] Singh, may outstrip PCs as early as the third quarter of this year, and no later than the fourth quarter.Singh dubbed the trend "tablet-PC replacement rate," and believes that it points to the real possibility that PC shipments will, rather than uptick at some point, continue to contract, perhaps to a point where they average between 65m and just over 70m units per quarter. If accurate, that would return the PC industry to shipment volumes of 2007-2008, and represent as much as a 28% contraction from Peak PC.Analysis: How can Spotify help new artists make a living? &gt;&gt; Music AllyStuart Dredge (yes, that one):my inkling is that the biggest way streaming services can help new artists make a living is to go further still, and become the bridge between people discovering music, and spending money with its creator elsewhere.It's happening a bit: Spotify's new Discover tab often tells me when a band I've been listening to is playing nearby, via Songkick. There's a lot more scope here to provide artists with tools to sell stuff though, including themselves.What if everyone listening to your music on Spotify could see that you had gigs coming up, or were selling an exclusive/deluxe music bundle on Bandcamp, a DJ mix on Beatport, a limited-edition t-shirt, and so on? What if a streaming service could point all your listeners towards the Kickstarter campaign that will fund your next album?What gambling in a casino is like with Google Glass on &gt;&gt; Daily DotChris Barrett had an eventful weekend in Atlantic City. The documentary film producer and PRServe founder, who recently used Google Glass to film an arrest, wore his specs to three different casinos to see what would happen.Google Glass is, of course, banned in casinos.Fortunately for Barrett, it seems people still don't really know what Glass is or looks like, and the filmmaker was never thrown out on the street. The technology is banned from casinos by the state gambling authority as of last month, but on July 2, Barrett managed to play a few games at two casinos before a dealer at a roulette table in the third finally asked him what he was wearing. When Barrett told him, he was asked to remove the glasses. No harm, no foul.Next daredevil scheme: wear them in a cinema.Complete specs of the BlackBerry A10 shown off in leaked presentation &gt;&gt; MobileSyrup.comRemember when the specs of the BlackBerry 'Aritso,' currently pegged as being the BlackBerry A10, leaked online? This was a powerhouse that eager Berry enthusiasts were highly anticipating. The rumoured specs of the A10 sported a 4.65in Super AMOLED display (1080×1920 resolution), 1.9GHz quad-core Qualcomm processor, 3,000mAh battery, and 2GB RAM, with a release expected for November.Over the past several days the A10 has appeared in both picture and video format and seems to be a larger 5-inch smartphone with design similarities to the Z10. A new image has found its way online, this time it's apparently from a internal presentation and reveals all the important specs.Always assuming you think the specs are what makes the difference. Empirical evidence suggests it's not.Inside the massive global black market for smartphones &gt;&gt; Huffington PostSimple arbitrage:"Once it gets overseas, it's virtually impossible to track a phone back here to the person who committed the crime," [Jerry] Deaven [of the US Department of Homeland Security] said.But phone trafficking is driven largely by the massive profits made by exploiting the price difference between smartphones sold in the U.S. and overseas. Americans who agree to two-year service contracts with their cell phone company can buy the latest iPhones for about $200 - a price subsidized by the carrier. In Hong Kong, an iPhone can be soldfor as much as $2,000.This equation helps explain whymore than 1.6 million Americanswere victims of smartphone theft last year and why thefts of mobile devices now make up40%of all robberies in major American cities.The article looks at a store which was a nexus for stolen smartphones swapped for cash. Quite an eye-opener.Xiaomi announces $2.16bn revenue in 1H 2013, beating the entire 2012 &gt;&gt; EngadgetIn a Chinese press release we just received, phone maker Xiaomi has just announced that it generated a revenue of CN¥13.27 billion or about $2.16 billion in the first half of 2013. This easily exceeds the company's CN¥12.6 billion or $2.05 billion revenue from the entirety of 2012, so things are already looking good ahead of the annual event on August 16th, when multiple products are expected to be launched -- including a TV that got leaked last month.Xiaomi is one of the many, many Chinese handset makers offering phones running AOSP (Android Open Source Platform) - the Google-free Android. Collectively, they make up about a third (and rising) of global Android shipments.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Microsoft has written to the US attorney general, Eric Holder, calling on him to "personally take action" to permit the software giant and others to share more information about the way they handle national security requests for customer data.The move comes after the Guardianpublished detailsof the extent of the co-operation between Microsoft and the National Security Agency (NSA), revealed in documents obtained by whistleblower Edward Snowden."We believe the US constitution guarantees our freedom to share more information with the public, yet the government is stopping us," Microsoft saidin a blogpost."For example, government lawyers have yet to respond to the petition we filed in court on June 19, seeking permission to publish the volume of national security requests we have received. We hope the attorney general can step in to change this situation."Microsoft claimed there were "significant inaccuracies in the interpretations of leaked government documents reported in the media last week." It said: "We have asked the government again for permission to discuss the issues raised by these new documents, and our request was denied by government lawyers."According to NSA documents seen by the Guardian, the US intelligence services claimed to have worked closely with Microsoft to allow users' communications to be intercepted and to circumvent the company's own encryption.In Microsoft's latest statement, the company is at pains to point out that it did not give the NSA or any other US agency "direct" access to its customers data – a claim that was not made by the Guardian last week but was made in subsequent media reports. The NSA also claimed "direct access" in other documents published earlier by the Guardian and the Washington Post.Microsoft, Google, Apple and others mentioned in those NSA documents have consistently denied any "direct" access.In the company's latest posting, Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel and executive vice-president of legal and corporate affairs, wrote: "Microsoft does not provide any government with direct and unfettered access to our customer's data. Microsoft only pulls and then provides the specific data mandated by the relevant legal demand."If a government wants customer data – including for national security purposes – it needs to follow applicable legal process, meaning it must serve us with a court order for content or subpoena for account information."Smith said Microsoft does not provide any government agency with the ability to break its encryption, nor does it provide the government with the encryption keys.The statement comes after Yahoo successfully challenged a government ban on the publication of details of a key 2008 court case. Yahoo appealed to the Fisa court, which oversees the NSA's surveillance operations, to let it publish details of its fight with the NSA in a request that has been seen as a test case for further government bids for information from Yahoo's customers.The court has ruled it will unseal documents related to Yahoo's objection to the secretive Prism surveillance programme. The court retained the right to redact "properly classified information"."Once those documents are made public, we believe they will contribute constructively to the ongoing public discussion around online privacy," Yahoo said in a statement.Yahoo and Microsoft join Google, Facebook, Apple and others in putting pressure on the government to be more transparent about its surveillance programmes.Separately, the pressure group the Electronic Freedom Foundation (EFF) has filed a lawsuit on behalf of 19 groups including Greenpeace, Human Rights Watch and the First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles, alleging that the mass collection of phone records under Prism violates Americans' constitutional rights."The first amendment protects the freedom to associate and express political views as a group, but the NSA's mass, untargeted collection of Americans' phone records violates that right by giving the government a dramatically detailed picture into our associational ties," said EFF legal director Cindy Cohn."Who we call, how often we call them, and how long we speak shows the government what groups we belong to or associate with, which political issues concern us, and our religious affiliation. Exposing this information – especially in a massive, untargeted way over a long period of time – violates the constitution and the basic first amendment tests that have been in place for over 50 years."
Apple has refused to comment on rumours that it could buy Primesense, the Israel-based company which developed the technology used in Microsoft's Kinect gesture sensor.Suggestions that the iPhone maker might acquire a company whose best-known product is widely used with games consoles in the living room sparked immediate interest, because Apple is widely anticipated to be preparing a broader assault on the living room with its Apple TV set-top box to counter the growing use of the Xbox and Playstation consoles as proxies for watching TV.Thereport on the Israeli financial daily Calcalist(translation) suggested that Apple would seek to purchase the company for $280m - a low price compared to $85m that it has received in venture funding.Primesense did not respond to calls from the Guardian. Buttold Techcrunchreported a source there saying that the suggestions of a purchase were "journalist[ic] delusion based on unverified and twisted hints… $280m? Come on! We're worth ten times that." The source called the report of an impending buyout "BS".But itstopped short of issuing an outright denialto sites including Mashable, instead declining to comment.Calcalist reported that a "delegation" of "senior engineering managers" from Apple had visited Primesense earlier in July and spent an entire day there.Primesense has developed sensor systems which are able to locate and identify individuals using a combination of infrared and motion-sensing systems; in the Kinect, it can uniquely identify individuals and detect when they are making gestures, which can be used to control games or TV playback.Israel has produced a number of technology companies which have been snapped up by Silicon Valley giants, most recently including travel app Waze,bought for a reported $1.3bn by Google in June.Apple already has three development centres in Israel.At the end of 2011 it bought Anobit, which provides systems to improve solid-state storage performance, for a reported $390m.Besides Anobit, based in Herzilya, Apple owns facilities in Haifa working on elements of its A series processors, used in the iPhone and iPad, and another centre in Ra'anana with staff formerly at Texas Instruments.
Websites offering pirated content will be blocked from offering adverts from Google and other big web advertisers, in a US scheme intended to strangle illicit revenues.The initiative will mean copyright holders from the music, film and other creative industries will be able to alert the big ad networks if their ads are appearing on sites offering links to pirated content or counterfeit goods.The British music industry body, the BPI, is also working with the Internet Advertising Bureau in the UK on a scheme that has yet to be announced which will involve a central database of piracy sites for ad networks, agencies and brands to refer to and avoid when planning campaigns.Pirate sites often make large amounts of money from Google and other advertisers because millions of users visit their sites every month – and often have the sort of age profile that web advertisers are keen to reach.One British site that linked to pirated content, Surfthechannel,made as much as £35,000 per monthfrom on-site adverts before its owner was jailed. Emails from The Pirate Bay revealed ahead of its founders' trial some years ago showed it was offered £65,000 per month to run casino and poker ads.Such sites tend to use adverts as a revenue source because it means they don't have to set up merchant accounts with organisations such as PayPal, Visa and Mastercard to process payments from customers who might anyway be unwilling to pay them for content.In July 2012, Google collaborated with British collecting society PRS for Music and BAE Systems Detica on research which indicated that advertising funded 86% of music filesharing sites.That has led to campaigns by musicians including David Lowery and former Longpigs vocalist Crispin Hunt to stop advertising networks and major brands allowing their adverts on pirate sites.A study by the University of Southern California's Annenberg Innovation Laboratory in Januaryfound that Google and Yahoo were two of the biggest advertisers on pirate sites. Though both companies include clauses in their contracts forbidding sites from displaying their ads if they help piracy, the responsibility for checking tends to lie with the owner of pirated content.The new scheme, for which content owners in Hollywood and the music industry have been pushing for some time, was brokered by the US Intellectual Property Enforcement co-ordinator Victoria Espinel and ad industry body the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB). The participants include Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, 24/7 Media, Adtegrity, Condé Nast and SpotXchange."We believe that this is a positive step and that such efforts can have a significant impact on reducing online piracy and counterfeiting," said Espinel in a statement, while warning the ad networks to respect "privacy, free speech, fair process, and competition" when implementing the guidelines.The networks will use "best practice" guidelines to prevent their ads appearing on sites accused of facilitating digital piracy and physical counterfeiting of goods.But it is unclear how actively they will police sites that haven't been reported to them by rights-holders. Comments by Dave Jacobs, AOL Networks senior vice president of publisher sales, suggested music and video copyright holders will still be expected to find and report sites."The best practices are intended to encourage and supplement, not replace, responsible and direct independent actions taken by intellectual property owners to enforce their intellectual property rights and are not intended to impose a duty on any ad network to monitor its network to identify offending websites," Jacobs said.However, Google's vice president of public policy and government relations, Susan Molinari, said the search giant is proactive: "In 2012, we disabled ad serving to 46,000 sites for violating our policies on copyright infringing content, and shut down more than 82,000 accounts for attempting to advertise counterfeit goods," she said. "Nearly 99% of our account suspensions were discovered through our own detection efforts and risk models."The BPI scheme has been in progress for a while. "I think we've all been a bit slow to get to grips with this, perhaps because we were focused on other targets," said BPI chief director Geoff Taylor in May.The BPI has chosen to focus its energies in recent years on blocking individual piracy sites, going to the high court to force ISPs to block The Pirate Bay, Newzbin2, Kickass Torrents and others.The debate over so-called "ad-sponsored piracy" has been rumbling for some time, particularly within the music industry, where Lowery has been a prominent campaigner highlighting the appearance of big brands' banner ads on piracy sites."If the future of music really is access to songs, rather than owning as many as we do nowadays, those services are all advertising-supported, and they're competing with these illegitimate sites for these ads," said Lowery at a public debate on the topic in May. "Spotify and Pandora should have probably rightfully got that advertising money."
Hohokum isn't a game. I don't know what Hohokum is. A toy? An "experience"? I don't know. But like all the projects to come out of London studioHoneyslug, it is stylish and enchanting. So enchanting in fact, that at a recent PlayStation 4 demo event in Soho, amid the baking heat and the cacophony of Triple AAA launch titles, I played it longer than everything else – and will probably remember it longer too.The premise is straightforward. Kind of. You control a serpent as it swoops through an airborne kingdom of floating islands, helping the inhabitants with a series of tasks that only become obvious as you explore. You can pick up and disperse seeds, which then grow into kites; you can give rides to little figures who clamber onto your back to be deposited in new places, to do new things. The environments are rich with detail, movement and tinkling sound; the twin analogue controls are so gracefully implemented that flying around the blobs of land is a thing of blissful calm and pleasure.Like Honeyslug's previous title, the effervescent mini-game collection Frobisher Says (a Vita must-have in my opinion), Hohokum is a collaboration with the artist Richard Hogg. "We've been on a real journey making this game," says designer Ricky Haggett. "It began as a physics toy box, but on the way it's changed a lot, it has become more special than that. In the intervening years we've made other games together, but Hohokum has always been in the background. Now it is about playfulness, about being exuberant and expressive. Gradually we've allowed all the goals and objectives of the game to be subtly pushed into the background."There's an interesting balancing act to get right here, between the restrictive rules of a game and the potential alienation of total freedom. "If it's too vague, it's just frustrating," says Haggett. "People know when there are systems at play, they know when a series of actions will add up to something – if we've done our job well, that emerges very organically. People learn through play without ever having to be told; once they know what's going on, they begin to tune in to the goals – by that point you've hopefully won them over."Honeyslug first showed a prototype of Hohokum at the Independent Games Festival in 2011, and then again at IndieCade. As work progressed, the small team realised that this wouldn't be a project they could fund themselves; the world was getting larger, spreading out into graphically very diverse areas – there was a ton of art and animation. It wasn't clear, though, what kind of publisher would want to put money into something so offbeat. But then at IndieCade, Robin Hunickie, the producer of Journey, put Ricky in touch with Nathan Gary, design director at Sony Santa Monica. "They worked with Thatgamecompany, with Queasy Games on Soundshapes, with Giant Sparrow on Unfinished Swan. It soon became clear that they were really into Hohokum; they knew what we were trying to make. And they've been incredibly helpful in terms of crystallising the concept – they've been very strict at times!"HohokumWorking with Sony Santa Monica has also opened up new avenues in terms of audio. "They have an amazing music licensing team," says Haggett. "We had this dream playlist, and we thought, well let's try to get artists who can do something like this. We had a lot of tracks on there by artists fromGhostly International, a Michigan-based electronica label, some of our favourite musicians – Sony Santa Monica's music guy just said, 'Well, I know the label boss there, why don't we just talk to them and get these artists?' So we have the likes of Tycho on there, and very quickly it became a wider thing; we got access to the back catalogue, we worked with a bunch of the musicians – it's quite a close collaboration, they're composing music based on maps from the game."The music is subtly tied in with the exploration element. In one environment there is a series of lamps, each controlling the volume on a different track of the score – as the player switches them on, the audio builds. "There's a whole bunch of different ways we can play with the layers of music," says Haggett. "We can fade them in and out based on game events and player actions, and I quite like the idea that there are areas of the game that are basically just musical instruments."Hohokum will be out in 2014 on PS3, Vita and PS4. For the latter version, Honeyslug is experimenting with the capabilities of the DualShock 4, especially the touchpad. "I've got an idea of something I think will work," says Haggett. "I'm not quite ready to talk about it – I need to go and write some code and see if it works! Hohokum is a game about expressiveness and, for me, that's what the touchpad is about too; it's something that you can layer on top of the controls."HohokumI think Honeyslug is among a small group of console developers – alongside the likes of Thatgamecompany and Keita Takahashi – who really understand the idea of playfulness and are able to explore it in an accessible, meaningful way. So what does the next generation of game machines mean to Ricky and his team? "I'm interested in the networked community aspects," he says. "The fact that someone can share things from the game we're making, which we're trying to make really beautiful, feels like a big deal to us. I'd also like to see the processing power of these console being used for interesting things – it doesn't have to be about throwing more polygons around the screen, it can be about new forms of interaction that were previously impossible. Imagine what the Pixel Junk guys will be doing; look at Pixel Junk Shooter and the amazing fluid physics they have going on. They used the Cell processor in such a hardcore, clever way. What will they use the PS4 processor to do? It's very exciting."And, really, this seems to be the guiding principle behind Sony's charm offensive on the indie community. Perhaps the company knows that, alongside photo-realistic bullet-fests, there is a growing mainstream market for new experiences, for different things, for beauty."For me, it's not about seeing the same things over and over again," says Haggett. "It's about coming at game design from the side."
South Korean mobile social networking firmKakaois quietly becoming a powerful platform for social games, judging by figures it has announced for the first half of 2013.Kakao, whose KakaoTalk messaging app has more than 100m users, launched its games service at the end of June 2012, providing a Facebook-esque social backbone for multiplayer mobile games.One year on, there are now 30m people playing Kakao's catalogue of 180 games. The company says that those games generated revenues of 348bn Korean Won (around £205.8m) in the first half of 2013, up from 118bn Won (£69.8m) in the second half of 2012.That's a sharp 194% increase, and one that Kakao claims is benefitting independent mobile games developers, not just big firms. It says that six of the 10 top grossing games on its network were made by small or medium-sized firms.Eight games have been downloaded more than 10m times, while two – Anipang for Kakao and Dragon Flight for Kakao – are past the 20m mark.What's startling about Kakao's rise to gaming prominence is the amount of money being made, in contrast to what's still a relatively small number of players. That's a big opportunity for developers, but also a potential threat to bigger fish in the social gaming world, like Facebook.Earlier this year,Facebook said it had more than 250m people playing gameson its platform, with more than $2bn paid out to developers in 2012 as a whole.Most of Kakao's 30m players are in South Korea, so any threat to Facebook depends on the platform growing elsewhere in the world. Kakao's announcement of its gaming growth includes plans to "further strengthen the global competitiveness of its game platform based on the accumulated experience and know-how it has gained from the Korean market".That may be easier said than done, though. While Korean mobile games publishers like Com2uS and Gamevil have had hits elsewhere in the world, Japanese firms DeNA and GREE – better comparisons because they also run mobile social games networks – have had mixed results with their global expansion ambitions.Kakao's most obvious competitor is another Japanese firm with its roots in mobile messaging: Line. In March, Line said thatgames on its network had been downloaded more than 100m times.Kakao is currently a moneymaking juggernaut for its developers, though. In mobile analytics firmApp Annie's most recent chart of global iOS and Android games, for May 2013, seven of the 10 top grossing Android games in the world were running on Kakao.Finally, the growth of Kakao and Line is posing questions for big mobile and social games publishers in the West, in terms of what their strategy is for launching on these networks.Zynga, Rovio, King, Supercell and others may all have an opportunity to adopt them as complementary platforms to Facebook, although it remains to be seen how well their games translate to South Korea and Japan.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Spurs star Gareth Bale makes FIFA 14's UK cover | PolygonThe news all football simulation fans have been waiting for!Bale will appear on the U.K., Ireland and Middle East versions of the game's cover alongside Barcelona's Lionel Messi. "To be on the cover of the game is a massive honor," he said. "The players who have been on there since I was a kid have been legends of the game. To be here now is a dream come true."The gigantic endorsement fee was probably also nice.Transport Tycoon plots route onto mobiles this year | JoystiqGood news for fans of classic strategy sims:The "definitive" version of 1994 sim Transport Tycoon is heading onto iOS and Android this year, says publisher AppyNation. Beyond the involvement of creator Chris Sawyer, also responsible for the Rollercoaster Tycoon series, details are sparse at the mo.We're chatting to AppyNation about this soon!Valve Pipeline: an initiative designed to help students get into game developmentA desk at Valve HQ would be a dream come true for many. A team of Valve's student interns are working on making that dream more accessible to students with Pipeline – a website devoted to answering the questions that young potential employees might have about game development."Valve has been a very good place for very experienced videogame developers, and not so good at teaching people straight out of school" say Valve in the Pipeline FAQ, "Pipeline is an experiment to see if we can take a group of high school students with minimal work experience and train them in the skills and methods necessary to be successful at a company like Valve.Here's a video of the Pipeline kids:Bless 'em.Video: 'Broken' game design - it's not all bad | GamasutraInteresting thoughts on game design from Douglas Wilson of Die Gute Fabrik:In this free GDC Europe 2011 lecture, the Sportsfriends developer says not to worry about enforcing rules or preventing cheating. Instead, he says to focus on "deputizing" players and shares lessons he has learned from traditional folk games and design research which support this type of play.Hands on with the first pornography for the Oculus Rift (NSFW) | PCGamesNTim Edwards of PCGamesN goes 'hands-on' with a new erotic demo written in Unity for the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset:Meanwhile, I'm a pretty wide man, and the male model whose chest I briefly inhabit is thin. I experienced significant cognitive dissonance as my brain attempted to process the differences in chest width between my two bodies.And, frankly, if you're into 'this kind of thing', you're probably going to want some form of peripheral to do the... ugh, handiwork, if you will.Get ready: cyber sex is back!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy mobile web apps are slow &gt;&gt; Sealed AbstractDrew Crawford:I've had an unusual number of interesting conversations spin out of my previous article documenting that mobile web apps are slow.  This has sparked some discussion, both online and IRL.  But sadly, the discussion has not been as… fact-based as I would like.Everyone has been pointing to this post, with good reason: it's highly detailed and very useful.BBC iPlayer App on Android: Update &gt;&gt; BBC Internet blogDavid Berlin, senior product manager:Since the Android app launched in February 2011, tablets larger than 7.1" have been able to install BBC iPlayer from the Android Market/Google Play.  However, when you tapped on the icon on your device home screen, it launched the BBC iPlayer mobile website.With requests from tablets now making up around 20% of total iPlayer video requests each month, and larger tablets making up the majority of those requests, we wanted to focus on supporting these devices first.  We know that more and more of you are using your tablet like a personal TV – and want the benefits that an app can bring (such as mobile downloads – coming later this year) on these devices.  That's why, a month ago we released an update to remove the website link and delivered the BBC iPlayer app to all Android phone, tablet and phablet device sizes (more than 3,000 different models).The Android team is three times as large as the iOS team.The internet of things may drive you nuts before it makes things better &gt;&gt; GigaomStacy Higginbotham:The scariest thing anyone has ever said to me about the internet of things wasn't about the NSA spying on my gadgets or that someone might hack my connected door locks. Instead, it came from Bob Dahlberg, VP business development at Arrayent, who told me last week, "Right now big appliance makers only have contact with a buyer once every ten years or so, but with connected devices they could make that three to four times a week."The idea of my fridge, my dryer and my dishwasher all conspiring to provide me updates several times a week in some attempt to keep in touch on behalf of Samsung, Bosch or Whirlpool makes me want to run screaming from the internet.i'm Watch Tech Specifications &gt;&gt; i'm WatchHere's another "smart watch" contender, costing £219 from this Italian company. Let's look at one of the key specifications...Power and battery• Built-in rechargeable Li-Po 450 mAh battery• Charging from USB to computer system or via power adapter• Standby time without Bluetooth™ connection: up to 48 hours• Standby time with Bluetooth™ connection: up to 24 hours• Time for generic use: up to 5 hours.Given that the Pebble will do the same but lasts up to seven days and costs less, this fails on at least two metrics.Yo...: Music Royalty Statement Exposed - 0.020p per stream! &gt;&gt; RapidsAnother band weighs in on the Spotify/royalties point:Thanks to Thom Yorke for commencing the Spotifight. His recent tweet about Spotify not supporting new bands really sums up the general view of music service by smaller artists.Music streaming sites pay artists very nearly nothing. Spotify is a vehicle for promoting the more well known acts of its record label owners. Therefore its purpose is to promote the more commercial artists e.g. Rhianna, rather than supporting new bandsMusic streaming sites such as iTunes and Spotify WILL kill music. Cash cows like The Rolling Stones won't be around forever. How can new artists break though when they're earning, at best 0.22GBP per play. The royalty statement below shows Rapids!' earnings at the height of their career - a total income of 400 quid.Fatima Al Qadiri &amp; Lauren Boyle &gt;&gt; MOUSSE CONTEMPORARY ART MAGAZINEBabak Radboy, interviewer: Kuwait is a crazy mix: a super-affluent country, yet basically a welfare state, though with a super neo-liberal consumer economy.Fatima Al Qadiri: We consume vast amounts of everything. Instagram businesses are a big thing in Kuwait.BR: What's an Instagram business?FQ: If you have an Instagram account, you can slap a price tag on anything, take a picture of it, and sell it. For instance, you could take this can of San Pellegrino, paint it pink, put a heart on it, call it yours, and declare it for sale. Even my grandmother has an Instagram business! She sells dried fruit. A friend's cousin is selling weird potted plants that use Astroturf. People are creating, you know, hacked products.A billion-dollar business, except Facebook doesn't get any of it. (Other items for sale on Instagram: sheep.)Lawyer: Apple should protect me from my porn addiction &gt;&gt; Above the LawThe plaintiff, Chris Sevier, is an attorney in Nashville. A news report of his arrest last month on unrelated charges of stalking country music star John Rich (the guy whose obnoxious song mars my weekly viewing of College GameDay) states that Sevier's 36, though his Model Mayhem bio says he's 26. For someone mad about porn on the Internet, he's already adopted its first cardinal rule: models always lie about their age.Sevier's complaint makes a simple request: Apple should sell all products with an installed filter blocking all internet porn. If the buyer, over the age of 18, wishes to unlock the Internet, he or she is free to contact Apple, sign a form acknowledging the ills of pornography, and receive a code to remove the filter.So Sevier already has a ton of Googlejuice for his name, linked to being a lawyer/attorney, and "porn" and "addiction". Also "Apple". In a while he can drop the lawsuit, laugh it off to future clients, and he'll still be in all the search engines when someone searches for "porn" "addiction" "lawyer". Postmodern SEO?Twitter / MrBastounis: My friend bought an Apple iWatch ... &gt;&gt; TwitterYup, this looks totally legit. It's got a logo and everything! Spotted in Thailand. Any readers there?Samsung Galaxy S3 explodes, turns young woman into 'burnt pig' &gt;&gt; The RegisterAccording to areportin the French-language Le Matin of Lausanne, Switzerland, 18-year-old Fanny Schlatter was on her job as an apprentice painter, loading paint cans into her boss' truck, when her smartphone exploded in her trousers."All of a sudden I heard a sound of explosion-type firecracker," Schlatter said (according toGoogle Translate), "then I felt a strange chemical smell and my work pants began to catch fire.""Burnt pig" was Schlatter's own phrase for the smell from her injured leg. A lithium-ion battery fire, apparently. (Thanks @Smurfuhrer for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Apple has turned to outside expertise to find staff for its wearable computing projects, which will not be launched until 2014,according to the Financial Times, which says that a senior member of an "iWatch" team was tempted to stay by a big pay rise.The company, which has seen slowing growth in sales of its iPhone in recent quarters as the premium end of the smartphone market becomes saturated, is reckoned to be working on new products to add to its roster alongside its phone, iPad tablet and computers.Wearable computing has recently become a red-hot area for investment and development in Silicon Valley. Google is already testing its "Glass" head-mounted system with thousands of "Explorers" around the world. Meanwhile the startup company Pebble, which makes an eponymous "smart watch" that displays data from iPhones and Android phones,reportsthat it has received a total of more than 275,000 orders for the device. Others such as Fitbit and Jawbone provide clip-on recording of owners' movements and activities.Apple is reckoned to be working on an "iWatch" project that might be broadly similar to the Pebble. The FT says that the company is hiring "aggressively" and has made a number of "acqui-hires" - buying small companies for the expertise of the teams rather than the business's product - as it seeks staff for its "wearables" group.One member of the team was only persuaded to stay after being offered a substantial pay rise, according to the FT report.It also says that Apple's own staff have come up against "hard engineering problems that they've not been able to solve" in trying to develop new wearable devices - a field it has not previously worked in.Looking for outside help is not a new move for Apple. The iPod project was extensively driven by Tony Fadell, who came to the company with his idea for a digital music player late in 2000 after failing to interest Real Networks in the concept. Fadell created the concept and initial design for the iPod, and was put in charge of it for release in October 2001.Since then, Apple has also brought in outside expertise with mobile phone experience to help build the iPhone. The company is notoriously secretive about its hiring plans, though outsiders can deduce some of its intentions from itsrecruitment notices. The company presently showsmore than 600 vacancies in its hardware engineering group alone.None specifically refers to wearables, though some such as the "Sensing systems engineer" job posted in June say the job will entail familiarity with "motion sensor performance metrics, magnetic sensor usage and limitations, acoustic, pressure, optical and environmental sensing, as well as manufacturing technologies of such sensors" - which would be applicable in wearable systems as well as the iPhone and iPad.
It has taken six years, but the secrets of Venice's watery back alleys have finally succumbed to Google Street View.Unable to bring their camera-toting car to the Italian lagoon city, where gondolas and canals stand in for vehicles and roads, the internet firm sent instead physically fit technicians to walk Venice's alleys wearing a backpack-mounted camera.Google has already added the Antarctic, the inside of the White House and the Great Barrier Reef (underwater) to Street View, which was launched in 2007, but a spokesman said Venice was considered a feather in its cap."We have wanted to do it for a long time but didn't have the technology," said Gareth Evans.Google has previously used a tricycle-mounted camera to shoot inside parks and a trolley to get inside museums, but both methods were no good at scaling the steps over the bridges crossing Venice's canals.In April two sturdy Google employees were each sent carrying a  1.2 metre (4ft) tall, 18kg (40lb) backpack and camera which resembles an insect's eye and sticks above the wearer's head. The cameras' 15-angle lenses taking a picture every 2.5 seconds which can be merged into a 360degree view.The backpack device, known as the trekker, has been used on Grand Canyon hiking paths in the US, the Burj Khalifa tower in Dubai and inside the Alhambra palace in southern Spain.The images from Venice should be online by the end of the year, said Evans.Google is also planning to snap Venice from a boat as the vessel plies the city's canals, a service which has been dubbed "Google gondola".Evans said the operators experienced few problems from curious onlookers crowding them as they tried to walk straight lines through Venice's piazzas."People tended to ignore them," he said. "They just thought it was guy with a weird backpack."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad apps posts).eBay Exact (Free)At the time of writing, eBay's step into the 3D printing world is US-only, but it's still fascinating. The ecommerce service is teaming up with Sculpteo, MakerBot and Hot Pop Factory to offer a range of customisable products, from iPhone cases to jewellery. They can be created using plastics, wood and metals, engraved with your own words and then ordered. It's the start of something much bigger for eBay, I sense – and for online shopping too.iPhoneDeus Ex: The Fall (£4.99)Square Enix's brand new iOS game based on its Deus Ex console franchise has been making headlines for its anti-piracy tactic: if you try to play on a jailbroken iOS device, it won't let you shoot, although that's reportedly being removed. What about the game itself though? It's a whopping 1.6GB of action-RPG, er, action. With impressive visuals and (for most of us) lots of shooting.iPhone / iPadIFTTT (Free)IFTTT is the (excellent) service for connecting up lots of your social networks and websites, to make them work better together. Automatic backups of Instagram photos to Dropbox, plotting reminders in Google Calendar and so on. Now there's an app for it, to create and track the "recipes" on the move, and add your iOS photos, calendar and reminders into the mix.Read more in this interview with IFTTT.iPhoneTiny Thief (£1.99)Tiny Thief is the latest game from Rovio Stars, the new publishing business that's part of Angry Birds-maker Rovio. Inspired by classic point'n'click adventure games, it sees the titular hero exploring six quests, with some delightful puzzles and surprises in store.iPhone / iPadByliner (Free)This is interesting: an app offering unlimited access to its catalogue of fiction and non-fiction stories for a flat monthly subscription – £6.99 in the UK – making it a Spotify for stories. Well, sort of. There are some well-known writers on board too, from authors to journalists.iPadKodiak JavaScript (£2.99)An app for coders, this: "A JavaScript IDE for your iPad and it works completely offline," as the App Store listing explains. "You can write and run your code directly on your iPad inside Kodiak, no need for an internet connection." The necessary libraries and frameworks have been included, as well as examples for new coders and experienced developers alike.iPadmiCoach multi-sport (Free)This is the latest fitness app from Adidas, which works with a small sensor – the miCoach Speed_Cell – which clips onto or into your trainers. The app then tracks your movements while playing various sports, including football, tennis, basketball, rugby, American football and handball, to visualise how effective (or ineffective) your huffing and puffing has been.iPhoneManything (Free)Got some old iOS devices lying around the house? Manything will find a use for them, turning them into video-monitoring cameras. The device sits and records, streaming to Manything's servers to be watched live or archived for later viewing. A clever idea.iPhoneCal | Your life. Your Calendar (Free)This comes from the developers of productivity app Any.do, and is the latest attempt to kick Apple's native iOS calendar app to the digital kerb. It's a calendar app that pulls in photos, social networking and connects to Any.do for your to-do list, with maps and a stylish design part of the appeal.iPhoneRavenmark: Mercenaries (Free)Tactical wargame Ravenmark: Mercenaries looks to have lots of meat to it, as you create your own armies then send them into battle against other players. A nice tough: the emphasis that the game's in-app purchases aren't about "pay-to-win" – but rather customising elements of the game and removing its ads. Translation: you can't just spend loads of cash to lay waste to your foes.iPhone / iPadAP Stylebook 2013 (£17.49)The Associated Press has released the latest edition of its Stylebook as an app, complete with the ability to import users' notes from last year's edition. Expect spelling, grammar, punctuation and journalistic language tips, in a clean, uncluttered interface for easy searching.iPhone / iPadTripwolf Offline City Maps (£1.49)Google Maps is all very well on an iPhone, but if you're roaming abroad and using it a lot, your monthly mobile bill may be terrifying reading. Travel service Tripwolf is the latest company releasing offline maps for use on iPhone, with more than 600 cities supported.iPhone / iPadAvokiddo Emotions (£1.49)This is a fun idea for children: an app that aims to teach them about different emotions through three animals: a sheep, zebra and giraffe. They gurn on-screen while kids drag and drop more than 100 props to trigger different emotions, from happiness and fear to shyness and sadness. Disco dancing is included, too, which is always a bonus.iPhone / iPadErnie Els Driven (£2.99)With The Open about to tee off and sunny weather across the UK, there are likely to be plenty of golf rounds played this month. What better time for pro Ernie Els to release an educational app, then? It promises to make your golf swing "smooth and powerful just like The Big Easy" with videos and challenges to sharpen up your skills.iPhoneVeggie Weekend (Free)There are lots of good cooking apps on iOS, but not so many with a vegetarian focus. Veggie Weekend should pick up a fair few fans then: it includes 18 recipes for veggies from salads to sourdough, with additional recipe packs like Vegan Desserts and Inspired by Asia available as 69p in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadMickey Mouse Clubhouse Paint &amp; Play (£2.99)This is Disney's latest iOS app for children, based around Mickey Mouse and his Clubhouse TV show. It's a colouring app, with a range of characters and scenes to digitally paint. The twist: when finished, they transform from 2D to 3D. There's also innovative use of the device camera to pull in your own textures from the real world, Toca Tailor-style.iPhone / iPadDuolingo (Free)Language-learning app Duolingo has been around for a while on iPhone, but now it's available on iPad too. It offers a range of languages, structured into lessons based on commonly-used words and phrases, with social features getting you to compete with friends along the way.iPhone / iPadCall of Mini Zombies 2 (£0.69)There are more dodgy zombie games for iOS than there are extras in all the Evil Dead films ever. Thankfully, the first Call of Mini Zombies game was great fun, and the sequel follows in its shambling footsteps. Shooting, shooting and more shooting in this colourful romp.iPhone / iPadThe Big Toss: Cricket (Free)The Ashes are underway! England are 1-0 up! And did I mention the lovely weather? The Big Toss is an app for armchair cricket fans: a way to bet (for fun) against friends while watching matches, making predictions as they play out in real life. Tournaments and series from around the world are supported, including this summer's England/Australia slugfest.iPhoneColor Band (Free)One more app for children this week, and one that genuinely startled me with its ambition when I played with it. Color Band is part musical sequencer, part Etch-a-Sketch and part Kinect: kids draw or colour in pixelly instruments and scenes on-screen, then play them by waving their hands in front of the front-facing camera (although touch controls are supported too). Different instruments and scenes are sold as in-app purchases.iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Apple is helping police in China investigate an accident in which a woman was killed by an electric shock when answering a call on her iPhone 5 while it was charging, just after she got out of the bath.Ma Ailun, a 23-year-old living in China's north-western Xinjiang region and a former flight attendant with China Southern Airlines, was electrocuted last Thursday when she took a call on the charging mobile telephone, the official Xinhua news agency quoted police as saying on Sunday.If the details of the fatality are correct, it may point to a flaw with the charger or its connecting wires. The Sina English sitequoted the familysaying the phone had been bought last December from an Apple store, and was using the original charger. The phone and charger are reported to now be in the hands of police."We are deeply saddened to learn of this tragic incident and offer our condolences to the Ma family. We will fully investigate and co-operate with authorities in this matter," Apple said in a statement.Apple declined to comment on details, such as whether this was an isolated case – though there are vanishingly few documented cases of electrocutions while answering a mobile phone when it is charging. A 2011 report in India suggested that the death by electrocution of a man who answered his phone while it was charging could have been caused by a cheap charger he was using.The climate in Xingiang can become extremely hot during summer, which could contribute to overloads and failures of electrical insulation and equipment. The leads from a phone charger to the phone itself typically carry 5V and around 1A. However, a current of more than 200mA (0.2A) can be lethal if it passes through the heart. If the charger is not earthed, or if the person taking the call provides a better path for current – say from a damaged wire – then the effect could be lethal.Someone who was wet after a bath might provide just such a pathway for a lethal current.However, the snopes.com site, dedicated to debunking urban myths,says it is falseto suggest that using a mobile phone while it is charging poses a "general and serious" danger of electrocution, despite stories that have circulated online since at least 2004.Ma's sister tweeted on Sina's microblog, saying Ma collapsed and died after using her charging iPhone 5 and urged users to be careful, a message that went viral on the site.In April, Apple apologised to Chinese consumers and altered iPhone warranty policies in its second-biggest market after its after-sales service suffered more than two weeks of condemnation by the state-run media.
The first Angry Birds Star Wars game has been downloaded more than 100m times since its release in November 2012, according to publisher Rovio Entertainment.The company announced the milestone while confirming that a sequel is on the way.Angry Birds Star Wars IIwill be released on 19 September, complete with a range of toy figures made by Hasbro that will interact with the game.The game will feature more than 30 characters from the Star Wars films, with each getting its own toy in Hasbro's "Telepods" line. Players who buy one of the action figures will be able to scan its details using their smartphone or tablet, then use it in the game.It's a clear nod to Activision's Skylanders, which racked up more than $1bn in sales within 15 months of its debut in 2011, and also revolves around buying and scanning in physical toys. Disney is preparing to release its own similar series calledDisney Infinity."Some of the most amazing character additions are versions of young Anakin, Mace Windu and Darth Maul," said Rovio's executive vice president of games Jami Laes in a statement."Hasbro's Telepods technology also provides a great way to extend the experience beyond the app and bring a whole new dimension to the gameplay."And to extend the revenue stream for Rovio and licensor Lucasfilm, of course. 45% ofRovio's £129m revenues in 2012were generated by its consumer products division.The Telepods range from Angry Birds Star Wars IIThe company says Angry Birds Star Wars II will spawn a range of new toys, clothing, accessories, books and plush toys as well as the Telepods figures. The latter are being shown off by Hasbro for the first time at the Comic-Con show in San Diego later this week.Overall, the Angry Birds games are now closing in on 2bn total downloads since the first game was released in December 2009. The series ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players.The franchise has also spawned an animated cartoon series,Angry Birds Toons, which launched in March 2013 through Rovio's own apps, as well as through partner online video services and broadcasters.
While Microsoft hastily reassembles its Xbox One message, Sony is continuing its PR onslaught on the development community. At this year's Develop Conference in Brighton, there were several PlayStation 4 sessions, as well as a fascinating keynote from the machine's architect Mark Cerny. Certainly, this was a very similar talk tothe one he gave at the Gamelab event in June, but for those who didn't catch it first time, there was some great stuff on the design ideology behind the new console.Later on, Neil Brown, a senior team leader at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe's R&amp;D group, gave a feature-packed introduction to developing on PS4, revealing lots of intricate details about the hardware and features.We've compressed all the best bits from those two talks into one easy-to-digest list. The following 14 points reveal lots of interesting details about the PS4 proposition.1. Sony included developer input right from the start of R&amp;DDuring Mark Cerny's keynote, he spoke about how, when development of PS4 started in early 2008, the team was writing the software tools at the same time as designing the hardware. In short, ease of use for developers was considered from the outset. Sony also sent out a questionnaire to 30 third-party teams, asking about the future of graphics and games consoles and what they wanted to see in a new PlayStation. The key piece of feedback was to use unified memory ("Just one high speed pool of memory, not the two found on PC or on PlayStation 3," said Cerny) and to avoid an exotic new GPU standard that would require studios to radically change their existing practices and technologies. So the basic structure of the machine's processor was built on third-party developer suggestions – which very much aligns with what Sony has been saying about listening to game makers.2. PS4 was designed like an Atari coin-op game: easy to play…"It should be easy to develop games in the early years of the console's lifecycle," said Cerny. "But there should be a rich feature set for developers to explore in the later years." So on the ease-of-use side, the architecture employs a 256-bit bus and GDDR5 memory, a combination that provides 176 gigabytes per second of bandwidth; this set up allows straightforward programming techniques to result in impressive graphics, without the need for highly specialised coding. Cerny reckons the time it'll take studios to start chucking polygons around the screen in a PS4 project will be one to two months – the same as PSone, and a big improvement on the six to 12 months it took on PS3.3. … but difficult to masterAccording to Cerny, to ensure longevity for coders, the advanced GPU can be used for far more than just conventional graphics. "We've enhanced the chip to make asynchronous fine grain computing practical on the platform," he explained. In other words, the GPU can handle lots of other tasks apart from graphics rendering, including physics simulation, collision detection, ray-casting for audio and decompression – all allegedly with little impact on those polygon and effects calculations. "Later in the console life cycle we will see richer, more interactive worlds," he concluded.4. Making things simple for childrenThe way that children become gamers has changed. In the past they'd often be introduced to consoles via cheaper handheld systems like the Nintendo DS or Sony PSP, which featured similar buttons and inputs to larger machines. Now, however, most kids learn about games through smartphones and tablets, so traditional controllers are somewhat bewildering. The addition of the touchpad on the new Dualshock 4 pad was perhaps partly influenced by this realisation. Some other elements of the controller may also have been tweaked with kids in mind. As Cerny explained,  "As part of our design process we ended up making a giant controller, 50% larger than usual so that we could directly experience what it felt like being a child trying to play a game. We immediately understood that the shoulder buttons are simply out of reach for the typical eight-year-old."PlayStation 4 Dual Shock 4 controller5. Making things simple for indies"Variety of experience is a key part of the appeal of PlayStation," Cerny said, before admitting that PS3 had lots of issues with infrastructure: it was optimised to help larger publishers create big AAA games. Furthermore, the approval and QA processes were designed with the costs and scope of AAA development in mind. Now though, Sony has changed approach, making the tech more approachable, streamlining QA and ensuring that indie titles are more easily discoverable on the PlayStation Store. "With the release of PS4 we understand that we have the opportunity to fundamentally alter the landscape of gaming," he exclaimed. Partly, he reckons, the straightforward but powerful tech will allow smaller studios to create detailed animations and rich virtual worlds – even with very few staff. The hardware is the enabler not the central player: "Octodad is not about triangle count," he joked, "It's about keeping your cephalopodic nature a secret from your human family." Part of this is also supporting self-publishing and allowing business models such as free-to-play, episodic release and micro-transactions.6. Designed to be a balanced systemIn his talk on developing for PS4, Neil Brown promised a system with no bottlenecks. "The Jaguar CPU is a state-of-the-art 64bit X86 architecture which will make it easy to port PC code. It has eight cores, and each core has 32KiB of D and I cache, and each four-core group has 2MiB of L2 cache". More importantly, he says, it's a modern general purpose CPU, which means unlike the in-order processors of current consoles it uses out-of-order execution, executing instructions depending on when they are ready rather than in the order governed by the original programming. Meanwhile, the GPU has 1.84 TFLOPS of processing power and a greatly expanded shader pipeline compared to PS3 to remove bottlenecks. There's also much better utilisation of the low-level hardware, via the GNM low-level API, for coders who really want to control who data is accessed by the GPU. Finally, the 8GB 256 bit GDDR5 memory reduces the bottlenecks associated with generating lots of large textures, while Brown says the PS4 has enough render back end units to ensure consistent pixel fill rates.There was also something about vertex shaders and dense meshes but he lost me there. However, he later clarified it thus: "PS4 has an innovative way that can reduce any bottlenecks hit by trying to process too many triangles at once. It uses the modified compute shader architecture, and is easy for developers to implement into their game."7. This is the age of 'asynchronous compute'"One of the big new features of this generation is Compute, which allows you to use the GPU as a general purpose processor," said Brown. And on PS4, asynchronous compute means that general tasks such as physics and AI calculations can be executed in parallel with graphics processing. Effectively then, within a single frame of the game's runtime, each of the GPU's 18 compute units can seamlessly switch between general computing and graphics tasks depending on what is most pressing.8. DualShock has been redesigned for feel and responsivenessIt's not only children with teeny hands who are benefiting from a controller rethink. According to Brown, the new device has tighter analogue controllers with a reduced dead zone improving accuracy on smaller movements, and concave tops for improved grip. The triggers are now curved and offer smoother linear output – perfect for car acceleration in racing games. There's reduced latency so the controls are more responsive and improved rumble with one small and one large motor ("both are 8bit controllable," says Brown). Brown also mentions the built-in speaker, which he reckons developers will use to inform gamers of important events. The headset port allows the connection of a wired headset which comes free with every PS4. Oh and the LED display on the front of the pad, which works with the PlayStation Eye to provide motion control, can also change colour and be controlled by the game – so it could give you a burst of orange to simulate muzzle flash from a gun, or flash red along with rumble pulses to suggest a heart beat. Controllers can also charge while the machine is on standby.9. PS4 features a new 'connected UX'As Brown explains, "The PS4 user experience, which we're calling 'the connected UX' is a new paradigm where everything and everyone is connected. We aim to transform how users engage with and experience content across our  platforms."  Okaaaaay. So what does that mean? Well, the menu systems are built around five core principles: simple, social, immediate, integrated and personalised. It seems you'll be able to customise the layout, manage downloads and see friends' content and activities - all in your own way, the layout reflecting your priorities. It's all a bit airy, but the not thing Brown did specify was, when the machine boots up, it defaults to a 'What's New' screen, which shows everything that's going on in your network, from what your friends are playing, to videos they've posted, to news from publishers. The main UI shows recently played games, and each has its own 'live tile', which reveals news feeds, lists any friends who own the title, and shows the game's most viewed videos and news feeds. Developers can also create more complex tiles complete with game stats, real-time social leader boards, live updates on in-game events, and animated game items or characters. The live tiles can also immediately send the player to a specific mode, game save or challenge, without them having to go through the in-game menu options first.10. Moving toward a real social networkWhich means real photos of players and real names shown above characters in multiplayer sessions.  However, your current PSN avatar and user name will still exist and you'll have control over who gets to see your real details. Players can also immediately join a friend's multiplayer session from the PS4 main menu.11. The Share button and how it worksThe most obvious addition to the DualShock 4 controller, apart from the touch pad, is the Share button. Apparently, a long press will take a screenshot of the current action, without interrupting gameplay, while a short press brings up the Share menu. On here there's the option to view, edit and share the last few minutes of gaming footage. PS4 uses a dedicated hardware encoder to continually record the last "several minutes" of footage, without taking any processor resources. So if anything interesting happens, you just hit share and upload the video. The video chip also allows players to live stream their gaming to the wider community. Spectators, meanwhile, will be able to chat to other viewers, or choose to join in the game if they own it themselves.  If you don't own it, you can opt to start downloading it while still viewing the live footage. Brown also says that developers will be able to add a selection of spectator commands that the game can dynamically respond to. For example, if the onscreen player is fighting an end-of-level boss, but is low on health, a spectator could click a Heal option to help them out.12. Seamless Remote PlayThe PS4 implementation of Remote Play should be much smoother than PS3's thanks to the built-in video chip, which means there's no performance overhead for the game itself – plus the Gakiai technology is used from streaming so it's apparently very low latency.  According to Brown, PS4 also allows up to four players to log in to the same console at once – and all saved games are bound to the user not the device.13. Seamless companion appsMeanwhile, the PlayStation App for iOS and Android devices allows you to browse friends lists, PSN options and the PlayStation Store as well as controlling your PS4; so you can tell it to start downloading a new game while you're on the bus home. And of course, Developers are also able to build their own companion apps, offering 'second screen' experiences to enhance the main screen action or providing remote functions so players can, say, tweak their Fifa teams via their smartphones, then get home and try out the new formation on the console. We're already seeing this happening, but it's likely to be a lot more common in the next generation.14. Instant access to downloadsA lot of this is already known, but Brown went through it anyway and it's worth re-stating. Basically, when downloading digital games from the PlayStation Store, purchasers are able to start playing almost immediately. This is because developers are able to split game code into chunks, and as soon as the first section is downloaded, you're ready to go, with the rest coming down in the background. Players can choose to download either the single- or multiplayer component first, while patches and firmware updates will download automatically overnight if the system is left on standby. Brown also claimed that you'll be able to log on to your digital games library from a friend's house and start playing immediately. There's no word yet on the DRM aspects of this, but it's exactly what Microsoft was boasting about with Xbox One. It will be interesting to see how both manufacturers expand on all these concepts at the major Gamescom event in August.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 13 July 2013PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)The Last of Us(18+)PS3 (100)52 (4)Animal Crossing: New Leaf(3+)3DS (100)53 (–)Mario and Luigi: Dream Team Bros(3+)3DS (100)14 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (31)VITA (6)Wii (3)425 (2)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition(7+)Xbox 360 (100)36 (10)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (46)PC (4)337 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (36)Wii U (3)PC (1)348 (5)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (42)379 (6)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)PC (3)1910 (–)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (40)811 (15)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (32)PC (27)612 (13)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (16)Wii (16)3DS (13)5313 (12)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (46)Xbox 360 (35)VITA (17)PC (2)3314 (19)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)1615 (8)The Sims 3: Island Paradise (12+)PC (100)316 (9)Deadpool(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (38)317 (–)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)5518 (16)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (100)1019 (11)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (40)Wii U (9)1320 (20)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)PS3 (28)Xbox 360 (27)Wii (19)DS (12)23UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android apps posts).Crazy Taxi (£4.02)Sega's Crazy Taxi has thrilled as an arcade game, a console game and an iOS title. Now it's available on Android too. The game – a port of the Dreamcast console version – sees you speeding through San Francisco-esque streets collecting and delivering passengers in the most hair-raising way possible, with two modes and a bunch of mini-games to prolong the action.Polamatic by Polaroid (0.65)"The Polamatic app brings back the instant nostalgia of Polaroid pictures," explains the Google Play listing for this app. Wait, isn't that Instagram though? Whether Polaroid still has the clout as a brand to find a niche in the photo-sharing apps space is open to question, but this has filters, borders and captions in its arsenal, as well as a variety of sharing options.Tiny Thief (£1.99)Tiny Thief is the latest game from Rovio Stars, the new publishing business that's part of Angry Birds-maker Rovio. Inspired by classic point'n'click adventure games, it sees the titular hero exploring six quests, with some delightful puzzles and surprises in store.Pearltrees (Free)Pearltrees is hoping to "collect, organize and share all your interests in one place", grabbing webpages, photos, notes and other content and storing it centrally, so you can get to it from all your devices. So a bit like Evernote, then, but with an inventive user interface to group related stuff together, and some useful collaboration features.Way of the Dogg (£1.31)Snoop Dogg isn't scared of apps experimentation, as his photo-sharing appSnoopifyshowed earlier in the year. His latest app outing is a more-traditional game though. Way of the Dogg is a fun "rhythm-action combat adventure" with Snoop's music as the backdrop.just.me (Free)The world of messaging apps is a crowded place to say the least, but the ones that cut through the clutter are hugely popular. It's early days for just.me, but nearly 10k people have already downloaded it in a few days since release. It aims to combine texting, email and social networking in one app, pulling in your contacts book and posting to Facebook and Twitter when required.Sprinkle Islands (£1.63)Sprinkle was an excellent physics-puzzler when it came out, but now there's a sequel. The gameplay is the same at heart: put out fires over 48 levels, using as little water as possible. Now there are boss battles, better touchscreen controls and even spiffier graphics.Kavinsky (Free)You wait ages for a rhythm-action combat adventure to come along, then two turn up at once. This is based on French house artist Kavinsky, is set in Downtown Los Angeles, and sees you duffing up a succession of street-thugs to the tune of Kavinsky's music. It can also pull in real-world scenery via the camera to act as the background, if you so desire.Paper Artist (£1.99)Already preloaded on some of Samsung's Android devices, Paper Artist has now opened up to a wider range through the Google Play store. It's a photo-editing app with more than 30 "artistic styles" to apply to your photographs, including scribbling on them with a virtual pen or brush. The results can then be shared to social networks.Hang w/ (Free)Hang w/ came out earlier in the year for iOS as a livestreaming video app dangling the prospect of celebrities to chat to. Musicians Timbaland, Kaskade and sports stars Terrell Owens and Chad Ohcocinco are among those using the app, but the appeal is as much about broadcasting your own live video channel and chatting to friends.Gbanga Famiglia - AR Mafia (Free)Gbanga has been exploring location-based mobile games for years, with this mobster-themed title its latest release. It sees you trying to conquer real-world locations, collecting virtual items and challenging other players. The obvious comparison is Red Robot Labs'Life is Crimegame, which came out a couple of years ago.Monster Match (Free)You're going to see a lot of gem-swapping monstery games come out in the next few months, thanks to the lucrative success of a Japanese game named Puzzle &amp; Dragons, which you can't (yet) play in the UK. Monster Match is getting in early with its slant on the genre, splicing gem-matching with Pokemon-style monster collecting and battling.The Lone Ranger by Disney (Free)It's fair to say that Disney's The Long Ranger film has been something of a disappointment at the box office. Can the official mobile game do any better? It's a roleplaying game that sees you exploring the world of the film, meeting the Lone Ranger, Tonto, Butch Cavendish and other characters along the way.The Meego (Free)This colourful free-to-play game is picking up some steam in its first few days on the Google Play store, influenced (a bit) by the Pocket God game that's proved highly popular on iOS and Android. The Meego are "wacky, volcano-dwelling villagers", with your job being to build their village, go on quests and "collect rare birthstones by strategically breeding villagers". Which sounds creepy, but the game looks quite fun.PRX Remix (Free)"This is not another podcasting app. PRX Remix is, quite simply, the greatest radio station of all time," claims the Google Play listing for this app from Public Radio Exchange. Well, it's good to be confident. And that confidence is at least manifested in a stylish app for listening to stories from independent producers.Pacific Rim (£3.20)Another blockbuster movie hoping for a blockbuster mobile game – this time based on Guillermo del Toro's new flick. It takes its cues from Infinity Blade, with more than 30 levels to fight your way through, with plenty of enormous monsters lining up to be sent crashing to the floor in combat.Iesabel (£1.33)Talking of monster-slaying... Iesabel is a characterful-looking action-RPG game that has you exploring sprawling 3D landscapes, hacking, slashing and looting as you go. The developers are making a point of noting its lack of in-app purchases too: "You can't buy victory; you have to earn it with your own skills."Numbers &amp; Addition! Math Games (Free)Children's apps have tended to come out first or exclusively on iOS, but there's evidence in 2013 of developers looking to Android sooner. That's good news for parents with Android devices. This is a colourful maths game aimed at pre-school children, focusing on simple addition, subtracting, counting and ordering tasks. It's one ofa range of new Android apps from developer i Learn Withthat have just gone live on Google Play.Hello Kitty Carnival (Free)Something else for Android kids here from one of the biggest children's brands in the world: Sanrio's Hello Kitty. It's set in a fairground starring Hello Kitty and her friends: a game where children unlock new attractions as they play. The game does use in-app purchases, so parents will want to be on top of their IAP restrictions settings.Buttons and Scissors (Free)Finally, another fun-looking casual game, this time based around (virtual) buttons and scissors being cut out of denim. The buttons have to be cut off in lines of two or more horizontally, vertically or diagonally, leading to much brain-scratching to solve the game's levels.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One, Hardware, Xbox, Reveal, Design | Xbox WireThe official Xbox Wire blog interviews Carl Ledbetter, the creative director of industrial design, who explains some of the decisions behind the look and UI of the new console:Xbox One is developed to be the ultimate gaming and entertainment system, so the design team at Microsoft had to make every aspect of the experience —ranging from its appearance, to how users interact with its software —modern and sophisticated. It was designed to be simple and inviting, all while being attuned to the console's internal components to ensure flawless performance.There's some intriguing stuff in here on the process of prototyping and even choosing colours for the machine.More details on Far Cry 4 soon, says Ubisoft - GameSpot.comWell, this is short and sweet:Ubisoft has promised to reveal more details about a new Far Cry game soon.Speaking to GameSpot, Ubisoft senior vice president of marketing and sales Tony Key said that the commercial and critical success of Far Cry 3 has ensured a sequel. "We're totally psyched from [Far Cry 3]. It's a great brand, and now it's got the recognition it deserves, so we're clearly going to make another one: more on that soon."Major publisher confirms sequel is likely to hugely successful game! But what the heck, Far Cry 3 was ace, so let's just revel in this.BioShock Vita: Levine "trying to make a match" between Sony and Take-Two | VG247And similar to the above story...Ken Levine has said on Twitter that he spoke with Sony and 2K regarding BioShock Vita "yesterday," and that he is still "trying to make a match." Back in February, it was noted that the game was still a long ways off, as the Irrational Games boss said at the time if it were to happen, it would be a business deal negotiated between Take-Two and Sony. Until that happens, his hands are tied until the two companies "sign off". Anyway, keep hope alive.Slow news weekend...Games shine light on teen dating violence | PolygonThis is a really interesting use of the game jam concept:The sixth annualLife. Love. Game Design Challenge, aimed at increasing awareness of teen dating violence, has announced its winning entries.Overall winner is Love in the Dumpster by Jean Hehn of Belgium, followed by Janie's Sketchbook by Guts Rodsavas and Piti Yindee of GPTouch in Thailand. In third place is YourSpace by Paul McGee, Sam Gross, Lyndsey Moulds, Ross McWilliam and Kayfaraday in Ireland followed by What Kind of Monster is your Boyfriend? by 99Uno in Argentina.The game-makers were all challenged to answer the question; 'can you design a game about teen dating violence without using violence itself?' The contest is run by Jennifer Ann's Group, a non-profit organization that educates families, teachers and young adults about dangerous relationships.Gamasutra: Ozzie Smith's Blog - The Four Stages of Puzzle Game MasteryOzzie Smith:Falling-block puzzle games (in the vein of Tetris or Lumines) are some of my favorite games to play. I think it's because they greatly encapsulate tiny gameplay loops that can just go on forever. Unlike match-3 puzzle games, falling-block puzzle games emphasize mechanical mastery and quick-thinking (sometimes even sub-conscious thinking) on top of strategy in their gameplay. I recently played quite a bit of the spectacular Super Puzzle Platformer Deluxe and found myself once again going through the different stages of falling-block puzzle game mastery. In this article I want to share my theory on the four different stages that players go through while mastering a falling-block puzzle game.Really interesting stuff on the very mechanics of compulsion in puzzle games.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Radiohead frontman Thom Yorke has pulled his solo songs and those with his group Atoms For Peace from music streaming service Spotify, complaining that "new artists get paid fuck all with this model".Yorke and producer Nigel Godrich took to Twitter to express their annoyance at the business model for new artists, and explain their reasoning."The numbers don't even add up for Spotify yet. But it's not about that. It's about establishing the model which will be extremely valuable,"Godrich, whose production credits include albums for Radiohead and Paul McCartney,tweeted. "Meanwhile small labels and new artists can't even keep their lights on. It's just not right."He continued: "Streaming suits [back] catalogue. But [it] cannot work as a way of supporting new artists' work. Spotify and the like either have to address that fact and change the model for new releases or else all new music producers should be bold and vote with their feet. [Streaming services] have no power without new music."Spotify offers a limited free streaming service, and an unlimited service at tiers of £5 and £10 a month. But some artists have complained that it is less effective for them to make music available there than to sells CDs and digital downloads because the per-stream payments are comparatively tiny.The industry average offers slightly less than 0.4p a stream – meaning that 1m streams of a song would generate about £3,800. Most songs receive far fewer streams.In a statement, Spotify said: "Spotify's goal is to grow a service which people love, ultimately want to pay for, and which will provide the financial support to the music industry necessary to invest in new talent and music. We want to help artists connect with their fans, find new audiences, grow their fan base and make a living from the music we all love."Right now we're still in the early stages of a long-term project that's already having a hugely positive effect on artists and new music. We've already paid $500m (£332m) to rights holders so far and by the end of 2013 this number will reach $1bn. Much of this money is being invested in nurturing new talent and producing great new music."We're 100% committed to making Spotify the most artist-friendly music service possible, and are constantly talking to artists and managers about how Spotify can help build their careers."A Spotify spokesperson also pointed out that Yorke's music is still available for streaming on the Google-owned YouTube video service – whose chief executive Eric Schmidtsaid last weekabout film piracy that "Our position is that somebody's making money on this pirated content and it should be possible to identify those people and bring them to justice."The row highlights the collision between new models of listening to music created by streaming as the industry tries to find methods of dissuading fans from using illicit services to download songs for free without repaying artists.Godrich insisted that the point was not about gaining more money for himself or Yorke, whose work with Radiohead sold millions of CDs in the past two decades. "The music industry is being taken over by the back door. And if we don't try and make it fair for new music producers and artists, then the art will suffer. Make no mistake. These are all the same old industry bods trying to get a stranglehold on the delivery system."Yorke pitched in to the debate. "Make no mistake, new artists you discover on Spotify will not get paid. Meanwhile shareholders will shortly be rolling in it. Simples,"he tweeted, and added as a riposte to critics that the suggestion his move was pointlessmissed its purpose: "'Your small meaningless rebellion is only hurting your fans ... a drop in the bucket really.' No, we're standing up for our fellow musicians."Spotify has been having notable success getting some established bands to make their music available on its service: Daft Punk's Get Lucky rapidly became one of the most-streamed songs ever.Last month, Pink Floydmade its back catalogue availableon Spotify after fans streamed the song Wish You Were Here more than 1m times.But Godrich said: "Making new recorded music needs funding. Some records can be made in a laptop, but some need musician[s] and skilled technicians. Pink Floyd's catalogue has already generated billions of dollars for someone (not necessarily the band) so now putting it on a streaming site makes total sense. But if people had been listening to Spotify instead of buying records in 1973 I doubt very much if Dark Side [of the Moon, Pink Floyd's record-breaking album released that year which sold hundreds of millions of copies] would have been made. It would just be too expensive."The move has won support on Twitter from a number of artists, includingFour Tet's Kieran Hebden, who tweeted: "I had everything on my label taken off [Spotify]. Don't want to be part of this crap." He added "I don't get why [it's] such a big deal to not do Spotify. My music [is] easy to get elsewhere. I'm just not into it."Music from the Beatles and rockers AC/DC is not available on Spotify.Other big names from the past such as Led Zeppelin and King Crimson have refused to put their music on streaming services. King Crimson frontman Robert Fripp has been a vocal critic of the amounts that artists signed to labels are paid for their music – and has not acceded to putting any music on them, nor on services such as iTunes.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid OEMs slow to roll out Bluebox Security patch &gt;&gt; ZDNetSteven Vaughan-Nichols:The scary news was thatBluebox Security had worked out a way to break Android's security model. In theory, this could be exploited with almost any Androids apps. The hopeful news was thatGoogle quickly released a patch for the security hole to phone original equipment manufacturers (OEM)s. The annoying news is that almost none of the OEMs have released the patch.OEMs are being painfully slow about releasing the Bluebox Security patch, but Bluebox itself has released a scanner app for it.Worse still, there's now aproof of concept for the security hole. This proof of concept means that as surely as the sun will rise in the east in the morning we'll soon see real malware using it.The Samsung Galaxy S4 and HTC One have been updated; no worries there. Actually carrying out the attack would almost certainly only be feasible through sideloaded apps.More than 275,000 Pebble smartwatches have been ordered, CEO says &gt;&gt; TechSpotPebble CEO Eric Migicovsky recently took to the company's Kickstarter page to issue an update to backers with regards to how the device is doing in the marketplace and lay out a plan for the next 12 months seeing as there haven't been any updates in quite some time.Since the smartwatch campaign ended in May 2012, more than 190,000 Pebbles have been pre-ordered. That, of course, is in addition to the ones purchased during the campaign, which brings the total to over 275,000 units.Impressive.Telstra PCCW Reach deal with FBI and Department of Justice surveillance access to cables &gt;&gt; CrikeyTelstra was compelled to strike a 2001 deal with the FBI and the US Department of Justice to give them surveillance access to the undersea cables owned by its subsidiary Reach, a newdocument released online and provided to Crikeyreveals.Fascinating, and explains a sort of Australian "Mastering The Internet" program. There's a good analysis of the document and acknowledgement of Crikey's pointing it upat The Register- which somehow fails to link to Crikey.Schmidt: things with Apple are better &gt;&gt; Business InsiderOn Thursday, Google chairman Eric Schmidtrevealed a surprising thing: Google's relationship with Apple has improved after many meetings, he said.He praised Apple alongsideGoogle saying, "These are two proud, well-run, different companies."He was talking at the Allen &amp;amp; Company Sun Valley Conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, where the tech elite gather annually.Remarks like this recall 19th-century French diplomacy, where the death of a famous figure was greeted with pursed lips and the comment: "What did hemeanby doing that?" What does Google gain from Schmidt saying this?Do Things that Don't Scale &gt;&gt; Y-CombinatorOne of the most common types of advice we give at Y Combinator is to do things that don't scale. A lot of would-be founders believe that startups either take off or don't. You build something, make it available, and if you've made a better mousetrap, people beat a path to your door as promised. Or they don't, in which case the market must not exist.Actually startups take off because the founders make them take off. There may be a handful that just grew by themselves, but usually it takes some sort of push to get them going. A good metaphor would be the cranks that car engines had before they got electric starters. Once the engine was going, it would keep going, but there was a separate and laborious process to get it going.Microsoft sues US customs for failed Google phone ban &gt;&gt; BloombergMicrosoft filed a lawsuit today accusing US Customs officials of refusing to follow a trade agency's order to block imports of phones made by Google's Motorola Mobility unit.The US International Trade Commission in Washington issued the import ban in May 2012 after deciding that Motorola Mobility devices infringed a Microsoft patent for a way mobile phones synchronize calendar events with other computers.How the US forces internet firms to cooperate on surveillance &gt;&gt; CNETSome internet companies have reluctantly agreed to work with the government to conduct legally authorized surveillance on the theory that negotiations are less objectionable than the alternative - federal agents showing up unannounced with a court order to install their own surveillance device on a sensitive internal network. Those devices, the companies fear, could disrupt operations, introduce security vulnerabilities, or intercept more than is legally permitted."Nobody wants it on-premises," said a representative of a large Internet company who has negotiated surveillance requests with government officials. "Nobody wants a box in their network...[Companies often] find ways to give tools to minimize disclosures, to protect users, to keep the government off the premises, and to come to some reasonable compromise on the capabilities."Eric Schmidt: Hollywood should take pirates to court &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandGoogle's Eric Schmidt says that the entertainment industry should focus on taking content pirates to court, rather than just trying to get Google (and other search engines) to remove pirate sites from search results.His comments, reported by Variety, came yesterday during an impromptu chat with reporters at an annual financial conference in Sun Valley, Idaho."The industry would like us to edit the web and literally delete sites, and that goes counter to our philosophy," Schmidt is quoted as saying.Sales of second-generation Nexus 7 hard to reach 8 million units, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesSources from the supply chain revealed that the new Nexus 7 features a 7in 1980 by 1200 display, a Qualcomm Snapdragon 600 processor, 5-megapixel rear and 1.2-megapixel front cameras and expected price will be around US$199-249 for a model with Wi-Fi support.The sources pointed out that the first-generation Nexus 7 was able to achieve strong shipments of six million units mainly because of its low price, which only a few competitors could match; however, as more players have released 7in devices with competitive prices, the second-generation Nexus 7 will no longer have a pricing advantage.The Nexus 7 price was certainly a big advantage on release.Dev bakes actual, edible raspberry pie with Raspberry Pi &gt;&gt; The RegisterA New Zealand developer named Nathan Broadbent has baked a raspberry pie using a Raspberry Pi.Broadbent decided to do so after spotting a thread on Reddit that suggested "Food items should have QR codes that instruct the microwave exactly what to do. Like high for 2 minutes, let stand 1 minute, medium 1 minutes."Finally a good use for QR codes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hello! How was your weekend? Any gaming?
Price from £13,370MPG up to 74.3Top speed 119mphAm I having a nightmare? Standing on stage in front of me at theAuto Expresscar awards in the lavish surroundings of London's Connaught hotel isRick Astley. His trademark 80s quiff is still intact, and a&nbsp;sharp suit ensures he looks as boyish as he did back in 1987. Bouncing around, the Lancashire lad is desperately trying to pump some oxygen into the proceedings. But the&nbsp;massed ranks of suited journalists and motor-industry apparatchiks sit unmoved. Stunned, even. Hadn't he died? He was certainly dying now. Rick abandons the first song and moves on to the next. "Don't worry," he yells, "my songs all sound the same." Then, at last, it is time for his one big hit.&nbsp;Gratefully he launches into "Never Gonna Give You Up".Later, as the awards are announced, it becomes clear that this is to beSeat's night. The Alhambra wins best MPV award; the Leon wins best compact family award. And then Leon's name is pulled from the winner's envelope again: it is theAuto ExpressCar of the&nbsp;Year. The magazine's editor, Steve Fowler, hands the award to Seat's chairman, Jürgen Stackmann. He only started in the job eight weeks ago. "We love Leon's style," says Steve. "The way it drives, the quality, the kit. And best of all, you get all this at a&nbsp;bargain price with ultra-low running costs." Jürgen grins and states the obvious: "This new Leon is thebestvehicle in Seat's history." And he's right: it really is the best they've made.It's remarkable, as not so long ago the sickly Spanish manufacturer was languishing in the doldrums. But VW, Seat's owner, hates a failure, so the mighty Volkswagen family has hosted an intervention and given Seat the "Skoda treatment". Just as the Czech brand was transformed from joke to class-topping jock, so Seat finds itself in VW's turnaround lounge. In&nbsp;2012 the marque had its most successful year ever. And as Rick sang: "Never gonna make you cry, never gonna say goodbye…" I couldn't help thinking it sounded like a mission statement from VW to Seat – a sharp riposte to the doubters who believed VW might let one of its limbs wither.The new Leon is based on VW's jack-of-all-trades MQB platform (Modularer Querbaukasten, since you ask), which will eventually go on to underpin more than 30 different models from VW's corporate empire. It's a sort of glorified parts-bin from&nbsp;which the various VW siblings will draw their major components. This means the Leon is, to all intents and purposes, a Hispanic version of the Golf, the Audi A3 and the Skoda Octavia. Sharing engineering, construction, parts and expertise with those three big hitters is only ever going to improve your game.The Seat Leon's no-nonsense cockpit. Photograph: ObserverLook at all four and you'll see a&nbsp;family resemblance. But the new Leon has won the looks lottery. The profile is dominated by three horizontal creases set off by the sharp edges of the grille and head lamps. The company calls this its "arrow-head" design language. These creases, corners and edges give the car a real presence. It won't appeal to everyone, but character is a good thing in car.The interior is well thought out, roomy and just the right side of no-nonsense. One detail that caught my eye was the sharp-cornered wing mirrors. They're "statement" wing mirrors – a visual reminder every time you look into them that you're not in some bland also-ran, but a&nbsp;proper contender. The Leon also has all-LED front lights, a first in this class – and another signal of intent. It's powered by a choice of five&nbsp;petrol engines or four diesels – the best option is the 1.6 TDI CR, which creeps beneath the tax-beating 100g barrier. Fast and frugal – in engine terms that's cake you can eat.New, improved and visibly  VW-ified, this Seat is an impressive package. Rick struggled to get the party started, but Leon closed the show on a high.Car-hating kidsEver wondered what would happen to your car if you let a bunch of kids loose on it? To find out, here's what happened when a group of 25 schoolchildren aged between 4 and 10 gave the new Hyundai i30 an extreme durability test…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Apple's App Store celebrated its fifth birthday this week with some impressive milestones: 50bn app downloads and more than £6.6bn paid out to app developers so far.Alongside Google's Android app store – 48bn downloads to date – and those of rivals like Windows Phone and BlackBerry, Apple has built a thriving economy for smartphone and tablet apps since its store launched in 2008.Industry analyst ABI Research estimates that the mobile apps market will be worth £17.8bn globally this year, with iOS generating more than two thirds of those revenues, even though Android currently accounts for 75% of new smartphone sales.The biggest hitsApps have fuelled digital disruption in a range of industries, from entertainment services like BBC iPlayer, Spotify and Netflix to online retailers like eBay, which expects to process $20bn of mobile sales in 2013.Apps have been key to the rise of social networking services like Facebook and Twitter, too. More than 75% of Facebook's 1.1bn active users are accessing it from mobile devices, while 60% of Twitter's 140m active users do likewise.Games in particular have proved a lucrative apps market. Developers GungHo Online and Supercell respectively generated $303m and $179m of revenues from a handful of games in the first quarter of 2013, for example.Nick D'Aloisio, founder of the Summly app which he sold to Yahoo for £18m in March. Photograph: Nadine Rupp/Getty ImagesStartups with popular or innovative apps have also become acquisition targets, from Facebook's $1bn purchase of photo-sharing app Instagram in 2012 to Yahoo's £18m acquisition of Summly in March, four months after it was launched by 17-year-old Brit Nick D'Aloisio.Winners - and zombie losersThe real winners from the apps era have been smartphone and tablet makers, with sales of more than 900m Android devices and 600m iOS devices since 2007."You've got to have a compelling proposition around apps, and a clear app strategy if you want to sell phones today," says Andrew Fisher, executive chairman of Shazam, which has 70m active users of its apps.Plenty of winners, but the app stores have their losers too. Mobile analytics firm Adeven claimed earlier this week that two thirds of iOS apps may be "zombies" that never get downloaded.Apple disputes that research, pointing to its CEO Tim Cook's claim in June that 93% of the 900k apps in Apple's store had been downloaded in the previous month.What's clear is that the store can be a ferociously tough environment even for high-quality apps. British developer Agant recently closed down, despite having made critically-acclaimed apps for brands like QI, Great British Bake Off, Arsenal FC and Terry Pratchett's Discworld.Terry Pratchett's Discworld app was critically acclaimed, yet developer Agant was recently forced to close. Photograph: Guardian"Unfortunately, the iOS App Store's set-up just does not seem to support the discovery, trialling and long-term life of these kinds of high-value apps, making it difficult to justify the risk of their development," wrote managing director Dave Addey in a blog post.That tale is reflected even by successful firms, such as Swedish children's apps developer Toca Boca, whose apps have been downloaded 40m times."We've been profitable for a while, but I think that's very rare, unfortunately, at least from what I hear from industry colleagues," says chief executive Bjorn Jeffery."There is a very small head and a very, very long tail. And the angle at which the head drops to the tail is very steep. You're either doing pretty good, or not doing well at all."The meritocracy of appsThe flow of companies hoping to fall into the former category isn't slowing down, though, in part because startups see the App Store as a meritocratic business environment."Apple are very even-handed in the way they treat people, in terms of not favouring the biggest companies over smaller ones," says Matthew Wiggins, who sold his first mobile games startup to publisher Zynga in 2011, and is now launching another, JiggeryPokery."As a small startup without millions of quid in investment or an established presence, that gives you an extremely level playing field in which to operate."
Stephen Elop almost bounded into the room, a picture of enthusiasm. "Well, let me start with a question!" the Nokia chief executive said to the small group of journalists. "You were all in the audience. Did you see things that surprised you?"The journalists looked blank. They had just seen Elop take the stage in Manhattan to show off a new Lumia smartphone with a 41 megapixel camera that records as much detail as a professional SLR – three times more than the best smartphone rivals. It will allow you to zoom in on detail after you've taken the picture and capture perfect still images in near-darkness – but it wasn't a surprise.Nokia had been using the number "41" for months leading up to the announcement at Pier 82 in New York, and Elop had shown off a phone in March 2012 with the same 41-megapixel capability – although that ran on Nokia's now-dead Symbian operating system, whereas the new one uses Microsoft's Windows Phone. What is more, hours before Elop unveiled the device to journalists and analysts, all the phone's specifications had been leaked and written up online.For some the only surprise is that Nokia itself, former darling of the mobile industry, is still alive. Revenues at its mobile business peaked more than four years ago in the first quarter of 2008 at €9.2bn. Since then they have slumped to just €2.9bn (£2.5bn) in the first three months of this year.The company reveals second-quarter results on Thursday and analysts reckon the mobile division might squeak a 1% operating profit, while it could make a 7% margin on the half of mobile broadband joint venture Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) that it already owned (it has since paid €1.7bn for the other half)."It's very challenging," admits Elop. "Because [with Windows Phone] we are starting as a challenger." The key rivals are Apple's iPhone and Google's Android software, which together control over 90% of the global smartphone market; Apple and Samsung alone rake in 95% of mobile handset profits. Nokia is still the world's second-largest handset maker, producing nearly 80m every quarter – but the majority are low-end "feature phones" with wafer-thin profit margins. The money is in smartphones.The key plank of Elop's strategy is to beat BlackBerry to become the "third ecosystem" for smartphone apps, behind Apple and Google. Even that is a serious challenge: Apple's App Store is five years old, Google's only a little younger; each boasts more than half a million apps. Windows Phone is half that age and has about 130,000 apps. Crucially, it lacks native versions of a number of key apps popular with younger users, such as Snapchat's self-deleting message service and filter-infused photo favourite Instagram, which has hundreds of millions of users. Isn't that more important than super-detailed pictures?Elop is quick to point to a Snapchat-compatible app called Swapchat; and as for Instagram, he says, the specialist photo app Hipstamatic now comes in a Windows Phone version that can upload pictures to Instagram (although to interact on the network you need another app, called Instance)."But you're right," he says. "On applications, we have to do a lot of work, and keep pushing. But critical mass is building, and you're seeing more and more unique work being done on our platform."It's hard, it's a challenge. But there's no doubt we're making progress."Analysts, meanwhile, do not think the new Lumia 1020 will set the world on fire. "Despite the quality of the device, I have some serious doubts about whether it will change Nokia's fortunes, and it risks becoming a niche product," says IDC's Francisco Jeronimo. And Ian Fogg at IHS ScreenDigest suggested the 1020's camera makes it a "halo product", something to light up the brand."Alone, it won't ship enough units to turn around Nokia's fortunes, because it's premium-priced," he says. "But its significance will be greater than unit shipments. Nokia's goal is to put the name Nokia into people's minds."But another key to overtaking BlackBerry is simply shipping more handsets. If Nokia hits the guidance of 7.1m Lumias shipped in the quarter just finished, it will have for the first time outdone its Canadian rival, which shipped 6.8m in the three months to the end of May. Compared with Apple or Android, which move scores of millions, this is still small beer, but it all&nbsp;counts.Elop insists he's completely satisfied not to be using Android. On arriving at Nokia in September 2010 from Microsoft, he led a top-level analysis of its problems. Symbian, it was decided, was defunct. The iPhone and Android were on the rise. Windows Phone hadn't been launched."What we were worried about was the very high risk that one hardware manufacturer could come to dominate Android. We had a suspicion of who it might be, because of the resources available, the vertical integration," Elop says. Samsung already had in-house screen and memory-chip makers for its touchscreen phones. "We were respectful of the fact that we were quite late in making [a] decision – many others were in that space already."Fast forward to today and examine the Android ecosystem, and there's a lot of good devices from many different&nbsp;companies, but one company now has essentially become the dominant player."He argues that being on Windows Phone helps in crucial negotiations with carriers. "The first step in the conversation is the recognition that we're not Apple, we're not Samsung/Android – we're a third alternative. And when an operator wants to keep pressure on [handset makers] and have a lot of options, he wants a third alternative. So, strategically, we have an&nbsp;opening because we've taken that path as the third ecosystem."Nokia looked a corporate basket case for a while. Elop, a Canadian, has had to cut thousands of jobs and restructure the business. That naturally made him unpopular – and he still pronounces the company name as "Know-kee-ya" rather than the "Nock-ee-ya" that Finns prefer.Nokia said last week that its net cash position at the end of the second quarter was between €3.7bn and €4.2bn, meaning it burned through as much as €800m in three months. "The device business is a business where we're making some hefty investments," Elop says calmly.Nokia is still not out of the woods – its debt rating was cut to junk a year ago and rumours have swirled that Microsoft might want to buy it. NSN, the world's third-biggest infrastructure provider for mobile networks, generates safe if unexciting profits; it could be a defence against takeover.For Elop, the picture seems to be getting clearer: Nokia can survive, one way or another. In the mobile phone business these days, that counts as&nbsp;success.
A suspicious invitation to newly opened Pi'illo Island leads to Princess Peach's latest kidnapping, and it's up to gaming's most famous plumbers to save her – again. However, rather than the usual goomba-stomping platform adventures, the Mario &amp; Luigi series offers up lengthier, story-driven RPGs.Much like its predecessors, the script here is full of wit, lovingly mocking Mario's universe. While basic gameplay remains unchanged, guiding the brothers through top-down 3D worlds and engaging in turn-based battles,Dream Team Brosnow sees Mario diving into Luigi's dreams to rescue the trapped souls of the Pi'illo people and search for Peach. These side-scrolling sections let players tug on sleeping Luigi's face using the touchscreen to manipulate the dream world – the kind of bizarre idea at which Nintendo excels.It's implemented near-perfectly, too, providing clever puzzles with innovative solutions. Despite offering all the conventions of Japanese RPGs – from status-boosting equipment to side-quests for collectibles – this is decidedly entry-level with little challenge, but the charm, humour and quirky dream world all make up for it.
Beneath the grimy, gore-slick surface of this pixelated brand of retro carnage lies – surprisingly – one of the most intelligent approaches to storytelling modern gaming has seen. Set in 1989, with visuals to match, you might be playing a nameless criminal errand boy. Or you may be a deranged sociopath, manifesting divergent personalities through disturbing animal masks. The truth of what's really occurring is left largely to your interpretation.However, the glorified violence and heady narrative pale before the compulsive gameplay. Missions almost uniformly consist of wiping out conclaves of rival gangs, using an array of weapons, stealth and melee attacks. Your own deaths will be frequent, though instant restarts add a welcome "arcade" flair to gameplay, and the superior PlayStation controls improve handling and reduce frustration over mouse and keyboard. Equally, since play is ranked by style and brutality, there's ample incentive to come back for more, seeking new ways to clear rooms and up the all-important score. With crossplay functionality, allowing you to continue your PS3 game on the move with Vita, this is the definitiveHotline Miamiexperience.
Two years ago, when it was discovered that a US intelligence agency was pouring millions of dollars into a research project on "metaphor", some people thought it was a delayed April Fool's joke. This columnistbegged to differ, on the grounds that metaphors are the way that most of us make sense of the world, and if you want to monitor what people are thinking (or plotting), then understanding how metaphorical language works in different cultures might be really useful.What brings this to mind is afascinating blogpostby Perry Link on theNew York Review of Bookssite. It's headlined "Censoring the News Before It Happens" and it's about how the Chinese government "manages" the internet."Every day in China," writes Link, "hundreds of messages are sent from government offices to website editors around the country that say things like, 'Report on the new provincial budget tomorrow, but do not feature it on the front page, make no comparisons to earlier budgets, list no links, and say nothing that might raise questions'; 'Downplay stories on Kim Jong-un's facelift'; and 'Allow stories on deputy mayor Zhang's embezzlement but omit the comment boxes.'"Why, asks Link, "do censors not play it safe and immediately block anything that comes anywhere near offending Beijing? Why the modulation and the fine-tuning?"Why indeed? This is where metaphor comes in. Our view of Chinese internet censorship is shaped by one particular metaphor – "the great firewall of China". Actually, this is a metaphor inside a metaphor because the word "firewall"means different thingsto different people. To a builder, it's a wall or partition designed to inhibit or prevent the spread of fire. To a computer scientist, on the other hand, a firewall is a piece of software designed to prevent unauthorised or unwanted communications between computer networks or hosts: it decides what data packets are allowed in from the network, and what are allowed out, and it is in this sense that the "great firewall" is generally understood.To some extent, it's helpful. Firewall-type activity does indeed describe aspects of the Chinese approach to the internet. But it's been obvious for a while that the subtlety of the regime's approach to managing the network has gone way beyond the binary allow/disallow nature of the firewall metaphor. There are still occasional "completely and immediately delete" instructions to website editors, but because of the rapid growth of social media the Chinese have realised that blanket bans have become a kind of nuclear option and that a more graduated approach is required. "For sensitive topics on which central media have already said something," reports Link, "the instructions may say, 'Reprint Xinhua [the official Chinese news agency] but nothing more'. For topics that cannot be avoided because they are already being widely discussed, there are such options as 'mention without hyping'; 'publish but only under small headlines'; 'put only on back pages'; 'close the comment boxes'; and 'downplay as time passes'."We need different imagery to communicate the essence of this more sophisticated approach. Rebecca MacKinnon, one of the world's leading experts on "networked authoritarianism", suggests that a Chinese scholar, Li Yonggang of the University of Hong Kong, has come up with a better metaphor: the internet as waterworks. He thinks that theregime's efforts to deal with the internetcan be best described as a hydraulic project. Water, in this view, is both vital and dangerous: it has to be managed.In a blogpost about this approach, MacKinnon wrote: "If you approach internet management in this way, the system has two main roles: managing water flows and distribution so that everybody who needs some gets some, and managing droughts and floods – which if not managed well will endanger the government's power. It's a huge complex system with many moving parts … there's no way a government can have total control over water levels. Depending on the season, you allow water levels in your reservoir to be higher or lower … but you try to prevent levels from getting above a certain point or below a certain point, and if they do you have to take drastic measures to prevent complete chaos."Given that almost all of the ruling Chinese elite are engineers, you can see why this approach would make sense to them. It's both rational and feasible. And it provides such an instructive comparison with GCHQ, whose pet project for hoovering the network is codenamed – wait for it! – "Mastering the internet". Interesting metaphor that, eh?
It starts with a certain angle: a smartphone tilted at 45&nbsp;degrees just above your eyeline is generally deemed the most forgiving. Then a light source: the flattering beam of a backlit window or a&nbsp;bursting supernova of flash reflected in a bathroom mirror, as preparations are under way for a night out.The pose is important. Knowing self-awareness is conveyed by the slight raise of an eyebrow, the sideways smile that says you're not taking it too seriously. A doe-eyed stare and mussed-up hair denotes natural beauty, as if you've just woken up and can't help looking like this. Sexiness is suggested by sucked-in cheeks, pouting lips, a nonchalant cock of the head and a hint of bare flesh just below the clavicle. Snap!Afterwards, a flattering filter is applied. Outlines are blurred, colours are softened, a sepia tint soaks through to imply a simpler era of vinyl records and VW camper vans.All of this is the work of an instant. Then, with a single tap, you are ready to upload: toTwitter, toFacebook, toInstagram, each likeness accompanied by a self-referential hashtag. Your image is retweeted and tagged and shared. Your screen fills with thumbs-up signs and heart-shaped emoticons. You are "liked" several times over. You feel a shiver of – what, exactly? Approbation? Reassurance? Existential calm? Whatever it is, it's addictive. Soon, you repeat the whole process, trying out a different pose. Again and again, you offer yourself up for public consumption.This, then, is the selfie: the self-portrait of the digital age. We are all at it. Just type "selfie" into the Twitter search bar. Or take a look at Instagram, where over 90m photos are currently posted with the hashtag #me.Adolescent pop poppet Justin Bieberconstantly Tweets photos of himselfwith his shirt off to the shrieking delight of his huge online following. Rihanna has treated her fans toInstagrammedselfies of her enjoying the view at a strip club, of her buttocks barely concealed by a tiny denim thong and of her posing with two oversize cannabis joints while in Amsterdam. Reality TV starKim Kardashian oversharesto the extent that, in March, she posted a picture of her own face covered in blood after undergoing a so-called "vampire facial". In the same month, the selfie-obsessed model and actressKelly Brookbanned herself from posting any more of them (her willpower lasted two hours).A 'selfie' by Kelly Brook.The political classes have started doing it too. President Obama's daughters, Sasha and Malia,took selfies at his second inauguration. In June, Hillary Clinton got in on the act after her daughter, Chelsea, tweeteda joint picture of themtaken on her phone at arm's length. Earlier this month, three sisters from Nebraska stormed the field of a college baseball match andfilmed themselves while doing so, eventually being removed by security guards. Stills from the six-secondVinevideo clip became known as "the most expensive selfie of all time" after it emerged that the  sisters were facing a $1,500 fine.The trend has even reached outer space: in December, Japanese astronaut Aki Hoshide took what might be the greatest selfie of all time at the International Space Station. The&nbsp;resulting imageencompassed the sun, the Earth, two portions of a robotic arm, a spacesuit and the deep darkness of the infinite beyond."The selfie is revolutionising how we gather autobiographical information about ourselves and our friends," saysDr Mariann Hardey, a lecturer in marketing at Durham University who specialises in digital social networks. "It's about continuously rewriting yourself. It's an extension of our natural construction of self. It's about presenting yourself in the best way … [similar to] when women put on makeup or&nbsp;men who bodybuild to look a certain&nbsp;way: it's an aspect of performance that's about knowing yourself and being vulnerable."Although photographic self-portraits have been around since 1839, when daguerreotype pioneerRobert Corneliustook a picture of himself outside his family's store in Philadelphia (whether he had the help of an assistant is not known), it was not until the invention of the compact digital camera that the selfie boomed in popularity. There was some experimentation with the selfie in the 1970s – most notably by Andy Warhol – when the Polaroid camera came of age and freed amateur photographers from the tyranny of the darkroom. But film was expensive and it wasn't until the advent of digital that photographs became truly instantaneous.The fact that we no longer had to traipse to our local chemist to develop a roll of holiday snaps encouraged us to experiment – after all, on a digital camera, the image could be easily deleted if we didn't like the results. A selfie could be done with the timer button or simply by holding the camera at arm's length, if you didn't mind the looming tunnel of flesh dog-earing one corner of the image.As a result, images tagged as#selfiebegan appearing on the photo-sharing website Flickr as early as 2004. But it was the introduction of smartphones – mostcrucially the iPhone 4,which came along in 2010 with a front-facing camera – that made the selfie go viral. According to the latest annual Ofcom communications report, 60% of UK mobile phone users now own a smartphone and a recent survey of more than 800 teenagers by thePew Research Centrein America found that 91% posted photos of themselves online – up from 79% in 2006.Recently, the Chinese manufacturerHuawei unveiled plans for a new smartphone with "instant facial beauty support" softwarewhich reduces wrinkles and blends skin tone."A lot of the cameras on smartphones are incredibly good," says Michael Pritchard, the director general of theRoyal Photographic Society. "The rise of digital cameras and the iPhone coincided with the fact that there are a lot more single people around [than before]. The number of single-occupancy households is rising, more people are divorcing and living single lives and people go on holiday by themselves more and don't have anyone else to take the picture. That's one reason I take selfies: because I do actually want to record where I am."But if selfies are simply an exercise in recording private memories and charting the course of our lives, then why do we feel such a pressing need to share them with hundreds and thousands of friends and strangers online? To some, the selfie has become the ultimate symbol of the narcissistic age. Its instantaneous nature encourages superficiality – or so the argument goes. One of the possible side-effects has been that we care more than ever before about how we appear and, as a consequence, social acceptance comes only when the outside world accepts the way we look, rather than endorsing&nbsp;the work we do or the way we behave off-camera.The American writerJohn Paul Titlowhas described selfie-sharing as: "a high school popularity contest on digital steroids". Inan article published on the website ReadWriteearlier this year, Titlow argued that selfie users "are seeking some kind of approval from their peers and the larger community, which thanks to the internet is now effectively infinite".Indeed, although many people who post pictures of themselves on the internet do so in the belief that it will only ever be seen by their group of friends on any given social network, the truth is that the images can be viewed and used by other agencies. There are now entire porn sites devoted to the "amateur" naked selfie and concerns have recently been raised&nbsp;that jilted lovers can seek their revenge by making explicit images of their ex publicly available online.Aki Hoshide's outer space selfie. Photograph: APThe preponderance of young women posing for selfies in a state of undress is a potentially worrying issue. When themodel Cara DelevingneInstagrammed a picture of her nipples poking through a black lace top, it rapidly got over 60,000 "Likes".According toGail Dines, the author ofPornland: How Porn Has Hijacked Our Sexuality: "Because of porn culture, women have internalised that image of themselves. They self-objectify, which means they're actually&nbsp;doing to themselves what the male gaze does to them."Dines argues that although men can "gain visibility" in a variety of ways, for women the predominant way to get attention is "fuckability". And it is true that a lot of female selfie aficionados take their visual vernacular directly from pornography (unwittingly or otherwise): the pouting mouth, the pressed-together cleavage, the rumpled bedclothes in the background hinting at opportunity.But Rebecca Brown, a 23-year-old graduate trainee from Birmingham, believes her penchant for selfies is neither degrading nor narcissistic. Instead, she explains, it is a simple means of self-exploration."It's almost like a visual diary," she says. "I can look back and see what I looked like at a particular time, what I was wearing. It's exploring your identity in digital form. To me it's not about nudity or having a raunchy or raw kind of look… People think if you take pictures of yourself, you're self-obsessed but that's like saying if you write a diary or an autobiography, you're self-obsessed. Not necessarily. A selfie is a format and a platform to share who you are."Does she feed off the social approval that a selfie can generate?"I suppose you take photos to see what you look like," Brown concedes. "Before I go out, I'll take a couple of pictures almost to see how I look in other people's eyes. In the same way that if you wrote a really good piece of work and had people commenting about how good it was, or if you put something on Twitter that people retweeted, if people start liking your selfie, then obviously you're going to get a natural buzz. It gives you a nice boost and you can walk with that little bit more confidence."There is nothing new about this, of course. Human beings are social animals and have long been driven by the need for approval and self-affirmation – albeit on a smaller scale. The desire for a pictorial representation of the self goes all the way back to early handprint paintings on cave walls more than 4,000 years ago. In a fast-paced world of ever-changing technology, it could be argued that the selfie is simply a natural evolution of those hands dipped in paint."As with so many 'new trends', this one has a fairly distinguished prehistory," explains essayist and authorGeoff Dyer. "In 1925 DH&nbsp;Lawrence was bemoaning the way that 'each of us has a complete Kodak idea of himself'. This new phenomenon of the selfie has already been turned into a work of art which is also a sort of visual essay:Richard Misrach's11.21.11 5.40pmconsists of him taking a telephoto shot of a couple on a beach taking a picture of the sea. Then we zoom in closer and closer on each subsequent page until we are able to see the screen of their phone in which is revealed… a self-portrait."The popularity of the selfie is, says Mariann Hardey, "an extension of how we live and learn about each other" and a way of imparting necessary information about who we are. By way&nbsp;of an example, Hardey says that when her father died suddenly last&nbsp;year, she took refuge in her Instagram feed."I couldn't bear the conversations but one way to prove to friends that I was OK was to take a picture of myself," she says. "That revealed something very important to my friends – one, that&nbsp;I was still functioning and, two, I was out doing stuff. An image can convey more than words."The idea that young women are self-objectifying by posing semi-pornographically for selfies is, she believes, a dangerous one."When we're talking about what is acceptable for women in terms of constructing an image, we need to be very careful of not heading down into the territory of 'she was wearing a short skirt, so she was asking to be raped'. We should avoid that argument because it's probably an extension of more patriarchal demands.A 'selfie' by Hillary and Chelsea Clinton. Photograph: Chelsea Clinton/AP"Women should be allowed to portray themselves in a way they feel enhanced by. Who didn't experiment with cutting their hair off and dying it pink when they were younger? This is just a natural progression of experimenting with the changing interfaces of being young and one of these interfaces, yes, is sexual identity."A selfie can, in some respects, be a more authentic representation of beauty than other media images. In anarticle forPsychology Todaypublished earlier this year, Sarah J Gervais, an assistant professor of psychology, wrote that: "Instagram (and other social media) has allowed the public to&nbsp;reclaim&nbsp;photography as a source of empowerment… [it] offers a quiet resistance to the barrage of perfect images that we face each day. Rather than being bombarded with those creations… we can look through our Instagram feed and see images of real people – with beautiful diversity."Instagram also allows us the opportunity to see below the surface. We capture a glimpse into the makings&nbsp;of people's daily lives. We get&nbsp;a sense of those things that make the everyday extraordinary."The appeal for celebrities like Bieber, Kardashian et al is connected to this. The expansion of social networking has enabled them to communicate directly with their fanbase and to build up large, loyal followings among people who believe they are getting a real glimpse into the lives of the rich and famous."If you're going for a younger audience, you're expected to engage with every media channel available to you," says leading PR Mark Borkowski. "Every aspect of Rihanna's life is about her letting people in. Some people are very natural and normal about it and completely comfortable with being 'on' and that's fine. But it becomes unstuck if it's not real. A selfie has to be 'the real you'. It works if you can give people a manageable piece of reality which is who you are."The key is the idea of "manageable reality": celebrities can now exercise more control than ever over the dissemination of their image. The paradox at the heart of the selfie is that it masquerades as a "candid" shot, taken without access to airbrushing or post-production, but in fact, a carefully posed selfie, edited with all the right filters, is a far more appealing prospect than a snatched paparazzo shot taken from a deliberately unflattering angle."It's about self-exposure and control," says artistSimon Foxall, whose work questions the parameters of individuality and self-expression. "A selfie blurs the line between 'reality' and the performance of a fantasy self, so one collapses into the other."Beyond that, a judicious use of selfies can make good business sense too:Alexa ChungandFlorence Welchhave both used selfies to post daily updates on what they are wearing, thereby cementing their position as modern style icons and guaranteeing, no doubt, the continuation of a series of lucrative fashion deals. (Chung, for&nbsp;one, has designed a womenswear line for the fashion brand Madewell for&nbsp;the last three years.)The websiteWhat I Wore Todaybegan as a site that featured young entrepreneurPoppy Dinseyposing for a daily selfie, in a different outfit for every day of the year. It became an internet hit and has now expanded to allow users to upload their own images, as well as generating advertising revenue by featuring online links to clothing retailers.Poppy Dinsey began her fashion blog by using selfies."People like the control selfies give them," says Dinsey (pictured below). "Sometimes it's just a practical matter of not having anyone around to shoot you and that's why I always took my own pictures in mirrors for WIWT. But you're deciding how to frame yourself – you're not trusting someone else to make you look good. With front-facing cameras on iPhones, and so on, you can see the picture you're taking and frame it perfectly to show yourself off as best as possible – your mate isn't going to make the same effort when taking your picture. Plus, you can retake and retake without anyone having to know how much vanity has gone into that 'casual' pose."In some ways, of course, the notion of control is disingenuous: once a selfie is posted online, it is out there for public delectation. Future employers can see it. Marketers can use it. A resentful former lover could exploit it.You can use digital technology to manipulate your own image as much as you like. But the truth about selfies is that once they are online, you can never control how other people see you.
Ahoy there! This one is&nbsp;more of a&nbsp;boat than a car. A&nbsp;luxury barge, perhaps, likethe one that ferried the Queen down the river in that dismal nonevent last year. It's about the same size, too. Vast.On the outside, though, it's oddly inconspicuous – to the extent that we lost it in the car park at Brent Cross shopping centre. What colour was it? We couldn't remember. I'm all in favour of the non-ostentatious, but this may be going too far. If you spend very nearly 100 grand on your boat, you want it to be, if not flashy, then at least findable in the marina. Yes, £100,000. It is rather expensive – too&nbsp;expensive, you might even say.Inside, it's more flamboyant, more&nbsp;like an Abramovich super-yacht (I imagine) than a royal barge (ditto), with lots of cream leather and gadgets. Something – someone? – called the Climate Concierge uses infrared sensors to monitor the temperature of your face and adjusts the environment for optimum happiness. And if the silence of the Lexus glide needs breaking, a&nbsp;19-speaker Mark Levinson audio system will bathe you in sound. (No&nbsp;idea who Mark Levinson is. Maybe the Lord of Audio?)There's so much room, there's probably a muster point somewhere. Reclining rear seats warm or chill your arse as required, and massage it&nbsp;and your ego as you purr along. Spend an extra 10 grand on the Sexus-Lexus upgrade, and they will discretely perform unmentionable acts on you as well… Possibly. Anyway, you do disembark feeling relaxed, refreshed, rejuvenated.Actually, there's not so much room in the boot (hold?) as you might expect, on account of the electric motor and battery. Oh yes, it's a&nbsp;hybrid, albeit the most powerful hybrid you can buy – the five-litre V8 and electric motor combine to give an output of 439bhp that goes to all four wheels. And its fuel consumption and CO2emissions figures aren't really all that (hence the £450 tax disc). This is a vehicle for a fat cat who can afford to pay through the nose to seem a little bit&nbsp;green.To drive? Well, it's heavy – nearly two and a half tonnes – so it drives a&nbsp;bit like a boat, too. Best at low speed, cruising silently under electric power. It will go quickly, very quickly. Just make sure you anticipate changes of course in plenty of time, and keep a lookout. Especially in fog. For icebergs.To be honest, it probably has radar, too. And you don't really have to worry about that. Your driver does. You are a captain of industry. This car is one to be in the back of, relaxing, watching a film perhaps. Titanic? Possibly, though I&nbsp;was thinking more Master And Commander.Lexus LS 600h L PremierPrice£99,495Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62 mph in 6.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption (manufacturer's figure)32.8mpgCO2emissions199g/kmCool rating6/10Eco rating6/10
Although hard to verify, a recent post on notorious bulletin board 4chan was at least entertaining. The user set up aQuake 3server with 16 AI bots on it, and left it running in the background for four years. Because the bots learn to re-use successful tactics, he was intrigued to find out what they'd taught each other in the 35,000 hours they'd been at war and looked forward to SAS-grade competition. In fact, they weren't fighting at all. Instead they were standing peacefully, watching as he walked around each map. He managed to galvanise them into action by picking up a gun and shooting one, at which point they all clubbed together and killed him, despite being in an every-bot-for-itself deathmatch. Quake 3 bots took less than four years to discover what humanity has failed figure out in a fair few millennia. Now who said that gratuitously violent video games don't teach us anything?
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewProject X Zone is a strategy role-playing game that brings together characters from an assortment of Sega, Namco Bandai and Capcom franchises. That means you'll find Dead Rising's Frank West fighting alongside Virtua Fighter and Tekken characters. It's fun to see who's going to pop up next in the parade of cameos (although Bruno Delinger from the Japanese version of Dreamcast game Die Hard Arcade will conjure rose-tinted memories for relatively few) and the animations of its lightly tactical turn-based battles are amusingly spectacular. However, there's too little to do in fights and only poorly translated conversations for company.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to view"Don't be afraid of dying", Hotline Miami entreats when you start, and given the frequency with which you'll meet your demise, this is solid advice. You play a hitman in 80s Miami, whose job is to enter a succession of plan view locations in which he must kill everyone. The tools of his trade are guns, bats, knives and swing doors to slam would-be assailants to the ground before stamping their tiny pixelated heads off. It's brutal, but the 8-bit graphics and cheesy chip-tunes soundtrack prevent it from being horror porn, making it instead a game of skin-of-the-teeth victories in the face of overwhelming odds.
