Yes, and it's about time too. Weekend after next, after the throngs have recovered from Glastonbury, The Guardian and Intel are hostingSecondFestinside virtual world Second Life, a three-day music and performance festival chokka block with big name real-life bands and in-world talent.Headlining on the Main Stage are exclusive performances from Pet Shop Boys, New Young Pony Club, The Aliens and Hadouken, plus many others. On the Indie Stage are exclusive sets from Simian Mobile Disco, Hot Chip and Rob da Bank's Sunday Best. In the Dance Tents you can tune in to Gilles Peterson, Ninja Tunes and Journey Through the Light, and more. Secret stages host Ibiza-style chill out sets from Love Supreme and Sorcerer, among the rest.Second Life bands are strutting their stuff too, with two stages exclusively for in-world talent. Top names signed up include Slimwarrior, Clayton Road, Wiredaisies, Doubledown Tandino and Tony Moore. And the nice thing is, you can leave the music playing while you do something else. Like play a game. Or clean the house. You get to have a hot bath too.If you get bored and don't want to leave, there's plenty to explore around the 144 virtual acres of the festival. Catch the ballet or the theatre, blag your way into the VIP area to chat with the bands after their sets, get lost in the human maze and check out the exclusive game trailers and interactive stages with personal appearances by top-name clans. Over on the cinema screen, you can catch blockbusters, BBC shorts and a special machinima animation programme. There's plenty to see.Check outMySpace. If you're so inclined, you can sign up fortwits from the SecondFest feedtoo.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
According to Gamepolitics.com, Manhunt 2 has been given an AO - adults only - rating in the States, rather than the usual M (mature) rating which is non-prohibitive and acts merely as a guide for parents. Although this is technically the equivalent of our own 18 certificate, an AO rating spells commercial doom in America as the larger chainstores will refuse to stock the title.Publisher Take Two told the site:"Manhunt 2 was created for mature audiences and we strongly believe it should receive an M (Mature) rating, aligning it with similar content created in other forms of media. We are exploring our options with regard to the rating of Manhunt 2."If this is accurate, Take Two/Rockstar will surely have to consider the sense of releasing the game in its current form. Obviously, they'll still have online retailers and independent stores to channel the game through, but, as Gamepoltics.com points out, big superstore chains like Walmart account for 25% of game sales in the US - that's a hefty slice of the retail pie. And with other territories likely to take a similar stance to the UK and US, it seems Rockstar's willingness to court controversy may have backfired in quite spectacular style.In asubsequent post, Gamepoltics.com quotes omnipotent industry analyst Michael Pachter who reckons it may cost T2 half of its possible revenue from the game to make changes to the title and hope for re-classification.
I've spent the last two days taking part in afuture-gazing conference at Oxford. The purpose of the conference is to consider how technologies might develop and converge. How nano-technology, genomics, information technology and cognitive science might come together to drive the next rounds of technological developments and what are the social, economic, environmental and other implications.At the end of the conference, we're pulling together possible scenarios extrapolated from current events to help guide theThe Economic and Social Research Council. With limited budget and limited resources, what are the priorities for technological development? We created four visions of the future.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:future,technologytechnorati tags endThe world of GridlockIt is a world of competing world views and groups pitted against each other. Converging technologies have caused alignments of world views to come into a frozen and mutually dysfunctional equilibrium. It is a world of high competition, conflicting values and little co-operation.The headlines from the future. The group read out posts from the blogs of two young people born in 1985 - Joy Capulet and Ray Montague. (In fair Oxford, where we lay our scene...) Joy's parents work in nanotechnology and genetics. Ray's father is a QC, and her mother is an organic farmer and environmental campaigner. Joy and Ray fall in love, but the families have never been warm but civil and polite in deference to the children.At the wedding, Ray's parents raise a toast, but Joy's father says that future children will be great. "Just look at what memory pills and cognition pills have done for Joy!" The wedding breaks down into a riot.Joy and Ray soldier on in their marriage. Joy becomes pregnant, but the pregnancy is terminated early on because genetic screening shows that the embryo carries the gene for breast cancer, a cancer that killed her mother. But the abortion strains the marriage. The next baby is conceived in the Oxford genetics lab. Even before his birth, she calls the baby Adonis. But Ray believes that this is a 'Frankenstein baby'. Their marriage is further strained. Joy says:"Of course it's your sperm dear. Only better."Adonis born, beautiful, bright and already muscular. The baby shows signs of intelligence almost immediately. Adonis begins to talk at six months. Walks at 12 months. Reads soon after and declares: "War and peace a boring read."The traditional left-right alignments are re-organised but refrozen. The Capulets are the future 'enhanced' human beings. The Montagues represent the 'naturals'. They rarely talk to each other. It is a very scary world where you can start to see the outlines of speciation where more than one kind of human walks the earth.The competitive but regulated worldThis is a world where the regulations lag rapid innovation. The world is rapid in developing new technologies, but it's slow to learn from them. It has a lot of stop-start dynamics and reinforcing loops of behaviour. It returns to a question of how to regulate or manage what we don't know with uncertain developments in the future and also how to meet the challenges of globalisation.1) One of the stories from this future world was super babies. There are monthly revolutions in embryonic care so people are delaying pregnancy to get the latest in in-vitro genetic modification. Older parents are increasingly hiring nannies to take care of these super babies. One genetic modification causes the arrested development of children. Another genetic modification causes death of the children. The EU sues US companies over the development of the genes. Parents are outraged over a perceived lack of justice.Headline: Is genetic modification the new tobacco?Years later, new regulations come into place, and the parents of the dead or stunted children feel that justice has been served.2) Whose tubes are they anyway? China builds first nano-tube production plant in Kenya in 2010. WHO fears 'nano-Bhopal'. EU legislature calls for sound scientific review. China condemns international interference. Plant is on hold. 2012. Thousands of jobs in Kenya threatened by regulatory impasse. WTO and WHO have face-off in 2018. Regulatory agreement is reached, and The Economist headlines: The Rise of Nano-Africa.3) Climate Change. In 2010, BP backs biofuel centre at Stanford (which is actually happening, the speaker says). Post Kyoto turns in stalemate. In 2020, carbon reductions don't emerge. The Chinese government takes action as coal burning power plants drive health care cost crisis. They develop cheap wind power, but have no way to store power. In 2025, GMOs are developed to drive bio-fuel development. Nano-tech delivers better battery storage for China's wind power. By 2030, there is a dramatic decrease in carbon emissions.The open, dynamic, co-operative worldThis group was an attempt to show a fast-paced world with open sharing of information and dynamic public-private cooperation. (They later renamed this the 'heterarchy'.)1) Enhancements drive longer life. A public-private consortium comes together to discuss how to enhance and extend life. Initially, the sanctity of life is considered more important than lengthening life. But the public calls for life extension technologies to be developed. The work of life extension becomes open sourced, and it becomes a multi-trillion industry, with people living well into their 180s.2) Another possible scenario in this world is the development of a super-horse. There is a discussion of whether to develop such a horse, if it is fair. But the consortium to develop the horse says that they will donate the winnings to needy children. The six-legged horse of the future wins the Royal Ascot, and needy children win.3) This world is very connected and open. How do you manage under globalisation in a world filled with 'noise'. The logical, Enlightenment part of our brain cannot handle the noise. People are sensing their way through life, not just thinking our way through life. They can no longer handle the complexity. People begin to realise the power of this 'force' and focus onsynchronicity. A neural net, a non-technological human capability is developed to solve problems like climate change. Noise begins to build on the net initially. But converging technologies amplify 'signals' in the 'noise'. Global carbon emissions decrease. It is a connection of the human and the technological.The world of 'No Glue'This is hyper-competitive world where social connections fray. It's an extremely fluid and dynamic world. The roots of this begin in the late-1970s and early 1980s with something as innocuous as automatic direct debit. Bill payments and direct payments develop complex system. Initially, the systems just carried out your wishes, but the systems began to make decisions for you based on criteria. It caused highly complex, interdependent, fluid world. There is a high level of noise with very little 'signal'. Information bombards you, but it's unclear what is accurate.Second Life and other virtual worlds go through iterative, rapid development. Financial markets found the virtual currencies and virtual markets of the future virtual worlds so much more efficient and profitable that billions of dollars, euros, yen, etc poured into them. Companies also found the regulation couldn't keep pace. The Linden Dollar becomes a global exchange currency.News organisations were bought out by equity firms who used the news not to inform but simply to manipulate the virtual financial markets.Initially, carbon levels rise as new virtual worlds rose and old ones built out increasingly.China becomes the worlds 'matter compiler' and dominant manufacturer, but labour shifts from cheap labour market to cheap labour market until none exists. A true matter compiler is developed, and at least for the time being in the future, seven people in Luxembourg create all of the world's goods. The shift in production is expected to carry on, and already, people are looking for the next Luxembourg.Now, virtual worlds become so dominate that travel becomes less important. Richard Branson's travel empire collapses.Terrorism actually dies. No one cares enough to kill. High-intensity conflict ends but there is constant low-intensity conflict.Languages come and go. This week it's Minanadarin - or minimum Arab-Mandarin - an SMS based pidgin that rose out of the convergence of virtual worlds in the Middle East and China.The system never shuts down and indeed can never be shut down. It self-repairs. It replicates.Now, virtual identity is as important as offline identity. And one headline that we read in the future is a man is accused of murder for shutting off a server, therefore, killing thousands of virtual identities.This is a hyper-individual world where there are multiple identities in different worlds. Humans yearn for momentary belonging. Social connection is scarce, and there is a rise of hyper-egoism and distributed personal boundaries. It is a world, not of small pieces loosely joined, but rather 'mutually threatening pieces begrudgingly joined'.I was with the group that developed this scenario. As we brainstormed, we developed some trends and themes for this world. Click on the image to see themind mapof our scenario.These were just four scenarios that we envisioned. What do you think the world of the future will look like? If you're fatalistic about it, do you think anything can be done for a more positive future?
More than any other game in recent years, the launch of Katamari Damacy offered hope that the sequel-heavy interactive entertainment industry had some great new ideas rattling around amongst the hyperactive pinball machine of first person shooter-a-likes, tomb raider rip-offs and endless driving simulations. The Japanese title found its happy home on the Sony PlayStation brand and, thanks to its critical success on that mega-platform, opened the floodgates for more quirky titles available to the mainstream.But the tide has turned against Sony with anti-fanboys complaining about the lack of top titles in its library. While the Sony faithful are happy to lay out large amounts of cash for the console basedupon promises made for future releases, Namco is reportedly getting cold feet.Newsweekreports that more and more of their products are moving to the Microsoft Xbox 360, including Katamari, which is rumoured to be an exclusive on the powerful machine.I doubt this little niche game will draw too many potential consumers away from the PS3, but it may signal that the Microsoft produce, traditionally considered the "serious" gamers' console, is trying to lighten up it image. The new title is a relatively unknown entity, as the creator of the series, Keita Takahashi, is not involved in this latest iteration.But here's a question for a rainy Wednesday: What gameswouldmake you turn? Which series are you most faithful to? Resident Evil? Grand Theft Auto? Super Mario?
A computer game which uses the CCTV image of James Bulger being led away to his death from a Merseyside shopping centre has been withdrawn from sale in the UK after being condemned by his mother as "sick and hurtful".The image of the two-year old, which was seared into the public appears as a grainy visual clue in the game Law and Order: Double or Nothing.Denise Fergus, James's mother, called for all copies of the game, which is based on the US television drama Law and Order, to be scrapped. She also complained to its manufacturer, Global Software, demanding that the image be removed and appealed for anyone who owns the game to destroy it. "It dehumanises the memory of my lovely son I want it stopped immediately. What on earth were they thinking when they did this beggars belief," she said.Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, both 10, lured James from the New Strand Shopping Centre in Bootle, Merseyside, in February 1993 and walked him to a railway line before killing him. While the computer game was first published in 2003, Ms Fergus had only recently become aware of that the image had been used.Thompson and Venables spent eight years in youth custody after being convicted of the toddler's murder.
Ken Kutaragi's slow exit took another step today when he retired as Sony Computer Entertainment's chairman and group chief executive. Well, he is 56 years old....The AP reportsays: "Though no longer a board member, Kutaragi will hold an advisory post at the gaming unit, according to SCE official Sayoka Henmi."Kutaragi pursued the Cell processor/Blu-ray strategy for the PlayStation 3 that resulted in a very large, very expensive, relatively slow-selling and hefty loss-making games console. This might not have been such a problem if Nintendo hadn't come up with a very small, relatively cheap, fast-selling and very profitable alternative.
I don't like the look of Manhunt 2, but I'm not sure how comfortable I am with the BBFC's reasoning today. Greg has already quoted the board's concerns about the unremittingly bleak and sadistic tone. Sounds a lot like, oooh I don't know, Eli Roth's Hostel or the Saw series or Passion of the Christ or a dozen other 18 certificate movies of torture and transgression.Is it the interactivity that makes Manhunt 2 more potentially harmful than those cinematic examples? Not according to a major report released in April, which suggested that watching violence on TV could be more upsetting than playing violent video games. And which body published this report? The BBFC. (Morehere).Our board of film classification needs to provide specific instances of unacceptable violent content - as it would with movies. I can understand the reasoning behind the decision and I can understand Greg's argument - but, as with the Manchester Cathedral case, I feel there are preconceptions and prejudices - or fears of preconceptions and prejudices - working behind the scenes, perhaps unconsciously, perhaps not.Common sense exists somewhere between the guileless grindhouse mentality of Rockstar and the finger-wagging arch-conservatism of the tabloid press. But I'm not sure that sense is ever served by outright censorship. It's important to realise that disgust is transitory and open to historical ridicule. No doubt those who banned Fanny Hill or Lady Chatterley's Lover, or felt society would fall apart thanks to Romans in Britain or Cannibal Ferox felt that they were making timeless decisions. They were not.Update:here'sBBFC's justification for its ruling. Andhere'sRockstar's response. A snippet:"We are disappointed with the recent decision by the British Board of Film Classification to refuse classification of Manhunt 2. While we respect the authority of the classification board and will abide by the rules, we emphatically disagree with this particular decision.Manhunt 2 is an entertainment experience for fans of psychological thrillers and horror. The subject matter of this game is in line with other mainstream entertainment choices for adult consumers."
A violent video game with "an unrelenting focus on brutal slaying" has become the first to be banned in Britain for a decade.Manhunt 2, a sequel to the original and controversial game Manhunt, has been condemned by authorities for its "casual sadism" and "unremitting bleakness".The British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) rejected the game after finding it "constantly encourages visceral killing".The ruling means the game cannot be legally supplied anywhere in the UK.David Cooke, director of the BBFC, said: "Rejecting a work is a very serious action and one which we do not take lightly."Where possible we try to consider cuts or, in the case of games, modifications which remove the material which contravenes the board's published guidelines. In the case of Manhunt 2, this has not been possible."The original Manhunt game was given an 18 classification in 2003 and was later blamed for the murder of a 14-year-old boy.Stefan Pakeerah was stabbed and beaten to death in Leicester in February 2004 and his parents claimed the killer, Warren LeBlanc, 17, was inspired by the game.At the time, the BBFC described the game as being "at the very top end of what the board judged to be acceptable at that category".Mr Pakeerah's mother, Giselle, said today she was "absolutely elated" that the game had been banned."Manhunt represents a genre of games that are not, in my view and the views of many other people, fit for public consumption," she said."We have been campaigning against these games for a long time and the BBFC made the right decision. Why don't these companies invest their energies into creating material that is helpful to society?"Issuing a certificate to Manhunt 2 would risk the possibility of "unjustifiable harm" to adults and minors, the BBFC concluded."Manhunt 2 is distinguishable from recent high-end video games by its unremitting bleakness and callousness of tone in an overall game context which constantly encourages visceral killing with exceptionally little alleviation or distancing," said Mr Cooke."There is sustained and cumulative casual sadism in the way in which these killings are committed, and encouraged, in the game."The game's unrelenting focus on stalking and brutal slaying and the sheer lack of alternative pleasures on offer to the gamer, together with the different overall narrative context, contribute towards differentiating this submission from the original Manhunt game."Manhunt 2, made by Rockstar Games, is designed for PS2 and Nintendo Wii consoles. "To issue a certificate to Manhunt 2 on either platform would involve a range of unjustifiable harm risks within the terms of the Video Recordings Act," said Mr Cooke.Paul Jackson, director general of the Entertainment Leisure Software Publishers Association, which represents the computer and video games industry, said: "A decision from the BBFC such as this demonstrates that we have a games ratings system in the UK that is effective."Leicester MP Keith Vaz, who campaigned with Mrs Pakeerah against the sale of the game, said: "This is an excellent decision by the BBFC, showing that game publishers cannot expect to get interactive games where players take the part of killers engaged in 'casual sadism' and murder."Last week, Tony Blair spoke out against another violent video game, Resistance: Fall of Man, which features a shoot-out in Manchester cathedral.He said of the video game industry: "It's important that people understand there is a wider social responsibility as well as simply responsibility for profit."The last game to be refused classification was Carmageddon in 1997 but the BBFC's decision was later overturned on appeal.Rockstar Games now has six weeks to submit an appeal.
Today, Google is holding its first Press Day in Europe, and it's in Paris. It's not being webcast as not too many Americans watch them in their sleep, butGoogle Blogoscoped is blogging the event, with pictures.Apart from Eric Schmidt showing off his iPhone, the highlight:Marissa (Vice President Search Products &amp; User Experience) is expected to speak right about now. But asPiotrreports, "According to Murphy's law... we have a power outage and Marissa Mayer is doing her presentation without slides ;) WiFi is dead, waiting..." The air con's gone too. What happened was that someone knocked a table upstairs and some vases and glasses of water smashed. This made water come through the ceiling downstairs right above the stage!Jemima Kiss is blogging the eventon our Media blog, without pictures.
Despite being the first game in ten years to suffer this fatethe newsthat Manhunt 2 has been banned from sale in the UK isn't overly surprising. I've seen the game and it was ugly although the violence - syringes in eye, sledgehammers - is only part of it. Plenty of games get 18 certificates but very few of these are released for PS2 and Wii only - consoles that appeal to a younger age group. Maybe if it was coming out on PS3 and 360 it may have survived. Or maybe not.Manhunt 2 is distinguishable from recent high-end video games by its unremitting bleakness and callousness of tone in an overall game context which constantly encourages visceral killing with exceptionally little alleviation or distancing," said David Cooke, director of the BBFC.Chances are the ban will be front page news tomorrow, following soon after the Resistance cathedral "controversy". But while the Manchester thing was ridiculous the Manhunt ban makes sense. Forget all the guff about parents, in the real world Manhunt 2 would have been played by 10 year olds on their Wii. Imagine how long it would have taken for the usual media suspects to pick up on little Johnny's wiimote garroting pastime. Of course, there are obvious censorship worries and if the game was exclusive to, say, the PS3 then things would be different. But the BBFC don't act lightly and I think in this case they've got it right.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Back at the second day atOxford, pondering the future. We're starting off talking about things driving, guiding or possibly hindering future technological developments more in a political and social sense than in a scientific or a technological sense. The rise of China, the assessment of risk, different world views, the role of the media, privacy concerns all came up in the discussion. Some fear technological development, some embrace it. But what drives it?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:china,climatechange,future,globalisation,nanotechnology,technologytechnorati tags end1) Again, the message starts off with thoughts of a resurgent China, with the Middle Kingdom only taking a brief historical pause in its dominance (again echoes of Neal Stephenson'sDiamond Age).2) There is a brief mention of religion and the Enlightenment view that it is an illusion with no future. However, the speaker adds that there are issues of values and meaning that society still struggles with.3) Istheprecaution anti-science? Is it justifiable for untrained citizens to defy the consensus of trained scientists on issues of safety?4) Technology: Out of or in control? Technology has given us greater control over the conditions of life bringing greater health and safety to us all. Someone described our epoch as theAnthropocene era- the age where man has near total control, for good or for ill, over the planet. But some feel that development is going forward without democratic control.5) What's the problem? The assessment of risk. Manageable risk. Michael Crichton once wrote against technology but now writes against the "Green Statist Conspiracy" or in this blog post "The Great Green Power Grab". Crichton and his like-minded people believe there is no risk, or the risk is greatly over-stated. On the flip side, there is the view that the risk is not managed and that people are playing god for private profit.Another speaker said that other drivers based on interviews with people engaged in technological convergence included the role of the media, privacy concerns, the degree of change and the issues of a globalised market. How does the military and private sector drive innovation? What do societies expect from this change and how will people react?The last speaker kicking off the morning talked about the process of technological development. Looking to the past for lessons from the internal combustion engine or industrial scale agricultural, how do technologies develop? What can we learn about the economic, political and social processes?We are 'technologising' the human condition. We are 'technologisting' the environment from the macro all the way down to nano-scale.The last speaker talked again about social issues. How do we manage what we don't know? How we do manage the development of technology in a world of competing views? The four world views he saw were: Egalitarian, Competitive, Hierarchical and Fatalist. People have different goals, different conceptions of nature and society.Egalitarian view:They view nature as in a fragile balance, an easily disturbed equilibrium that once disturbed is irreversibly damaged. They counsel for moratorium. The economy is viewed as very forgiving. Holders of this view: Environmental groups.Competitive view:The opposite view is that nature is in a hard to disrupt equilibribum. This view counsels: 'Damn the torpedo'. The economy is so fragile that it cannot risked. Holders of this view: Industry.Hierarchical view:This mixes a bit of both models above. There is a point at which either the economy or nature can be disturbed past a catastrophic point, and to protect from catastrophe, things need to managed through regulation. Holders of this view: GovernmentFatalists:They view the outcomes as highly unpredictable and usually results in disruption for the fatalist. Holders of this view: Disenfranchised or non-represented groups.Someone mentioned that most people aren't thinking about this, with the possible exception of the sports pages. He mentioned the American baseball playerBarry Bondswho is about to break Hank Aaron's record for career home runs. There have been a lot of allegations that Bonds uses steroids. The commenter mentioned that for Americans, they woke up to a scientific threat from the Russians with Sputnik, and he suggested that Americans may wake up to a scientific challenge from China if in the2008 Beijing Olympics, Chinese athletes with 'necks like tree trunks' break records and also pass their doping tests.One thing that keeps coming up is the divide, or maybe disconnect is the better word, between members of the public and their various interests and scientific and technological changes. Someone mentioned that this might be down to science education. Few students see a future in science, said one conference attendee. Is science education and therefore, understanding, is lacking, how can public debates happen around science?Has politics falling behind with left-right dichotomies based on industrial models not modern models? Will the future political axes be optimists versus pessimists? Parties mean less. What will future political alignments mean for technological and scientific change?There was a question about ethics. Do we have the ethics that we deserve or the ethics that we need to deal with these issues? Ethics falls between the natural sciences and social sciences, and there is a tension between the natural and social sciences. Natural sciences view social sciences as too ambiguous, while social sciences view the natural sciences as too mechanistic.KantversusBentham.Well, it's not Kant versus Bentham but a negotiation between the two, the speaker says. How do we negotiate between the idea that there is a common and shared good and community based, individual rights that ought not to be abrogated?Challenges for the FutureIn discussions, the biggest challenges for the future and technological development were seen as:1) Managing what we don't know, or rather managing technological development when we can't be certain what the future will look like. There were questions as to whether government and enterprise were prepared for the future. "Are we dealing with 21st Century problems with 19th Century politics?"2) Changes in what it means to be human, or as it was put: "Who owns my bits?" Who owns DNA? If someone develops and sells a body enchancement?3) Globalisation. How to manage change with local, national and global concerns?What will drive the future?1) Globalisation,BRIC(Brazil, Russia, India, China) and emerging economies. Rising powers.2) Transformation of political divides with odd political bedfellows (alliances between left-leaning Green activists and conservative religious fundamentalists)3) Incommensurate world views.4) Competition - whether sport, economic or military5) Climate change6) Information sharing versus information hoarding. In that, there were discussions about intellectual property.
Some thrilling corporate moving and shaking to report this morning. Electronic Arts is re-organizing its business into four divisions: EA Sports, EA Games, EA Casual Entertainment and The Sims."The new structure is designed to streamline decision-making, improve global focus, and speed new ideas to the market," explains thepress release. Usually this type of reshuffle masks a few covert job losses, but reports in theNew York Timesand others suggest that no redundancies are involved.It's a measure of how important the Sims has become to EA that the 'franchise' gets a unit of its own. Now, the team, led by label President Nancy Smith, can belt out add-ons, spin-offs and sequels without having to route these through the rest of the company for approval.We're also seeing the greater emphasis EA is putting on casual gaming. The company has its own online games service, Pogo, and last year started dealing more closely with the mobile entertainment sector, buying veteran publisher Jamdat and ending its development and distribution deals with UK mobile publisher I-Play in favour of greater in-house control. Clearly taking note of the Wii factor, the company is moving casual to its core, a move symbolised by the recentlyannouncedEA Playground title for Wii and DS, which offers a collection of simple children's games like swingball and dodgeball.EA is not alone in embracing casual gaming in this way. Ubisoft recentlyannounceda new selection of casual titles, including educational series My Coach. In the past, publishers have treated casual development as something of a sideline, putting most resources into kiddie movie tie-ins. Has Wii brought about this new 'casual and proud' philosophy or is this another sign that the industry is growing up and accepting that, hey, not all gamers are 14-year-olds with highly developed hand-eye coordination.
The marvellous whimsy ofWonderlandbrings news today of two new Nintendo DS handheld games that continue their pledge to attract new audiences to interactivity. While they may not appeal to the traditional hardcore elite, they are both extending what interactivity means and how it can be used in a playful way.Konami's skincare game challenges users to[mark] a target date such as a wedding in the software [so] DS users can get customized, daily skin care instructions in the run-up to the big day.How hilarious is that? What would be great is some kind of deal with scary Gillian McKeith, who'd terrify players into submission with her skincare eating tips. And while I've not played it (it's debatable whether it will arrive in Blighty - boo), I would hope that the design engineering will be more game-y than historical attempts at similar products.A commentator on Alice's article raises the bar even further by announcingSommelier DS, a product for wine lovers:Sim City DS producer Hiroshi Murakami said that it was his hope that people would spend the 2950 yen on Sommelier DS and then buy good wine instead of going directly to the cheap stuff.I'll add this to my wish list along with Cooking Mama and the other recipe game.I've got to hand it to Nintendo: they make it far more fun to learn to be the perfect housewife than any 1950s Father Knows Best or Donna Reed programmes ever did.
I've just had the most frustrating week of my life. My 2 year old - bless her - poked me in the eye and scratched my eyeball, which was as painful as it sounds. And it got worse. The nurse told me I needed to stay away from TVs and monitors for a week. The split second excitement at a few days off work was immediately tempered as the reality set in. Telly I can live without - though the final episodes of the Sopranos were temptingly available - but no gaming for a week? I'd love to say it was a welcome opportunity to rediscover my love of 18th century architecture. But I can't - it was horrible. The first day or so was ok. The cricket was on the radio and it was relatively sunny. But being at home, with the 360, PS3 and DS all tempting me with new releases, was worryingly frustrating. As the week wore on the eye got better and I sneakily watched some telly. But I resisted the more eye straining effort of gaming until last weekend when I finally relented and dug outOverlordfor the 360, my potential sleeper hit of the summer.Catching up on a week's gaming news has been fun too. No net access for a week meant my imagination had taken over - had Sony responded to the ridiculous Manchester incident by projecting the PS3 logo on Westminster cathedral? Had Rockstar announced GTA: Nursery in an attempt to join the casual gaming party? HadRed Octaneroped in Boards of Canada and Depeche Mode to help launch their new Synth Hero franchise? Had Sensible Soccer finally launched on Live? Sadly it ended up being just another gaming week, with the oddproduct announcementinterspersed withwishful thinking.But at least some good stuff is out or near release. Colin Mcrae DiRT is less of a game, but actually more enjoyable to play, than the gargantuan Forza 2. And, as mentioned earlier, Overlord - Pikmin meets Fable - is a real grower and offers some much needed variety to the cars, guns and sport that dominate the 360.There is still nothing worth buying a PS3 for though - unless you thinkSuper Stardust HDis worth 400 quid - and Singstar can't come soon enough. Anyone who played the tremendous Chronicles of Riddick on the original Xbox will have high hopes forStarbreeze Studioslatest project The Darkness, while I am looking forward to next-gen Harry Potter (the 360 needs more 3rd person action adventures). Yup, it's good to be back. What upcoming gaming goodie are you most looking forward to?
For those of an inquisitive disposition, Sweden has long been a paradise. Thanks to its long tradition of openness, tabloid journalists, employers and ordinary nosey parkers are legally able to access information on the salaries and tax bills of their fellow countrymen. But 241 years after its first freedom of information law, there are signs that Sweden is rediscovering a taste for privacy.A popular search website has shut down a facility which allowed Swedes to snoop on each others' salary information anonymously and free of charge, amid growing public disquiet and pressure from the authorities.The site, Ratsit.se, was set up last November offering instant searches of personal financial data. Simply by typing in a person's name, users were able to learn how much they earned, owed, had saved and paid in tax.Though the information was already publicly available, spying into your colleagues' and neighbours' finances had never been so easy. The site's popularity surged, with 610,000 of the country's 9 million people registering as users, leading regulators to express concern that the function was being abused and could encourage fraud.Hans Karlof, a lawyer at the Swedish data inspection board, said it had received "an avalanche" of complaints after the site's launch from people who felt the facility was being used unfairly."Your neighbour knows what you're making, your brother-in-law knows what you're making, and people around you can know whether you're on the records for outstanding payments. It's private and a bit embarrassing," he told Associated Press."I do think our service is justified, because things like wages should be transparent," said Ratsit's chief executive, Anders Johansson. "A lot of people use it to negotiate their pay."The national tax board's response was to threaten to supply tax information - which it is legally required to do - only in paper form, which would have increased the website's administrative costs.Ratsit had no option but to restrict the service; in the two weeks before the function was suspended last week, more than 2m credit searches were made.Information may now only be accessed after paying a fee of 15 kronor (&pound;1) for 10 searches.But what may serve as a deterrent to users is the fact that their checks are no longer anonymous: those being inquired about are emailed the details of the people doing the prying.
Yahoo has just announcedthatJerry Yang, co-founder of the company, is taking over the company, with Susan Decker (ad sales) leaping to president. Terry Semel, who has been CEO for the past six years, becomes non-executive chairman.Yahoo seems to have been in some turmoil following a reorganisation in December (seeYahoo faces an ordeal of dissent and defections). The month before that, an internal memo known as the Peanut Butter Manifesto was leaked to The Wall Street Journal. Basically, it seems the company had spread itself too thin....Jerry Yang has posted his views inMy new job, where he says:The time for me is right. The time is now. The Internet is still young, the opportunities ahead are tremendous, and I'm ready to rally our nearly 12,000 Yahoos around the world to help seize them.The return of Jerry Yang is not like the return of Steve Jobs to an almost busted Apple. Yang has never been away. Alternatively, they could try to getTim Koogleback (CEO from 1995-2001). He was good. Way back then, so was Yahoo.Charles Arthur adds:Terry Semel's fate was pretty much sealed with the fumbled introduction of Panama, Yahoo's new link-ads-and-searches system. John Gruber in late April said, linking to aValleywag comparison of Google's and Yahoo's quarterly revenue growth, "this is why I think Semel's goose is cooked".There was alsoWired's writeup of the mess- which appeared in the magazine in January, and begins memorably "Terry Semel was pissed." (As in annoyed.) Now, he's off to non-exec land - from which few return, at least in the same company.
Monday's (belated) edition of Chatterbox.
An internet service that caused a storm in Sweden by letting people snoop on each other's finances has been scaled back by regulators.The website, Ratsit.se, sparked controversy as soon as it was launched because it allowed users to perform anonymous, free credit checks and salary searches on any Swedish citizen. Within just a few clicks, nosy neighbours, business competitors and complete strangers were able to find out about each other's earnings and whether they had outstanding bills to be paid.The Ratsit system, which used a loophole in Swedish press freedom and financial transparency laws, was quickly adopted by inquiring members of the public, and now has more than 600,000 registered users. At its height, more than 50,000 credit checks were being performed every day in a country with a population of 9m.But while transparency laws regarding income are much broader in Sweden than in most other countries, the ease with which people could access personal information using the site provoked angry responses. A welter of complaints that the concept was being taken to extremes followed the launch in November last year."This type of access to financial information is in no way available in other countries like it is here," said Hans Karnlof, a lawyer with the Swedish Data Inspection Board."Visitors we've had from Ireland and Germany, for example, just drop their jaws when they hear about it."Earlier this month the authorities relented to pressure and decided to impose restrictions on the service to prevent it from being abused. Under the new rules, which were brought into operation last week, it will cost around 15 Swedish Krona (&#163;1) for the first 10 reports and a further 25 Krona (&#163;1.80) for each additional request.Crucially, the inspections are no longer anonymous, and the target will receive email notification explaining who has asked for access to their personal information."I do think our service is justified because things like wages should be transparent," said Anders Johansson, the chief executive of Ratsit. "A lot of people use it to negotiate their pay."In Britain there are some similar ways to access public information to learn about an individual's financial circumstances. For example, the Land Registry allows people to discover exactly how much their neighbour's house cost.But a spokeswoman for British data privacy watchdog, the Information Commissioner's Office, said a service like Ratsit would not be legal in Britain."It doesn't sound like it would be compliant with UK data protection laws," she said.
Wet hackers! Photograph:Chryson FlickrThis past weekend a couple of great events took place in London that I managed to drag myself along too. The first wasInteresting 2007, a smorgasbord of ideas that I've written abouton my own blogbecause it's not really techy. The other wasHackday, sponsored by Yahoo! and the BBC and held at Alexandra Palace. That certainly was (techy, I mean).On Saturday the palace was struck by lightning - twice, so I hear - and the roof suddenly opened, which left the poor hackers caught in a downpour (Simon Willisonthought it was a result of new product "Google Smite").But the concept was simple: get a bunch of geeks in a room, give them goodies and assistance from some of the people behind the Yahoo Developer Network and BBC Backstage, and let them build what they like.By the time I arrived on Sunday, there were many tired bodies around - but lots of hacking had taken place. A real mixed bag of fun, usefulness and silly ideas (remote control blimps, USB missile launchers and virtual submarines all made a showing) with the eventual winner turning out to be a phone-web synchronisation system.I'll try and put my thoughts together in a more cogent way shortly.
The last exercise of the day at thisfuture and converging technologies conferencein Oxford is what the headlines of the future will be 10 years from now or more. My group went straight for sci-fi with a headline that hopefully would feel comfortable in any cyberpunk novel.Non-soms drive African TigerOur idea is that an African country in 2030, in this case the Republican Emirate of Malawi, wanted to leapfrog the West in development and agreed to use a nano-bot modification that eliminated the need for sleep, allowing their people to work for 72 or more hours straight. It wasn't that they couldn't sleep, or were insomniacs. They physically (and hopefully psychologically and emotionally) didn't need sleep.Is this the end of the world as we know it? (UPDATE: Did no one see the hidden reference in the story? The clue sings.)Another group had a headline that I'm sure could be ripped from today's headlines straight out of Second Life.Divorce action for virtual infidelityWith sex dolls becoming more realistic (does that mean they will get headaches, someone asked), one could easily consider a future world where wives could sue for infidelity with an AI avatar. But in this case, the future headline writers weren't talking about infidelity with an avatar but rather a man with his ex-girlfriend using a SensaSuit™. The man claimed that he kept his relationship strictly virtual "out of respect for my marriage vows".Ok, here's your chance to pitch your sci-fi story. In 10-20 years, what do you think we'll be reading in the red tops or even the pink electronic paper of the FT.com?
This afternoon, IBM is releasing details of some research it has carried out into online games, specifically, how they can help users develop management and business skills. And you thought your addiction to WoW wasruiningyour job prospects...From an email sent out by IBM Corporate Communications this morning:"According to new IBM research which looked at technology, business and societal trends and issues, online videogames help people become better corporate leaders by fostering skills related to collaboration, self-organisation, risk-taking, openness, influence, and communications."And there's more..."Nearly half of gamers polled believe that game-playing has improved their real-world leadership capabilities. Three-quarters believe that the tools used in games to collaborate and connect can be applied to enhance leadership effectiveness for the globally integrated enterprise. That's because massively multiplayer online games enable thousands of players to interact, compete and collaborate with one another in real time. Players must make rapid-fire decisions based on multiple and constantly shifting inputs. Invariably, certain individuals emerge to set direction and shape the success of others. What's more, leadership is often temporal, quickly shifting from one person to another as the course of action dictates."So, guiding that pack of wood elves into a six-hour battle, wasn't just a total waste of time as your partner may well have suggested. It was a career move.Anyway, IBM has alterior motives here. The company is, of course, putting its processors at the centre of the online gaming revolution. "With game console manufacturers investing huge sums to create online communities around their games, we also want to emphasize that IBM is at the heart of gaming and supplies all the chips for the major gaming consoles. While each console takes a different approach to gaming, the "brains" of each system, or microchips, have been customized for each console manufacturer and manufactured by IBM," reminds IBM's email.This isn't IBM's only game-centered project. The company has announced its own management training sim, Innov8, due for release in September. As ecommercetimes.com explains in arecent article, "Designed to help tech managers better understand the roles of businesspeople, and vice versa, players go into a virtual business unit to test their hand at ventures such as redesigning a call center, opening a brokerage account or processing an insurance claim."And IBM isn't the only blue chip giant taking an interest in games. As the ecommercenews.com report continues:"McKinsey &amp; Co. is using video games to test recruits for leadership potential and assess their team-building style. Royal Philips Electronics and Johnson &amp; Johnson, meanwhile, are using multiplayer games to improve collaboration between far-flung divisions, as well as between managers and their overseas underlings."Okay, that's all interesting, but who is ready to stick MMORPGs on their CV under interests? Go on, it's probably more honest than 'fusion cookery', 'modern theatre' or 'pony trekking'.
And for whom? That is the question here atOxford for the afternoon. We have already thought about thefive biggest moments in science in technology, although it felt like the five most important in human development. I liked the comment from "countingcats" that the question should be the five biggest books in history.What are the five biggest challenges facing us in the future? Charles left a comment thinking it was energy. What challenges and for whom?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:future,technologytechnorati tags endWe talked about how the future is framed in political and media debates. I mentioned what happens when science and politics collides, which was a recurring theme during the day. How do we reach consensus on big issues and how do we act on issues that go beyond political cycles much less life cycles? The social and political issues are just as big as the science and technical issues. One of the participants felt that there were too many layers of management, that reach a point of dysfunctional equilibrium.One person in my group talked about how the public felt left out of discussions. But as one person in the discussion said, whether it's control by the state or the masses, 'each form of power has its own pathology'.How do we build feedback mechanisms so that the public feels involved in decision-making but that decisions still get made? Our table seemed to have more issues with the process than with scientific or technological issues such as climate change or energy scarcity.1) On the international level, we don't know how to integrate problems of domestic politics into international agreements. This is a problem for nation-states and their citizens.2) Industrial models of management are trying to manage post-industrial enterprises and institutions. This is a problem for all organisations and their employees.3) We need to integrate social sciences with each other.4) How do we get 'true stakeholder feedback and interaction'? This might be broad public input but also business, government, etc.5) We need to understand self-organising systems. This is a challenge for those who study such systems and also those who participate in them.In the broader discussions, people talked about the challenges of finding alternatives to fossil fuels and also providing clean drinking water to everyone. Another person raised the issue of how intellectual property was originally intended to get knowledge into the public sphere but now was being used to control knowledge in perpetuity.This is interesting. Another group discussed whether bottom-up processes can challenge top-down regulation? Top-down, slow, clunky bureaucracy, they say dismissively.Another group focused on responsibility. How do we regulate what we don't know? How do we build responsibility in this far reaching science? How do we re-invent representative democracy? They didn't feel that mass participation was the answer.Can the legion of amateurs trump hundreds of experts? The amazing thing is that Wikipedia is as good as it is, this participant says. (Andrew Keenwill probably strenuously disagree.) What does this bottom-up regime look like?What will drive these changes?That's the follow up question to the biggest challenges is what will drive the change.1) Human greed and ignorance, to start out on a pessimistic note.2) Climate change.3) Human ingenuity.4) Contention over dwindling natural resources.5) Easier to exchange information and collaborate. Someone brought up the intellectual property issue of ownership of information limiting sharing. Rights and intellectual property issues come up frequently.6) Fear of terrorism or violent conflict.
Konami has released new details and screenshots of Pro Evo 2008, due on PS3, Xbox 360 and super-powered PCs this Autumn. The biggest boast, predictably enough, is the re-worked AI, or 'proprietary adaptive AI system' according to the press release. It's called Teamvision and here's a bit more info from the release:"Unique to the Konami game, Teamvision is a sophisticated AI programming that learns and adapts according to an individual's style of play. As such, it will learn new ways to build attacks and to counter specific movements and previous attacking or defensive errors, ensuring games are more in line with the tactical but flowing nature of the real thing."I always thought that's what the PES AI wassupposedto have been doing all these years, but obviously I was mistaken. Still, it looks like I'm finally going to have to add to my two basic scoring tactics.Also in the 2008 edition - enhanced close-control, with new subtle moves to beat defenders, and better dribbling. Konami is also promising to improve the set-piece system, which is a relief as it's currently easier to flick a frozen pea through a Hula Hoop crisp suspended a quarter of a mile away around a slight corner, than it is to net from a PES free-kick. Or at least that's my experience.Finally, we're promised incredibly realistic facial animation thanks to the wonders of HD. Will we be able to lip-read what the players are saying to the ref - or for that matter, what they're whispering to each other in the game's touchingly homoerotic goal celebrations?The strange thing is, though, all these promises hardly matter. The audiences for PES and FIFA are so entrenched it'll take an almighty fumble of the ball by one of the competitors to convince fans to defect to the other. Frankly, I'll buy this even if they make 'Man Blue' as ineffectual and sluggish as they did last time. That's realism for you, I suppose.
My hopes were raised when I saw that the Mercury's Dean Takahashi (author of two books on the creation of the Xbox and Xbox 360) had postedA Q&amp;A with Todd Holmdahl, the hardware guy at Microsoft, about Xbox 360 failures.What a disappoiontment, and it's not Takahashi's fault. He asks questions umpteen ways, but Holmdahl just stonewalls. For a few examples:A: We don't disclose the actual number. A: We don't comment on that. A: We don't comment on that. A: We continue to redesign the box, continue to drive costs out. We don't talk about the specifics of it. A: We don't comment on what we're doing internally. A: We hold as confidential our production ramp. It's not something we talk about.One nugget is Holmdahl saying there were "no systematic issues" (perhaps meaningsystemic), but his basic message is:We're very proud of the box. We think the vast majority of people are having just a great experience. You look at the number of games they are buying, the number of accessories they are buying, the Live attach. They love the box. They continue to buy the box. That said, we take any customer issue very seriously. We continue to look into these things very deeply.I guess that will go down like a lead balloon with Xbox 360 owners who have problems, and points up the old message: If you're not going to answer the questions, don't do interviews.Takahashi says: "I think there are a lot more answers to discover to the questions that I posed to Holmdahl. We'll see if the real answers shake loose from other sources."
At this conference on thefuture and converged technology in Oxford, we were asked to think about five moments in history that have really driven technological convergence.Here is what I came up with another member of the group:1)Agriculture. I'm in the process of reading Jared Diamond'sGuns, Germs and Steel, an amazing book that covers a huge sweep of history. With agriculture and surplus food production, people are freed to pursue specialisation that includes everything from political systems to professional armies.2)Printing Press. It's simple but oh so critical with the sudden mass dissemination of knowledge.3)Healthcare as sciencewith the development of the disease model and the development of antibiotics all the way to the discovery of DNA.4)World War IIIt helped rally resources to develop or refine technologies including radar, computing, rocket science, the jet engine and atomic energy/weapons.5)InternetI guess it seems too obvious. But it has enabled so much else.It's really hard to come up with five. I am sure that you have your own ideas. I've gone more thematic. What do you think are the five most important technological and scientific moments? Development of the theory of relativity?Babbage's work?There was a huge range of suggestions from the the creation or writing to the rise or consciousness, with some more specific than others. One topic that keeps coming up is the (re-)emergence of China. China has many historical innovations with the development of gun power and the mass production of paper, and now, some people thought it was much more of a return to China's historical position as a power and a source of innovation. The last few hundred years with China seen as being behind the West might in the long scope of its history be seen as an aberration.Of the developments, there were questions of why there was little emphasis on political, economic or environmental issues. Why no mention of the development of money or banking? Someone mentioned European settlement of the Americas with the subsequent development of the stock market.
I'm speaking at a couple of games/virtual worlds events in London this week, which may (or may not) be of interest to readers of this blog. The first isScience in Virtual Worlds, happening tomorrow night, organised by the Royal Institute and taking place at the Apple Store on Regent Street:Online worlds are social spaces too, and that makes them attractive to social scientists. How do we develop meaningful relationships with people we've never seen or heard? How do those with autism or schizophrenia fare? Do gender roles or moral codes alter? How does information travel and how can there be economies, uprisings and fads? What are the ethics of studying the denizens of these worlds -- are they different from real world citizens? Join us at the Apple Store on Regent Street for a free event on how science is expanding into virtual life.Continuing with the online theme, I'm also speaking at the Science Museum and the Dana Centre'sWeb 2.0evening on Wednesday, where I'll be the solo games representative on an esteemed panel of social media types:Users now have the power to create, change and influence not only the web but the world. Will the likes of MySpace, Wikipedia and Secondlife change the way we live, have fun and do business? Is it really a whole new edition of the World Wide Web or just marketing hype? Talk about the future with experts.All are welcome! Check out Upcoming for more details.
Chad Hurley and Steven Chen. Photograph: Tony Avelar/APThe news went around last week thatYouTube was going to be testing out a sort of "video fingerprinting" systemin order to more effectively weed out copyright infringing things on the site. Sounded interesting, so last week I found out a little bit more about exactly how it was going to operate - and realised that nearly killed YouTube could end up being Google's crown jewel.Turns out that starting later this summer, YouTube is going to be using a system that examines frame-by-frame relationships and general pattern inside to determine a digital fingerprint from a piece of video. It can then compare and contrast that against other pieces of video on the site to see if they're breaking the law.The reasons for the move are clear - the words"one", "billion", "dollar" and "lawsuit"should give you a clue. They also said they'd been already been using audio fingerprinting fromAudible Magic- a subject of speculation for quite a while, but only recently confirmed. The idea was to increase and streamline the process of picking out content and taking it down, which is one of the things that Viacom got so antsy about.As well as being automated from Google's end of things, the advantage of this sort of matching (rather than say, digital watermarking) is that (a) that it can be used to isolate infringing material even when it's been disguised - so just because you add a couple of minutes to the first part of a video, you won't fool the bots. And (b) it can't really be stripped out - because it is spotting the relationships between the data, rather than using data itself.But I think it's worth considering what else this might mean. In the first instance, during these tests, we'll probably see video owners employing people to oversee the fingerprinting process. But as time goes on, broadcasters are clearly not going to want that to be the case: they're going to work out a way to pipe all of their fingerprints - or, more likely all of their video data - straight into Google's systems. What do I mean?Imagine, say, the BBC. It uses DMCA to take down material from time to time, and has a huge output of video across a number of mainstream TV channels in the UK, and several around the world. If it can simply send that video material to get processed through Google's immense data centres, it can let the machines work out the fingerprints, do the matching, run the takedown process... and hand over your entire catalogue to Google along the way. Google, if it has some kind of access to this immense database (even if it's unable to publish it) might be able to use it for other purposes - such as drastically improve video searching and its understanding of rich content. Proper deep searching and other such things surely wouldn't be far behind.If YouTube's fingerprinting method makes it past the testing stage, I'll be interested to know what the terms and conditions of using it are.
I'm at a conference in Oxford organised by the Economic &amp; Social Research Council trying to chart a direction for the future of research in the UK. The focus is converged technologies - say the implications of nano-technology on computer science, robotics or genomics orterascale computingon scientific research. Where should the UK focus its research efforts to be prepared for the future? If you've got ideas, I'll throw them into the mix here.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:future,genomics,Informationtechnology,nanotechnologytechnorati tags endWe were given some papers to read before we arrived, and it reminded me of reading a cyberpunk novel written by a public policy think tank. The papers talked about nanotechnology straight out ofNeal Stephenson's Diamond Ageor body enhancements out of William Gibson'sNeuromancer.The conference is under Chatham House rules so I can reflect the debates, but I can't attribute them to the participants. The participants come from the worlds of science, business and public policy. The technologies include nanotechnology, information technology, genomics,cognitive systemsand neuroscience to name a few.Our first task was to take a bunch of pictures and come up with an image of the future. The images include GM crops, Sony's robot dogs playing football, bacteriophages, weapons, cities, people. The group that I was in saw a lot of major themes including the rise of China. China will overtake the United States later this year as a producer of greenhouse gases, but China is also working tobuild six eco-cities. There was a view that China would become a net exporter not simply of cheap goods but also of innovation. The United States was cast as a declining power with as one of our group said 'a number of agendas', and Europe was seen as a driver for a green future. The military was seen as driver of technological development in the United States, and there were questions as to whether the military would become a similar driver in China.Another group looked to the 21st Century as the 'bio-century' with the development of biological and cognitive sciences.Another group talked about the invisibility of all of these scientific and technological trends and their convergence. Popular culture is drawing the public's attention away from the impact of these trends. There were discussions about access. Not everyone or every country will be able to afford this technological development.It reminds me of a corollary of Moore's Law, the commonly known law that says the number of transistors of doubles roughly every 18 months. But the development costs are increasing, which has led to major chip consortia in business. For instance the IBM-Toshiba-Sony alliance that led to thedevelopment of the Cell processor. Some of the development costs will require international cooperation, something that seems less likely considering global tensions of the moment.
Half of Britons cannot exist without email and 30- and 40-somethings are more reliant on it than teenagers, a survey reveals today.Among 25- to 34-year-olds, 50% felt they could not carry on without access to email, the ICM poll found. This age group was identified as the pioneer in using electronic communication to keep in touch with the office as well as friends.But contrary to expectations, the latest technologies have not been monopolised by the younger generation. Forty-one percent of teenagers admitted to relying on their email, whereas 44% of 35- to 44-year-olds said that their email was vital.More women than men would find it hard without email contact - 41% compared with 38%. The study, carried out for software company Nasstar, also revealed regional variations.Respondents in the south-east placed most importance on email access. Forty-three percent said they would struggle without it.But only 34% in Wales and the south- west relied on their email.Charles Black, Nasstar's chief executive, said: "The first wave was the mobile phone, and many of us would admit we rely on our mobile and can't remember how we ever survived without it."This poll shows that the next phase is the growth of mobile email."While teenagers are passionate about their mobile phones and texting in particular, the older generations are relying more and more on email because of its use in a business capacity."
Karen Lodrick "played cop" to bring the woman who had stolen her ID -- and ripped her off for about $9,000 -- to justice, according to a story in theSan Francisco Chronicle.Lodrick followed the woman on the streets of San Francisco while talking to the police on 911.On they went, pursuer and pursued. Onto and off of a bus, onto Franklin Street, up Page Street, around a corner. But as Lodrick turned into the 200 block of Fell Street, she again lost sight of [Maria] Nelson. A terrible sense of failure overcame her. She ran frantically through a darkened Walgreens parking garage and saw no one, all the time begging the 911 operator to hurry and get her a cop before it was too late.When Officer Rickey Terrell arrived a moment later -- about 45 minutes after the chase began -- he, too, searched the Walgreens garage. He found Nelson crouched behind a car smoking a cigarette in front of an emergency exit.Exciting stuff, but after plea-bargaining, it doesn't have a happy ending....
Sony has finally recognised that having its own music service -- serving up protected Sony Atrac music for Sony portable devices -- is not a winning strategy.According to paidcontent.org: "The Sony Connect experiment is about get, well, disconnected: it will be winding down its music and video services in the next couple of months, and focus on servicing the Playstation group on the technical needs."It adds that "The eBooks division will remain however, as it will be servicing Sony Reader product."We don't know what, if anything, is going to happen to the widely-unloved SonicStage software.
For a whole wee's posts on one page, clickhere
Audi S6 Quattro Auto&pound;55,375Miles per gallon:21Seats:5Good for:Go-gettersBad for:BedwettersI can't get comfortable. The sheets have wrapped themselves around my sweaty thighs like a vindictive dhoti. Then it happens again ... My arms rise up, fingers clenched. My left foot rocks up gently as my right presses down hard on the cold metal footboard. I'm driving, in bed. We've all relived conversations, events at work, first dates ... but driving? At least I have an excuse - the car I'm at the wheel of is Audi's breathtakingly supreme S6.From the outside it looks like so many other Audis. Immaculate, understated, a vehicle for those whose bank accounts are as overfed as foie-gras geese. Its grille-cum-goatee beard and the rimless lenses of its headlamps confirm your suspicion that all Audis are based on an identikit architect. But there is a hidden heft to the S6. It's wider, longer and lower than is usual. Look carefully and you'll spot further clues: there's the silvery V10 badges on its flanks, the strips of tiny lights in the front bumper and the four exhaust pipes at the back, all of which hint at the phenomenal power encased in its aluminium engine. You see, into this super-capable but slightly dull fat-cat's fleet car has been shoehorned the same flame-snorting engine that drives a Lamborghini Gallardo. This has created a family car which tops 62mph in five seconds. Hit the accelerator and your little darlings in the back seat will be choking on their dummies. There can't be a greater mismatch in the motoring world between performance and personality. It's like going to church for a snooze and discovering Mick Jagger's giving the sermon.One of the other things I do in bed - don't panic - is run through a list of dream cars, and slowly, thanks to this job, I've worked my way from Frog-Eyed Sprites through to Ferraris, but a Lamborghini has so far eluded me. So the chance to at least experience the legendary marque's engine, albeit in an Audi, is a step in the right direction.It's a V10 5.2-litre power unit. The S6 features a six-speed Tiptronic automatic transmission and Quattro four-wheel drive as standard. What does that mean? It means even someone with no driving prowess, who handles a gearstick as if it's a garden hoe and thinks the 'racing line' is a brand of clothing, can take the wheel of the S6 with total impunity and turn in a performance worthy of Lewis Hamilton. Of course, the rock-hard ride, essential to cope with all the power, doesn't suit everyone - my sister-in-law felt nauseous every time I pulled away.The S6 delivers all the gadgets and geegaws a top motor should. Many of which are routed through an easy-to-use Multi Media Interface system which controls everything from aircon to satnav to when you should next visit the dental hygienist. It's all sublimely flawless and, like the invisible service in a five-star restaurant, takes nothing away from the pleasure of consumption.As the bedroom clock ticks towards 3am, I turn off the ghost road I've been surging along, and at last, nod off at the wheel.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Colin McRae: DiRTPC, PS3, Xbox 360Codemasters' Colin McRae rally series has been unerringly reliable since birth and unlike the all but forgotten V-Rally or the increasingly irrelevant Sega Rally, its evolution has been an exemplar of steady improvement that's never seemed exploitative like, say, FIFA "Soccer" and its relentless sausage factory conveyor release schedule. True to form DiRT is a paragon of the upgrader's art, from the beautiful and functional menus and loading screens to the way your car's damage and level of filthiness reflect the mud you drive through and the roadside trees you accidentally kiss with your front bumper with fastidious accuracy. Car handling occupies the forgiving side of realism and never feels less than utterly involving in the game's predominantly A to B races through a variety of terrains and weather conditions. Unlike many of its peers DiRT gives a constant impression of the vast momentum 1,000kg of steel acquires when you put in a ridiculously large engine.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;35-&pound;50Calling All Cars!PS3With a modest library of decent if largely uninspiring titles to its name, PS3 is still struggling to find a good reason for you to buy one. With the forthcoming releases of Metal Gear Solid 4 and the wonderful looking LittleBigPlanet now slipping into next year, 2007 is looking like a barren tundra of ported games, also-rans and movie licences. Sony's downloadable titles have been an equally mixed bag, a situation unlikely to change thanks to Calling All Cars! Designer David Jaffe's game sees the return of dear old cel-shading and none too subtle chaotic play mechanics involving either ramming or blowing up other cars to retrieve a criminal, who must then be dropped off for increasing points at a series of decreasingly accessible prisons. Redolent of the appalling Fusion Frenzy as a single-player game, it's almost impossible to find any sort of rhythm or satisfaction among its marauding helter-skelter of fellow automotive bounty hunters. Witheringly poor.&#183;SCEA, via download
Adam Mapleson: gamer, Englishman, hero. Spotting a female security guard being robbed he intervened, getting shot in the chest for his trouble. Having saved her and following emergency hospital treatment, a few more facts have emerged about this have-a-go heavyweight. The 24-year-old's MySpace page supplies a list of interests that includes, "Half-Life 2, Counter Strike: Source, Neverwinter Nights, FEAR, Vampire Bloodlines, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, GTA: San Andreas, Prince Of Persia, Pro Evo Soccer 6, Madden 2007, UT2004, Dawn Of War and Mark Of Chaos", a reasonably clear indicator that he's a gamer. Will this mean headlines emphasising the positive influence games exert and how they contributed to the cat-like reflexes that allowed him to save a life? Or that the moral dilemmas faced daily in Oblivion helped prepare him to risk his neck defending a stranger?
MondayPS3 bites backManchester Cathedral smites SonyId reveals Tech 5 engineTuesdayMonkey Island 5?Game stories on Radio 4Teen defends PS3 with swordSim City gets socialWednesdayPlaying to learnCan videogames produce a 'Maus' moment?ThursdayWater Gun War LondonSony exec admits - the game's the thingFridayGames that aren'tWhat are your repetitive gaming errors?Apocalypse WoW?
Web design guru Jakob Nielsen has posted a Use-It column aboutChange vs. Stability in Web Usability Guidelines.The basic story is that "80% of Web usability insights from the 1990s are still current or potential problems today". In Jakob's view, of course.All this could be considered a response to some of theblogcrapthat followed an article about him onthe BBC News site, where he pointed out that many sites following the fashion for Web 2.0 "were neglecting some of the principles of good design and usability established over the last decade."It's true, of course -- but it's not what the blogosphere wants to hear.One of the interesting aspects to the story is the way Nielsen's research has expanded. As he says, "my very first study tested only 5 sites with 3 users". His 1999 book was based on "tests of about 100 websites with 200 users," while the current guidelines are based on testing 831 websites with 2,744 users in 16 countries.Obviously plenty of people disagree with Jakob based on exactly 0 studies of 0 sites. And if they just shout loudly enough, then they must be right....
We always get more letters and blog pingbacks than we have space for in print, so here's the full text of those we chose from. This week people were quick to praise the DVLA, but criticism goes on for Micro Bill Systems (MBS). And Fake Steve Jobs had some words for us too...BLOGGING IN IRANYou don't have to go to repressive regimes to find ways and means of censorship. It goes on here in a way that is far more subversive and painfully prolonged. Out here in the LB of Richmond upon Thames we have an independent community network with, for and by people in the local community. Now in its tenth year, Online Communities has 14 local portals and the objective has always been to regenerate community spirit and neighbourhood cohesion in lots of different ways. We also provide community web pages for all 54 of our councillors in Richmond upon Thames. What you may be interested to know is how opposed the local authority is to all that we do! Councillors do not use their community web pages; senior officers are opposed to Oncom; there has never been a bean for this unique, innovative local community network despite all the services the council benefits from. On the contrary, the local authority has done damaging things to our network and the volunteers who contribute, which is a long and disgraceful story that continues despite changed administrations. Not only is e-democracy an expensive lame joke as perpetrated by government national and local, it is not welcome - especially when it comes from those who know what they need: ordinary people in the communities. I believe there is a scandal here because it is all cynical lip service of the worst kind while those of us out here who persistently and doggedly continue to provide the means for genuine e-democracy are kicked and starved. We cannot last. There are forces against us. Jill Sanders, Oncom, London&gt;&gt; A question I wish I could ask Iranians: how much freedom of expression do you think a de facto theocracy could possibly *have*?http://cluebyfour.livejournal.com/354452.html&gt;&gt; [By demanding blogging registration] Iran rushes in... where China fears to tread.http://pintpundit.com/?p=116&gt;&gt; The Iranian government fears the people they rule and they should. The Iranian people yearn for freedom from oppression.http://www.liquidmatrix.org/blog/2007/06/07/irans-big-brother-for-bloggers/&gt;&gt; I know that a state where the religious police and morality squads and "Revolutionary Guards" can intrude into the personal lives of its citizens—and its American visitors—and haul them off to prison arbitrarily and on a whim is an evil, malicious, malignant one no matter what you call it and no matter where you stand on the issue of what the United States should do vis-a-vis Iran).http://how-infotaining.com/2007/06/07/censorship-is-evil/&gt;&gt; An interesting article that should make us all appreciate the freedom we have to express our opinions, thoughts and feelings on our blogs..http://rachelboyd.blogspot.com/2007/06/how-lucky-are-we.htmlADAPT OR DIE, MICROSOFTAll Microsoft has to do is wait about two years and just about everybody who doesn't have a Mac will have upgraded to Vista and Office 2007 as they buy new PCs. It's already starting to happen, whether we like it or not. Paul Donelson, Cass City, MissouriI would like to point out that there are a number of online/offline conversion tools which are growing increasingly more popular.http://www.docx2doc.com/http://docx-converter.comhttp://www.panergy-software.com/There all have their strengths and weaknesses. Dag-Oyvind Paulsen (no post town given)'We wouldn't tolerate it on web-pages now', you say. But the new Guardian front page crashes my wife's Windows 98 computer every time, while working slowly on my XP system. Maybe there aren't that many '98 computers still around, but it's a work computer and she can't get anything better. Should she tolerate this? David Garrick, Antalya, TurkeyWhat is going on is classic disruptive innovation. See the work of Clay Christensen et al at Harvard Business School. eg the book seeing what is next.http://www.seeingwhatsnext.com/book.htmlProducts like Google Apps and OpenOffice are good enough for a lot of people for whom office 97 is overkill never mind Office 2007. These people, many in developing countries, where there is a tightening of the law against piracy do not have the money or the need for MS Office and they are much greater in number than the current office user base. Both Google Apps and OpenOffice use the ISO 26300 Open Document standard which MS has fought tooth and nail to avoid - it wants to preserve a monopoly dependent on its proprietary data formats. Once the usage of ODF passes a certain critical point any lock in to MS Office will disappear because there are excellent .doc filters that are still being improved in OpenOffice and that is free to download. As MS loses its rate of revenue growth shareholder pressure will be to police piracy more aggressively and that will accelerate the great majority at the bottom of the economic heap to alternative web based and free products that will continue to get better and provide the facilities most people need. That will force MS Office into increasingly specialist markets where its complexity and high levels of integration and therefore dependence on other expensive technologies are of real benefit. This might take 3 years, 5 years or more to impact here in wealth UK - its already happening elsewhere but the long term outcome is inevitable and MS know it which is why they are delaying and obstructing things as far as possible in order to find time to develop a plan B. They don't seem to have managed to do this so far and given the uniqueness of the Windows/Office situation it might well be impossible. Ian Lynch, The Learning Machine Ltd, TamworthSECOND LIFE'S VOICEUmm. Dunno where you got your data, BUT... think about language issues. There are text translators. There are no voice translators. Dunno where you got your thoughts on the divisions, either. And frankly, the sex industry may collapse when it is revealed that most female avatars are... men. This is not an article that should be glossed over so readily. This is a deep topic, and it is worth more than a skim. Please do better. Nobody Fugazi (no post town given)STALKERIs Mr. Gambotto-Burke a complete berk or half a berk when he writes about the new video game S.T.A.L.K.E.R.? Obviously he is not aware that it is based on a book by Boris Narkady Stregatsky which was then made into a film by Andrey Tarkovski, the acclaimed Russian film director. I do not remember the uproar over either the book or the film since they preceded the Chernobyl accident. In fact, predicted it. "Players in S.T.A.L.K.E.R. aren't just watching or reading a "what if?" about one of the most contaminated areas on Earth; they're moving around in it and exploring it. What's more, S.T.A.L.K.E.R.'s Chernobyl now has to deal with the added stress of violent mutated wildlife, zombies and opportunistic militant treasure hunters. (Those at least are fantasy.)" Can you please explain the last comment, since there are many treasure hunters, and were also featured in the book and film. "Improbably, Chernobyl officials have been supportive." Wonder why now? Since Stregatsky and Tarkovski are legends in their mother country. "To many people's surprise," Grygorovych says: "We got nothing but support from the Chernobyl officials. We even have some game fans among the power plant administration. They really liked the ideas behind the game and the way the world of the zone looks. One of them became an instant game fan when he recognised his office in one of the early game trailers. People working in Chernobyl helped us with information, photos, documentaries ... without this the game wouldn't be as authentic and believable." Maybe you have to play the games and understand why they are made before making sweeping statements like the fact that people are "making fun" out of something. And pray tell, if something positive has come out of a disaster, and the locals like it you should not be so bloody PC. Try going to Chernobyl sometime. It would make a great location for a film. In fact you can rent Return Of The Living Dead 4 - Necropolis. It was shot there. here's the trailer...http://www.returnofthelivingdead4and5.com/movs/necropolis.htmlNikolai Galitzine (no post town given) [Alexander Gambotto-Burke and I discussed the relevance of theStrugatskynovel Roadside Picnic to the STALKER game before he wrote it. Other comments can be considered in the light of that fact. - Tech.Ed]DVLAI have twice renewed my car tax successfully online. The only problem I've ever encountered with the site was when the insurance company hadn't updated my records after a policy was renewed. Harriet Kinloch, BrightlingI renewed my road tax on line in 2 minutes, disc arrived in 2 days, no paperwork, no queuing at the post office - brilliant. Keith Walton, ShaftesburyMy experience is as follows: Early May, renewal notice arrives. 17th May, renew tax disc online in 30 seconds (can only be done within 15 days of expiry). 19th May, hard copy arrives in post! Roger Gittins, KidderminsterOkay - I renewed my road tax online on 19th May. It worked a treat, and I was highly entertained by the sheer comprehensiveness of the car makes available in the in the drop-down list. Surely at least some of the difficulties that people encounter are due to problems at their end of the connection? Graham Jump, Guildford.I have, two years running now. Completely trouble-free and very simple. Nick Penfold, BracknellI did; I logged on, I clicked, I got my new licence. Simple, quick and easy. What's all the fuss about? Chris Thomas, KenilworthI am glad to oblige and to confirm that my sanity is intact. In October 2006 I renewed my road tax via their website on my first attempt. I had no difficulty in following the process and would certainly use it again when my next renewal is due. I am using a PC with Windows XP (with all the updates) - nothing special about that. Harold Stern, EalingI have now renewed the road tax for three vehicles over the past nine months, two cars and one motorcycle, and have experienced no difficulties at all. Er.. there's not a lot more to say is there? For me the system worked well and quickly and the tax discs arrived in the post 3-4 days later. John Murphy, ChelmsfordI've done it the last two or three times I've needed to. It took about 30 seconds each time, and the disc arrived safely in the post a couple of days later. Frankly I don't see the problem. But then, when technology works as expected for a user, why would they shout it from the rooftops? Richard Lockwood, WellingboroughI used the DVLA website for the first time this year. Had the car MOT done, waited a couple of days for the data to get through the system then entered the details on the we site and three days later the Tax Disc appeared in the post. Seems OK to me. If only all the commercial sites were as efficient. Roger Sargent, LittleboroughAs a person who is wary of paying bills on line I decided to pay our car tax following instructions it took me only a few minuets to complete. In no time at all I received an email to say the disc would arrive in up to 5 days it took 2 days. I guess it was just my lucky day Marie Richardson, Nelson, LancashireI recently renewed my tax disc on the DVLA website - completed the online form Tuesday morning , disc arrived in the post on Thursday. Speaking to friends this experience is now very common - and , no , I don't work for the DVLA. John Norton, Little Neston , Cheshire.Sorry to be a bore, but I managed to pay my road tax in under 3 minutes on the DVLA website, from a Mac running OSX. Ben McPherson, LondonFor the last two years I've renewed via the DVLA web site. Input two 16-digit numbers and I got the tax disc next morning in the post. What's the problem? Ian McRobert, PeterboroughI can report that last month I renewed my road tax via the DVLA website and had no problems. My new tax disc arrived within two working days. Just to show that I am not always so successful, I have read several articles in recent weeks praising the detailed maps available viahttp://www.192.com/maps. I have had numerous attempts to look at the much-vaunted aerial photographs, and have decided that 10 minutes is quite long enough to look at a 'loading' motif and thus shall not bother to use that site again. Michael Teague, Bexhill-on-seaI am a 73 year old pensioner with an iMac. I have renewed my road tax via the DVLA website twice with no problems. I found it very easy and my tax disc arrived within 72 hours on both occasions. Harry Tasker, West SussexI can't even remember doing it, although I must have done because my tax disc is valid. Daniel Mudford, LondonBARBROOKThere are a number of very provocative and interesting ideas being proposed in this article - I have not read Barbrook's book yet. I agree with much of his underlying thesis of governments pushing a technological utopia. However, this has to be balanced with the many writers and prophets - the likes of Orwell, Huxley, Capek and P.K. Dick - presenting a future of technological dystopia. I have not done the survey but imagine that the dystopian vision is at least as prevalent as the utopian. I shall read the book before I say more. Professor Noel Sharkey, Sheffield University&gt;&gt; So we're never gonna be like the Jetsons?http://www.pinkplastik.com/2007/06/i-pledge-allegiance-to-technological.htmlFACEBOOK&gt;&gt; I get it now, though. Facebook allows you to build a network of existing (and new, I suppose) friends and get an idea of what they're doing, where they are, and who their friends are. Sure, these things can be done in other ways - postcards, emails, telephone calls or pints - but the site is particularly good at finding those you lost touch with for no particular reason.http://www.joeldown.org/oldjod/000325.php&gt;&gt; I suspect that almost all of the 'friends' on these sites are not ones that could be relied on for important purposes (getting job leads, borrowing $100, watching ones' kids while one went on a job interview, bringing you chicken soup when you're sick). I know these sites call them friends, and users call them friends, but (inverting an expression), just calling it a duck doesn't make it quack like a duck or walk like a duck.http://socialcapital.wordpress.com/2007/06/08/amassing-friends-collect-the-whole-set/GATES AND JOBS: FRIENDS?&gt;&gt; Author of this well-informed "insidery" article is one Charles Arthur. I've done some checking and nobody at Apple PR has ever heard of him. But I guess he really knows all about my relationship with the Beastmaster. Right. Charles, I'm afraid you've Dentoned this one bigtime.http://fakesteve.blogspot.com/2007/06/yep-bill-and-i-are-friends-for-sure.htmlLETTERS REVISITED2 comments regarding letters in this week's Inside IT. -I have used the DVLA online service for 2 years now with no problems at all. -Readers who would like house numbers indicated on maps should usehttp://www.viamichelin.com/viamichelin/gbr/dyn/controller/Maps#Ron Loewenbein, ElyMBS CONT'DIn response to your article May 31, 2007 "Legal wrangles over porn billing software", I would like to make the following comments: Micro Billing Systems may, or may not be operating within the law over their billing methods; clearly they are close to the border. As with other cases where supposed loopholes, or weak aspects in the law permit an individual, or organisation to extract money from the public by means that cause widespread concern, the authorities are slow to act decisively. Surely the purpose of the courts is to test doubtful issues, and it seems there is substantial enough doubt over Micro Billing Systems (MBS) methods for such a test to be carried out. Trading Standards, quite reasonably, have first attempted to gain the cooperation of MBS to moderate their behaviour, but faced with the obdurate stance of MBS, Trading Standards, and the Police for that matter, should not hesitate to take the matter before the courts. There is a case of substantial public interest to be tested. There are laws existing governing the behaviour of third parties who gain, or seek to gain access to someone's computer system. These laws were introduced some years ago to control hackers - at the time Prince Philip's personal files were hacked by a news hound - and, amongst other things, they make it unlawful for a third party to change or tamper with a computer system without express consent. Leaving aside the contractual legitimacy of the bills that MBS, or the clients of their system send to the public, I doubt if the software routines that the MBS billing system loads onto a member of the public's computer is with the recipients express consent. MBS claim that the public knowingly accepts the charges when entering web sites, but I have not heard that MBS seeks permission to download system modifying software that damages, or at least can cause denial of access, or disrupt a system. Without doubt, the public would not accept the download of such software if the implications were made clear : the Sale of Goods Act makes it a responsibility of a vendor to use his expert knowledge to provide goods or services to the reasonable expectation of a customer; such software could hardly be called a reasonable expectation. Through such software, MBS are taking it upon themselves to impose grossly disproportionate penalties for non payment of a bill, something that no court would do. In addition to complaints to Trading Standards, and perhaps the Police, the public can help to persuade MBS to curb their method, by withdrawing subscription from any organisation that uses MBS services, and make it clear to companies that intends to use MBS services that they will loose clients. Come on politicians, earn your money, and legislate to end the countless scams that are infesting IT. Cliff Card, Great Yarmouth.I know that their billing system is not illegal but are they allowed to interfere with your computer? I foolishly looked at one of porn sites so had no choice but to pay, but since then I've had no end of problems with my computer because of their dodgy software. Also why is it so difficult to remove their software even when your bill is cleared. Stuart Sands, StroudI read your article on MBS billing software with interest, and I would like to make the following comments. 1. You say - having spoken to the MD of MBS (!) - that it would appear to be very difficult to install this software without being aware of what you were entering into. As myself, and numerous other members of the PC Advisor forum will testify - this is absolute bunkum! I would suggest that upwards of 95% of the people receiving these bills were not aware they were entering into a contract of any sort. I will happily go through what I did step by step with you, if you want evidence to support that. Whether they should have known, by reading all the terms &amp; conditions - I can't say - but I don't see how it matters - the fact that most people don't know is evidence that the companies methods are underhand &amp; devious. 2. The tactic of disabling a PC - potentially getting someone fired from their job - or more seriously, preventing the emergency services from answering a call, or saving a life - is totally, ridiculously out of context - even if the bill were legitimate! On the PC Advisor forum, I use the following example : If you haven't paid the weekly milk bill - Can the milkman legitimately confiscate your car keys for 5 days? It's exactly the same scenario. 3. Many intelligent people, including lawyers &amp; particularly journalists appear to be being totally taken in by MBS's arguments - purely because they are very capable &amp; professional in their appearance. I have absolutely no doubt that in any definition of a fair society what MBS are doing is illegal - It's quite frustrating for those of us that have suffered at their hands, to read another article that fails to take a stand against this operation. Please don't let this subject drop - you will be rewarded in the end, when you force these scam artists out of business! Sean Taylor, TarporleyMAXIMUM RAMI understand why a 32-bit processor can address only 4GB of RAM. I accept (although I had never heard of it before), that certain hardware devices appropriate a range of RAM addresses for their sole use. However, if in a particular PC with 4GB RAM those devices need only, say, 500MB, why is there not 3.5GB available for applications? If those devices need 1.2GB, is the user left with 2.8GB or only 2GB? Ken Lee, Kidsgrove [It's only the RAM above 3GB that is affected by the MMIO effect, but the memory will in general take up to 1GB; but you'll always "see" 3GB. - Tech.Ed]
Pocketables.net reports that Taiwan's Compal is bringing out an ultramobile (above), which doesn't look that bad, but the report is headedCompal UMD sadly runs Windows CE 5.0.It's not the only example of a new CE machine. The same site has a story headedClearview XL43 calls itself world's smallest, most versatile UMPC, which also runs Windows CE, and there's the similarCowon Q5.The problem with these devices is that the idea has been tried and failed. The background is that after Windows took off in the early 1990s, Microsoft figured that the Intel x86 chip set would not go down to low end devices (too much power, too much heat, and too expensive). It sat down and created a whole new operating system -- Windows CE -- that initially didn't run on the x86 platform, but would make Windows-style software development available in the world of embedded processors. In other words, Consumer Electronics, even though Microsoft denies CE stands for that.Windows CE appeared a decade ago and was used in a wide range of products from PDAs (PocketPCs), games consoles (Sega Dreamcast) and mobile phones (eg HTC) to cars. However, the small format CE-based handheld and notebook computers -- such as theCompaq Aero 8000-- were never a success. The message from the marketplace seemed to be that users wanted to run full Windows software on notebooks, not the CE version.The latest industry effort, exemplified by Microsoft'sOrigami/UMPCproject, is to develop full Windows PCs with 7inch or smaller screens -- one of the markets for which CE was developed. This has been made possible by ultra-low-power versions of x86 chips fromVia Technologiesand Intel.These certainly reduce the problems with heat and power consumption, but manufacturers have yet to deliver attractive PC-based devices at CE-style prices. (Microsoft's Origami had nothing to do with pushing technology development, and everything to do with trying to create a Tablet PC form factor that could be sold for $500.)What could be happening now is that the UMPC push is giving CE-based devices another chance, with Compal's machine being one example.This time it could succeed for two reasons.First, it could be presented as a device that is scaled up, rather than scaled down.In other words, you can think of it as being a more powerful handheld computer/mobile device, rather than as a cut-down notebook PC. Some HTC products clearly fit into this category.Second, it's much more possible to work on the web today than it was in 1997, and this should make the operating system much less important. Instead of needing an x86 platform to carry around your desktop Windows applications, you just need to be able to access Web-based applications.This seems to me to be a pretty clear trend, and of course, Windows CE is far from being the only option. Symbian, Palm and Linux are among the options competing for the same space.Nobody knows how this particular round will turn out, but I'm not sure it matters. Users who want to run Web-apps will have more options, and users who want XP or Vista on the go will have more options. The Web-apps device isn't going away, because it's an extension of the mobile phone market. The ultramobile PC platform isn't going away because Windows dominates the desktop and notebook markets. Neither type of system has to stand on its own, so fans from both camps can happily choose whichever they like.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Is the end nigh for World of Warcraft? Okay, that's a little over-dramatic, but Wowinsider.com has apostwondering why so many people are leaving the game (according tostats compiled by warcraftrealms.com), only months after the Burning Crusade expansion. Strangely, numbers were climbing right up until the release of the powerful add-on.Comments below the piece come up with several suggestions. Some think it's to do with the arrival of summer, others that TBC made the game less accessible and friendly to casual users. There are also suggestions that this is a natural drop-off for a three-year-old old MMORPG.Are you still playing? If so, has TBC enhanced or reduced your experience?
There are some mistakes in life that we're pathologically incapable of not making. We're just doomed to repeat them again and again - even though we can see them coming. It's the same with videogames.I've been playing games for 25 years, yet there's still one or two bad habits I find almost impossible to break. I'm hoping you're the same. I'm willing to bet you are.So, following on from my question last week aboutgaming habits, what are your repetitive gaming errors, your Hamlet-like fatal flaws? Perhaps by talking about them, we can work outwhywe're trapped in this damaging cycle, like flies, banging our heads against a metaphorical window of gaming stupidity? Buzz, bash, buzz, bash....Here are four possibilities. Please add your own...The platform rushYou're in the middle of a tricky platforming manoeuvre - say, three pixel-perfect leaps, followed by a perfectly-timed jump over an enemy and then a rope swing onto a moving platform. You die somewhere in the middle, and, frustrated, re-start the level at turbo speed. Result? A series of idiotic and fatal errors on earlier, much easier puzzles. The red-mist descends like a Victorian smog, eventually rendering you incapable of navigating even the main menu screen.Key titlesSuper Mario Bros, Prince of Persia, etcThe startled rabbitThink of any online multiplayer FPS. You've been wandering alone for minutes when, finally, another player runs straight into your cross-hair. Amid the adrenaline explosion, with all those weird chemicals rushing into the deepest darkest primeval terror centre of your brain, you just stand there and shoot. He, of course, strafes and jumps around you like a skipping Elizabethan fop... but with a machine gun. Result? You re-spawn in a really bad mood.Key titlesQuake, Unreal Tournament, Counter Strike, Battlefield...Apex abuseYou're playing a grown-up racing sim, trying to make up ground with the pack leaders. Approaching a corner, youcouldsmoothly adopt the racing line, dab the brake and make a perfect arc around the apex. Or you could listen to that voice in your head - the one that's still playing coin-op racers from the mid-eighties - and keep the accelerator button jammed til the very last moment, hoping to power-slide you way through with no discernable loss of speed. Result... you watch those leaders disappear into the distance as you make sudden and meaningful contact with a crash barrier.Key titlesGran Turismo, Forza MotorsportMunitions miserThis one isn't really our fault. We're conditioned to save ammo in survival horror games, so many of us refuse to use our jucier weaponsno matter what, always expecting some nightmarish boss to turn up at any minute. So we struggle through level upon level with nothing more than a potato knife and deeply flawed hand-to-hand combat mechanic to protect us. Result? You finally meet an end-of-level boss and suddenly realise you have enough shotgun cartridges, silver Magnum bullets, frag grenades and tactical nuclear missiles not only to destroy him several times over, but also to set up your own military junta in a medium-sized African state.key titlesResident Evil 1-4
Call me a cynic if you like &ndash; but when a multi-millionaire entrepreneur professes to care little about money, it tends to ring alarm bells of scepticism.One such engagingly vague individual is Craig Newmark, the founder of the phenomenally successful website Craigslist, who can justifiably claim to be among the superstars of the Web 2.0 generation.For the uninitiated, Craigslist is, quite simply, a list; or a list of lists, divided into categories, for people who want to buy, sell, barter or give away goods and services.Be it a new sofa,a pet hamster cage, a set of vintagebaseball cards, or anantique Columbia phonographwith external horn it's available somewhere on Craigslist. So, incidentally, are all sorts of unspeakable carnal liaisons.Founded 12 years ago in San Francisco, Craigslist is now in 450 cities around the world and is used by more than 20 million people monthly.A shabbily clad, chatty character, Newmark is straight out of casting central for techy internet enthusiasts. In a talk to New York's Foreign Press Centre, he maintained that he wasn't too interested in maximising profits."When people ask how we intend to make more money out of the site, our answer is we don't care to," said Newmark. "That's not altruistic or noble &ndash; it's about knowing what our values are."Newmark works 50 hours a week on Craigslist, answering complaints from users personally. But he maintains that he has little idea how much cash it generates."I'm embarrassed to say I have no idea of our current numbers. I know we're doing okay &ndash; but not crazily okay," he said.Well, hmm. Could there be a hint of disingenuity here?Craigslist raises revenue by charging fees of $25 for job ads in six American cities &ndash; or $75 in San Francisco. Then there's a $10 fee for professional estate agents using the site to draw attention to their properties.It doesn't sound like it amounts to much &ndash; but it does. The site says it attracts 17m ads each month, or 204m annually, and Newmark mentioned that something approaching 1% of them are revenue-raising.By my reckoning, that means Craigslist generates between $20m and $50m annually. And with only 23 employees, its outgoings are minimal. In other words, Newmark's definition of "doing okay" is rather coy.When I put this estimate in an email to Newmark, he forwards it to his chief executive, Jim Buckmaster, who is solidly non-committal."We couldn't in good conscience recommend relying upon the figures you have mentioned (or any other publicly available figures for that matter) for the purpose of accurately estimating revenue," he says. Further discussion, he made clear, was not an option.Craigslist is at the centre of a revolution sweeping the advertising industry. It has shown that classified advertising can go free-of-charge, en masse, in the digital era. That's bad news for newspapers and magazines &ndash; although just how bad is not yet clear.Newmark is in no hurry to expand his offering. He maintains that there is little logic to Craigslist's international spread: "When Jim [Buckmaster] is in the mood, he looks at recent requests [from new cities] and takes a look at internet usage there."Whether he cares to admit it or not, Newmark is a very rich man. When the cash is rolling in at such a pace, why bother to rush ahead?Market moversYet more cheating at computer games by Wall Street's finest. A couple of weeks ago, the television channel CNBC revealed that its "million dollar challenge" stockpicking contest had been sullied by finalists fiddling their figures. Apparently, the problem was that canny contestants found a way to register trades after the market had closed &ndash; taking advantage of an already evident share price movement.Now the popular website TheStreet.com hasconfessed to a similar problemwith its amateur investment game, "Beat The Street".The stakes in these games are high &ndash; The Street is offering a maximum prize of $100,000 for contestants who choose stocks which soar into the stratosphere. But what next? A bribery scandal in the world of ludo?Bitching on the beachThere has been much mirth on Wall Street at a prominent hedge fund manager's spectacular sense of humour failure about ...a hedge.Jim Chanos, president of the investment management company Kynikos Associates, has lost his rag over the destruction of a leafy barrier along the edge of his beachfront estate in Long Island's exclusive East Hampton.The culprit, he says, is neighbour Marc Spilker &ndash; a managing director of Goldman Sachs, who was disgruntled about the width of a path to the ocean.For reasons best known to himself, Chanos decided to share his anger in an email to assorted Goldman Sachs honchos which quickly fell into the hands of the media."My outrage over this arbitrary and unilateral course of action is probably only exceeded by Mr/Mrs Spilker's sense of entitlement that the four-foot wide path to the beach (and specified in the local easement papers) 'was just not wide enough for us'," wrote Chanos. "I hope this is not a harbinger of how other Goldman senior executives may act when the markets become 'just not lucrative enough for us!"
There's a lot of post-modern self-analysis going on in the games development community at the moment. Perhaps it's because we're in the middle of that strange time of year that's after Easter and before Christmas (or Thanksgiving in the US), when releases are few and far between and pre-holiday crunches are still a distant nightmare. Perhaps it's because the industry as a whole and the employees individually are at that point their lifecycles where they are able to deconstruct the mechanics which characterise their art form, much as Bergman, De Mille and Welles did in the early days of cinema. Perhaps I'm just tapping into this undercurrent that's been flowing around my ankles unnoticed for a long time.But what I'm starting to wallow in is an increasingly active population that is trying to make games better by really taking apart what gamesare. Can there be, for example, a role playing game without the "treadmill" asRaph Koster puts it on his blog(who also sniffs it in the air), a board game without the board or an online game without the "spoon"?There are, of course, examples. Below are a few. Raph discusses some of the first category, focussing on the output of experiments in non-grind software:...people have made games without treadmills, and usually they fall into two broad categories.* Games of skill. The treadmill is usually defined as playing a game that requires minimal skill, doing a fairly repetitive task over and over again in order to receive arbitrary rewards and climb higher up a ladder. Effectively, the treadmill is designed to reward devotion; you cannot really fail at it if you just persist in whatever you are doing. Games of skill, such as a player-vs-player game of any sort, are usually not classified this way, because there's real odds of failure. * Gameless games, which are presented purely experientially; there's no rewards, no ladders to climb, and so on.In terms of the second category, my friendJimrecently introduced me to two "traditional" games which set out to break the rules, both created by Looney Labs, designers of one of my favourite party games,Werewolf.Fluxxis "the card game with ever-changing rules":When the game begins, the only rules are that you draw 1 card per turn and play 1 card per turn. But when you play a New Rule, these rules are either changed or added to. New Rules change the number of cards drawn and played per turn as well as the number of cards you are allowed to hold in your hand, the number of Keepers you can have, bonuses for players who have particular Keepers, and more.There are also blank cards, which allow the players to create their own rules as the game goes along.The other isIcehouse, a game "system" of plastic pyramids which can be used to play hundreds of different games. We played a version calledTreehouse. According to Jim, the developers actively set out to create something that was as un-game-y as possible, to completely strip it down to the basic ludology in order to see what happened. Thus, like a pack of playing cards, they created a blank slate that could be coloured in and improved upon by the players. They are creating, in essence, the template forludic spray.Finally, the creators of social virtual worlds are well aware of what happens when online products are released without an overarching storyline: enormous communities arise out of the platform to create their own emergent narratives and goal systems.Yet this self-analysis need not be motivated towards creating whole new genres. A greatgamasutrafeature by Harmonix (Guitar Hero) designer Chris Canfield seeks to muck around with the old standards in well-established genres in order to ensure the success of a product in an over-saturated area. By taking things out and putting new stuff in, you create a novel experience in a familiar setting.Perhaps this sense of self-understanding has arisen because games are an increasingly powerful playing card in the new interactivity across media and public participation. The playful web movement, characterised by socially-centred and creator-designed artefacts like ARGs, folksonomies, social networking, YouTube and other Web 2.0 applications - all aimed at developing community involvement and application stickiness - is increasingly turning to games people and asking for the secrets to their compelling content. With all these questions floating around from outsiders, is it not surprising that these issues, which have largely been ignored but replicated over the past several decades of commercial gaming, are starting to be the focus of real scrutiny and - dare I say it - play.The deeper down the rabbit hole they go, the more sheer variety of playful experiences we will all have, in ways that surely will confound our imaginations.
Flash aheadI am intrigued by last week's Newsbyte announcing 64GB Flash-based SSDs. Does this herald an era of laptops with no moving parts, greater longevity and longer battery operation?Red WintersJS:Possibly. You can already buy solid-state disks (SSDs) as drop-in replacements for conventional hard drives. The main problems are capacity and price. Dell started offering SanDisk's 32GB SSD in the US in April for its Latitude D420 ultra-portables and D620 ATG notebooks. (The Dell part number is 341-4872.) However, whereas an 80GB drive costs around $80 (&pound;40), Dell's 32GB SanDisk SSD costs $494, or $15.44 per gigabyte. Not many people want to add up to $500 to the cost of a notebook PC to get less storage space. SSDs will continue to get bigger and cheaper, but so will traditional hard drives.Look who's callingI run a pharmacy with a computer that is full of patients' records and telephone numbers. The computer is connected to a modem. Is there a program that will pull out the patient's name when they call me?Umesh G PatelJS:Trilogic UK, based in Bradford, sells a &pound;100 system,Look Who's Calling, but it may not be possible to connect the custom software with whatever database you are using. The system includes a modem, because yours is unlikely to work: both BT and the British cable companies invented their own caller ID systems that are incompatible with standard American modems. An alternative might beCaller Display for Windowsfrom Octopus Systems, which supplies its own caller-ID unit. The obsolete BT Callscape 100 and some others are mentioned in theCaller ID FAQ, updated in 2004, but many of the links no longer work. This seems to be an idea whose time has gone - or has been superseded by professional call management packages that work with a PABX. Has anyone out there got a better idea?Windows copy tipsI back up my documents by copying them to an external hard drive. For simplicity, I copy whole folders and replace what was there before, rather than try to pick out everything that's changed. Can Windows XP just copy things that have changed or are new?Dan PryceJS:You can do this from a command prompt using XP's built-inxcopy command, or the more powerfulXXCopy Freeware. Microsoft also offers a more powerful utility, Robocopy.exe, with server resource kits and Windows Vista. There's now Robocopy GUI to give it a friendly interface, but you must install the .Net Framework first, if it's not already installed. If you want to continue using Windows Explorer, you can select the most recent files if you sort them by clicking on the Date Modified heading. Also, when copying, you don't have to click confirmation for every file. Hold down the Shift key when you click and this will be applied to the whole batch. Otherwise, Centred System'sSecond Copywill do the copying for you automatically, on a continuous basis, for $29.95.Grokking GrokLoaderI discovered that I had GrokLoader on my PC. Spybot seemed to remove it, but the next time I ran Spybot, GrokLoader still appeared to be there.Tony FinneganJS:GrokLoader is most commonly installed with the Grokster filesharing program, so it's unwelcome but not particularly dangerous. Spybot Search &amp; Destroy (safer-networking.org) should be able to remove it, but you might need to run it from Safe Mode. If that doesn't work, then either AVG Anti-Spyware (formerly Ewido) or Microsoft's Defender should fix it. Check the results by using Panda's ActiveScan or Trend's Housecall online. When adware is installed by a "free" program, this can stop working when you remove the advertising component. Also, Grokster can install other adware programs, so removing GrokLoader doesn't guarantee your PC is clean.Backchat&middot;Anna Laws wanted a mobile phone for her granddad. Ian Thomson says he ended up with a Motorola RAZR for his 92-year-old father. "The keyboard is protected when it's closed so there's no need to lock it, it's easy to get into the address book, the flat keys are easy to use and the font is reasonably large and clear." Tim Pearce points to a US solution, "the Jitterbug phone made by Samsung (jitterbugdirect.com) especially for oldies", but it has its own network. Roger Bessent from the RNIB points out that the RNIB sells the Easy5 (which I mentioned) via its online shop for &pound;139.&middot;Trevor Watkins wanted a small device to give PowerPoint presentations when travelling. Jonathan Briggs says: "The palm-sized Grand EyeZup Pro pocket presenter (grandtec.com) reads fromFlash memory cards and outputs (via VGA, USB, S-Video etc) directly to a projector." Andy Monroe says it might be possible to use a smaller projector: "There are now several projectors not much bigger that a fag packet."
You may have missed the fact that Sony Computer Entertainment has set up anofficial blog. Various personnel within the company are giving it a bash, including CEO Jack Tretton, who, after a longish preamble, recognises that it's not all about technology or cutting edge audio visual capabilities or new HD formats - success in this industry is about games. Fromhis post:"We fully realize that past success is no guarantee of future success, but it does give you some perspective. We have to bring the games to market that will showcase what the PS3 can do and ultimately entertain you like no other games have. We need to provide proof of what the PS3 can do for you and work tirelessly to improve the value and justify your investment.At the end of the day, it's always been about the games. To push the boundaries of gaming beyond where they currently lie takes a great deal of risk. I think all the hardware manufacturers are doing that in some way. We could have easily produced PlayStation 2.5 at a slightly increased price over the older model, and driven some nice profits and marginal innovation for a few years but that's not how we got where we are today. You have to gamble and make major investments in the present that will pay dividends in the future."He goes on to point out that 15 Sony studios are releasing PS3 games this year and name checks the likes of Heavenly Sword, Drake's Fortune and Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction - all extremely promising titles but none of them really pushing the boundaries of gaming. Well, I suppose it depends on what you mean by 'pushing the boundaries' - is it adding one or two neat features we haven't seen before? Is it about incrementally better visuals, physics or AI? Or is it a radical new direction that expands the possibilities of game design in some fundamental way? It really ought to be the latter.Little Big Planet qualifies. SingStar PS3 maybe, thanks to its online component. The Agency? There are a lot of good games coming on PS3, but is good good enough? Does good mean ground-breaking? Boundary-pushing? Tretton needs to tell us more. He needs to tell ussomething.Still, a massive majority of the 260 or so comments have been positive so far. It's followed by a post on why PS3 is considered complicated to programme for. Hey, at least SCEA is addressing the real issues. It's the next step that's more difficult.
Another week, another public relations cluster bomb for Sony. The company has been accused of "desecration" by the Church of England thanks to the appearance of Manchester Cathedral in the PS3 shooter Resistance: Fall of Man, and is facing possible legal action. It's unlikely that the Church will succeed - according to lawyer Alex Chapman, a partner at Campbell Hooper, "section 62 of the copyright designs and patents act states that it is not an infringement of copyright to represent a public building in an artistic context. There may be a problem if there is some implication that the Church endorses Sony or something defamatory in the representation - such as the Church sanctioning the violence or if there were pole dancers or gambling depicted."Having played the game I can confirm that at no point do the alien invaders gyrate provocatively in the pulpit. Meanwhile, Sony Computer Entertainment's head of PR, David Wilson, said: "The lines of communication are now open with the Church", but wouldn't elaborate on an earlier statement that all necessary permissions were sought during the production of the game. One thing's for sure, the videogame industry has drifted back into the media spotlight - and for the wrong reasons. I can understand the Dean of Manchester Cathedral's reservations about the depiction of guns in a holy building. However, the Very Rev Rogers Govender lost me when he expressed concerns about the "different sorts of reality" offered by videogames - the youth of Manchester must indeed be in severe need of help if they are unable to tell the difference between real life and an alternative 1950s in which space monsters have conquered the planet.Critics must surely know that Resistance is hardly alone in its juxtaposition of earthly violence with grand religious architecture. From Victor Hugo's Hunchback of Notre Dame to Nicolas Roeg's adaptation of Don't Look Now and Richard Donner's The Omen, writers and filmmakers have used these looming gothic edifices to great effect.As videogames begin to explore themes more akin to movies and literature, social commentators are going to have to re-evaluate their responses to the medium. These sorts of conflicts will become more common as developers seek to exploit the capabilities of next-gen hardware by anchoring games in real-world settings.For years, the videogame industry has wanted to slip in beside Hollywood as a true cultural force. But there are prices to pay, financially, legally and morally. We are only just beginning to figure out what they are.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Today saw the end of a little piece of gaming history, as the Darling brothers -- Richard and David -- finally sold their remaining stake inCodemasters, one of the iconic British games companies of the past 30 years.The duo, and their dad Jim, finally flogged off the company to Balderton Capital, who had amassed a 70% share of Codemasters over the past two years. You can readsome of the details here:Benchmark Capital, the backer of social networking site Bebo, has bought out the co-founders of computer games group Codemasters, paving the way for a possible flotation of the creator of Colin McRae Rally and Maelstrom.(Just for the nit-pickers, Benchmark changed its name to Balderton this week)For those who don't know Codemasters, they were famous in the early days for their Spectrum titles such as the Dizzy series, and then followed that up with things like Micro Machines. These days it is home to Colin McRae, and the recently relaunched Sensible Soccer.So what's next for Codemasters? Well, as the article suggests, a stock market flotation looks likely, as well as a further push towards the big time -- moneybags bank Goldman Sachs has accumulated a war chest of £50 million for just such a purpose.Jack adds:You might have missed this becauseit's in our business section, but Richard and David Darling have sold their remaining stake inCodemasters.The Darlings were our darlings in the 1980s. Two schoolboys started a Spectrum games company, working from home, and had a big hit with Richard'sBMX Simulator on the Commodore 64. More recently, the company has become better known for its Colin McRae rally series (though I always preferred TOCA).Codemasters hasn't done all that well by global standards, but the company still employs about 400 people in sunny Warwickshire. It's also one of the few successful British games companies not to be gobbled up by the French, or the much larger American companies such as Electronic Arts and Microsoft.I think the Guardian has generally under-reported Codemasters (except on our excellent Gamesblog) but it's not for want of trying -- for example, I've kept suggesting what a good idea it would be to interview the Darlings, and never managed it. However, I can still pass on acomment to Gamesblogthat gives you an idea what it was like. Andrew said:I remember visiting Codemasters HQ once, and seeing some of the testers playing Quake. "That's not a Codemasters game!" I exclaimed. "No," said the boss. "They're on lunch break."It was a lovely sunny day, too.[I don't know who started first but Bobbie was first to post!]
