I have received a press release from Konami announcing their new "free roaming crime based beat-em-up",Crime Life: Gang Wars. Ignoring the obvious GTA inspiration, the one thing that struck me about the release was this sentence: "Hip Hop is popular urban youth culture, closely associated with the style and fashions of Afro-American inner-city residents". Er, right, ok. I can't wait to read the press release this Autumn for Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer 5, which will hopefully contain similarly essential information. Maybe something like: "Association football is a popular sport played with a ball and enjoyed by gentleman worldwide".
This year's Consumer Electronics Show again showed an increased focus on women as gadget buyers. I wrote about it last week inOnline, and Business Week Online has also done a story,here. Unfortunately I didn't know about GadgeteersJulie Strietelmeier and Judie Hughesat the time or I'd have asked for their views.... or got them to write the article ;-)
Happy Valentine's Day, circa 1985. I remember it well. Cheersx-entertainment(viaboingboing) for celebrating today in game style.
"Verizon Communications on Monday said it would acquire long-distance telephone company MCI for $5.3 billion to accelerate its efforts to serve multinational corporations," reportsCNet.MCI will also pay a special dividend of $4.50 per share, or nearly $1.5 billion, bringing the total value for MCI shareholders to more than $6.7 billion. That special payout includes a quarterly dividend of 40 cents per share approved by the MCI board on Friday."
Microsoft and Flextronics have announced Peabody, a smartphone design based on Windows Mobile 2003 Second Edition (Windows CE) software.The phone "runs on GSM/GPRS/EDGE* networks, includes the Bluetooth short-range wireless technology built in, has a 1.9-inch display screen and weighs 100 grams, or 3.5 ounces" reportsInternational Herald Tribune. There's also aGuardianstory.Comment:Just to be clear, Microsoft is not making or selling any phones as a result of this deal. However, if you happen to own a mobile phone network, or similar, you can customise the Peabody design and pay Flextronics to make them for you. Microsoft will get a royalty on each handset.* As far as I know, the current Peabody does not support Edge networks: that support is still in development.
The videogame magazine business looks set to "consolidate" even further, with market uberlords Future Publishingtoday tabling a near £100million bidfor rivals Highbury House. Highbury, who publishGamesTM, amongst others, are said to be considering the offer. I've got nothing against Future, and some of their mags aredecent, but surely there needs to be some more competition in the gaming magazine market?
Oops, distracted by the love. Here's the week that was, last week.MondayPSP launch date falls back. Surprised?Unlock the Cell"Stop kids buying violent games," say sensible Americans. But can we trust them?TuesdayPolitical games journalismAn update on the $26,000 virtual propertySonic hits the topWednesdayRetro splatter: 20 classic games coming to mobileGames of shamePlayStation 3 comes earlyRising StandardsThursdayPoints make prizes for mobile gamersReviews this weekFridayHackers bewareXbox 2 for Christmas?Xbox 2iscoming for ChristmasClosed worldSundayImpossible Mission on your phone
Twelve months ago nattily dressed Glaswegian quartet Franz Ferdinand had broken into the mainstream as their second single Take Me Out charted in the top 10. Last week they were collecting Brit awards for the best rock act and the best British band, having garnered both critical and popular acclaim for their eponymous debut album.But Franz Ferdinand and their management attribute their success to more than sharp haircuts and songs. They believe that while their success is due to traditional marketing techniques that make a new band - slogging around toilet venues, relying on the build-up of industry word of mouth and plugging radio stations - it is also due in no small part to the internet.Since the web became a mass market phenomenon in the late 1990s, record labels have traditionally used it as just another marketing tool. For their biggest act they would build hugely expensive sites that acted as little more than moving billboards, leaving the community aspect to fan sites.Franz Ferdinand are one of a handful of a new wave of popular bands who have used the medium to bridge the gap between themselves and their fans. The likes of Radiohead started   the trend, allowing internet users to watch them in the studio and share their innermost thoughts via online diaries. Recently the Libertines, before their well-publicised split, and Franz Ferdinand have taken things a step further. They have regularly appeared on their own message boards, chatting indiscriminately to fans and posting diary entries and photos from wherever they are in the world using their own digital cameras, microphones and laptops. All have access to the site's content management system, making it easy for them to update it themselves.The diary entries from lead singer Alex Kapranos, by turns amusing and insightful, are written on the hoof, giving them the quality of a freewheeling blog. Detailing a recent trip to France for example, he writes: "We played the amphitheatre in Lyon with PJ Harvey tonight. It was more like PJ Proby for me, however, as I split my trousers on stage. I wasn't wearing underwear but it turned out not to be quite as tragic as it could have been," he writes, before going on to explain how a quick change and an extra long intro to the first song saved his blushes.This DIY ethic is something that sets the latest breed of net-savvy bands apart from their predecessors, according to Chris Hassell, new media director of DS Emotion, the company behind the   site. "In the past, perhaps it would have been seen as a bit geeky but I don't think that's the case now," he says.One of the reasons the latest tabloid misadventures of former Libertine Pete Doherty have come as little surprise to his fans is because he has been sharing his travails with them for years, via various websites.Hassell, who co-founded the Leeds-based web design agency seven years ago, says the band were heavily involved from the beginning. It was bass player Rob Hardy who noticed the work that the agency had done for another band and asked them to get involved. "They had a very clear idea what the site should like," he says, adding that they wanted the Bauhaus-inspired look that they used on their sleeve designs and videos to be reflected in the site."We're delighted with it. We gave them an aesthetic outline and they brought it into life. It's really easy to maintain," Kapranos recently told the Broadband Now site. "Bob's in charge of images and I write in the regular diary. I don't always have access to a PC. I try to update it whenever I can."On the thorny issue of illegal music downloading, which artists from Robbie Williams to Travis have been pilloried for endorsing, Kapranos risks encouraging the ire of his record company. "I've done it myself so I can't condemn others for doing it. It's a great way of trying out music and finding out new stuff. If you like and can buy it, you probably should though. But I don't want to dictate morals to other people. It's up to them to decide what they feel is right," he says.In terms of legal downloading, Hassell says that the online shop integrated into the site has allowed the band to release material that would otherwise go unheard. It's operated by recordstore.co.uk, like the web merchandising arms of many other big artists, and any sales through the site can count towards singles chart position. Such sales will become increasingly important as digital music players proliferate and the download chart is merged with the official singles chart later this year.The team behind the website, recently augmented by a full-time news editor, regular talk to all four members of the band, their management and their record label Domino to share ideas. "We know we can't compete with the fan sites in terms of the sheer amount of information on the band. They do that job very well. So we concentrated on things they can't do, like allowing fans to interact with the band."As the band is gearing up to record its second album, DS Emotion is also working on an overhaul of the website. There are plans to put webcams in the studio so that fans can watch the album's progress and to equip the band members with digital video cameras, which they will use to upload footage directly onto the site.&#183;www.franzferdinand.co.uk
Arriving just a little too late for my retro round-up earlier in the week, I've just received some screens and info on a mobile conversion of Impossible Mission, the fantastic EPYX platformer from 1984. Originally released on C64, the game had you infiltrating the robot-filled secret lair of mad scientist, Elvin Atombender, with just a few hours to stop the crazed genius from starting a nuclear war. Featuring smooth animation and perfectly designed locations it was one of the most satisfying and challenging platformers of all time.As you may just be able to make out from the tiny screenshot, US publisher Mforma has added more detail to the sparse environments, giving the game the look of a Mega Drive-era platform adventure. I'm not sure how I feel about this - like Paradroid, the original exhibited a refined visual economy - now it has more of a comic book look, complete with musclebound lead hero, replacing the lithe athletic secret agent of old.It seems the gameplay remains untouched however. Your job is to infiltrate 32 rooms and download pieces of a password from a series of terminals, then use the code to shut down Atombender's mainframe. The key element is - or at least itwas- learning the patrol patterns of the robots and timing all your movements accordingly. Absolutely gripping stuff.The mobile version is due out in March.Quick quiz: what did Elvin say in the famous speech sample at the beginning of the game...
The full extent of children's access to the latest technology can be revealed today with a remarkable survey which reveals that a quarter of children under eight have their own mobile phone, a third of children under 11 have DVD players in their bedrooms, and one in 10 have their own MP3 digital music players.The widespread use of mobiles by such young members of this new 'technological generation' will raise the most fears after fresh research suggested that using them can damage the brain and cause tumours.According to the new survey of school children in England, 24 per cent of seven and eight-year-olds now own a mobile phone, as do 13 per cent of five and six-year-olds.The findings, which have emerged from research into consumer trends among children aged five to 16, comes a month after the government's chief adviser on radiation warned that children under eight should not use mobiles. Electromagnetic radiation emitted by mobiles could harm boys and girls of that age because their skulls are thinner than adults' and their brains have not yet fully developed, Sir William Stewart, chairman of the National Radiological Protection Board, said.He advised parents not to give phones to children of that age, said that those aged eight to 14 should only use them sparingly and recommended that children used their mobiles for texting rather than talking.But new evidence collated by ChildWise, a market research agency specialising in young people, shows that large numbers of parents are ignoring that advice. Its survey of 1,200 pupils found that as many as 58 per cent of nine and 10-year-olds now have a phone, and that the figures rise to 89 per cent for those aged 11-12, 93 per cent among 13-14s and 95 per cent for 15 and 16-year-olds.The Monitor Winter report 2004/5 found that although sales of mobiles to young children had stalled in 2003, last year witnessed 'a significant increase in ownership of personal mobile phones among children, in contrast to the plateauing recorded over the past few years'. It found 'a significant growth among the lower age range' because of the popularity of text-messaging among young people and mobile phone companies offering cheaper handsets and low-cost pre-paid call packages.Among five to 10-year-olds, 31 per cent now have a mobile, compared with 22 per cent in 2001, and among those aged 11-16, it has grown from 77 per cent to 92 per cent in the same period, the research found. More girls than boys have one, reflecting girls' greater confidence in communicating at a young age, said researchers.The survey also reveals that large - and rapidly growing - numbers of children as young as five and six now have a whole array of technology, such as their own television, DVD player, video recorder and MP3 player. The number of children under 11 with a DVD in their room has soared from 4 per cent in 2000 to 34 per cent last year, while those with MP3 digital music players has risen from 1 per cent to 10 per cent in the same period.The psychologist Tom Stewart, an expert on how technology affects people, agreed that young people's increasing embrace of personal technology could lead to them getting insufficient exercise and becoming anti-social.But he welcomed the rapid spread of gadgetry among young people as proof that a generation is coming up which is 'techno-literate' and has skills that could make them more useful employees as adults.'Parental responsibility with this is vital,' Stewart said. 'The problem is that a lot of parents are opting out of their responsibilities to spend time with their children, because they are busy. So if there's a family computer, a parent should help their child with research on the internet together for schoolwork, for example.'Rosemary Duff, research director at ChildWise, said that while mastering gadgets could help young children learn better at school and become more discerning as consumers, it could also lead to them becoming increasingly 'isolated' from their family and peers.'Kids aged five to 10 are still becoming socialised, and family relationships could suffer,' said Duff. 'If they are in their own room all the time watching their TV or on their computer, rather than doing that with a parent or sibling, then that could be a bad thing because they are not getting the interaction they need with other people.'denis.campbell@observer.co.uk
"Game publisher Tecmo announced Wednesday that it has sued users of an Internet message board that distributes hacks for its games, including several that remove the bikinis from players in a popular volleyball game," reportsCNet."Tecmo's parent company won a similar case in Japan two years ago in which it sued distributors of a naked hack for the action game Dead or Alive II."Comment:"Hundreds of fanboys who lovingly created 'naked Lara' cheats for their Tomb Raiders are currently quaking under their duvets," according to Aleks Krotoski, who covered the story on ourGamesblog.
Dell's fourth quarter revenues grew 17% to $13.46 billion, compared with $11.51 billion in the same quarter last year. For the full year, revenues climbed to $49.2 billion, compared with $41.4 billion last year. Profits topped $3 billion. The numbers arehere.
The European commission and national regulators from the EU's 25 member states yesterday approved an explosion in cheap long-distance telephone calls over the internet in a drive to promote competition.The regulators, including the British watchdog Ofcom, agreed to apply a "light touch" to internet telephony in a clear effort to loosen the grip of incumbent operators such as BT and France T&#233;l&#233;com on the telephone market, especially for fixed-line calls."The European commission and national regulators will jointly ensure that throughout the EU the roll-out of new &#91;internet based&#93; services will not be hindered by regulatory hurdles," EU information society commissioner Viviane Reding said in a statement.The regulators said new entrants using voice over internet protocol, or VoIP, "could become serious competitors to vertically integrated incumbents", bringing more diverse and innovative services, in a radical change of the market.But they also acknowledged that established players, including the former and current state-owned groups, such as BT, "could continue to dominate the market due to their reputation, reliability, as well as their established customer base and ancillary services such as billing systems".Europe, including Britain, lags far behind Japan and the United States in developing the VoIP market, with one in 10 Japanese households or 4.9m using the service and 1m American homes wired up. There are 220,000 users in France, 110,000 in Germany and just 50,000 in Britain.US expatriates using a Californian provider in Belgium said they had monthly bills of just &euro;20 (&#163;13.80) - a fraction of the charges levied by state-owned Belgacom, the fixed-line operator.Senior commission officials said that, apart from widespread consumer ignorance, the new technology had failed to take off in Europe because only 6.5% of EU households were wired up to broadband internet services - compared with a target of 50% availability by 2010.At the same time incumbent operators retain around 85% of the fixed-line market, including in the UK, where competition was introduced 20 years ago.In new EU states in eastern Europe it is closer to 40% because of low usage and greater preponderance of mobile calls.The European Regulators Group said VoIP services had several "compelling" advantages, such as lower infrastructure deployment costs as well as a more efficient network utilisation.But it warned that incumbents - BT and Deutsche Telekom are already investing in VoIP - could use flat-rate tariffs and bundle broadband access with broadband data and/or IP-based voice services to ensure their continued domination. "It is impossible at this stage to predict what will happen in this increasingly volatile market."The regulators, who could be given new EU laws from next year to enforce greater competition and lower prices, made plain they would encourage number portability, enabling consumers to retain their telephone number when switching providers and gain access to geographic, mobile and corporate numbers.
A traditional phone call relies upon an end-to-end connection being made between two phones, the longer the "line" is kept open the more expensive the call gets.A call made over the internet, in contrast, does not create any such con nection that can be measured or charged. VoIP technology takes one caller's voice, cuts it up into small parcels of digital data and sends them on to the internet, just like an email or web page.Each packet of data carries with it details of its intended destination. When they arrive they are reassembled into the original voice message.A reply creates exactly the same process in the opposite direction. In this way two people with broadband internet connections, the same VoIP software and either a microphone on their computer or a telephone adaptor, can talk to one another for as long as they want "free".Services such as Skype, Vonage and BT Communicator have been available to download from the internet for some time, while several internet service providers, including AOL, are expected to launch services this yearMost VoIP providers also allow users to call traditional phone numbers and mobiles, but such calls are charged.Some services - such as Vonage - also allow customers to pick specific geographic phone numbers even though they live somewhere else. Such virtual phone numbers are often used by expats so their friends and family can call them for the price of a local call. It is possible because the VoIP phone number is attached to the user's computer not a specific phone line. That computer can be plugged into a broadband connection anywhere in the world and still have the same number.Internet calling is not, of course, free. Anyone using it still has to pay for a broadband internet connection.
HaloWhen games and films get together it's a deal all too often done in the accounts department. Street Fighter: The Movie, Super Mario Brothers and Resident Evil are all classic games and indescribably poor reasons to visit the cinema, but the rot works both ways: dismal tripe like The Matrix and recent Bond games show that software based on films also errs on the side of blundering wrong-headedness. Reports that Alex Garland, renowned gamer and writer of The Beach and the screenplay for 28 Days Later, may be involved with making Xbox's killer app Halo into a film can only be good news for fans of the franchise, many of whom found Halo 2's weirdly truncated aliens-invade-Earth "plot" rather light on comprehensibility.
Phantom BravePS2Phantom Brave has a number of unusual features: its hero dies in the opening cut scene; the dungeons you explore are randomly generated each time you visit one; everything from enemies to flowers can be used as weapons; and its sense of humour verges on the insane. From Nippon Ichi, the same stable as last year's superb and bizarre strategy game Disagaea, Phantom Brave shares its    open-ended, turn-based battles, offbeat plot and staggering complexity hidden beneath a freaky, playful exterior. If you like your gaming in small, bite-sized chunks Phantom Brave's habit of devouring whole afternoons may be unwelcome, but if you like strategy and have a few hours to spare, there's very little available on PS2 that can touch it.&#183;KOEI, £40Donkey Kong: Jungle BeatGamecubeLast year's release of Donkey Konga, a game about battering small barrel-shaped plastic bongos to cover versions of various pop favourites, was that rarity, a so-so first party release from Nintendo, normally champions of the strictest quality control. Donkey Kong: Jungle Beat is a return to Nintendo's usually dizzying levels of gaming joy. Mixing    platform jumping, boss fights and near-Viewtiful Joe-style fast- and slow-motion fights with the usual rhythm action makes for a frantic and surprisingly varied package that is controlled through hand claps and playing the bongos. Watching this activity is as near as video game play gets to spectator sport.&#183;Nintendo, £40 including bongos
Grrrr.... After the debacle that was Steam comesWorld of Warcraft. The game launched in Europe today and I've been trying to create an account for the last 5 hours - with no joy. The US launch was the mostsuccessful MMORPG launch ever. Unfortunately the developers Blizzard underestimated how popular their game would be and how busy the servers would get, resulting in severe lag and registration problems. Surely they wouldn't make the same mistake in Europe? 'Fraid so. Thereviewsand a play on the beta suggest the hassle will be worth it, but it is nonsense like this that helps keep online gaming in a ghetto.Sunday night update - got in late Friday and have played hours since. Highly addictive and worth the hassle.
Further to Greg's earlierpostand other gamesblogrumours,Gamesindustry.bizreports on what industry insiders have known for months: the Xbox 2 will be hitting the central London streets in "late October, early November". Those developers had better get busy finishing off their code; it's expected to be an unprecedented launch.
"With an interface that looks very close to the iTunes music store layout, MP3tunes is cheaper than its popular Apple competitor, selling songs at US$.88 each, or $8.88 per album. iTunes, as well as a number of other services, charges $.99 per song, and $9.99 for an album," reportsNewsFactor.com."But it is not in the dime-per-song savings that MP3tunes aims to set itself apart. The service does not utilize digital rights management (DRM) to limit song sharing. Although this might make MP3tunes a target of future litigation, founder Michael Robertson is ready for a fight, if it comes to that."Comment:Michael Robertson also launched MP3.com and Lindows/Linspire. And as the story notes: "As of its launch date, MP3tunes has not signed major record labels to the service, offering instead titles from independent record labels."
"Google Inc has made a proposal to host some of the content of the Wikimedia projects," says Wikimedia,here."The terms of the offer are currently being discussed by the board. The developer committee has been informed of some of the details via email. A private IRC meeting with Google is planned for March, 2005."
Xbox 2 - codenamed Xenon - is due out by the end of this year in the US and Europe according totoday's MCV. The games industry trade magazine reports that Microsoft are looking to gain a time advantage over Sony and the PlayStation 3. Xbox 2 was always likely this year in the US with EA having already announced "Xenon" versions of some franchise titles, but the big news is the plan for a near-simultaneous launch in Europe. Could European and US early-adopters be unwrapping Xbox 2's next Christmas? E3 in May will reveal the answer, though that won't stop the gossip.
Though he foresaw many ways in which Big Brother might watch us, even George Orwell never imagined that the authorities would keep a keen eye on your bin.Residents of Croydon, south London, have been told that   the microchips being inserted into their new wheely bins may well be adapted so that the council can judge whether they are producing too much rubbish.If the technology suggests that they are, errant residents may be visited by officials bearing advice on how they   might "manage their rubbish more effectively".In the shorter term the microchips will be used to tell council officers how many of the borough's 100,000 bins the refuse collectors have emptied and how many have been missed.While the move will be welcomed by environmentalists, it has sparked a row between the Labour-led council and Andrew Pelling, the Conservative who represents the area on the London assembly. He has tagged the microchips the "spy in your bin".Mr Pelling said: "The Stasi or the KGB could never have   dreamed of getting a spying device in every household."He said the technology might yield information which could be misused."If, for example, computer hackers broke in to the system, they could see sudden reductions in waste in specific households, suggesting the   owners were on holiday and the house vacant."But a spokesman for Croydon council said the fears were unjustified. "What we don't want is people putting into their wheely bins tins and glass and paper and textiles, all of which could go into recycling bins. It is the way forward for waste management. We are not the only council thinking about it."He said the microchips would help the council fend off unwarranted criticism."We will have a confident response to customers who claim their bin may not have been emptied," he added.
Games company Tecmo, publishers of the terribly tastefulDead or Alive Beach Volleyball, havefiled a suitunder theDigital Millennium Copyright Actagainst a website for distributing hacks. While the owner of Ninjahackers.netprotestshis innocence and ignorance of the illegal activity (the name alone should have tipped a few Feds off), he has been accused of allegedly allowing Xbox gamers to download nudie skins for the characters of the XBox title.Hundreds of fanboys who lovingly created "naked Lara" cheats for their Tomb Raiders are currently quaking under their duvets.
The flood of junk emails peddling "Viagra" could become a thing of the past after the drug maker Pfizer joined forces with Microsoft yesterday to file 17 lawsuits aimed at cracking down on spammers.The suits, filed in New York and Washington state, are targeted at operations selling cheaper "generic" versions of the impotence drug and other Pfizer products. The companies said fake Viagra ads now account for one in four spam messages.Brad Smith, Microsoft's legal counsel, described the actions as "another wake-up call to those who abuse the internet for illegal purposes".The companies said the action was the result of a seven month-long investigation into a number of websites advertising Viagra.The investigation began with the site CanadianPharmacy. The companies said that their inquiries had uncovered a surprisingly sophisticated global operation, with orders received in New York, sent to call centres in Canada and fulfilled from manufacturing plants in India that make the illegal and unregulated copies.Consumers are directed to one of many sites registered with the names and addresses of people not associated with the sites or the spammers.CanadianPharmacy masquerades as a legitimate online pharmacy, offering cheaper regulated Canadian drugs. The cost of prescription drugs in the US has soared, making American consumers easy prey. The site also offers other drugs, including Lipitor for high cholesterol and Valium for depression.Pfizer has filed suits against two sites, CanadianPharmacy and E-Phamarcy Direct, and actions against 10 other domain names using the Viagra brand. Microsoft filed civil actions against the spammers who send out junk emails to promote the sites.In addition, Microsoft is also pressing for action against three other spammers who advertise online pharmacies under various names, including Discount RX, Virtual RX, and EzyDrugStore.com. Microsoft said that together, the spam rings had sent out hundreds of millions of emails to Microsoft's MSN Hotmail customers during the past year alone.The suits are being filed under legislation introduced into the US in 2003 - the Can-Spam Act. The senders of the emails allegedly use illegal and deceptive advertising that violates the law. Attempts in Washington to stem the spam tide have yet to make an impact. Microsoft, America Online and EarthLink have filed dozens of suits under the law.
"Parents of elementary and middle school students in a small California town are protesting a tracking program their school recently launched, which requires students to wear identification badges embedded with radio frequency, or RFID, chips," reportsWired News."School superintendents struck a deal with a local maker of the technology last year to test the system to track attendance and weed out trespassers. But students and parents, who weren't told about the RFID chips until they complained, are upset over what they say are surreptitious tactics the school used to implement the program. They also question the ethics of a monetary deal the school made with the company to test and promote its product, using students as guinea pigs."
Blogger Mark Jen is no longer employeed by Google, reportsCNet:While details of Jen's departure are unclear, the newbie Googler ran into trouble at the company almost immediately when he decided to record his impressions of Google on a blog calledNinetyninezeros-- one zero short of the mathematical term known as a "googol."Jen began making entries in Ninetyninezeros on Jan. 17, and soon drew the notice of other bloggers. Curiosity spiked when the postings temporarily disappeared about a week later.Jen just joined Google from Microsoft, soCBS Marketwatchprovides the inevitable comment:"Bottom line: While Microsoft has shown itself to be tolerant and supportive of blogging by employees, Mark Jen apparently found his new bosses weren't quite so with it."Comment:We don't know why Jen was fired, but the story is being picked over atSlashdot, where someone has retrieved the missing comments from his posts from Bloglines.
There's a simian theme to thereviewsthis week. Donkey Kong is the star of the show, proving once again that we should think ourselves lucky that we'll only have to work to 94 (or thereabouts) to receive a decent pension. In videogame years (a bit likedog years, but with more pixels) Mr Kong has long qualified for pensionable status. But judging by the reviews there is life in the old ape yet. First up isKing of Swingon the Game Boy Advance, which Rhianna thankfully/sadly assures us does not involve, "suburban housewives in furry mules and M&amp;S negligees"...Rather this is a solid platform game despite occasionally causing some, "GBA Rage moments". The other Kong game isJungle Beat, the latest bongo game for the Gamecube. However, this isn't a rhythm game, but rather a platformer that uses the drums to move. Hit the left one to go left, clap to stun opponents - you get the idea. Despite some reservations over length Steve Boxer was positive. "Ultimately, it provides a burst of pure gaming joy" he said.Those indifferent to DK's charms will be interested in the final review -Shadow of Rome. This gladiatorial Roman romp is a mixed bag, with enjoyably gory combat interspersed with tedious stealth sections. But if you fancy dressing up as Russell Crowe and getting your toga bloody there is no better option on PS2.
What is the most popular financial website in Britain? A few years ago, the list was dominated by the big banks. Today, in yet more evidence of the extraordinary growth of eBay, the most visited financial site in Britain is PayPal, with five times more users than second-placed Lloydstsb.com.But what if your knowledge of finance is elementary at best, or you don't trust the information put out by banks and other corporates? The choice of sites is enormous but, sadly, volume triumphs over quality. Money is second only to sex in most people's preoccupations, so it is no surprise that finance followed pornography in the 1990s with an explosion of sites.But their recent history mirrors that of the dotcom boom; share-dealing noticeboards and chatrooms mushroomed in 1999-2000, as small investors swapped tips. Just a few years later, most have collapsed or fallen into disuse.The good news is that the market is broader and deeper. Early fears about the security of online banks have largely evaporated. Hacking is no longer the issue; instead, the dark side of finance on the web is the proliferation of phishing emails and fake websites luring the naive to give their financial details to fraudsters.Starting outPerhaps the most useful starting point for anyone navigating personal finance on the web iswww.find.co.uk. This site - it is an acronym for financial information directory - started in 1996 and remains the best click-through route to the major   money sites. It hosts links to all the obvious sites - loans, credit cards, car insurance etc, on a single screen.But it is also great at listing specialist services, from dealing in derivatives and warrants to finding insurance cover for an outsize caravan.Taking controlWhat if you need more general information about finance? You are buying a house and want to know more about the mortgage process, or are investing in shares for the first time?Unfortunately, there are few independent sites that offer free and up-to-date education in personal finance matters. Your best bet are newspaper-related sites; tryhttp://guardian.co.uk/moneyorwww.thisismoney.co.uk. Both offer an extensive library of guides and factsheets, plus searchable archives of recent articles.Other sources include Motley Fool atwww.fool.co.uk, and interactive investor atwww.iii.co.uk, although you'll have to wade past the "apply online now" product deals to find the useful general guides.Best buysOnce you have decided what sort of product you want, scores of comparison sites promise to find you the best deal. Perhaps the most reliable comes from the official market regulator, the Financial Services Authority atwww.fsa.gov.uk/consumer/compare.The FSA's tables compare similar products from various providers, including mortgages, savings accounts, unit trusts and pensions. It also offers a "shopping around" section arming you with the sort of questions you'll want to ask, plus a useful financial planning section.Equally well respected are the tables put together bywww.moneyfacts.co.uk, an independent data collector that supplies many of the "best buy" tables published in national newspapers. If it is a mortgage you are after,http://mortgages.charcolonline.co.uk/is an easy-to-use site with a variety of mortgage calculators and other tools.The most visited comparison site iswww.moneysupermarket.com, which is becoming a powerful force within the personal finance industry. Note, however, that it defines its best buys as the "most wanted" on the net, and critics accuse it of over-emphasising the deals on which it will earn click-through commission.Similar accusations bedevil the utility switching websites, which have branched out into finding users the "best buy" deals on credit cards and loans. Better instead to trywww.switchwithwhich.co.uk, run by the eponymous consumer magazine.Market dataFinding information on investments and tracking their performance is an area where the net excels. After a revamp late last year,www.londonstockexchange.com, the official website of the UK market, has emerged as one of the best, and it is (almost) free. It gives users share prices, at a 15-minute delay. You have to pay for a live feed. It offers detailed company financial information and share price data, and users can create and track the performance of a portfolio of up to 40 stocks.For information on unit trusts and investment trusts,trustnet.co.ukis not the most extensive (that belongs to Standard &amp; Poor's atwww.funds-sp.com) but it is by far the easiest to use. Its chief drawback is that some of the more esoteric funds are not listed on the site.The site atwww.citywire.co.ukhas a much-deserved reputation for share and fund information for the more frequent investor. A lot of it is free access, although you'll have to pay a subscription for premium services such as its share tips.Also worth trying iswww.fundsnetwork.co.uk. It is owned by Fidelity Investments but allows you to research and invest in 900 funds from 54 different providers.Need to know a currency exchange rate? Look no further thanhttp://xe.com, which offers instant conversions using live market rates across almost every conceivable currency, and all on the opening page.WeblogsIn truth, they don't really exist in personal finance. But the fastest-growing personal finance website of the past year has beenhttp://moneysavingexpert.com, run in a personal style by Martin Lewis. He is the personal finance pundit on shows such as ITV's Tonight with Trevor McDonald, and a phone-in expert on Radio 2's Jeremy Vine Show. Proud, he says, to be a "consumer terrorist", his website is littered with ways to screw finance companies before they screw you. One popular feature is his free, weekly "money saving tips" email, which goes to around 180,000 subscribers.
How clearly I remember the day we met, my BlackBerry and I. The company's "roll-out schedule" deemed that my tier of professional responsibility was to be able to dispatch emails from wherever I was. Emails which told the receiver they were "sent from my BlackBerry wireless handheld". No longer would I be the poor chump sat at my desk typing "sent from beneath a pile of discarded newspapers and spilt coffee" at the bottom of my insightful memo.This is the first beauty of the BlackBerry: there is an implied professional status in simply owning one. Now that every five-year-old can have a clamshell 3G videophone with chart-topping ringtone, what's left for the executive about town? The prosaic, sturdy, ever-so-slightly brick-like BlackBerry, that's what. More closely aligned to the 1980s mobile phone than the pieces of jewellery masquerading as telephony that adorn the waistbands of today's youth, the BlackBerry is a gadget uncompromisingly unpretty. This is not frivolity, it states, this is work. I am so important, so ear-bleedingly necessary that I eschew the slimline and beautiful in order to clamp this thing to my ear and check my email every other minute.First introduced in to this country from the US, naturally, in 2001, the BlackBerry's spread, in London at least, seemed to follow a specific early adopter pattern. First came the city boys. Their new device left them in constant contact with different timezones and, as an extra bonus, they got to view porn on the internet while actually in lapdancing bars. Next up came the media people with their compulsive need for new information of usually slight importance. Then there were those who really need to feel important (I'm thinking here of politicians). At the end of last year, it emerged that while Labour MPs were merely receiving a pager upgrade, the Tories, displaying their new cutting edge, were getting BlackBerries; around the same time the US house of representatives voted to give themselves 5,000 to ease the democratic process.As more people got their hands on the gizmos, so it became more attractive. Even in the world's least comfortable social position (alone at a party full of strangers), you are not alone. Not for you the hovering around the crisp bowl. You can be surfing the internet and even if you're not doing anything interesting, who's to know? You look important and, in turn, other guests will want to talk to you because you're the kind of person who warrants a BlackBerry. A win-win. Perhaps the definitive beauty of the BlackBerry is the ability to be everywhere at once. In the hairdressers? No one need know. Bit late this morning? Simply email from the bus. For the control freak or the perennially disorganised, the BlackBerry is a gift from God. Those of us who are both can never ever go back to normal life.And that's the problem. That's the moment at which it all starts to go horribly wrong; roughly two weeks into BlackBerry ownership. One minute it's all casual flicks of the new BlackBerry in hot new restaurants and the garnering of respect. Next it's the phase commonly identified as the crackberry period. This is where you can't put the damn thing down. You know you're in a crackberry place when there are no new emails when you pick it up. None. Not even one offering cut-price medication or a guaranteed new mortgage. If you can't keep away from it long enough to outpace the spam, then you have a problem.Why can't you put it down and walk away? This is the brilliance of the BlackBerry movement. The "tier-ed roll out" thing common to every organisation that gives BlackBerrys to its staff means that anyone who is likely to send you an email at 11pm or at the weekend is senior to you. And they know you've got a BlackBerry. If you don't respond swiftly then you don't care enough to check. Over a period of weeks, this can result in two symptoms: paranoia and obsessively speedy reactions.The culture of the company you work for has already changed at "higher tiers" without you realising, and now you are part of it. Decisions which used to take days, weeks even, are made in a couple of emails exchanged after 9pm at night or on Saturdays. I found myself recently responding to a very complex document sent on a weeknight with the apologetic message, "Can I come back to you tomorrow?" How ridiculous. Of course a few hours to think about something isn't excessive, what's changed is the expectation that we can all react as quickly as our technology can. Mark Bolland, the public relations expert who advises royals and businesses, offers explanation in a hastily dashed-off email: "I think BlackBerries encourage rushed judgments and often bad advice. I never advise clients by BlackBerry. And anyone who advises me so tends to bite the dust (lawyers, accountants etc)." I've cleaned up the typing by the way, a side effect of the BlackBerry is that your emails tend to be stupendously filled with errors.This, to my mind, is where Alastair Campbell has gone wrong. One hesitates, naturally, to diagnose someone as a control freak, but reports suggest that the former Labour press chief fits the bill. Some anecdotal evidence suggests that he is a "twitcher" who likes to check his machine constantly. As with all technological developments, familiarity breeds carelessness with appalling consequences.Those consequences will not have gone unnoticed by your partner. If the user's relationship with their gadget is intense, it is nothing compared to that of their beloved. Mild dislike will quickly escalate to active hatred, constant nagging whenever it is spotted and, commonly, utter contempt for the user's dependence. I have heard rumours, whispered stories, of gadgets meeting an untimely end at the hands of a jealous partner. I have had conversations about the cult activity of sneaking off to "er, have a bath" at the weekend in order to check the email without incurring their partner's wrath. As a further guide to etiquette, it is not acceptable to use the BlackBerry in the following circumstances: at a dining table, on a date, in the middle of a conversation, in the cinema or in bed. Urban legend has it that in December the banker Nicola Horlick, already revered as supermum for having children and a busy job, was spotted BlackBerrying during a carol service. I think church may also be out. Stelios "easyJet" Haji-Ioannou reputedly checks his emails before he gets out of bed in the morning. That cannot be popular at home.Despite BlackBerry hiring Jamelia as a front-woman and stories claiming Paris Hilton has one studded with rhinestones, this isn't a trend spreading out to the mass market any time soon. Especially not at between &#163;100 and &#163;200 per unit, plus contract. Essentially these are tragic status symbols that add little functionality to your life, cause domestic dispute and are at the root of some significant professional hardships. And you can't even play solitaire on it. Except the colour ones. Which I haven't got yet. But I know my life is going to be transformed when they roll them out to my tier.Oops! Six email shockersMark Borkowski, publicistI was doing the publicity for the Channel 4 drama 40 with Eddie Izzard. I had a problem with the person at Channel 4 who was employing us, and decided to spell out the shortcomings of Channel 4's marketing department to the producer. Unfortunately, I replied to an email I had received from the producer, and my email was copied to everyone on a very lengthy list, including the executive I was attacking. I haven't had many calls from Channel 4 since.Stephen Bayley, design consultantI did once get an email by mistake from a famous motoring journalist, the late, great Russell Bulgin. He thought he was sending it to a friend and was talking about me. "What a wanker!" he wrote. I replied, and he responded with a torrent of apologies. It was great for me: he was forever afterwards at a disadvantage in our relationship.Claire Willis, music publicistAn artist I represented had made a record with a famous British orchestra. I sent out a press release about the record, but didn't mention the name of the orchestra. The orchestra manager complained to the artist's agent, who passed it on to me. I emailed back saying that it wasn't relevant - "Orchestra makes record, big deal!" The agent accidentally sent my email on to the man who made the complaint in the first place.Julian Baggini, editor of The Philosophers' MagazineI had an email from a philosopher who is well known for being awkward. I forwarded it to a colleague saying "Typical!" Of course, I hadn't forwarded it to a colleague at all. I had replied to the philosopher, who didn't feel too philosophical about it. That sort of incident makes you cautious for a bit, but I send and receive so many emails that one's guard inevitably goes down. Now I try to be more careful. It's like speaking on a mobile phone; you never know who will overhear. You have to remember that the conversation isn't taking place in a bubble.Ivan Massow, businessmanI'm always messing up. I tend to leave the full history on the email. You then copy someone else in and they see everything that's gone before. I also once managed to send the wrong emails to two potential suppliers, so they could each see exactly what the other was offering.Paul MacInnes, journalistI once sent an embarrassing email to 10,000 people. I used to be editor of the Fiver, Guardian Unlimited's funny or, at least, free email about football. One subscriber had written to our mailing list, demanding that we "unsubscribe, unsubscribe" and "just fuck off!". It was a busy day and the Fiver was late, so when it came time to enter the list and send out the final mail my eyes may have been bleary. Instead of sending the Fiver, I sent the expletive-laden complaint.
High scores are back, and what's more they could earn you prizes thanks to a new form of tournament-based mobile gaming that's slowly taking hold in the UK. Mobile entertainment aggregatorJippiihas recently launched JT1, a monthly gaming tournament in which players download Tetris-style puzzler, Gem Jam, and then try to rack up the highest score possible, before submitting their effort to the online leaderboard. Prizes are awarded for the best score of the day, week and month, and the goodies include iPods, GBAs and Xbox consoles.But it's the underlying business model that really interests me.Players can download the game for free, but if they decide to take part in the tournament they pay a weekly subscription of £1.50. Hmm, so Jippii gives away the first hit and when you're really into it, they get you to pay on a regular basis - I wonder wherethatmarketing concept came from?Later in the year, British developer Iomo will start creating online tournament modes for its key titles including Pub Darts and Pub Pool. The company was recently bought out by US tech giant InfoSpace which now alsoownsa prize-based tournament gaming system developed by Atlus Mobile, named (imaginatively enough) For Prizes. Titles supporting the system have gone down well in the states, allowing users to log into a ranking server from the game's main menu and then attempt to gain the highest score possible.Ms Pac-Man For Prizeswas a particularly well-received example.The return of the high score table, a staple of the arcade experience but long outmoded in home gaming, is an amusing development and brings back memories of three letter acronyms and momentary, pointless triumphs at Pac-Man and Galaga. Sadly, you lose the atmosphere of the dingy coin-op den, of course. The crowds, the cigarette burns on the control panel, the fat bloke in the change booth who's eyes convey an unsettling mixture of resigned failure and imminent violence... still, at least you can win an iPod nowadays!
The mobile games industry is beginning to learn a very important lesson: there is no accounting for public taste. At the start of last year, publishers were excited about technologies such as 3D graphics and over-the-air multiplayer gaming. They also bought the rights to major movie brands - a familiar cash cow for the games industry.But a year after the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa) began its monthly Java game chart - based on download data from major network portals, including Vodafone live! and the O2 Games Arcade - it is clear that consumers remain conservative and cautious about this new platform.Brian Baglow, owner of mobile games PR firm Indoctrimat, studied the Elspa charts and presented his findings to the annual Osney Media Mobile Games Forum in London. "What they show is very interesting," he says. "Retro games are by far the most popular titles on the UK market to date, followed by sports titles. Movie-branded games are languishing ... The only game in this category to appear in the charts was 2 Fast 2 Furious from Morpheme. A couple of titles from major movie brands have been awful and so consumers seem to regard them all with suspicion."So the focus has subtly shifted, with a renewed emphasis on producing simple, but highly polished, titles. Macrospace's Who Wants To Be A Millionaire quiz title has been a huge success, and there is an influx of card sims on the way, such as Gameloft's Midnight Poker, Blackjack Hustler and Player One's Pokermillion. Parlour-type games, such as Mforma's Monopoly Tycoon and Jamdat's Solitaire Deluxe, are also back in vogue.As always, retro titles are plentiful. THQ Wireless has its large range of classic Midway coin-ops on the way, which include Marble Madness, Defender and Robotron. Key brands from the home computer era are also being picked up: Macrospace is converting the Amiga classic Speedball, iFone has Lemmings out soon and Advanced Mobile Solutions is turning Spectrum platformer Jet Set Willy into a racing title. And Namco has produced Pac-Man Pinball and Pac-Man Bowling to cash in on the success of its Pac-Man mobile title.The mobile games industry has not entirely given up on pushing new technology at consumers. The networks and game publishers would like to see over-the-air multiplayer gaming via GPRS take off - the data traffic generates a nice revenue stream. The way ahead may be to introduce the concept of connected play by offering downloadable content for well-known brands.Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 allows players to connect to the network and download additional courses, as well as enter prize-winning tournaments and consult rankings. Colin McRae 2005 and 2 Fast 2 Furious let users upload their best performances to the net so other players can download and compete against them. Later in the year, we will see simple multiplayer versions of successful games - Pub Pool For Prizes from Iomo and Tetris Online from iFone. It is all about extending well-known brands into new areas of profitability.As for 3D, most mobile developers have steered clear. Working with polygons adds to development time, and therefore costs.However, network operators will be keen to push the benefits of 3G to customers, and Vodafone live! is using games with 3D graphics to show off the technology's capabilities. We have already seen racing title Ferrari Experience II 3D and platformer Crash Twinsanity 3D, but the killer application will surely be a pristine conversion of Namco's famed arcade blockbuster Ridge Racer, coming to Vodafone live! soon.It is telling that even this major advance in network technology is being fronted by a 10-year-old game. The mobile games industry is learning fast: to move forward, they have to look backwards. Mobile gamers, it seems, are not driven by cutting-edge technology - they just want to have fun. What a strange bunch they are.
CamcordersFilm realJVC has unveiled the second generation of its innovative Everio hard disk-based camcorder. The GZ-MC500, due to launch in Europe in the summer and expected to retail for about &#163;800, has 3 CCD chip technology which, using pixel shifting technology, can capture footage with a resolution of up to five megapixels. The GZ-MC200 is roughly the same size as its predecessor and the new model features a 10x optical zoom, a flip-up flash and a 4GB hard disk. JVC says models with 6GB and 8GB hard disks will be available later in the year.www.jvc.co.ukFestivalsDigital debateNext week sees the fourth international b.TWEEN festival, which explores the future of digital entertainment across industries including broadcast, internet and mobile technology. The festival, held from February 14-18 at the Digital Knowledge Exchange in South Yorkshire, will hear speakers from the likes of Microsoft, the BBC and Jim Henson's Creature Shop. There will also be a number of workshops and a real-time global collaboration linking artists in the UK, America, Australia, Korea and Chile.www.btween.co.ukMobile PhonesA fair shareMobile phone users may soon be able to send each other music files via multimedia messaging (MMS) or swap them using Bluetooth.   Melodeo, has a deal with the Spanish network Telefonica and is expecting to launch a similar service in conjunction with a UK network. Once users have the software on their phone, they can send a track, or part of a track, to a friend. If the person who receives the track likes it and wants to keep it, they pay the network to buy it. The service uses AAC++ files, which are used in the UK by O2 for its music download service.www.melodeo.comThird time luckySiemens has a trio of new mobile phones it will debut at the CeBIT show in Germany next month. Its top-end handset is a flat mobile, pictured above, with a large screen that also includes a DVB-H digital TV decoder. Digital TV transmissions to mobiles like this one, and the Nokia 7710, are being trialled in the UK, and a service featuring a range of channels and radio stations is expected to launch in 2006. Siemens also paraded a wireless Lan-endowed phone that can be used either at home or remotely at Wi-Fi hot spots.www.siemens.co.ukHardwareClose callMitel continued to make inroads into the Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) market with a new product announced this week at VoiceCon 2005 in Florida. The Mitel Navigator is a VoIP device   that can sit underneath your monitor, connecting to your PC and a wireless headset, to allow what the company claims is a "converged communications workstation". The Navigator, aimed at firms that want to replace traditional office telephony systems with cheaper VoIP solutions, will be available to business clients later this year.www.mitel.comIt's a wind upChanging batteries in remote controls could be a thing of the past if a US company, Pogo Products, gets its way. It has unveiled the EZPower Universal Remote, which works in a similar way to the Freeplay wind-up radios, with users generating power by rotating a small handle. Pogo claims that just a short session of winding will deliver enough power to keep the handset functioning for a week. The device, which is already on sale in the US for about $25, has codes for a number of devices such as VCRs, TVs and DVD players already pre-programmed. At present, however, it will not work with European products.www.pogoproducts.comStat of the week: Internet useInternet use continues to grow, even if the rate of growth is slowing. Figures for December show that countries such as Spain, Switzerland and Brazil saw a decrease in active at-home users. The UK added more than a quarter of a million users to register a 1.2% increase.% growth in internet use, Dec 2004Brazil-5.1Spain-1.7France-0.3Germany0.1US1.1UK1.2Hong Kong4.3&#183;Source: Nielson//NetRatings
Good for goreShadow of RomePlayStation 2, Rated 18,&#163;39.99 Capcom, &#42;&#42;&#42;You have to applaud Shadow of Rome's setting. Console videogaming has made little use of Ancient Rome as a backdrop, which is strange considering the amount of violence associated with that era. Shadow of Rome is a sword swinging, gladiatorial hack'n'slash game, both exciting and gory.Sadly, interspersing the satisfying action sections are mind-numbingly frustrating stealth sequences. But back to the good stuff - the combat. There are some horrendously bloodthirsty moves to use. Fancy skewering your opponent or severing him in half? It is only a bit of nifty joypad manipulation away. The 18 certificate is well earned.The stealth segments are less exciting. These lengthy and relatively hard sections of the game were obviously created to give the plot time to breathe. Unfortunately, they tend to exasperate, making you desperate to get back to claret spilling. However, there is enough to keep you playing, even if it doesn't reach the heights that the premise and visuals suggest. An above-average plot, with impressive cut-scenes, hint at what might have been. For PS2 owners who fancy donning gladiator garb, there is nothing better on their console.Greg HowsonSatisfying funDonkey Kong: King of SwingGame Boy Advance,&#163;39.99 Nintendo/PAON, &#42;&#42;&#42;When it comes to the type of swinging that does not involve suburban housewives in furry mules and M&amp;S negligees, Donkey Kong knows his stuff. In fact, this game has been shaped around the art of swinging gracefully through the air like a Russian acrobat on horizontal bars.It takes time to master the art, which makes up the majority of the game's movement and is activated through the GBA's left and right shoulder buttons.In the main adventure mode, DK has to swing through various loosely themed levels, trying to get back medals stolen by token bad guy King K Rool. Thankfully, you also have a few attack options at your disposal, including a power jump and the ability to lob rocks at enemies. Unfortunately, just as you get into the swing of things, the developers suddenly throw in an extra-hard level.The basic single and multiplayer mini-games are rather bland, and include climbing, obstacle races and a slightly more   enjoyable bumper cars battle.The swinging is a neat and fun gameplay technique, and hugely satisfying when you get it right. Unfortunately, the level pacing is rather off, meaning GBA rage moments are not uncommon.Rhianna PratchettShort but sweetDonkey Kong: Jungle BeatGameCube,&#163;39.99 Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;Determined not to be outdone by Sony's Eye Toy, Nintendo came up with the bongo-powered Donkey Konga before Christmas and has already produced another game that makes use of its bizarre but fun input device. Unlike Donkey Konga, however, Jungle Beat is not a rhythm game but an old-fashioned, side-scrolling platform game - much in the mould of the Donkey Kong Country franchise.However, you play it by bashing plastic bongos - hit the left one, for example, to move left (if you bash it more frequently, you will speed up), or clap in the vicinity of the built-in microphone to stun nearby opponents, grab bananas within reach or fire yourself from handy plants.You can play Jungle Beat with a standard gamepad, but it is more fun with the bongos. And that is the point of the game. When assessed in pure gaming terms, it is flawed - the game is embarrassingly short (you could finish it in a few hours), and side-scrolling platform games hardly represent the future.But it is full of trademark surreal Nintendo touches, and the ability to play it using bongos elevates it into a must-buy for GameCube owners. Ultimately, it provides a burst of pure gaming joy that doesn't leave you feeling you have experienced it all before.Steve BoxerTop 5 games  PC1. Football Manager 20052. Half-Life 23. The Sims 24. Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth5. Rome: Total War&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
The first camera phone that takes pictures good enough to print has arrived in the UK. The Sharp Vodafone 902 3G clamshell phone has a two megapixel camera that snaps images with at least 700,000 more pixels than rivals. Those extra pixels make a difference, as its pictures are rich in detail and colour, especially when shooting in good lighting conditions. The user can also hold the phone horizontally - so it feels like a real camera - with the screen doubling as a large viewfinder. This also helps to steady the camera (which is sensitive to movement) while enabling the user to capture striking images in landscape mode. In addition to the camera and its 3G facilities, such as video calling and video downloads, the 902 also features a primitive HTML web browser, an MP3 player and a basic organiser. It is a little chunky, and its white colour looks dated, but it is still a versatile phone that takes great snaps.www.vodafone.co.uk
Consumer electronics  gadgets such as digital  cameras, MP3 music  players and mobile  phones are often dismissed  as "boys' toys" - and this is  simply wrong. They are girls' toys,  too. In fact, in the US, women are  buying more of them than men.  According to America's Consumer  Electronics Association, which runs  the giant Consumer Electronics  Show, women accounted for $55bn of  the $96bn spent on electronics gear  in 2003. In most categories except  video games, women have either  caught up or are already on top.The market power of female electronics  buyers doesn't seem to have  made the impact in the UK that it has  in the US, South Korea and Japan.  Here, people who are interested in  gadgets still probably think about  men's magazines such as T3, Stuff and  Boys Toys rather than the trendier  women-friendly websites such as  ShinyShiny, Popgadget andGirlsStuff.co.uk. Consumer electronics manufacturers  have relatively few products  aimed specifically at women, and  women may feel patronised if they  visit popular electronics shops.However, Paul Hide from Sony says  that, in the UK last year, 53% of the  purchasers of electrical and electronics  products were men and 47% were  women, and with products such as  DVD players, TV sets and laptop  computers, the number of female  purchasers was about the same as the  male. The market is changing, and  the changes could go even further.If you look at the next generation  of American teenagers aged 13 to 18,  girls are already more frequent users  of some consumer electronics products  than boys. Girls are more likely  than boys to use a mobile phone (88% to 83%), a digital camera (54%  to 50%), a DVD recorder (21% to 19%)  or satellite radio (24% to 18%),  according to CEA market research  into usage over the previous 30 days.  In most other areas, girls score the  same as boys - for using TVs, VCRs,  DVDs and PCs - or a little less. Only  in videogames consoles (49% to 89%)  and portable MP3 players (18% to  29%) are the girls way behind.Paul Jackson, a principal analyst  with Forrester Research, thinks  teenagers adopt consumer electronics  products, whether they are boys  or girls, partly because they have  grown up with them. "They don't  necessarily see it as technology any  more, they just accept it, like electricity  or television." However, he reckons  that changes in the nature of the  technology have contributed to the  shift in focus away from just males.In the early days, new technology  was of particular interest to men because  it provided access to productivity  tools that were familiar from work  - word processing programs and  spreadsheets, for example - and  appealed to hobbyist instincts. As the  industry developed, emphasis shifted  to things with much broader appeal,  such as music, entertainment and  email. More recently, there have been  moves towards areas that appeal  strongly to women, such as capturing  family memories (with digital cameras)  and communications, which  takes in instant messaging, mobile  phones, camera phones.In other words, women's interests  have not necessarily changed, but  digital technology has finally caught  up with them, in forms that are affordable  and reasonably easy to use.Portability and wearability have  helped a lot. CEA's market research  says that "in a reflection of their increasingly  mobile lifestyle, teens have  particularly embraced electronics  products and services that enable  them to be and stay on the go". This  may change when they get married  and settle down, but perhaps not.  Women, like teenagers, also have  increasingly mobile lifestyles.Genevieve Bell, an anthropologist  and ethnographer who works for Intel  in the US, points out that women may  now have a wider range of demands  than men, because they often have to  combine work, running the home and  child care - ferrying the kids about.  These time-challenged "soccer moms",  who have grabbed the attention of  American marketing departments,  may need their BlackBerrys and  mobile devices more than men do.Manjit Waters, head of O2's Active/mobile portals business, certainly  thinks so. She thinks the BlackBerry  is, for business women, "the greatest  invention" because it lets her do  quality work while still being there  for her daughter. But Bell reckons there are still  some gender differences. There are  some women who are geeks and lots  of men who are not geeks, of course.But "there's something about playing  around with technology that is distinctly  male", says Bell. "Women are  more likely to say 'I don't have time  for this'. They need good ease of use,  simplicity, reliability, durability. To be  adopted, the technology has to take  the burden off somewhere else."Either way, consumer electronics  markets have not split along gender  lines like, say, wristwatches, and  there is lots of overlap. As  ShinyShiny's Katie Lee says: "It's not  just about women: things are less  geeky and more appealing for everyone.  The key is just to make things  that are small and look nice, because  men like nice, small things as well."Should consumer electronics manufacturers  design things specifically  for women? It is a tricky question.  Maureen Craig, vice president and  chief strategy officer at Red Tettemer, an advertising agency based in  Philadelphia, agrees there is "a gender-agnostic teen market", but says:  "I don't believe that will hold up  when they become adults." Mobile  products suit the teen lifestyle - "if  you look at what they can use and  what they can afford, mobile fits" -  but when they get their first apartment,  they will have different needs.Craig reckons there is a market if  consumer electronics companies can  come up with gadgets that are "tactile  and feminine - look at the products  you find in the kitchen", she says.  "That's not to say you just have to  paint it pink: Barbie ain't the answer!"Clearly, there's more of a fashion  element to portable electronics because  so many of them are wearable,  and disposable. Intel's Bell points out  that many girls in Korea and Japan  "wear their phones around their  necks so they are on display all the  time, as a statement of who they are.  There are handsets you buy at the  jewellery counter!"This kind of business has  driven Asian manufacturers such as  Samsung to produce small, cute,  clamshell phones that look less like  geek gizmos and more like jewellery  - and these have also proved popular  with European and American  women. The ability to change colours  by using add-on fascias is also an  advantage, since it allows one phone  to be matched to different outfits.In Asia, there is also a market for  cute, branded gadgets based on characters  like Hello Kitty, though this does  not seem to have travelled as well.Jo Twist, science and technology  reporter for BBC News Interactive,  says she finds the cutesy approach -  visible in some displays she saw at the  Consumer Electronics Show in Las  Vegas earlier this month - somewhat  patronising. Catering for women "is  more than just sticking a mirror on a  mobile. I tend to steer away from  things that are aimed specifically at  women, and I couldn't bring myself  to buy a Hello Kitty phone", she says.  "That's the wrong approach."What she wants are functional  products that are well designed and  easy to use, but aimed at a range of  people, "not just the main demographic,  middle-aged men". She also  wants them explained in media that  women are comfortable reading,  rather than in T3 or Stuff. "If you  have to find the gadget in the cleavage,  that is bound to put women off".This is the approach that chimes  with the industry. For example, Mike  Short, vice president for research and  development at O2, the mobile network  provider, argues that the appropriate  differentiation can be done via  content, and via different advertising  and marketing channels, rather  than by redesigning the product.For example, companies could sell  basically the same phone either with  access to Disney or Hello Kitty content  (which they do in Japan), or with  access to Premiership goals. An MP3  player could come preloaded with  classical music or rock classics. The  same products could also reach different  demographic markets by being  marketed differently through different  types of outlet. The same phone  could be sold in bubble wrap in a  trendy fashion store such as Gap, or  by mail order from your pension  provider, perhaps differentiated by  a spangly red or silver grey fascia.At Sony, the largest consumer electronics  company, Paul Hide says: "We  have some products, like portable  audio, that come in a range of  colours, but they are not specifically  aimed at women. We are trying to be  gender neutral. But we are moving  away from 'technology buyer' messages  to 'lifestyle' advertising. The  days of us selling a lot of technology  because it was high technology have  long gone. On its own, being a technology  leader is not enough: there  has to be more to it than that."Bell says that catering non-specifically  for women "is part of a larger  move for companies like Intel. It is  not just a matter of paying attention  to women but paying attention to  older people, to the developing  world, and a range of other groups."In other words, consumer electronics  companies are not switching from  catering for men to catering for  women. There will always be some  products targeted at specific groups,  but the general idea is to switch from  catering for geeky men to catering for  everyone. That must be a good thing.
Online music provider Napster this week released its Napster To Go service. For &#163;14.95 per month, users can stream any track from its 1m song library on to their PC and port those tracks to a portable music player. It is not, however, a permanent transfer - if the user ends their subscription, the tracks are locked and unplayable.Napster uses Windows Media Audio (WMA) files, with Microsoft's latest digital rights management system, code-named Janus. So far, this is only supported by a limited range of portable hardware. There are only five players that work with Napster To Go, including models from Creative, iRiver and Samsung. Obviously, the tracks will not transfer to players in Apple's iPod range or any of Sony's Flash or hard disk Walkman devices, which don't have the Janus DRM.Setting up the service and installing tracks is straightforward. Users download the Napster version 3 software on to their PC (they will also need Windows Media Player 10), enter their credit card details and then search the Napster library. One click transfers the tracks to a PC's hard disk, while another ports them on to the player, in this instance Creative's Micro Zen.The big question for Napster is whether enough users will be tempted by its innovative, and somewhat controversial, subscription model. Not only does &#163;14.95 per month sound quite a lot, it looks even poorer value when you consider Americans are paying $14.99 - about half the fee - for the same service.So, if you subscribe to the service for two years, you could have bought about 30 CDs or downloaded nearly 400 songs from a rival such as iTunes for the same money.Ultimately, this rules out the service for most casual music buyers. But it is ideal for serious enthusiasts who want to hear the latest music without having to commit to purchasing it on disc, or anyone who fancies exploring the back catalogues of artists they have just discovered. And, as Napster enthusiasts will tell you, arguments about money are redundant when you consider the amount of cash serious users would save by not buying CDs they then did not like.So while the Napster To Go service might not be ideal for everyone, it suits serious music fans who are willing to look beyond their iPod.www.napster.co.uk
A few days ago, a friend's daughter had a medical emergency while on holiday on the continent. As her E111 insurance document had gone missing, her father had to order a duplicate in a hurry. But where to start? The post office? Her doctor? The Foreign Office?Then we remembered the web. A quick search on the government web portal,www.direct.gov.uk, turned up a Department of Health page with a helpline number at the Pensions Service in Newcastle. My friend called, explained his problem and, within hours, an E111 document was rolling off the fax for forwarding to the hospital.For my friend, e-government had alleviated one of the anxieties of a very anxious day.The experience was also a nice   example of multichannel electronic public services - we had used the web in conjunction with a call centre and fax machine.This is good. Despite all the money spent on public sector websites over the past five years, multi-channel working will continue to be the norm, especially when it comes to doing something important. In moments of crisis, we do not want to rely on the web alone - we want to talk to human beings and, if necessary, bang on a desk.This is worth remembering for two reasons. First, it means some optimistic predictions made about e-government cost savings have to go out of the window. These were based on the idea that, as citizens move to "self-service government", public bodies can save money by shutting down expensive traditional channels. This assumption   is now being played down.Another reason to bear multiple channels in mind is their value as a safety net. One organisation that has not learned this lesson is the Inland Revenue, which suffered a colossal embarrassment this year when its website was overloaded by late tax filers.Most last-minute merchants, it seems, were people with simple finances and low income. Just the target audience, in fact, for another e-channel, filing by phone to an electronic voice-recognition system. Last year, the Inland Revenue ran two pilots of such a service, handling tens of thousands of returns. The pilots were a triumph for speaker-independent voice-recognition, which has improved noticeably in recent years. However, the Inland Revenue is not rushing to roll out the service.One reason, according to insiders, is that its IT staff are already horrendously over-stretched after switching contractors from EDS to Capgemini and merging with Customs and Excise (which has yet another main IT contractor, Fujitsu).Another reason, according to the same insiders, is that the Inland Revenue has invested so much political and financial capital in getting the web service right that it did not want it to be eclipsed by another channel.To be fair to the Revenue, launching a national voice-recognition system would have been a big risk. Even the simplest tax form is a relatively complex transaction for the technology. If it had gone belly-up, heads would be on poles.However, we can only hope that other public bodies are watching, and learning.
After five years and several billion pounds of investment, electronic government is within sight of turning a crucial corner.Phil Hope, the minister for local e-government, said last week that from April 1 next year, English councils will save more from new IT-enabled processes than they will spend on the technology.The calculation contains some small print. In 2006-07, councils will be running e-government at a profit only in the sense that British Airways ran Concorde at a profit: the balance sheet ignores millions of pounds spent upfront on hardware and software. Also, not every local authority will be in profit by that year. Finally, not all the efficiency savings will be "cash releasing" - in other words, council tax bills will not necessarily fall as a result.The efficiency figures come from the latest annual returns filed by every English council to claim a central subsidy for "implementing electronic government".The returns show many councils - which run about four fifths of all public services - to be pioneers of e-government. "In over 100 councils, citizens can already go online to submit planning applications, check their council tax balance and calculate their benefits entitlement," Hope said.The UK's 468 councils are supposed to have all their services "e-enabled" by December 31. (Councils in Scotland and Wales have the same target, but are funded differently.) The returns, submitted in November, show that, on average, English councils are 79% of the way   there. They expect on average to be "98% e-enabled" by December. This is two percentage points ahead of central government - the Cabinet Office e-Government Unit expects 96% of central services to be available electronically by the end of the year.Some councils are struggling, however. With just over nine months to go to the target, 59 English authorities, 15% of the total, have referred themselves for additional assistance. This is "broadly in line with expectations", the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister said. It did not name names.Although central funding for e-government runs out this year, Whitehall shows no sign of letting up its pressure on councils to modernise   their services through IT. The buzzword is sustainability - after this year, e-government projects are expected to pay their own way. This also feeds into the government-wide efficiency drive launched by the Treasury last year.Hence the new emphasis on efficiency. Hope said that, this year, councils will make gains of &#163;121m as a direct result of investment in local e-government. For example, East Riding council in Yorkshire has cut the time taken to process assessments for home care from 24 days to one day. The result, said Hope, is that "some of the most vulnerable members of the community are receiving their benefits more quickly,   staff have less bureaucracy to deal with and council taxpayers benefit from a more efficient service". Norwich City council, meanwhile, has made its parking wardens 10% more productive by issuing them with handheld computers.By 2007-08, these cumulative savings across the whole of local government will add up to &#163;1.2bn, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister said.E-government experts had mixed feelings about the figures. "It's a terrific step forward to measure the efficiencies that e-government will bring local authorities," said Alexander Stevenson, director of specialist consultancy RSe. "But the basis for this calculation needs to be far clearer   than it currently is for the numbers to be genuinely robust."One problem is that savings figures are based on estimates produced by local authorities themselves and are subject to different local political priorities. Some authorities, such as the London borough of Westminster, are happy to predict big net savings: &#163;2.86m in 2007-08. Others are less inclined: the borough of Hackney, a near neighbour in location if not in affluence, expects to be making a net spending of &#163;6.9m in that year.Some of the most experienced local authorities are cautious about predicting efficiency gains. The borough of Tameside, in Greater Manchester, which two years ago claimed to be the first local authority to have all its services e-enabled, will not move into profit until 2006-07, no sooner than many tardier authorities. Another pioneer, Bracknell Forest in Berkshire, expects to be still running at a loss in 2007-08. The small print of its electronic government statement notes soberly that: "Anticipated future savings are indicative only. It should be noted that improvements in services brought about by e-government are difficult to quantify in financial terms."However, Hope, speaking to an audience of council leaders, stressed that e-government is not just about money. "At heart, it is all about new ways of doing things, listening to and working more closely with citizens, shaping services around their needs and delivering for local communities."
Many businessmen with no love at all for Alastair Campbell, the prime minister's former spin doctor, will have sympathised with him this week over his "blackberry moment". This has nothing to do with the delicious  rubus fruticosus, which is out of season (as indeed was Mr Campbell until his recall to political duties this month). It refers to the BlackBerry emailer, a handheld device enabling users to receive and send emails instantaneously. It has become a must-have status symbol for executives everywhere. It was nicknamed the "crackberry" early on for its addictive qualities, but these days it is probably easier to wean users off the drug than the device.Mr Campbell, a recent adopter of such technology - during his Downing Street days he had people to do these things for him - accidentally sent an email to someone at the BBC full of Wayne Rooneyesque language. The reaction of many BlackBerry users must have been "It could have been me". They know only too well how easy it is to press the wrong key and send a fruity email to the boss instead of a subordinate.This tale will be added to the growing folklore about the BlackBerry's contribution to the work-life balance. It stands accused of turning the rest of life into an extension of the office since employees can be reached 24 hours a day, whether at home or on holiday. The manufacturer, the Canadian company, RIM, claims it is up to you how you use it as you can always switch it off (however bad a career move that might turn out to be). Most users won't be parted from them, despite the downside, while busy small businessmen find they can now dare to take a holiday since they will be taking a pocket-sized office with them. Women with children find they can split their workload more effectively between home and the office.All of this is an early warning to everyone with a mobile, because the technology that "pushes" emails onto the screen of a handheld could soon become ubiquitous. For most users it will be a boon, as long as, unlike Mr Campbell, they remember that people going blackberrying often end in the brambles.
Adding new communciations channel after new communications channel - at my desk I can use fixed and mobile telephony, web, VoIP, fax, email, video conferencing, text messaging, Wap and so on - doesn't automatically mean an increase in productivity.The communications devices have been getting more sophisticated, yet their failure to work together means productivity in some cases has been falling: who hasn't wasted a few hours trying to get their mobile phone to talk to their PC? It's the integration between devices that brings the benefits.Skype is an example of an integration that works. It is a combination of instant messaging (IM) and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which means you can use   your computer's microphone and speakers to talk to other people across the internet, free. Or you can pay to call people's telephones instead. It is easy to install and works well on PCs and Macs. And it is growing like crazy. Some 5% of all internet users, or 32m people, have downloaded the free Skype application. Skype hasn't spent anything on promotion, but sometimes has a million users online simultaneously. Cheap phone calls are an obvious draw, but I'm not sure they account for all the popularity.Skype brings rudimentary "managed presence". You see whether someone is sitting at their desk or not before you call. If they're not at their desk, you can send them an IM. You can be alerted when one of your contacts logs in. These simple facilities make boring voice calls   significantly more productive: the less time you spend leaving voicemail messages or picking them up, the more time you can spend communicating with people.Imagine how this will work in the not-too-distant future. You choose someone to call in your mobile phone's directory: you scroll down to Mum. But the name "Mum" is displayed in red because her phone is turned off, so you can choose whether to call anyway, whether to have a text automatically sent asking her to call you when she turns the phone on, or scroll up to Dad, which is in green, and call him instead.You could even imagine that since the systems know where you are and where Mum is, it could display the number white on black if it is late where Mum is.Skype is a window into that   world. When I'm working at home and I want to call John in the office about something, I'll go to Skype first (because John has a PC and doesn't have iChat). This can't be because the call is free.For one thing, it is a local call and would still be free using the phone on my desk. It is because it will save me time: I won't call unless John is there; while I'm talking to him I can type phone numbers to him or send him files.As for IM, I see whether he is "unavailable" or "do not disturb". If he's not logged in, I can call his mobile or wait until I see him log in. I can bring other people into the conversation by dragging and dropping and so on. All these things mean added productivity.This is why the march of VoIP is relentless. Not just because it is cheap, but because it is clever.
Mixed messagesI recently purchased an iPod Shuffle from an authorised Apple Centre. According to the box and staff, it would be suitable for my eMac, but when I tried to plug it in I discovered the casing was too big to fit into the eMac's USB ports. Apple seems to be in confusion about this problem. At one point I was told I should have looked up the technical requirements on the Apple website before purchase. But when I phoned the Apple Store again, staff were still saying all I needed was a USB port and OS X v10.2.8. It is amazing that Apple can design an iPod that does not fit its own computers and then fail to make this clear on the packaging.Rob GreenPowysJazzy fareRegarding the rankings for music download sites (Face the music, February 3), I wonder what people thought ofemusic.com. I came across it and thought it seemed relatively cheap and easy to use. I think it is about the equivalent of &#163;6 per month for 40 tracks. Although it is US based and therefore US biased, particularly for contemporary music, it is good for classical and jazz.Adrian LentCambridgeshireRights infringedJust in case readers try to download from the best music download store - FNAC - you can't. If you try to pay with a UK credit card, it refuses the transaction. Instead, it tells you the   site is only for French nationals. This is a shame, as albums are only &euro;10 (&#163;7). I've complained to the European Commission and initial reaction was that FNAC might be allowed to do this if it matched an agreement with their musicians, but they would investigate. A way round this might be to buy a FNAC download voucher from one of its stores, if you visit France.Andy BrodieLiverpoolVirtual educationThe news that the Virtual Global Task Force has launched a website to help parents and children report suspected paedophiles and for police to   gather evidence (Web watch, February 3) is a step in the right direction. In most cases, children and parents are unaware that a paedophile is grooming a child online. Protecting kids on the net is down to educating parents and providing police with adequate resources to catch paedophiles. Parents need to be educated on the internet, how to identify warning signs and how to teach their children to "surf safely". While Operation Ore uncovered more than 6,000 suspects, less than a quarter were charged. The government must support the new website with a national public education campaign and boost police resources.Chris WatsonDartfordTesting planThe Inland Revenue's attempts to blame the collapse of its website on a flood of last-minute taxpayers (Point of no return, February 3) is rather like an arctic explorer blaming his failure to reach the North Pole on an unexpected cold snap. This high-profile failure is endemic of a wider malaise across UK organisations, which consistently fail to test how their IT applications will perform under heavy usage.There is a tendency to seek solace in a culture of blame instead of seeking to put processes in place that will ensure IT systems fulfil their purpose while preserving the good reputation of the organisations that deploy them. The sooner UK organisations put testing at the heart of their IT plans, the better for UK business.David HillCrawleyTaxing issueExactly how do you pay car tax online (Michael Cross, February 3)? It does not look possible from the website,www.direct.gov.uk- and how do they check insurance documents, MoT test certificate, etc?Jill McQueen
Jim Evans places bets on football matches and horse races through his mobile phone, spending about &#163;50 a month. Because of his hectic lifestyle, he spurned the betting shop and logged off internet gambling.Evans, 32, who works in the mobile phone industry, switched to mobile gambling from internet gambling as soon as it became available. "I find it more convenient to gamble on the phone because I travel a lot and can take it everywhere," he says.Once he had registered and set up an online account - which can take a day - Evans could download his preferred Java-enabled gambling application on to his Orange mobile, browse games and the odds, and place bets. The money is immediately debited from his account.So forget the hype about super casinos proposed in the new gambling bill - mobile phone gambling looks set to trump them all, providing an addition to many consumers' mobile entertainment package.A new report by Juniper estimates that by 2009, mobile gambling services will generate revenues of more than $19.3bn, nearly one-third of all mobile entertainment revenues. And that's a conservative estimate. "Given the ubiquity of mobile handsets, and the desire of many &#91;gambling&#93; providers to exploit this, then potentially the resulting sales could be substantially higher," the report says.Java-enabled graphics, colour-filled screens, technology that invoices on the monthly phone bill, and 3G networking combine to provide a service that rivals traditional gambling methods.The report says: "More than 90% of the population in the UK and US have at some time played a lottery in its traditional paper form. Coupling this huge market with the immediacy   and penetration of the mobile phone is a logical and lucrative proposition."Sports betting, already popular, is set to surge on the mobile platform. "It may offer the opportunity not only to allow players to place a bet about the outcome of a particular event, but also to dynamically bet through their handset as to the outcome of particular events within the game."Its success depends on the availability of GPRS or 3G for most mobile users, but at the rate this technology is advancing, this seems likely, the report says.However, as only 14% of UK adults partake in casino gaming (including slot machines), this area of the market is likely to remain niche. While complex graphics will allow consumers to play games such as poker, roulette, craps and black jack, either for fun or for money, "regulatory proscriptions are likely to hinder or prevent the launch of casino-style services in many countries".The gambling bill, which moves to the House of Lords at the end of the month, has divided industry experts. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) says reform is essential: "Almost all relevant British gambling legislation predates the internet. Nobody had such a powerful communications system in mind when that legislation was being enacted."Most of the bill, the government says, regulates remote gambling - on mobile telephones, the internet and interactive television - which specialists suggest 800,000 adults per month participate in."Our controls on commercial gambling are being undermined by technology," a DCMS spokesperson says. Once the bill is made law, the Gambling Commission will award remote service providers with licences only after certain conditions are met.These will include secure billing,   and credit and age checks. "For the first time it will be a criminal offence to allow a child to play &#91;remote gambling&#93;," says the spokesperson.But others are not convinced it will be enough to prevent this and other forms of corruption. A Gamblers Anonymous (GA) press officer says he has been to many legislation meetings over the years: "Every word of warning ... has been ignored."While GA doesn't distinguish between types of gamblers, the organisation has not seen many mobile phone gambling addicts. Yet."Our membership reflects what is happening in society ... and there's normally a gestation period before they arrive at GA. In a couple of years time, the make-up of our membership will reflect the number of people gambling on their mobile phones. A few years ago, the number of internet gamblers was few and far between; now it is very different."The charity GamCare tells a similar story. "We haven't had many calls to our helpline about it as it is relatively new," says a spokesperson, but they expect this to change as the service grows in popularity. Their concern lies in the availability of the service, which makes it attractive to impulse-driven gambling: "Everybody - including children - has mobile phones."They are in the process of drawing up guidelines for operators, and have been in talks about how to prevent under-age gambling. They are suggesting number blocks, and are advising parents to keep an eye on phone bills.With mobile gambling set to become even more profitable than online gambling, analysts are urging the industry to play their cards right. "The market for these services is potentially vast," the report says. "It is now up to the service providers to seize the opportunity."Linkswww.culture.gov.uk/gambling_and_racing/gambling_bill_fact_sheets/6gamblinginternet.htmwww.gamanon.org.ukwww.gamcare.org.uk
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
One-click shopSome elderly Bristolians are ordering groceries using The Companion, a dedicated computer with a built-in bar-code reader. Users - who are mostly in their 80s - shop by scanning bar-codes, then the order is sent by email for home delivery. The Companion is "about the size of a large cat" and was designed by Professor Heinz Wolff at Brunel University. Ten Companions are being used in a pilot project with Bristol City Council and Somerfield supermarkets.Intel multi-coreIntel says it has completed initial production runs of dual-core processors, which have two Pentium cores on a single chip. Each core also features what Intel calls "hyper-threading", which makes it work like two logical processors, so the end result is that a single PC works as though it had four processors. Dual-core chips will be delivered to manufacturers "in the second quarter" and will appear in high-end systems aimed at games and multimedia applications. In the long term, they will be available throughout the range.Less LatitudeDell is best known for selling notebook PCs as desktop replacements, but it has just launched a portable with the latest Intel Pentium M and 915GM/PM chipset technology. The 1.72kg black and silver Latitude D410 also has an optional nine-cell extended battery for "close to all-day" use. Prices start at &#163;939 plus delivery and VAT. There are cheaper mainstream Latitude D610 and more expensive high-performance Latitude D810 widescreen versions.Yellow cardedPatients will help researchers gauge the safety of pharmaceutical products through Yellow Card, a Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) website. Patients can complete an online form or fill in a paper-based Patient Yellow Card in 4,000   GP surgeries across the UK. Every report on a drug's adverse effects will be reviewed by an independent committee to make sure it is ethically and scientifically sound and protects patient confidentiality. The data will be published anonymously on the website where it can be used to improve drugs. Patients can view the information to help them assess the safety of new drugs.www.yellowcard.gov.ukChip harmonyA group of semiconductor companies are supporting a single standard to speed development of mobile telecommunications, computing and consumer products. The Platform Independent Storage Module (Pismo) standard has been developed because the numerous combinations of processors, chip sets and memory types is making compatibility testing difficult. Pismo-compliant designs will incorporate a single interface to bring plug and play simplicity when connecting products from different manufacturers. This will allow semiconductor companies to make chips with different features without complicating the design process for customers. The standard is being developed by the Pismo Advisory Council comprising ARM, Spansion, NanoAmp Solutions, SMedia, Spreadtrum, and Toshiba.www.pismoworld.orgCyber saleChristie's International is to auction a collection of documents tracing the evolution of computing from 1600 to the 1970s. The Origins of Cyberspace: A Library on the History of Computing, Networking &amp; Telecommunications comprises 255 lots containing 1,141 items. The sale is expected to net more than $2m (&#163;1.1m) on February 23 in New York. Items include the original documents describing Arpanet (later to become the Internet) by Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn, the business plan for the world's first computer company by J Presper Eckert and John Mauchly, and Charles Babbage's open letter to Sir Humphry Davy from 1822 on "the application of machinery to the purpose of calculating and printing mathematical tables".http://masl.to/?M28932D6ALinux moveMore than 55,000 Lotus Notes users at Deutsche Bahn, the German railway management company, have been moved from the IBM z/OS mainframe operating system to an IBM zServer running Linux. The move is the first milestone in a project to move the company's strategic server applications to Linux by the end of the year. Deutsche Bahn has already moved its train timetabling software from HP (Tandem) NonStop servers to Linux and will next tackle an SAP migration. The company says it will save 50% on licensing costs, and reduce running costs, by consolidating its current Solaris, z/OS, Windows and NonStop applications on Linux.http://masl.to/?W17222E6A
Search movesLast month, SixApart bought LiveJournal, but the weblog acquisitions haven't stopped there. Bloglines, a web-based syndication tool that helps you track your favourite sites, has been bought out by search firm Ask Jeeves. It is not the first such move - Google bought Blogger in 2003 - but still had the web buzzing with speculation. "One of our first priorities will be to pair the Bloglines team with our Teoma search technology team to build world-class blog search," said Jim Lanzone, one of Ask's senior vice presidents, on the company's recently launched corporate weblog.www.bloglines.comhttp://napsterization.org/stories/archives/000397.htmlhttp://blog.ask.comFeel the heatGoogle employee Mark Jen found himself under scrutiny after removing posts from his site criticising the firm's benefits package. "Google demands employees that are 90th percentile material, so what's with the 50th percentile compensation?" he asked, adding that Google's employee health scheme was meagre in comparison with his previous employer - Microsoft. Jen's comments were pulled after being picked up by a popular Google-watching site, Google Blogoscoped, but some wondered whether there was more than just a little pressure from above. "I suppose the biggest lesson was how fast information travels nowadays," Jen wrote afterwards. "The second lesson was that in today's blogosphere, speculation runs rampant."http://99zeros.blogspot.comhttp://masl.to/?N14521D6Ahttp://blog.searchenginewatch.com/blog/050126-083916Coming of ageNorman Geras, the Marxist professor emeritus from Manchester University who leads the British blogosphere's liberationist left, is used to being described as obscure. But perhaps it is no longer a fitting epithet - after all, he was recently picked up by the Wall Street Journal and profiled in the Sunday Times last weekend. Could this be a coming of age for the political sphere of British weblogs?http://normblog.typepad.comwww.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2087-1472386,00.htmlGeeky ValentineWith Valentine's Day fast approaching, the drive to join in is reaching agonising extremes. If you're sceptical of being told that romance should be delivered to order, why not join other bloggers and send an Anti-Valentine's Day Card? However, if you just want to tell the geek in your life how much you care, you could browse ThinkGeek's extensive Valentine's collection - including one T-shirt that should raise a guilty smile: "Roses are #FF0000, Violets are #0000FF, All my base are belong to you." If that means nothing to you, then you're safe... for now.http://meish.org/vd/http://masl.to/?L29521D6APost a secretPostSecret - "see a secret, share a secret" - is a weblog that solicits and then publishes confessions written on the back of a postcard. Although it is primarily aimed at Americans (the target is to elicit a secret from every state), there is room for international confessees. Recent revelations include "While others pray at church I bow my head and think about the TV programs I plan on watching" and "I say I'm a vegetarian, but I eat meat on the sly". The cards are often artfully produced and while it is a simple concept, the site continues to produce interesting results.http://postsecret.blogspot.comShopped onlineSometimes technology can make a real difference. The Toronto Crime Stoppers doctored images of child abuse to remove the victim and leave a picture of the crime scene. The images were posted online, with a request for information from anyone who recognised the locations. Shortly after the site was picked up by weblogs and American TV, investigators were told it was the Port Orleans Hotel at Disneyworld in Florida. Police are now proceeding with inquiries. Boing Boing found out more about the technique and other sites that have used it.http://masl.to/?L6A521D6Ahttp://masl.to/?H1B534D6Ahttp://masl.to/?S1C523D6ASix of the best: rugbySix Nations official sitewww.6nations.netPlanet Rugbywww.planet-rugby.comScrum.comwww.scrum.comRugby World magazinewww.rugbyworld.comAmateur history of rugbywww.rugbyfootballhistory.comWikipedia on rugby unionhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rugby_Union
IBM, Sony and Toshiba have this week revealed more details of their Cell processor, which is expected to power the next generation PlayStation 3 games console, Toshiba DVD players, and possibly other devices, from mobile phones to supercomputers.It's being trailed as a "supercomputer on a chip" - they all are, nowadays - specifically designed for the consumer electronics products that will fill our broadband futures. It also has built-in on-chip digital rights management (DRM), because suppliers are getting serious about stopping the piracy of games, movies and other content.You could be forgiven for thinking the Cell was already on the market, since it has already enjoyed two or three years of hype. Indeed, this is precisely why I am keeping my expectations low.Unfortunately, the chip industry holds most of the track records when it comes to over-promising and under-delivering. The guilty list includes the parallel processing Inmos Transputer, Intel's iAPX 432 and Zilog's Z-8000, most Risc (reduced instruction set computer) processors such as the Motorola 88000, DEC Alpha, and IBM PowerPC, the Transmeta Crusoe, and Intel's Itanium, known to some as Itanic.Most of these weren't bad, as chips go. The real problem was that people made ridiculous claims for them. When the hype suggests a new processor like the Cell is going to take over the world, ending up with a tiny fraction of the market just makes you look stupid.Or worse. IBM and Motorola ended up closing their joint PowerPC design centre in 1998, and   IBM's chip business has lost mountains of cash. DEC got taken over by Compaq which got taken over by HP, and Alpha Servers are on the way out. Transmeta has never made a bean and is fighting for survival.By contrast, some of the industry's big successes have been quiet ones. The ARM chip, for example, failed when it appeared in the Acorn Archimedes - the world's first Risc-based mass market desktop computer. Since then, however, ARM has built up a hugely successful business in mobile phones and other devices. It will be a pity if the Cell wipes it out.Intel's low-power Pentium processor, code-named Banias, was hyped, but perhaps underhyped. It led Intel to cancel its US-based Tejas design and move Pentium development to the Israeli lab where Banias originated.Part of the problem is the technology world's general inability to make rational product assessments. All too often, geeks compare items - chips, computers, video recorders, etc - as though they existed in a vacuum in deep space. Real customers rarely make that mistake.A processor's success or failure depends ultimately on the supporting infrastructure (the extended product), and its potential for development (the future product), not just on its raw capabilities. The technology is irrelevant without the support chips, software and services that enable a processor to be designed into manufacturable products that do useful jobs at a price customers are prepared to pay.In that real-world race, the Cell processor hasn't even reached the starting line.LinksSony's Cell patenthttp://masl.to/?K49D22B6A
Given your love of music, you must have an iPod?I still have my first generation, fag-packet sized model, though I have had to change the battery. I didn't use it much at first because I was using an old Mac operating platform that didn't support iTunes. But I've since updated all the Macs in the house to OS X.You're a bit of a Mac man then?A lot of my mates use Macs and that's just what I got into. It's hardly as select and butch as being in the French foreign legion, but I just like the ergonomic design. I use an iMac DV as my main machine and have recently taken   delivery of a 17in PowerBook with as much memory as it's possible to get. I'm just about to get the AirPort Express device so I can listen to iTunes through my surround sound system downstairs.Do you have your own home cinema?Yes, simply because going to the cinema is a bit of a hassle as I do tend to get recognised - that six foot, 20-stone thing can work against you sometimes! I have a full surround sound system with hang on-the-wall Artcoustic speakers and a 60in plasma screen.Are all your computers networked?I have wireless throughout the house. It's great because I'm not tied to the office. It means I can write some bits and bobs for the Beeb while watching telly, or reply to emails and be with the family at the same time. Since I got wireless I have seen a lot more of the   kids. Usually when I get new gadgets I tend to disappear into myself.Do you download much music?Because I get given so much music working at BBC 6 Music, the temptation to download it isn't as great as it would have been in the old days. I tend to use the net more as a search resource to find old vinyl than for downloading. Once I can find a way of transferring my old vinyl to iTunes in one hop then I won't have anything left to do in my life.Do you have a PDA?I have a Palm Tungsten T3 (www.palmone.com/us/products/handhelds/tungsten-t3/). The great thing about it is that I can use it to check my email before I go home and I can also delete emails from the server that are spam or not wanted. I never thought I'd have the need for mobile email,   but it genuinely speeds things along.And a mobile phone?I have a Sony Ericsson T610 mobile phone (http://masl.to/?E39121B6A), which is synched with the Palm via Bluetooth. I'm really disorganised so even if I forget my Palm I have all my contacts stored in the phone.&#183;Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/6musicPhill Jupitus's favourite linksFor workhttp://news.bbc.co.ukFor sharp web comedywww.theonion.comAs a Red Sox fanhttp://masl.to/?J51E52A06Hideously compulsivewww.menwholooklikekennyrogers.com
If you have ever stepped up to the podium to give a presentation with a dry mouth, pounding heart and clammy hands, perhaps you should visit the Virtual Reality Medical Centre in San Diego, California, where stressed executives pay $120 (&#163;70) per 50-minute session to practice in a virtual world.After subjects don a virtual reality headset, they experience standing in a virtual room with a computerised audience. As the speakers run through their presentation, doctors measure heartbeat and skin temperature. They turn up the pressure as speakers become more comfortable. Mobiles ring and audience members are made to look bored: they begin whispering or even leave the room."In addition to treating fear, a lot of executives come to practice their skills," explains the centre's director, Brenda Wiederhold. "They can bring their speech and put their PowerPoint slides directly into the virtual environment."It is no surprise that people are so concerned about speaking to colleagues. Max Atkinson, a visiting professor at Henley Management College, says boring business meetings cost UK businesses &#163;7.6bn a year. He assessed how many managers in the UK earn an average of &#163;30,000 per year, extrapolating the cost for all to attend an hour of presentations per week. "What it didn't take into account was the time the presenter spent preparing, or costs such as venue and equipment hire," he says.Atkinson assumes that all time spent in meetings is useless, adding that most presenters' downfall is the very thing supposed to enhance their performance: Microsoft's PowerPoint software. "I have asked hundreds of people how many lively, inspiring PowerPoint presentations they have seen," he says. "Most people struggle to come up with a single one."In his 28-page anti-slideware manifesto, The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint, Yale professor Edward Tufte criticises it for being too presenter-focused and simplistic, creating a rift between audience and presenter. Atkinson agrees, arguing that nervous presenters can hide behind the technology by simply reading the bullet points, distancing themselves from the audience. "People don't plan. Once they have a series of bullet points together, they think they're prepared, and they just waffle."The dreariness of text stems not just from this inherent repetition, but also from the written word's incompatibility with slideware, says Atkinson. In a business context, the written word is meant to convey detail (something impossible in a slide   format), while inspiration, which is generally what presentations are meant to provide, is best provided by the spoken word.But if managers are relying on text in their presentations it could be because bad practice is hardwired into the system. Most of PowerPoint 2003's pre-prepared slide templates rely on text for at least half the content. Perhaps it is no coincidence that Microsoft has steered away from coding best practice into its newer generation of meeting aids.Microsoft's Livemeeting, for example, is a hosted web conferencing service that lets people interact in a virtual "room" online. Presenters can run through their PowerPoint slides, use animated laser pointer and highlighter tools, and even allow people to take control of their desktop PC screens, explains group marketing manager Neil Laver. With more than a hundred possible attendees, it is also possible to poll the audience, who can also register instructions for the presenter, such as "slow down".If middle managers are not adept at presentation and meeting management, wouldn't it make sense to put in templates with such things as proper agendas and reminders to keep the meeting on track?"We need to be realistic," says Laver. "Organisations have a responsibility to ensure staff are properly trained. Although &#91;people such as Tufte&#93; sound like they're &#91;running&#93; PowerPoint down, they're probably doing a good thing by making organisations recognise that you can't just stick software on desktops and make people productive."The distance technology puts between a presenter and an audience can be a good thing, says Nigel Stevens, senior vice president of enterprise technology services at publishing giant Reed Elsevier. He regularly uses Livemeeting to help executives get together, and likes it   because it can help reduce jitters. "There are people who hate the thought of walking into a room where there are 100 people, and doing a PowerPoint presentation," he says, but with Livemeeting, it is different. "You don't feel as though you're presenting to 120 people."Tim Savage, director of Toltec Network, an organisational development consultancy, disagrees. "It doesn't address the issue. People can avoid the areas they need to improve on if they're relying on technology."But unlike PowerPoint, remote conferencing technology doesn't just allow presenters to distance themselves from the audience. It also lets the audience disengage, as they do during teleconference calls. Stevens regularly works on other tasks during remote conferencing sessions. Do the presenters know this? "I think there is a different mindset. What you can't see, you don't worry about."Savage believes this distancing effect in virtual meetings can lead to long-term cultural damage within an organisation. He prescribes a mixture of structured objectives, effective chairs who keep meetings on track and, most importantly, dialogue. Knowing they could be called on for comment keeps attendees alert and helps them feel involved.But some of these techniques seem fundamentally incompatible with online presentation software. It is hard to strike up a dialogue with an attendee you don't even know is there. Executives from WebEx, a rival to Livemeeting, argue that meetings should be less structured, not more, to avoid becoming boring.There is at least one way to find a compromise. Savage suggests investing time in a business relationship early on, with intensive face-to-face meetings to establish bonds between people who will be working together. These can help avoid the relationship atrophy he associates with over-reliance on remote meetings. For managers who use PowerPoint as a crutch, cutting the text and leaving only well thought-out visuals is one part of the equation; using traditional techniques such as engaging your audience with eye contact and encouraging dialogue is the other.All this might frighten managers not used to looking at their audiences, which brings us back to the Virtual Reality Medical Centre, and to at least one thing it cannot do. Imagining your audience with no clothes on might work for presenters in more conventional settings, but perhaps it is just as well the centre's software doesn't include a virtual nakedness function. Some features are best left uncoded.LinksLivemeeting :www.livemeeting.comMax Atkinson:www.speaking.co.ukToltec Network:www.toltecnetwork.comVRMC:www.vrphobia.comWebEx:www.webex.com
Stand by for the Euroscience initiative: Microsoft research money will be pumped into laboratories from Milan to Manchester, starting with a new centre for computational and systems biology at the University of Trento. Bill Gates announced it all in Prague last week, but failed to be precise about the amounts involved, although there have been rumours of &euro;40m over five years. But the initiative is big. Gates chose a forum of 500 government chiefs and public officials at which to announce it. And it's new: so new its promoters are having a hard time explaining its thrust. But then, how would you explain what doesn't exist, such as new computing paradigms? Or intelligent environments?Stephen Emmott, director of external research for Microsoft Research in Cambridge, however, is prepared to have a go. Computing will move on, he says, by learning from nature, not from silicon. Computer engineers and software writers have been at it for 40 years and still face huge challenges and problems. Nature, however, has been quietly solving problems for 4bn years and has come up with some elegant answers and, he says, he isn't talking about neural networks and artificial intelligence."You get something as simple as a seed, that knows when to start to grow, what to grow into, is extremely fault tolerant, can recover from problems it encounters in terms of viruses, in terms of disease - and then it grows into a tree."In those terms, a seed is an information package that contains all it needs to process itself into something dynamic and about a million times its own size. How does it do it? How does a single cell - accountant, aardvark's or anemone's - manage its own internal economy and at the same time keep in touch with all the other cells in the organism. "How does a cell function?" he asks. "That's a bold ambition, because we don't know. The complexity of the problem is not one that can be solved by traditional biological methodology."It might, however,   be instructive to regard it as a computing problem, and come up with some testable predictions. Scientists who did such things would learn a lot about both biology and computing.But Emmott's interest and Microsoft's money is pointing to the strange new world in which computing and other science will be inseparable. Some problems really will call for new approaches. The large hadron collider, to open at Cern in Geneva in 2007, will produce 500m subatomic particle collisions a second. Somewhere in the debris of these collisions could be the answer to life, the universe and everything. But there aren't enough scientists in the world to handle data on that scale. So new ideas are called for."One of the concepts we have begun to formulate is the idea of building a robot scientist, an autonomous experimenter," he says. "So that's a sophisticated set of software tools capable of conducting experiments remotely and autonomously, knowing when to conduct an experiment, when to stop collecting data, doing sophisticated manipulation of that data, and analysing it. More sophisticated still is knowing how to generate hypotheses from the analysis of that data. And it would design the experiment as well."Last, but not least, he'd like researchers to start looking at how to make use of the independent bits of silicon littered around the home and office. Could your car, for instance, notice it was running out of petrol and start negotiating a favourable price from a petrol station somewhere on the M1? Without bothering you about the details? Could your fridge notice you hadn't come home, and tell your television set to record your favourite programme? Could your washing machine switch itself on only after it had negotiated the lowest spot rate for electricity with the national grid computer? Why not? The chips are already embedded in your house. It's just a matter of getting them to cooperate. "These are very simple things that will have a big impact on the way you live," says Emmott.
Seven years ago to the day, the World Wide Web Consortium released a set of specifications for the Extensible Markup Language, XML 1.0. It was designed to allow anyone to create tagged documents, with tags describing the contents. By building on the work done with SGML (Standard Generalised Markup Language) and the web's HTML (HyperText Markup Language), XML was intended to be a common platform for data exchange across the rapidly growing internet and become the lingua franca of the connected world.Today, XML is everywhere. You will find it built into your desktop applications, and even into your operating system. Apple uses XML for configuration files in Mac OS X, while Microsoft has built it into the premium versions of its Office suite. Even Adobe has been bitten by the bug, as it has developed an XML version of its PDF file format. The open source OpenOffice project is developing an XML-based document format it hopes will become an open standard. Even Flash applications communicate with back-end servers using XML messages. The MPeg video standards group has put an XML-based   language at the heart of its DRM (digital rights management) proposal. Soon, there may even be XML in your TV set.XML documents contain everything from purchase orders and invoices to descriptions of who knows who (and why). Its query and transform tools help find information in the most complex documents, while converting my XML description of a widget into yours of a gizmo. Other features let my documents tell your applications that there can only be three phone numbers linked to a name in the corporate phone book.XML's web of standards was developed by a small group of people, but quickly evolved into a global community, and this has made what could have been just another mark-up language into a success story. Jean Paoli, one of that original small team and now Microsoft's senior director for XML architecture, describes its success as the result of one thing: "We really wanted this to happen."However, it is not familiar front-end applications that really benefit from today's XML world. The dotcom bubble's dream world of business-to-business connections is here, with XML messages linking businesses all over the world. Organisations such as   Oasis (Organisation for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards) have worked hard to help define industry standard message formats, which allow one bank to communicate with another - and, using the same XML format, with a copy of Quicken on your desktop PC - or for a chemical processing plant to order feedstock from suppliers anywhere in the world. XML even looks set to supplant EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) standards, with the UN-sponsored ebXML, which helps define and manage all the parts of a business relationship.Inside the enterprise, XML is driving a wave of interoperability. The early integration platforms have gone, to be replaced by web services. Wide industry uptake has made web   services a common interoperability layer that allows Microsoft.net applications to link to Perl scripts, and Macromedia Flash user interfaces to drive Java application servers, and so on.The Web Services Interoperability organisation is a cross-industry body that works to ensure that web services will remain interoperable across different platforms and programming frameworks. The WS-I's library of standards covers everything from the basic building blocks of web services to security - and will carry on expanding as more features are added by more and more vendors.Paoli points out one area where web services and XML are making a difference: electronic forms that deliver XML to patient management systems are speeding up hospital emergency admissions, making sure accurate patient data is available to attending doctors.The future of XML seems promising. It is at the heart of many important technologies, and will become an important part of the enterprise IT infrastructure. Like TCP/IP, the internet's communications protocol, and HTTP, it will become just another part of the plumbing that links everything from mainframes to desktop PCs. With the arrival of next generation operating systems such as Microsoft's Longhorn and Apple's OS X Tiger, XML will be baked into the underpinnings of every PC and server. Technologies such as Microsoft's Indigo will also use XML messages to link applications and businesses into wide-area service oriented architectures. It won't just be applications that link into XML web services: devices will use them to link into management frameworks, or to add new functions.Tomorrow's XML will also be much more visible in the foreground of computing. Computer desktops will become canvases for active documents that mix XML data and formatting information - and include links to web services. Your online tax return will be a document that looks like the paper forms the Inland Revenue sends, but it will be able to work with online calculation services, before delivering XML data directly into the Inland Revenue systems (and automatically transferring your refund into your bank account).As Paoli says: "The end users see documents, the IT team sees data. Now it's the same thing."XML promises a future where we can link together quickly, and easily link computer systems, building them into business processes, no matter who developed the system - or in what language.XML provides interoperability, and it is up to us to take advantage of the door it has opened.LinksXMLwww.w3.org/XML/www.xml.orgOasiswww.oasis-open.orgWS-I organisationwww.ws-i.org
