Fears over the potential of mobile phones to act as electronic spies - tracking the movements of anyone who carries one - are intensifying. Today, location-based services (LBS) services can locate you to within a 200-metre radius. The system works by signal telemetry, using maths to work out how far you are from a station base. Jeremy Green, research director at telecoms analysts Ovum, explains: "A mobile network has to know where you are to connect calls; it knows which cell you are in all the time."That information is not freely available, so part of the trick is to extract that information and make it available to other databases. In urban areas there are lots of cells that can pinpoint you down to a couple of hundred metres."Even in cities, however, this system cannot work out exactly where the user is. But this is coming soon - very soon in the US, where such a requirement will be made law. All phones will have the ability to pinpoint the user when they dial a 911 emergency number, possibly through the use of a global positioning satellite chip.  The US move has set alarm bells ringing at human rights organisations.Carriers in Japan already offer a pinpointing service that lets mobile phone customers check a handset user's location to within 50m.  Privacy fears are heightened because it is technically feasible to send location details of the cellular user location anywhere, admits Snaptrack, the company behind the LBS technology for DoCoMo's i-mode service. Users will be able to block    the service, but there are ways of accessing that information illicitly."One of the reasons we have developed our solution the way we have is that it puts control in the handset and therefore in the subscriber's hands," says a Snaptrack spokesman."To track a mobile you have to initiate that process at the handset." However, fears of breaching basic human rights won't be so easily allayed. DoCoMo has already implemented a fax-back    tracking service aimed ostensibly at concerned parents. Its Imadoko (Where are you) service tracks the movement of children via a disarmingly cute handset. Parents have also been using it to spy on junior's movements after school. And what if an employer wanted to foist such a device on employees or the police wished to track mobile users? The London-based human rights group Liberty says the introduction of such methods would be hard to halt under present legislation."It's yet another example of technology outstripping the pace of regulation," says a campaign co-ordinator. "That's why we need a privacy law. "It seems reasonable for employers to have some idea of what their staff are up to during working hours. But keeping track of employees in their leisure time is going too far.  "The suggestion that the police might be able to make use of it is even more alarming."
"We're the No. 1 movie company, the No. 1 online company, the No. 1 premium cable network company, the No. 1 cable network company, No. 2 cable company, No. 2 music company," he said here in a panel discussion at the cable television industry's annual convention. "What am I missing?"AOL Time Warner
The new HPwas launched in the US yesterday and in the UK today. Hewlett-Packard now includes companies that used to trade as Compaq, Digital Equipment Corp (DEC), Tandem and Apollo, among others. The last time two giant corporations got together to form the world's second biggest computer company (after IBM) was in the 1980s when Burroughs bought Sperry to formUnisys. Well, you know how history repeats itself....
Lots of new goodieson their way from Apple, many as part of the next major release of OSX, code-named Jaguar. There are plenty of noteworthy features: one that caught my eye is called Redezvous, which will let Macs more easily recognise each other on wired and wireless networks, and share their files. Steve Jobs showed one Mac streaming, wirelessly, an MP3 from another Mac - which raises the question: when is Apple going to do an 802.11-equipped home hub that would allow you to play your MP3 collection through your hi-fi, or watch DVDs &amp; QuickTime movies on your TV? There's also going to be iChat, a new chat application built into the OS which will be "blessed" by AOL. iChat will also boast various easy-to-use file sharing functions, which will doubtless attract the interest of the leaden-footed record companies.It is also expected that Apple will announce its first rack-mounted server product next week...
Search for "holly valance pictures" on Google.co.uk today, and the top link returned will lead you to the homepage of the under-dressed soap and pop star whose single, Kiss Kiss, currently tops the charts.Use the same words on the BBC's newly-launched internet search engine, BBCi Search, and you'll find one of the BBC's own sites - CBBC Newsround - is the top and second link. The official site is nowhere to be seen. Why?Any new internet initative by the BBC is likely to be controversial. Funded by the license fee, the BBC has a bigger budget to experiment with, and already claims one of the biggest internet audiences in the world.Now rivals fear the corporation is driving home this advantage, by creating a search engine which will draw searchers away from the commercial alternatives - and promote BBC sites over others in its results.The result of our Holly Valance search is strange given the BBC is using the database and search technology sold to them by Google. You would expect, all things being equal, that the result would be very close. Indeed, across a range of searches performed by Online today, the BBC and Google matched link for link, allowing for the BBC's stated preference for UK sites.Yet for this one search - which we picked because it is likely to be one of the most popular at the moment - the results differ wildly. It's a small anomaly that leads to a lot of big questions for the BBC and its online rivals.Auntie claims the reasons for launching its branded search engine are clear: a bit of research drummed up by the BBC last week showed 80% of search engine users reckoned their experience could be better, and 90% said they would use a BBC search - with a similar number wanting "unbiased" results.Those figures are hardly surprising. Most internet old-timers and search engine watchers agree that Google offers by far the best internet search. But, away from the expert users, Google use is much lower: folk don't know it exists because it is young, it has never advertised, and lacks the marketing power of the likes of Microsoft.As a result, Google is a poor third in the search engine charts, behind Microsoft's MSN and Yahoo!, according to Jupiter Media Metrix figures for March 2002. AOL and Ask Jeeves (fourth and fifth) also still boast large shares of the market.All this means second and third-rate search engines still take a big chunk of the search traffic. Therefore, it's no surprise people are unhappy with what they are being offered.Results on the other search engines are often irrelevant because of inferior search technology. They are further skewed by the scourge of paid-for listings and the antics of porn site owners, who employ a multitude of increasingly sophisticated tactics to get their sites at the top of the most innocuous search.Of course, the BBC is not being entirely altruistic in providing this new service. It knows that for a trusted brand like the BBC, the opportunity to move into this market and bring more traffic to its site - already one of the most popular destinations on the web - is too good to miss.Buying in a Google back end has also saved time and development costs - and bought them use of the best search engine on the net. To that they have added further filtering and recommended sites in certain areas, hand picked by BBC staffers.So a search for "uk news" puts the BBC's news site top and the Guardian's second, both being listed as one of the site's recommended sites. As it happens, the same search on Google.co.uk puts these sites top, in the same order, without any human intervention (for an explanation of how Google ranks sites, seehere.In a search for "world cup news" the BBC's heavy filtering out of non-UK sites meant its own World Cup front page rose from fourth on Google.co.uk to second on BBCi.Of course, for the majority of net users still fumbling around on lesser searches like Ask Jeeves, AOL and MSN, Auntie will offer a haven away from the frustrations of porn-heavy results and paid-for listings.But the anomalies we discovered do highlight the editorial and filtering decisions the BBC is making on behalf of their users, and the political minefield the BBC has entered with its new search engine. The corporation will need to tread very carefully not to cause further outcry - and breach the trust of the net users it is trying to woo.
The music industry is shooting itself in the foot by trying to stop online file sharing, according to a new Jupiter Media Metrix report. Aram Sinnreich, Jupiter senior analyst, says: "It is safe to say that active usage of online music content is one of the best predictors of increased consumer purchasing. Thus, music sellers should devote their imited resources to online marketing and distribution -- rather than eradicating the phantom threat of file-sharing, if they truly wish to stanch the blood flow and turn the music market around." It is not unusual for media companies to act against their own best interests. For example, the movie studios tried to stop people taping things on their VCRs.
Microsoft's Java-likeC#computer language is gaining ground -- but that's from a low base with programmers who are just trying it out.
The Klez virus/worm was amazingly successful last month. Kaspersky Labs has just issued a Top 10 for April that suggests it is, er, more popular than Sophos's figures show (below): I-Worm.Klez 94,5 % I-Worm.BadtransII 1,5 % Win32.Elkern.c 0,6 % I-Worm.Sircam 0,6 % I-Worm.HappyTime 0,4 % I-Worm.LoveLetter 0,3 % I-Worm.Hybris 0,2 % Win95.CIH 0,2 % I-Worm.Cervivec 0,2 % Trojan.PSW.Delf 0,1 %
The runners will certainly not have the elegance of a racehorse or the explosive speed of a greyhound but the 12.30 at Ealing tomorrow is bound to have a bit of bite to it.Bets will be taken not on thoroughbreds or highly trained dogs but on which of six Caiman alligators will get its snout across the finishing line first.The event is the brainchild of an online bookmaker, which is keen to put on a race that will work well when shown live on the internet. Races involving horses and dogs have proved unsatisfactory because slow computer connections led to disjointed pictures. Alligator racing, more of a stop-start affair, might just be the answer.Ten young reptiles, up to 2ft long, will compete in heats of six at a time. The beasts, attired in numbered waistcoats, will race on 20ft tracks separated from each other by glass. Unlike greyhounds, they will not be tempted down the track by a hare or even their favourite food - chicks - and organisers are not allowed to prod them to encourage them. Because punters have hardly been able to follow the form, all contenders will be priced at 9/2.The organiser, Blue Square, had some success when it staged snail racing two years ago. However, "hamster drag racing" did not work quite as well because the animals went too quickly.The event is being held at Ealing Studios in west London, and all profits will go to the World Wide Fund for Nature. So what about some inside information? Dave Broadbridge, whose company, Animal Allsorts, is supplying the alligators, said the reptiles all had distinctive personalities. "Like human beings, it all depends how they feel. If one of them is feeling lazy it won't move."
Young women queue for 17 hours to get hold of one. The industry's artistic pretensions are to be fulfilled in a landmark exhibition at London's Barbican Centre. It's part of a market worth $20 billion worldwide. In Britain, more is spent on them than on movies or music. And they might just be the commercial saviour of the internet.But making money from video games appears to be the toughest trick of them all.Despite soaring popularity, and the attentions of three giants of consumer technology, lots of money is being lost by investing in this market. Eidos, Rage, France's Infogrames, and Japan's Square have all nursed big losses, share price slumps and profits warnings despite being behind games such as Lara Croft: Tomb Raider, David Beckham Soccer, and Final Fantasy.If games production is commercially tricky, then hardware manufacturing is a dangerous gamble. Only last year, Japanese arcade giant Sega was forced to pull the plug on the much-hyped Dreamcast machine. Isao Okawa, the company's president, paid &#163;500 million out of his own pocket to cover losses. He died of heart failure weeks later.At that time it was the pre-eminence of Sony's PlayStation 2, and the imminent entry of the Microsoft Xbox to the market that forced the technically advanced Dreamcast off the shelves.Last week Japan's other gaming pioneer, Nintendo, joined the fray in Europe, releasing its GameCube machine to lengthy queues.'Both our other competitors are technology-based companies. Nintendo's just about games,' said David Gosen, managing director of Nintendo Europe.Not only has Nintendo rejoined the console market, it is also playing its part in a high-octane price war for platform supremacy. Microsoft chopped &#163;100 off the &#163;299 original price of its Xbox only five weeks after the European launch. Nintendo followed suit, pricing its Cube at &#163;129.'It's the cheapest launch of a console ever. We had 50,000 pre-orders,' said Gosen.The hardware sellers' business model has more than a whiff of 'Dotcomonomics'. Sell the machines, in bulk, at a hefty negative margin, and then make money from platform royalties. On every &#163;45 game, the royalty is more than &#163;6. In Europe alone, 35.5 million games were sold for Sony's PS2 in the year to March 2002. There are 7 million PS2 machines in Europe.Microsoft is thought to be taking a hit of about &#163;100 on each Xbox sold at the original price. This will reduce as factories find economies of scale but the recent price cut is thought to have reinforced this hardware subsidy.The Seattle-based software giant is desperate to break into this market. In the US, Xbox sales have been very good, over 2 million. In Europe, after an initial spurt, Xbox sales slowed to a trickle. The price cut should change this, but it is the Japanese situation that is causing most concern. After reasonable first-month sales, the Xbox is selling less than the original eight-year-old PlayStation, the near-extinct Dreamcast, and something called the WonderSwan.Japan is vital commercially, as the world's biggest market. But it also sets the tone for global trends in video games. A strong showing is also vital to entice Japan's innovative games developers to publish their best games on Microsoft's machine.Bill Gates and his chief Xbox officer, Robbie Bach, are well aware of this. A history of the project, Opening the Xbox, suggests that Gates made attempts to buy both Sega and Nintendo, but these were politely refused.Microsoft is not giving up. In Japan, amusement arcades are key shapers of gaming trends. 'We will do an arcade version of Xbox - we're doing that with Sega, who are the world's leader in those games,' Bach told  The Observer at the Xbox launch.Meanwhile, however, Seamus Blackley, co-creator of the Xbox, has left Microsoft. 'I think that the guy was responsible for the positioning of the product, and I think Microsoft positioned it wrong when they launched,' said Michael Pachter, a US brokers' analyst.Xbox is more consciously aimed at adult 'gamers'. One feather in the Microsoft cap is that the console has a high 'attach rate'. Xbox-buyers take three games with the console, suggesting that richer, older demographic.By contrast, the GameCube is seen as a toy. Nintendo is trying hard to escape that tag - it will launch the Resident Evil adult horror games exclusively on its machine and its efforts to woo external developers are more than talk. 'GameCube has moved to an optical disk format rather than cartridges, making it far easier to develop for,' says Gosen.The popular Fifa World Cup football games, Star Wars, and Batman all feature on an impressive launch roster. Nintendo is confident of bucking the trend and making considerable profits. There are already 4.5 million GameCubes worldwide. Nintendo predicts selling 12 million in the coming year and 19 million of its handheld GameBoy Advance.Few of Britain's world-beating games developers and publishers have stepped up to Nintendo's challenge. Eidos will bring out Timesplitters 2, on the format, but Lara Croft appears to be staying loyal to Sony's PS2.Eidos has issued another profits warning and has disappointed investors since the heydays of Lara. Rage suffered despite its potentially blockbusting David Beckham Soccer, which could not escape the shadow of EA Sports' Fifa football games.The industry is gearing up for its annual global shindig in Los Angeles. The Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), begins in a fortnight, when Sony is likely to reveal its 'eye toy' - allowing games to be controlled by a movement captured on a webcam.The big news will come from the announcement of all three companies' online strategies. 'Clearly it's the future, and it's built into the architecture - but dependent on so many extraneous factors, such as broadband takeup,' says David Wilson of Sony.The fight is about to move into cyberspace. Selling games on a per minute or a per play basis should prove lucrative for all the players. But will that be enough?
It is one of Britain's most popular websites. Friends Reunited has brought together old schoolfriends and childhood sweethearts in thousands of emotional reunions. Such is the reach of the internet that millions of people across the world log on every day in fresh bids to track down long-lost friends - and, in some cases, to pillory former teachers.Now, the owners of the site have a different problem; they have discovered that their successful online creation is also being used by bitter spouses to humiliate their philandering partners.In a withering, explicit and abuse-filled message, a woman used the noticeboard last week to denounce her husband for alleged infidelities. Not content with listing the intimate details of the affair alongside the school he attended, the wife went on to give the name, full address and phone number of the woman she accuses of tempting him away from the family home.The message was pulled off the site,www.friendsreunited.co.uk,within 48 hours of its placement. But echoing the embarrassment  caused when a sexually explicit exchange between a young couple was emailed to millions, the wife's rage is still alive and well in cyberspace, and being posted to email addresses across the globe.'Either she or someone who read the message thought it was so good that they emailed it to a friend as an attachment,' said Laura Lumley, a spokeswoman for Friends Reunited. 'We deleted the original message from Friends Reunited but there is nothing we can do about the email,' she said. 'It has probably been seen by thousands of people already; there is no  way of stopping it.'Steve Pankhurst, co-founder of the site, removed the message last Friday when a visitor drew it to his attention. He admits there is nothing he can do to stop such messages being posted in the first place. 'Friends Reunited take abuse on the site very seriously,' he said. 'If member notes are reported to us as abusive we remove both the notes and the individual from the site but we do not censor prior to posting. These notes are meant to be an update for friends.'The scorned woman's rant is   not the first message to disgrace Friends Reunited: last year the noticeboard was temporarily suspended when former pupils began using it to accuse teachers of physical abuse, alcoholism and even, in veiled hints, of paedophilia.The alleged temptress at the heart of the woman's tirade has disconnected her telephone, but it is thought that she is considering prosecuting the author for libel, as the National Association of Head Teachers threatened to do last year.Since its launch in 2000, membership of Friends Reunited has snowballed to more than 800,000 people. Users have the option to pay &#163;5 a year to send as many messages as they like, and celebrities such as Billy Bragg (Barking Abbey Comp) and Adam Ant (St Marylebone Grammar) have been attracted to log on.But although the site carries accounts of marriages between previously estranged friends and even some cases of adopted children reunited with their natural parents, it is also responsible for a growing list of divorces and painful separations.Last month Shirley Bell left her  husband of 25 years, her three children and her home two weeks after regaining contact, via the website, with her childhood sweetheart Steve Morgan.'I was stunned when Shirley sent me an email asking how I was, and cannot believe that two weeks later we were back together again after all this time,' Morgan said. 'It really is like something out of a Mills and Boon novel.'Not, one suspects, a sentiment likely to be echoed by the alleged philanderer whose wife's furious tirade is doing the rounds.
Freedom in America: a federal judge has ordered a technology company to change its technology so it canspy on consumers. The case involves ReplayTV, SonicBlue's digital video recorder. Hollywood studios and TV networks are frightened silly by the idea that you might not watch their adverts or, worse, might share copies of copyright programmes. There's a better report of the storyhere.
Most consumers believe they are being ripped off when they buy a new car in the UK, despite figures showing a drop in prices in March.According to a report published this week by market researchers Mintel, 56% of the 1,500 UK motorists questioned in its survey felt they were being overcharged by high prices on new cars.The number of people who felt they paid over the top went up slightly from 2000, when a Competition Commission investigation found UK drivers were paying about 10% too much for the average new car.Their view was supported in January this year by the Office of Fair Trading which said it was "concerned" price differentials between the UK and other EU countries persisted. But car prices in 2002 are running at lower levels than 2001 according to the latest Alliance &amp; Leicester Car Price Index.Andy Bayes of A&amp;L said the figures showed a continuing decline in prices over the year on all model types except luxury cars. Family cars saw a decline from an average price of &#163;14,120 to &#163;13,904. Small cars experienced a more dramatic fall in price by &#163;685 from &#163;12,294 to &#163;11,609, though MPVs saw the biggest fall of &#163;709 from &#163;14,567 to &#163;13,858."The latest year-on-year falls point towards increasingly cheaper new and secondhand cars in 2002. These price drops, combined with an April budget that didn't add to the cost of motoring, means this is a great time to buy a car."
It must be a generation thing. To the ladies of the Knitting and Crochet Guild, Slipknot is the title of their in-house magazine, named after the first loop used to start off each new pattern.But to thousands of black-bedecked adolescents, Slipknot is the monicker of a notorious, mask-wearing shock rock band, and some of their fans have launched a vicious email campaign against the knitters for violating their heroes in the name of handicrafts.Leading members of the guild - favourite pastime: "preserving and nurturing the skills of knitting and crochet" - have been bombarded with threatening emails from devotees of the American band - favourite pastime: sniffing dead crows on stage to make themselves sick.One member put a block on her telephone after receiving an abusive call from a fan who got her details from the guild's website."The emails have been pretty unpleasant, telling us that we shouldn't be on the internet with the word Slipknot, said Rita Taylor, chairwoman of the 1,000-strong circle of knitters.The nine-member band from Des Moines, Idaho, have taken the teenage rock market by storm. They spit on their fans - whom they refer to as "maggots" and never appear in public without their grotesque masks and boiler suits.Against this, hassling a few middle-aged women from the safe distance of cyberspace seems rather tame, but the band's record label said it was unaware that any of the "maggots" had stooped so low."There has been a problem with the band's official website for a couple of weeks so the fans may have emailed the knitting circle in error," a spokeswoman said.Not that the guild members are unduly concerned. "It hasn't really bothered us that much," said Ms Taylor. "We're not a bunch of frightened old ladies."
A computer games fanatic waited for 17 hours outside an Oxford Street shop to buy Nintendo's GameCube at its midnight launch, and this time it was not a teenage boy or middle-aged man.Sarah Dodd - a 19-year-old student from south London - became one of the first people in Europe to hand over £129 for the latest games console. The Japanese company reported that 10,000 consoles sold in just two hours in Berlin.A self-confessed enthusiast, Ms Dodd began waiting outside the central London HMV store at 7am yesterday. About 250 other people had joined her in the queue by late last night."It was worth the wait but I wouldn't do it again. I've met some great people out here in the queue but I'm now very tired," she said.The 19-year-old, who is studying biology, computing and technology, said she first became interested in computer games at the age of seven, and since then has bought every console produced. When she is not studying she is paid to test computer games, and at one stage was spending eight hours a day in front of a computer screen.Nintendo's European launch is accompanied by £60m of promotion and a £31 price cut before the console even hit the stores. Games companies expect to make a loss on their consoles and recoup the money in games sales, and Nintendo wants a bigger piece of the £510bn European games market.The price cut means the GameCube is £70 cheaper than both its rivals: Sony's overwhelming market leader, Playstation Two, and Microsoft's recently launched Xbox.Last month Microsoft announced a price cut just five weeks after its console was launched in Europe at a price of £299. Sony had cut the price of its PS2 console in December.Nintendo said 50,000 machines have been pre-ordered in the UK and 1m are allocated for Europe over the first eight weeks.Gennaro Castaldo, from HMV, said: "For the last few weeks the anticipation has been growing and people couldn't wait to get their hands on the GameCube. I was in touch with our stores in Birmingham and Glasgow last night and they also reported about 250 people waiting for the console to go on sale."The supermarket chain Asda also attracted late-night gamers when it sold the console at midnight from 34 of its stores.
Filters alone can't stop child porn,says National Research Council report. This may sound profoundly obvious but must come as a shock to the US government sponsors of such laughably incompetent approaches as the Communications Decency Act.
Yet another illustration of the fact that, when it comes to regulating software, the US legal system is intellectually and morally bankrupt: Adobe has won its case against Macromedia over the use oftabbed pallettes. Can't blame Adobe for capitalising on the clueless stupidity of the US government when it comes to software, of course, but unfortunatelyEuropeis heading in the same direction.
Klezwas responsible for an amazing 77.8% of computer virus infections last month, says Sophos.
"Alec Wilder was livid when he realized that the only way to pay for Yahoo's e-mail forwarding service was to sign up for the company's electronic payment system." The problem with Web-based services is, of course, paying for them -- epecially if you are not convinced the security is and will remain really secure. CNet has surveyed the problemhere.
It's Thursday, so today's Guardian Online isonline.
Oh dear, another security hole in a nerdy product. This time it'sNetscape/Mozilla, and the particularly amusing thing is that Microsoft had a less serious version of the same vulnerability and fixed in back in February. This follows recent problems inSNMPandzlib. What was that about "people in glass houses shouldn't throw stones"?
Were you affected by yesterday's Day of Silence? And are fees going tokill off Internet broadcasting?
Googleis becoming AOL's paid search partner, replacing Overture, while Overture is replacing Google at Yahoo.
IT company executives used to tell us that the internet would change the fundamental laws of economics. Scary. But not as scary as the industry's current mantra, which is that the internet will change the nature of government.Industry-sponsored conferences and publications evangelising "e-government" are springing up like TV quiz shows. IBM and Microsoft recently held government conferences and the management consultancy Accenture has published a major survey on the subject.Magazines    aimed at civil servants are stuffed with ads from IT companies offering to solve government's problems.  It's easy to see why. When traditional high-rollers like banks are no longer throwing money at IT, government is the only game in town.  Public agencies around the world are racing to meet target dates for going online. The US's e-government deadline is November next year; the EU says member states should offer electronic access to basic government services by the end of this year.Some countries - Singapore and Australia - are already there.  At first sight, the UK's deadline, the end of 2005, is more modest. But our e-government effort is wider and deeper than many. The target applies across all tiers of administration and all public services. About half of the 520 services are "e-enabled".  Accenture's survey, which tested 23 countries' online government services for "maturity", placed the UK sixth.Canada came top, followed by Singapore, the US, Australia and Denmark.  I'm an e-government enthusiast. The internet is my first point of contact with my local authority and most government agencies. I've even ordered a copy of my French criminal record online.  But we're liable to forget that e-government costs money. Officially, the budget for "UK Online" is &#163;1bn over three years, but the real cost will be higher. IT projects under way in central government departments add up to &#163;10bn, the National Audit Office said last week. And local councils, most of which are getting only &#163;200,000 to go online, will have to pay for their schemes, mainly from rates.  This year, the US government will spend more than $1bn a week on IT. But isn't e-government supposed to pay its own way by cutting the cost of bureaucracy?That was the dream. In 1999, Hewlett-Packard's advertisements were saying that e-government could "radically reduce" the cost of running public services, and hence taxes.  It hasn't happened. While transactions such as licence applications are much cheaper to process electronically, it is difficult to convert    these savings into overall administration savings.  Unlike banks or supermarkets, governments can't shut down their least productive branches. When I pressed local government minister Nick Raynsford recently, the only example of e-government savings he could suggest was cutting the paper bill.In the heady days of dotcoms, no one worried about paying for e-government. Impower, the company that launched Britain's first e-licensing service (for fishing licences), lost money on every transaction. In the US, companies like GovWorks (star of the cult movie Startup.com) tried in vain to sell advertising space on their web portals.  Realism quickly set in. Impower killed its fishing licence service as soon as the Environment Agency launched its version. Public bodies are beginning to recognise that when services or staff numbers can't be cut, the user has to pay. The City of San Francisco charges a "convenience fee" of $2.75 for paying parking tickets online.Even the evangelists are now talking less about cost savings. Accenture's report admits that: "Expectations that e-government would reduce the cost of service delivery have not been realised."They say it is because the system hasn't been properly tried. E-government is still in its revolutionary phase. Its catchphrase is now "back-office integration", code for ruthless rationalisation. "Technology is now being seen as just one of the tools that can contribute to reinventing government for the digital age, and facilitate the development of nimble, lean government structures," Accenture says. But these lean structures come at a cost:* To employment. Unloved monsters such as the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency and the National Insurance Contributions Office mean a lot to the citizens of Swansea and Newcastle upon Tyne.* To privacy. Back-office integration is the reason the Cabinet Office wants a fundamental change in laws protecting personal data.* To democracy. There's nothing lean about devolving power to local governments, but there are good political reasons.  If e-government is worth doing, it's worth paying for.&#183;E-Government Leadership - Realizing the Vision. Accenture, April 2002.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Google drew the largest global search audience last month with 46% of web users, according to OneStat.com, the net analysis company. Pushed back into second place, with just 20%, was the classic web company Yahoo. Although Yahoo denies these figures reflect the true state of play, is this a sign of the beginning of the end for one of the net's earliest success stories?Yahoo, say the whisperers, is losing the plot. What self-respecting internet user would go to the advert-laden, massively extended web portal, when Google is so much faster and easier on the eye?  The majority of internet users are no longer beginners and, the theory goes, as they grow more sophisticated, they are throwing off their training wheels.The brand created back in 1994 (ancient in web terms) is losing its traditional place as a great directory and, by extending into auctions, email, travel agencies and car sales and finance, has lost its concentration in the process.  For old school web users, watching Yahoo fall from purity is painful.It may have been svelte, yet comely, back in 1995, but today, Yahoo is looking as tired and bedraggled as the faded actress you once fancied. The diehards find it all just a little sad.  They are also wrong. But first, some background: Yahoo started in 1994. Its two founders, David Filo and Jerry Yang, were graduate students at Stanford University. They started a site, Jerry's Guide to the World Wide Web, in February 1994. It quickly grew, PhDs were put aside, and the site became Yahoo (or more accurately, Yahoo!).By the autumn of 1994, almost 100,000 visitors hit the site a day, at a time when the internet was still a mystery to everyone but academics and the military.  It was the place you went first. In the era before Google, HotBot, even Alta Vista (whose arrival blew the minds of netizens everywhere), Yahoo was our    friend, guide and comfort. It was our home. "We're first and foremost a media company, selling audiences," says James Bilefield, business development director at Yahoo UK, echoing the words of his one-time boss, Tim Koogle. Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, a few months before his resignation in March last year as Yahoo's chief executive, Koogle complained that internet companies, Yahoo included, had given away too much content to consumers as they tried to gain market share.Since then, consumers have been loathe to pay for any internet content, either by handing over cash, or by enduring intrusive advertising. Nevertheless, he said, "advertising does work. It depends if you can get the scale to break even".But Yahoo's supposed ratings drop might be seen as    indicative of a problem facing every large website. Their growing expertise is being mirrored, if not exceeded by, the average web user. The newbie, it seems, is dying. Mindy Mount, executive vice president and co-managing director of AOL UK, says it is a challenge to sites:"As consumers become more experienced on the web, they don't just wander around."  Marc Rigby, a director at the marketing agency Interfocus, says: "The Yahoo brand has become confused over time. It was originally a facility that allowed you to easily find what you want. Now its status as a portal means a wealth of features but a lack of focus. Compare it to Google, which ultimately works best as a search engine. It's quick and it does exactly what it says on the tin."Sadly for Yahoo, and many of the other heavily funded portal sites, it seems the scale    needed to break even is greater than the scale accepted by many users. Says Rigby: "The more experienced will go direct to the site they want; they no longer require the middle man and its increasingly irritating advertising.The unquenchable thirst for information needs speed of response to satisfy it. Banners and the like are simply unwelcome diversions, whose targeting is often awry."  Awry advertising certainly causes trouble. Yahoo found this out the hard way last month when, after an overhaul of its Yahoo Groups mailing-list service, it switched all of their members' preferences to allow marketing information to be sent to them. Many people saw this as spamming, although members could, and did, go to their user preferences and change the setting back.It created much bad faith.   This is not to say that advertising is losing Yahoo money: Yahoo executives are projecting revenues of between $205 and $225m for the second quarter of this year and between $870 and $910m for the whole year. But the need to match growth expectations with the growing expectations of the user hasn't passed by the advertising business. They are working on new ways to balance their needs to advertise, and consumers' demands to be left alone. "We are doing a lot of experimentation as a company," says Bilefield.Andrew Burgess, the managing director of EquiMedia, which plans and buys advertising space online, talks of the new generation of non-intrusive advertising. "The development of mutually profitable relationships, which match the needs of a business or consumer to a supplier, is the way forward. For example, if you are researching authors and are offered an opportunity to purchase a selection of their books on Amazon, this will not be seen as intrusive and non-personal but a tailored offer in response to a search."And it doesn't stop there, says Burgess: "A new force in the advertising world is also pay-per keyword requests from the likes of Overture and e-spotting. These offer advertisers preferential search listing placements on MSN and Yahoo. This is being viewed by many as offering successful business models. The most successful are those based on consumer/business need."But there's the problem: in 1995, when the web was small, new sites could be inspected and indexed quickly. A company of Yahoo's size could keep up. But today's web is too big. Manually built indexes rapidly lose either their value, or their integrity: Yahoo now charges US$299 for a site to be included within seven days. Sites offering "adult services" pay $699. Pay-for-inclusion, and pay-for-placement have proved popular among some of the search engines: Lycos, Ask Jeeves, Fast, Inktomi, Alta Vista and LookSmart all accept   payment for either faster inclusion, or higher rankings, but for the customer, the additional advertising is taking away any reason to go to the site in the first place.  Compare this with Dmoz.org, the Open Directory Project.Already the largest directory of sites in the world, Dmoz lists more than 3m sites in nearly 400,000 categories free of charge, with no advertising. The editing is done by more than 40,000 volunteers, and the database is available for download, at no cost, for developers. There is no facility to skew the results by paying for either placement or inclusion.  Nevertheless, Yahoo isn't that bothered: "Search and directory is an increasingly small part of what we do, &#91;though it&#93; remains the entry point for new users on to our network," says Bilefield."We're starting to compete with daily newspapers for our slice of the media pie."  So, as much as the vocal old school of the net bemoan Yahoo's transformation, perhaps it's not us who are rejecting Yahoo, but Yahoo that is rejecting us. For a company that makes its money in a pact that swaps services, such as email and mailing lists, for the promise to look at the adverts it presents, the presence of hundreds of thousands of users who filter, ignore, insult and deny all forms of advertising is a burden.While many may feel it is like being kicked in the teeth by the family nanny, it only goes to show how far we've come on the net since 1994. That a site we once relied on to guide us through the web can now do without us, and go for a larger demographic, is both heartening and sad. We may be nostalgic for the old days of the web, but now is the time for Yahoo, and others, to run free and leave us.
For the past 10 days, the French haven't been able to stop talking about Jean-Marie Le Pen's unexpected success at the polls. Everywhere. At work, at the cafe. And on the internet.The results for the first round of the presidential election appalled the French, with Le Pen, the far-right leader, gaining 16.86% of the vote. Many were expected to demonstrate in the streets yesterday, on Labour Day, and over the past 10 days, the internet community has also reacted strongly.New sites    have been rushed up, jokes and hoaxes circulated and online petitions signed.  "The social movement we have in France is relayed on the internet, but it was born in the street," says Olivier Blondeau, a sociologist who has been studying social affairs on the web since the 1995 strikes."The internet enables people to organise demonstrations, saying what happens where and when. We saw that also for the Seattle and Genoa demonstrations. While political parties and trade unions want to unite people for Labour Day, most of the other sites promote continuous social agitation," says Blondeau.Ras l'front  has been a leading group against Le Pen's party since 1991. "We have been overwhelmed since Sunday April 21, 8pm," says Erwin Bliesenick, webmaster for Ras l'front. "The internet is the right tool to inform on demonstrations and for people to express what they think of the election."Graphic artists have taken to the web in great numbers,    too, to express their feelings. It is the first time this profession has gained such a political visibility on the web. A dedicated site has appeared.On political parties' and candidates' sites, discussion forums have exploded. The Lionel Jospin website recorded more than 30,000 contributions on a dedicated forum in 10 days. The website reads: "The Socialist party asks its voters to block the far right's way, voting for the candidate Chirac on May 5th." Notably, Jospin himself is not asking for socialist voters to vote for his former rival.Meanwhile, the Greens are asking their supporters to vote for Chirac and sign an online petition, saying: "We will not vote for Chirac, but against Le Pen." So far, 1,400 have added their names. Movie directors and political science students have launched petitions, too. Media websites have been overloaded. On Monday, April 22, the first working day after the result, lemonde.fr and tf1.fr recorded more than a million visitors each, more   than they saw on September 12.Liberation.fr tripled its traffic, with 361,000 visits. Lefigaro.fr, the website of the only national right wing newspaper, saw a big rise, too, with 187,000 visitors, compared to 45,000 on a normal day. Political parties and trade unions are offering downloadable kits with posters and stickers in an attempt to motivate voters. But the web works for all sides of the political argument. The National Front is offering surfers documents detailing its position on immigration and the family. And Le Pen has even spoken of how the internet offers a way round what he sees as a media conspiracy to force the country to vote against him in the second round of the polls."Some national media try to impose on the people their choice for the second round. The internet is one of the last places for freedom; it is also a remarkable tool for militancy."
Broadband has certainly hit the headlines in recent weeks. But behind the hype, what will broadband mean for business?At its most basic, broadband makes the internet a more satisfying experience: less waiting, more surfing, greater benefits. This is good news in itself. But that's just the start. Broadband technologies, whether they're delivered down a telephone line, a cable modem or a satellite, have a key role to play in realising a vision.They enable users to benefit from new value-adding services, such as video on demand, teleconferencing and interactive multimedia experiences: new products with valuable applications.They have the potential to enhance the delivery of public services, to overcome social and geographical divides and, not least, the potential to dramatically increase the productivity and competitiveness of business.The business opportunities here are considerable. For a start, broadband will allow businesses to save time, and money, on the internet. Put simply, they can do this because they can download large data files at much greater speeds. Companies can now get updates on share and commodity prices in real time while simultaneously listening into analysts' discussions and watching a live press conference. Over time, broadband technologies will also allow businesses to develop new business models and new ways of working.But some things we already know. Broadband will allow the smallest operators to compete on a far more level playing field with their larger competitors. It will allow the catalogues or stock databases of businesses to be hosted by a specialist ISP with connectivity and round-the-clock back-resources. It will allow them to set up virtual private networks (VPNs) with branch offices for off-site workers. And it will allow businesses to access new software or the services of sophisticated ASPs at the press of a button.So what then are the challenges business and government face in pursuit of this vision? Already, here in the UK we are one of the world's most connected economies, with almost half of households connected to the internet, at some of the most competitive prices in Europe. Our challenge is now to build on that success. So, basically, there are two issues: extending the infrastructure and increasing usage.About two-thirds of the UK population can currently access an "affordable" broadband solution. In recent days we have already seen welcome announcements from BT regarding the enabling of 100 more DSL exchanges and the deployment of a new satellite broadband service for SMEs.Government also has a role to play. Just last month I detailed a broad range of projects across the country designed to drive availability and take-up. The projects, financed by a &#163;30m fund, have been designed to meet the individual needs of each region and will be managed by regional development agencies and devolved administrations. We are also looking to see how the public sector can most effectively procure its own broadband. Given that at all levels of government around &#163;1.7bn is spent on ICT every year, smart procurement has the potential to significantly impact the wider availability of broadband in the UK.Last autumn I challenged BT publicly to set fair, lower broadband prices. So I welcome last month's announcement by BT to cut BT's wholesale price and enable 100 more exchanges.UK cable prices have always been among the cheapest in the OECD and such price reductions mean the UK's DSL prices are now the second cheapest in the G7. In recent weeks the UK has achieved some of the cheapest internet prices in the world - for both narrowband and broadband. As a result, the number of people signing up to broadband is soaring. We are fast approaching half a million broadband subscriptions. Of course there is more to do. Of course we have further progress to make. But the work of building broadband Britain is under way.&#183;Comments? Emailfeedback@guardian.co.uk.
Broadband connections are here at last, as BT and many other providers of fast access to the internet will tell you. This is a good thing, most of them will claim, because it allows businesses to get on to the internet more quickly and efficiently than ever before. It's taken a while to get here but now that it's here, it's great, right? Well, perhaps, but people are getting carried away with the idea before they really know what it's going to be for.Stepping back for a moment, it's worth considering what smaller businesses are doing in terms of the internet already. The idea that everybody is connected by now is something of an exaggeration. According to information from research company Prodata, only 63% of businesses with between one and 50 employees had internet subscriptions for business reasons, this figure slumping to 30-40% in retail, hotels and hospitality and the real estate sectors. Most of the existing users have been online for two years or more.Broadband take-up, though - if we take broadband to mean "faster than ISDN" - is sluggish: in late 2001, 3% of smaller businesses were using it, with a projection of 6% take-up by the middle of this year and 15% by 2005, assuming stable pricing. Most (78%) are using it for emailing and browsing/searching; only 20% quoted sending and receiving large files as driving them to buy broadband, but around 35% ended up using it for this purpose anyway.So, the impetus to move needs to be based on two things: cost and the need for extra or improved functions. The costs are easy to calculate and are mostly based on BT because it wholesales the service to most of the other service providers.This month the price from BT came down and demand for broadband went up accordingly. Price reductions happened for two reasons: first, the wholesale price came down and second, a new tranche of hardware, which allows companies and individuals to install their own equipment instead of receiving a visit from an engineer, became available.The effect is that faster connections to the internet are more affordable and, as long as supplies of the right equipment hold up, faster to get at than ever before. It's perhaps odd, then, that BT and the other companies involved seem to be expecting people to buy into the idea simply because it's faster, rarely pausing to explain why this should be a good idea.Microsoft, for example, is keen to get its small business customers on to broadband as soon as possible. Tim Kimber, small business product manager, stresses that people can get web performance to the standard of their larger competitors at an affordable price, get competitive information through the web and maintain their own websites. But isn't that already possible with an ordinary modem and a dial-up account? "The feedback I get, particularly from small businesses, is that any sort of metered internet service results in sub-optimal use of the web for their business," he says.Agreed, but then that's why so many people opt for an unmetered account, for which you don't necessarily need broadband. "I acknowledge that an un-metered dial-up service gets around part of this, but most small businesses I speak to want better bandwidth to share internet access among their Lan users, for instance with Small Business Server," says Kimber. This, indeed, is a key part of the broadband argument: the fatter the "pipe" into your organisation, the bigger a chunk of it everyone will get when they share it.The question of whether there are things you could do with broadband that you couldn't do before is moot, however. Gary Dooley, managing partner with Bradford design agency Pure, is one customer whose business has been transformed by it. "The download and send times for attachments is making our workload far more manageable. And although I hope we don't all surf silly during the working day, it is so much quicker now to research potential client information and acquire all the details you need fast," he says."The costs can look prohibitive but the extra efficiency has freed up time that can be put towards pitches and creative work. In fact broadband in no small measure has contributed towards a rapid expansion in business in a very, very short space of time," Dooley adds.Andrew Fisher, technical director of design company Redhouse Lane, agrees and notes that getting email in real time is quite a boon: "You can filter information into high priority and leave the others for later or whatever. This is much more effective and more responsive for your customers, meaning faster turnaround times and hence higher customer satisfaction."The other aspect is that remote workforces can do things such as video conference over the internet with some degree of ease," he adds. The basics to do this are included in Windows, and you can get hold of a web camera for less than &#163;100.Inevitably, the people first coming forward with praise for broadband were the ones with a need to download and upload large files frequently: design companies, those using video. But the mundane stuff can get easier too, which at around &#163;25 per month is now actually worth considering.Andy Williams, campaign manager for the Broadband4Britain pressure group, readily concedes that to look for a "killer application" is a red herring. But he maintains that just getting broadband into households will improve the lot of the average e-trader. "This is the market for lots of &#91;companies'&#93; products and services, whether the e-business model is direct or indirect. No consumer eyeballs, no e-economy," he says. "This applies as much to lawyers, accountants, financial advisers, estate agents and travel agencies as it does to retailers."But there are still problems. Jeff Meulman, managing director of Via Net.works UK, points to service outages in recent months: "Whatever the cost, ADSL presents too much of a risk for many businesses, which are being forced into opting for relatively expensive leased lines," he says.And broadband is not universally available yet. Peter Gallon, head of Two One Communications, is based in Dorset and has difficulties because his locality isn't covered by BT's local loop. There are no plans to get the area connected in broadband terms either, and Gallon is currently stuck on ISDN. "If the government is serious about encouraging more businesses to work in rural areas and in reducing car journeys, they have to intervene or provide some incentive to BT and SMEs to take the plunge," he says. The other alternative, satellite, has until very recently looked prohibitively expensive, although, the price is set to fall. This could help those businesses left out of the broadband equation so far.Broadband: providers and productsThese prices should be taken as a guide: the broadband market has been changing rapidly in recent weeks, and new prices - and offers - can appear from day to day.BT (wholesale):BT IPstream (home). Self-install product for people with ordinary BT lines.&#163;50set-up plus &#163;25 per month (This is a wholesale price).Easynet:DSL. Self-install product.&#163;30per month (projected cost only as this has yet to be finalised).Sonnet Internet:ADSL. Self-install product.&#163;25per month (company is calling for further reductions from BT).BT Openworld:Internet Business Pack. Package including connection, business card on the net and a number of other bells and whistles.&#163;89per month plus VAT, but it does include a lot more than a simple connection.Star Internet:SDSL. Much faster connection than ordinary ADSL, crucially including an agreement on minimum service levels.&#163;275per month plus installation fee, for a 512kb connection.NTL Business:Broadband Cable or ADSL connections available, includes service level agreement.&#163;70per month upwards plus installation fee.Breathe:BreathePro. ADSL self-install connection.&#163;25.99per month plus VAT.Internet connectionThere are several means of connecting to the internet. The most common are as follows:&#183;Modem: still the majority option, although by now the slowest. Top speed is, theoretically, 56k.&#183;ISDN: Single ISDN offers 64k uploads; double offers 128k. This was, until broadband came along, the fastest option within many SMEs' budgets.&#183;ADSL: A version of DSL (digital subscriber line) technology, and the standard broadband offering from BT and many of its competitors. Offers an always-on connection and speeds of up to 10 times those of ordinary modems. Has a number of geographical restrictions: you need to be close to a properly equipped telephone exchange. Other versions of DSL will, in the future, offer more power and so make services like video on demand possible.&#183;Cable: Offers similar speeds and always-on functionality as ADSL, but to get it you must be based in a cabled area.&#183;Satellite: The ultimate in wireless, geographically neutral broadband. Some versions offer fast access from anywhere, and costs accordingly. Other cheaper flavours offer ADSL-speed downloads, but rely on you using a much slower landline for uploading.
&#183;Chip and board manufacturerIntelhas announced a new auditing service for small businesses that might be having trouble keeping track of all of their IT. It will audit all of a company's technology including desktop systems, servers and software, and is suited to small companies because it requires no special equipment - an internet connection should do the trick. It should help companies ensure all their software is properly licensed and will track which version they are using: people can be unaware that they are entitled to free updates.&#183;UK businesses can see the importance of the software they use but are failing to measure whether it's any good - so says some new research fromMicrosoft. The software giant has published research that suggests 90% of companies recognise that desktop software and the quality of it is vital to their business's performance; three-quarters said it was key to their business imperatives, such as customer service, but 70% didn't bother measuring the cost of computer downtime.&#183;TheBBCis to make its skills in designing websites available to small businesses in the shape of a series of new media courses. The corporation believes that since it attracts around 35% of the UK's adult internet surfing population every month it must have something intelligent to say on the subject; and it has found fundamental errors on a lot of the pages businesses are already writing. These mistakes include poor writing of the first page and putting site links in the wrong places so that up to 25% of customers end up in the wrong place. The training courses will take place at the BBC's London HQ.&#183;NTLhas sliced &#163;20 off the price of its most basic broadband package for its small business customers. Companies can opt for a 500kb or a 1Mb connection and these will cost &#163;70 and &#163;105 per month respectively. The new pricing will apply to both old and new customers, although new customers still face the &#163;220 or &#163;260 connection charge. Other packages are available from NTL for people with more substantial communications needs.&#183;The European Unionlooks poised to backtrack on a piece of legislation controlling the use of "cookies" - small pieces of code left on people's computers by websites they visit, which enable the websites to identify them the next time they visit. Initially the European Council had been pushing for a tough approach in which companies would need to explain they were sending cookies to a customer's computer in advance; the committee's latest statement, however, suggests that simply allowing customers the chance to turn cookies down if they wished would be sufficient. Numerous online retailers had protested at the previous ruling.&#183;Wireless systems will be flavour of the summer this year if a new survey from consultancyCMGis to be believed, which says 54% of UK businesses are planning to opt for an absence of cables in their network this year, not only to avoid tripping over the things but to communicate better with their offsite workers. The companies are intending to buy into the Bluetooth and GPRS networking standards, which will largely replace current communications taking place over ordinary mobile phone and telephone networks.&#183;Totem Communicationshas launched a new "record on demand" service for small companies needing to prove that phone calls actually took place; so the claim that the "cheque is in the post" could become a thing of the past. The system sits within the telephone network: the user can start it by pressing the hash key. The law says people must be informed that they are being recorded, but the system can be started in the middle of a call, so statements such as: "I'm going to record this; you say you're going to pay this Friday?" will cover any customers needing to use it.&#183;Business people may have been warned by their mothers always to wear clean underwear, but a new survey fromContinental Researchon behalf of Vodafone UK says they're more afraid of leaving home without their mobile phones: 48% of respondents said their phone was the single item without which they couldn't cope; 32% of them had to travel regularly for work; 23% missed the office network and systems. By contrast, a measly 27% said they couldn't cope without personal hygiene products.
Flashers know how to get people's attention and so do flash SMSs - text messages that pop up on a mobile's screen. The text is right there for anyone to see, without it having to be rooted out from an inbox.Flash messages are possible across all networks and most handsets, though not newer Nokia mobiles such as the 6210. The messages do not automatically drop into the SMS inbox but users can save them if they want.They are popular in Asia, and in India, Yahoo offers a service that lets mobile users send them via its website. Senders don't get charged anything by Yahoo, but still pay the standard SMS rate to their mobile operator.In the UK, Aerodeon, a mobile entertainment company, sent flash SMSs instead of Christmas cards last year. But it warns that some consumers that aren't expecting them can get a bit spooked.Flash SMSs are just one of the many little-known mobile features that could start coming to the fore as operators seek new means of stimulating traffic. Blinking or flash text messages can be sent from www.textmessenger.com for about 5p; you earn credits by phoning a premium rate number costing &#163;1.50 a minute.SMS fans may also enjoy information services based around USSD, a little-known but super-fast alternative to Wap (the mobile internet standard). USSD or Unstruc tured Supplementary Services Data takes advantage of the signalling channel, normally used to set up voice calls on mobile networks, and it lies behind services such as Optus of Australia's Info2you.Optus users dial #121# and press Send or Call, then choose from a menu including horoscopes, news and sport. The information is delivered by SMS and costs twice the normal SMS rate.The mobile operator Hong Kong CSL was the first to use USSD for its data services, including its job finder. "Now it gets seven out of 10 information requests this   way and only three out of 10 via Wap," says Simon Holmes, global product marketing manager for messaging at SMS software supplier Logica."A couple of years ago," he adds, "we were talking to operators about USSD and they weren't really interested because they thought Wap was the way to go. Now they are reconsidering as they look for services to fill the gap before third-generation mobile."Orange France launched a USSD service three weeks ago and Sarah Taylor of Orange in the UK says: "It has been so successful we are considering offering it here." There are also signalling-based services in   Turkey and Austria. The signalling channel can be used for other things, too. Forgetful Vodafone users can dial *#100# and press the call button to be reminded of their mobile number.That's not much use if they can't find the handset, but there's also a technology that can help people who are lost themselves. This is cell broadcast - mainly used to broadcast information to everyone within a mobile cell (consisting of one or more base stations).In the UK, Vodafone customers can select Settings, then Phone settings, then Cell info display (using a Nokia 8310, 6210 or similar) and it will tell them what phone code area they are in. "Right now it's telling me I'm in the 01635 areas," says Julien Cozens, who is based at Vodafone in Newbury.Meanwhile, in Lebanon, mobile operator LibanCell's users can ask Where am I? and be   told their location. The LibanCell Cell&amp;Sell service is used to beam free information about local hospitals, shops, restaurants, hotels, theatres and cinemas.LibanCell customers simply opt for the topics they are interested in or none at all, as cell broadcast is an opt-in service. Cell broadcast was also used by Orange at the 3GSM World Congress show in Cannes to keep visitors up to date on events. Unlike some other location-based services, you don't need a new handset to try it.Nor does it infringe on privacy because the content provider is simply broadcasting data to any mobile in a given area. It does not know which numbers it is reaching.Cell broadcast may not be flash, but it helps pull in extra cash - through content fees and follow-up calls.
Cambridge has done very well out of Microsoft in the past five years, with one notable landmark being yesterday's official opening of the William Gates Building that now houses the Cambridge University Computer Lab. Behind that is another new building with much the same design: Microsoft Research's Cambridge computer lab. By hooking into the research and innovation at these labs, Microsoft hopes to do very well out of Cambridge.The man at the fulcrum of this two-way exchange is Professor Roger Needham, who built the Cambridge computer department's global reputation, and was founding managing director of Microsoft Research's Cambridge operation in 1997.A Salon headline writer wittily called him "Bill's Don", but that notion would not survive more than a few minutes' experience of the real thing. If Needham could be bought, then he wouldn't be much use. He was the main reason Microsoft chose Cambridge rather than somewhere else in Europe. Fellow academic Rick Rashid, who founded Microsoft Research in Seattle in 1991, says: "The opportunity to have Roger involved is what really brought us to Cambridge."As head of the computer   lab for 15 years, Needham had earned a reputation for plain speaking. And "one of the things I've noticed, having moved from being an academic to doing this job, is that I'm trusted now, and I wasn't then," he says.So far, Needham, now 67, has recruited about 60 researchers from across Europe. If there has been any negative fallout from the US government's anti-trust case, "we've not noticed it hardly at all," he says. "We're respected because of who the people are, and they would be respected if they worked for IBM or the mafia. The standing of our people is so high, in the computer science world, that this completely overtrumps anything people might feel about the corporation as a whole."Not that MSRC has much to do with the software factory in Redmond, Seattle. Needham says they try not to duplicate things being done at other Microsoft Research labs in California and China, but he decides who to hire and what to research, and in general, the results are published."When people have been with us for a couple of months, we send them to Redmond," he says, so they can get to know other researchers and people from product groups. "We are not working on next year's products, but we do know an awful lot, and sometimes it turns   out we can be helpful. For example, we have had people putting generic functions into C# &#91;the open computer language used in Microsoft.Net&#93;. It's not research and I would not want them doing it for very long, but it was helpful."Research rarely makes a visible impact on products,   with ClearType - developed in Redmond - being one obvious exception. "Small pieces of technology typically get transferred, rather than large advances," says Needham. "You would have to do something rather special to divert the juggernaut, but you can make things better."One example is the Cambridge work on image objects led by Professor Andrew Blake. He is working on improved filters that, for example, let users draw round and cut out part of an image then fill in the background. His demonstration involves removing one girlfriend from a tourist scene and replacing her with a different girlfriend. The aim, says Blake, is to develop something that is "smart on the inside, simple on the outside". A huge amount of complex maths is involved in getting a program to separate, say, a hairy animal from background vegetation. But for the user, it just delivers a slightly better result from one pull-down menu option in a paint program.Some research requires less complex maths but could deliver obvious benefits. For example, Natasa Milic-Frayling is working on different ways to manage browsing. History Explorer, one of her additions to Internet Explorer, lets you see where you have been by keeping a series of thumbnail pictures of pages linked together. She can and probably has demonstrated the idea to the product teams, but there is no guarantee it will be adopted.MSRC's importance has increased in the past two weeks, because of the expected closure of AT&amp;T's Cambridge research lab. This was founded in 1986 by Olivetti (which had rescued Acorn, a local computer company) and Professor Andy Hopper from Cambridge University. It became the Olivetti &amp; Oracle Research Laboratory until 1999, when AT&amp;T - a company broken up by the US Justice Department - came in with a six-year investment."It's a tragedy that AT&amp;T is closing them down," says Needham. "My understanding is that, over the years, they have been a profit centre, not a cost centre, because of the start-ups they have done. I am surprised and somewhat dismayed that no one's picked them up."AT&amp;T's withdrawal makes it hard to complain about Microsoft funding research in Cambridge when it would otherwise be done somewhere else in Europe, or in Seattle or California. But for anyone with around &#163;6m a year to spare, there are still opportunities available.
What was your earliest encounter with computers?Back in the 70s I bought the family a tennis game which we played on the TV screen for many a year. Around the same time, I visited the National Computer Laboratory. Among the new transistorised computers, they still had old thermionic valve machines. My first use of a new computer was to play Meteor Mission - where one had to land a rocket ship on the moon without running out of fuel. My wife and I bought our first IBM computer in the early 80s - it was a blind thing. Within a few years we were into Apple Macs, to which I've adhered ever since. I now have three of them, including the new Apple Powerbook G4. I can now write three books at once if I'm mad enough... and I am!How well did the film AI capture the essence of your original short story?When a short story is expanded and transformed into a blockbuster movie, you can hardly expect the word "faithful" to enter the equation. Certainly the first hour of AI  is surprisingly like my story 
) but the idea of David, the android boy, wishing to be a "real" boy and going in quest of the Blue Fairy was not my idea.Do you agree with William Gibson that "science fiction is impossible now as the future has arrived"?The future never arrives. It's always a case of jam tomorrow. Gibson was talking for effect, as we all do. The human race may have millions of years ahead of it, and many are the transformations it must go through.Are text abbreviations and email shorthand changing our language?Texting and e-shorthand add to our language, much as slang does. We need neologisms to grasp new-coined developments. That the cadences of the old King James Bible are being lost is another matter: either people don't read the Bible or else they read new pallid versions.How do you see the net and computers evolving?Eventually, computers will walk and talk in the shape of androids, which will resemble humans as closely as possible. At first these creatures will be neuters. However, under the pressures of an increasingly sexualised society, the demand will arise for androids with male and female attributes - and probably for androids with attributes of both sexes, hyper-hermaphrodites. There are endless possibilities here, which may cause the final break-up of the family unit.Favourite gadgets?My brain - there's not another like it!&#183;Brian Aldiss' new book Super-State is published today by Orbit.
Star Wars was big way before the internet, but arguably owes much of its recent cult status to the thirty-somethings who first flocked to the web in the mid 90s. No science fiction (with the possible exception of Star Trek) has this degree of fan support, with US queues having formed over five months prior to the launch of Episode II: Revenge of the Clones on May 16. The movie already made the cover of a recent edition of Time magazine and UK interest will be equally pronounced in a phenomenon that shows no sign of slowing down after more than 25 years.First stop for movie trailers, facts and a downloadable "making of" video is the official website. Naturally, details about the storyline are carefully pre-packaged to avoid giving too much away, but if this proves insufficient there are plenty of "spoiler" sites happy to divulge fuller details. Indeed, the entire movie script was recently posted (and swiftly deleted) on Jedi.net, having been touted around the newsgroups for a reputed   $100,000 since being leaked from the studio two years ago.Even this, however, is only the tip of the iceberg, with sites already speculating on the plot for Episode 3, due for release in 2005.  There is even talk of whether the original stars of Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill might make appearances in the final trilogy of films, due to go into production by the end of the decade. However, letting the stars speak out is largely frowned upon by the studio, especially after Samuel L Jackson's recent antics. Having famously influenced his casting as Jedi master, Mace Windu, by a public appeal to George Lucas on the David Letterman Show, he went one   further last month by blurting out the eventual fate of half the cast."All the Jedi die in Episode III during the Clone Wars. I told George (Lucas) I didn't mind dying, I just didn't want to go out like some punk."Of course, idle speculation is only one side of the coin. Star Wars memorabilia remains one of the hottest properties on auction sites such as eBay, and merchandising has now easily exceeded the $2bn it had already grossed after the release of Episode 1. This time round, the new range of action figures includes Jango Fett's spaceship, Slave 1, and a suitably fetching Padm&#233; Amidala with exposed midriff - all doing brisk business in toy stores. Beyond this, the mythology continues to support an entire sub-culture of fan-fiction. Many sites which encourages budding authors to add their own chapters to an unfolding story, are blissfully unimpeded by Hollywood, providing another possible explanation of its undying popularity. Admittedly, much of the fan-output is pure sci-fi hokum, but some efforts are both imaginative and painstakingly thorough. There is a host of fan-movies in production, featuring everything from Adam and Joe-style efforts with toys, to fully fledged productions with live actors and special effects. See the link below for a whole range of dowloadable clips due to be judged in competition by Lucas himself.Lucas' attitude to fan adulation seems to depend on personal taste and mood. On the one hand he is actively encouraging the directors of the short film George Lucas in Love, a pastiche of Shakespeare in Love concerning the young film-maker's struggle to complete the original Star Wars. Released in 2000, his known support is improving its chances of a proper Hollywood remake next year. Then again, he can be both obstinate and litigious. When confronted by the 1978 TV comedy special The Star Wars Holiday Special, he once commented that if he had the time and a hammer, he would track down every bootlegged copy of the programme and smash it. In another interview, he responded to widespread web-criticism of Jar Jar Binks as the work of "37-year-old guys who spend all their time on the internet".However, as a writer and director, the jury is still out. A profile of his directorial work can be found at the excellent Internet Movie database while another examines every nuance of his Jedi writings. Even so, history will surely question what the young director of American Graffiti would have achieved had he not been seduced by the Dark Side into devoting an entire career to a single franchise.
May DayWe went to press before yesterday's May Day protests, but there's plenty of online coverage of the day's events. The Guardian has a special   report dedicated to the subject while Indymedia, a loose worldwide network of alternative news websites, has a UK branch that had comprehensive coverage last year. And the long-standing Urban75 website is always worth a look, if only to give Jean-Marie Le Pen a virtual "king size slap".God squadThe ongoing struggle between satirists and the US evangelical Christian movement makes for one of the more entertaining spectacles on the web, and especially so in the past few weeks.A number of net news outlets, plus the usual gaggle of weblogs, jumped on a site from "Objective Christian Ministries" hosted by a Christian ISP, TruePath.com. The site was campaigning to have the Landover Baptist website (a notoriously extreme, net satire on US Christian websites) shut down. In the process, the alleged author also let rip at a number of computing targets - not least Apple and its new operating system, which "promotes   Darwinism" (because part of the new OS X is based on code called Darwin)."Consider the name of the company and its logo," said the site. " ...an Apple with a bite taken out of it. This is clearly a reference to the Fall, when Adam and Eve were tempted with an apple by the serpent. It is now Apple Computers offering us temptation, thereby aligning themselves with the forces of darkness."Cracking stuff, but now it appears that this page too was, in fact, a spoof - a highly effective publicity stunt for Landover Baptist, perhaps?Research aidYou won't find this anywhere obvious on Google's site, but the net's best search engine is testing a curious new service: Google Answers. The concept is simple: users ask a question, offer a fee, and a paid researcher, pre-screened by Google, will answer it. It's a bit like the Guardian's own Notes and Queries, only with no editing involved.Any adult can apply to be a researcher - they just have to impress Google with a reasonably written essay on why they'd like the job - which may make the quality of the answers pretty variable, despite a public review system. And none are going to get rich on the fees up for grabs, which range from $4 to $50 (Google takes 25%, the researcher gets the rest).The quality of the questions may vary, too: when Online looked in earlier this week there was a thinly disguised economics essay question on the "lower of cost or market rule", for which the researcher would be paid a less-than-princely $5. Other questions look like they are intended to defame rather than glean new knowledge.Evil doingSpeaking of forces of darkness, have you ever wished you had an Evil Plan, but just never had the time to draw one up? Now you can, thanks to the automated Evil Plan generator. It allows you to put together a dark manifesto of nastiness that would do any B movie plot proud, complete with choice of motive (from "money" to "my mum never loved me") to dazzling array of weapons (from "thermonuclear missiles" to "needlessly big weather machine", which sounds just the job).Hide 'n' sneakNet surfers, tiring of going through the time-consuming process of giving away their contact details to be abused, are coming up with some pretty simple, yet effective, ways to get round it, like the NYT Random Login Generator. The page allows you to look at the New York Times' registered users-only pages without parting with your details, by filling in their forms with meaningless gar ble. Reading the NYT earlier this week, therefore, I was a 35-year-old female German cleric earning between $90-99k specialising in information technology. Which wasn't accurate, of course.Club togetherAway from the corporate glitz of the World Cup in the Far East, this summer will prove to be one of the hardest ever for dozens of Nationwide league football clubs. ITV Digital's demise this week means that several communities could see their local clubs go to the wall. Brighton fans - who this week went from celebrating promotion to watching their manager walk out over a lack of funds only days later - maintain a list of English clubs in crisis, with links to the groups of supporters trying to keep their clubs alive.Billy BassRemember Billy Bass, the singing fish that (allegedly) delighted Her Majesty the Queen? Now she - and you - can add brains to Billy through the power of Linux. These brains will add new phrases to Billy's repertoire, enhance his movement and, "create a Billy whose novelty never wears".
Data doctorAs a GP who has invested &#163;60,000 of my practice's money in computer systems and a further &#163;60,000 in maintenance over 10 years, I am appalled at the prospect of having to retrain my staff and recover the inevitable data loss that occurs in transfer to another system (Blair's &#163;40bn gamble on IT, April 25). This news has not been trailed in any information given to general practitioners. We are now paperless and the effort involved in the process has been enormous. Are we now to see others given a system and training while our efforts go unrewarded? Those of us involved in IT development have been frustrated by the piecemeal, uncoordinated growth of hospital computer systems where the system in the surgical directorate will not "talk" to the system in the gynaecology department of the same hospital! The free market philosophy of the 1990s saw GPs presented with a choice of 32 non-compatible systems plus    myriad self-built and maintained units. General practice could collapse under this imposition if it is not planned properly.John Orcharddrjmorchard@aol.comDigital defenceIn response to Derek Roughton (Feedback, April 18) on the subject of broadband digital TV. I am an ex-employee of one of the country's major cable companies, and disagree that digital TV is likely to have lower quality pictures and sound than "a good quality receiver in a good analogue reception area". The amount of bandwidth available for digital means that even with the hundred or so channels provided by my previous employer, the picture and sound quality far exceeds that of its analogue product. There is room for plenty more channels on this digital service.  Also, there are areas where an external aerial (and in some cases a satellite dish) is not permitted by local authorities, Milton Keynes being a prime example. That limits customers to choosing a cable provider for their television service. These people have little choice but to pay a fee on top of their licence fee. I would like to know which digital television service provider quoted him &#163;300 to enable him to watch one    channel while recording another. My ex-employer would advise one of these two solutions: use an external analogue aerial with a signal combiner to provide an additional set of "terrestrial" channels or rent an additional set-top box that would provide a duplicate set of  all the channels to which he subscribes for a monthly rental charge of around &#163;10. And the cost of installing this equipment?It should cost between &#163;50 and &#163;75, depending on the area. The provider? The much-maligned NTL.Michael Chowdhurymichael_chowdhury@hotmail.comSwitch off adsI agree with Derek Roughton. The differences between digital and analogue TV are not comprehended, least of all by the government, which feels that 95% of the population "going digital" will be sufficient for them to switch off analogue. Households will only be able to watch (or record) one channel instead of the five they can currently access for the price of their licence. The way forward is to persuade the viewing public to  want to switch to digital providers such as Sky, where the number of adverts currently accounts for 20 minutes in every hour. This makes it virtually unwatch  able. The regulator should ensure at least 50 minutes of program content in each hour. He should also stop such things as Sky's insistence that all boxes are permanently attached to the telephone. This is a restrictive practice to tie viewers to their sales and quizzes.Barry Joycebarryjoyce@tiscali.co.ukLocation is all"People with mobile phones still look at their watches if they want the time or the date. That is completely unnecessary..." (What's new, April 18). Unnecessary, but convenient. I can "glance" at the time on my watch, rather than find my phone and "read" the time. Users are used to looking at their wrists for authoritative, easily understood information. No one is more interested in this than watchmakers, notably Timex, who have declared: "Timex is interested in the real estate of the wrist. It's location, location, location. The wrist is the most accessible place on the body."Paul Maypaul.may@verista.comOne handedIs it really an anachronism to look at our watches when we have a mobile as Victor Keegan suggests (What's new, April 18)?I find it easier to look at something stationary    on my wrist, than find the mobile in a pocket. It would be better to migrate functions the other way: have the screen and keypad on, say, a wrist where it's less stealable and easier to get to one handed.Andii Bowsherandiibowsher@blueyonder.co.uk
Broadband. It's a city thing. Although BT makes great claims for its ADSL roll-out, with around 1,000 exchanges enabled for fast internet access, in practice this excludes most rural areas. The same is true for cable internet, where the cash-strapped companies providing the service have run out of steam after hooking up areas of dense population. And even if you are connected to a DSL-enabled exchange, if you're more than five miles away - or at the end of a line with poor connections - you're out of luck.There are alternatives - fixed wireless broadband, satellite services, even full-priced leased lines - but none is an obvious replacement for wired broadband. Fixed wireless is available now from Tele2, a Swedish telco that set up here a couple of years ago, and is on trial by most of the other major data communications companies in the country. It works in a similar way to wireless Lans: a central node or base station connected to the internet, feeding a selection of remote stations by microwave. Unlike wireless Lans, Tele2's system covers tens of kilometres from each transmitter by using higher power and better antennae: at the remote site, a wall-mounted box has to be expertly installed and pointed in the right direction.The good news is that Tele2 has a wide variety of speeds and tariffs, starting at &#163;40 a month for a nominal 512kbps download and 256kbps upload for a single user. Installation costs - either &#163;149 or &#163;199 - depend on how high the company has to mount the antenna at your end. The company also does a range of guaranteed speeds, up to 1Mbps both ways, and a variety of other services more commonly found on leased lines. The bad news is that the tariff options are so complex you need to use a calculator - found on the company's website - and that it is currently limiting its services to urban areas. However, the company has said that if a hundred businesses within any 10km radius want the service, it will install a base station there. In general, it is pitching itself as a leased-line alternative.Satellite internet doesn't suffer from any geographical limitation. Provided from orbiting transmitters some 36,000kms above the Earth, the services cover most of Europe; providing you have line of sight to the satellite which will be to the south and east, you'll be able to get access. The system is somewhat more complex than most access methods: the satellite constantly transmits between 10-50Mbps to the whole of its coverage area, composed of thousands of interleaved replies to network requests made by the services' users.You can either transmit your requests directly to the satellite through the same dish you use to receive the information, or send the request to the satellite's base station over an ordinary modem connected to a phone line and the dial-up internet. The latter is much cheaper to install - you only need a satellite receiver, not one with a microwave transmitter built in - but does involve phone charges and limits your upload speed to normal modem rates.Either sort of service involves much greater delays, called latency, than other broadband options. Some of this is due to the satellite being around one-third of a second away at the speed of light, so by the time the base station has beamed up your request and the satellite retransmitted to you there's a delay of two-thirds of a second. For systems where you transmit your request to the satellite, there's the same delay again. Once your request has started to arrive, it can appear at more than a megabit a second depending on how many other requests are being served by the satellite at the same time: this sort of broadband is good for downloading large files, but not much good for streaming video, and absolutely useless for voice over IP. It's similarly hopeless for gaming, which at least means nobody will be tempted to waste company time slaughtering orcs. You also need to check planning permission.The biggest provider of satellite internet access in the UK is BT. Its BTOpenworld Business Satellite Service (BSS) costs &#163;900 to set up and &#163;60 a month to run for a single user, or &#163;1,300 setup and &#163;120 a month for multiple users, which is the same service but with a local hub/router. Download speed is up to 512kbps, upload is up to 256kbps and is directly to the satellite. BT has announced a much cheaper telephone-line uplink system that will cost around &#163;30 per month for 256kbps download speeds, and a &#163;400 installation cost, but it's not yet commercially available. Tiscali, a major European ISP, is currently running a trial on the same Gilat satellite system as BTOpenworld's BSS, with roughly the same capabilities and costs.The last option for distant broadband access is to buy in a leased line. This is a complicated and expensive business, with installation charges depending on location - but likely to be in the mid-thousands - and connect charges at around &#163;2,000 for 128k annually. If you have some other people locally who are prepared to contribute and share costs in return for bandwidth, and have sufficient networking expertise to set up a mutual Lan, and don't worry about effectively becoming an ISP, then this could be a viable alternative.Broadband provision outside urban areas is patchy, expensive and unsatisfactory. It may get a lot better; a number of companies, including Orange, are evaluating new fixed wireless services using a new IEEE standard, 802.16. This covers a very wide set of options, from 128kbps up to 100Mbps on many different radio bands, and perhaps most interestingly includes mesh protocols. These let each subscriber act as a relay for others, extending coverage as users connect and does not require an expensive investment in base station infrastructures by the service provider.A great deal depends on how the market develops, and how the government liberalises radio band access and licensing conditions. We have the technology for cheap, universal broadband provision to businesses: it remains to be seen whether we have the will.
For one business involved in producing services that make the most of the existing low-bandwidth communications infrastructure, Anthropics' approach is something of a paradox. Despite developing applications that will extend the shelf life of narrowband, the London-based company has discovered that the best way to carry this out is by using broadband.Anthropics is a four-year-old start-up that develops video-based messaging services for telecom networks. Last April it upgraded from ISDN to a 1Mbps leased line, both supplied by Netscalibur (formerly Direct Connection).Anthropics' FaceWave application combines video and still photos with text or speech to create life-like "talking heads" for use in web and wireless applications, such as mobile messaging, web-based customer relationship management (CRM) and e-learning. Other possible functions include pre-recorded messages, live commentary and online performances, using voice and digital characters.It can create, say, a personal newsreader, provide a personality in web chatrooms or enhance messages by sending a talking picture rather than plain text or voice. Users can scan in their picture and add text or voice, in a pre-recorded video message.Based at the world-famous Ealing Studios with 30 staff, Anthropics' background is in film and television, and is currently working with network and mobile operators in Europe and Asia to launch some customer applications by this summer. According to the company, its technology is inexpensive to deploy, requires very low bandwidths and runs on the web and existing and future GSM, GPRS or 3G mobile networks.However, it found that the development process works best when there are few restrictions on the dispatch of the bandwidth-hungry content with which it works - video - around the Anthropics network as well as to and from partners around the world."Prior to Anthropics getting broadband, things were really, really slow. Because our company comes from a film and television background a lot of the attachments we receive are megabytes in size, so our ISDN connection really struggled," says Gary Sleet, Anthropics' senior development manager.Impressed with the service it had from Netscalibur for ISDN, Anthropics retained the ISP for the leased line. The transition made plain sailing on the whole, except for a delay by BT in deploying the local loop.The telecoms giant, already accused of a snail-pace response to the demands of prospective broadband users, insists on a 50-day instalment period. In Anthropics case, this became 55 days, even though the local exchange was literally across the road from Anthropics.However, once it had made the switch, one of the first things that struck Anthropics was the massive drop in fixed costs - despite the increased capacity - to a fraction of what they were with ISDN."With ISDN it used to cost us &#163;595 a month which, when transmitting around 10Mb a day, worked out at &#163;1.98 per Mb," says Craig Parnham, Anthropics' head of marketing and planning. "In the meantime, the amount of traffic processed has increased dramatically, with more people at the company and more work generated."We now process between 400Mb and 1Gb of information externally every day - an average of between 17Gb and 18Gb per month. With a leased line we pay a flat monthly fee of &#163;505 plus VAT. So the average price we pay now is 3.5p per Mb, and we are able to do more things." Anthropics also paid a one-off installation fee of &#163;300.Other advantages of broadband include the newfound capacity for remote working. "Some of our staff have ADSL &#91;asymmetric digital subscriber line&#93; broadband connections at home which allow access to the servers at work," explains Parnham. "Take our production manager for example. On a typical weekend, he'll stream 300Mb of video files. But now he can cut out the two-hour round commute to the office over that weekend and remotely run batch files from home."The leased line also allows us to host over 20 websites on the premises. Two examples are our FaceWave T2V &#91;text-to-video&#93; and S2V &#91;speech-to-video&#93; servers, which convert still images into animated messages via a text or speech input."Having the servers on site allows us to do our development work a lot faster than remotely located servers. It also makes us more responsive to customers as many more can simultaneously access our demos and marketing campaigns."Anthropics did also consider ADSL broadband - the main version of broadband being pushed in the UK by the likes of BT - but plumped for the leased line instead, citing three shortcomings with ADSL.First was the issue of "contention", which refers to the degradation of capacity and speed of an ADSL connection as the number of users sharing the network increases - the users being in contention with each other for the available bandwidth."Also, we needed a permanent connection to guarantee 1Mbpsc capacity. With ADSL you can uplink to the web at that rate, but the highest you'll get when downloading is 500 kbps," Parnham says.He adds that with ADSL it is impossible to conduct more than one video conference at a time, a feature increasingly desirable as the company pursues more business abroad. "With the leased line, if we need to talk to the US and Asia at the same time, we are guaranteed the bandwidth we need at that time."Anthropics plans to move from Ealing Studios to a central London location in May and will use the opportunity to upgrade to a 2Mbps leased line. "In the medium term, for our internal development work, this upgrade will see us through for another year," says Parnham.For Anthropics, the advantages of moving to broadband were especially obvious, given the nature of its work and the content it works with. With falling entry prices and wider availability, maybe more generalist concerns will begin to weigh up the potential benefits.
Which SP?Last week, you advised installing the latest cumulative security patch from Microsoft. There are two downloads for IE 5.5, labelled Service Pack and SP2.   I am unsure which to use.R de BurghJack Schofield replies:Run Internet Explorer and select Help|About. This will tell you which version of IE you have, and which updates are installed. It may include a number such as Q261255 or Q319182. Search Google for this number and follow the Microsoft Support Knowledge Base (MSKB) link. For example: Patch Available for Outlook Express Preview Pane Vulnerability (Q261255).If the About box does not mention SP1 or SP2, install SP2 (which includes SP1). You should be directed to the right place if you attempt to install the cumulative update (Q319182) and have not installed either service pack. Alternatively you could installSP2first.Old IEI am running Internet Explorer 5.00 and a few other digits, so none of the four options listed (versions 6, 5.5 Service Pack 1 and 2, and 5.01) seems relevant.Peter PackJS:Unfortunately, Microsoft seems to have decided that   IE5 is too old (and perhaps has too small a user base) to be worth supporting on Windows 9x. The security patch offered for IE5.01 is only for Windows NT-based systems, such as Windows 2000. This leaves you with two choices: either use the Windows Update facility to pick and install the critical patches that apply, or upgrade to a later version of the browser.Nobody should still be running the original IE5 (5.00.2014.0216), which was a bit of a disaster. In fact, most people have what Microsoft calls Version 5.01 (5.00.2919.6304) or later. This can be upgraded to 5.5, and most users will not notice any difference, unless they spot the Print Preview feature. The improvements in 5.5 are in the internal plumbing.If you have a 56k/V.90 modem, it may be simpler to upgrade from a computer magazine cover disc.Stuck mailAll I receive by email is old messages - mostly junk mail - and when I delete them they keep returning. No new messages appear.David ClarkJS:There seems to be a message blocking your mailbox. Normally, mail is stored on a large server computer run by your internet service provider, and you download it to your PC. When you delete messages, this does not delete them on the server. You are not getting any new messages because your mailbox is full and your ISP is "bouncing" them (returning them to the sender). It may be that your ISP will take pity on you and remove the message that is blocking your mailbox. If not, you will need to log on to the server and delete unwanted mail yourself, using a free program such asMailMaintorMailWasher.Also, run Outlook Express and select Tools|Accounts, click the Mail tab if necessary, select your mail service, and click Properties. Select the Advanced tab to the right of the Properties sheet, and look near the bottom under Delivery. Make sure there is no tick for "Leave a copy of messages on server". Other mail programs have similar options.No escapeI have Internet Explorer on my machine but I use Netscape instead. Should I still download Microsoft's patch?Derek HaseldenJS:You should if you use Outlook or Outlook Express. The reason for patching Internet Explorer is not to fix the browser, but because other programs, such as Outlook, use functions that IE provides, such as HTML rendering. You can, for example, browse the web using Windows Explorer or Microsoft Word: you are not running IE but you are still using IE components.Of course, Netscape has its own "HTML engine", but it would be hard to guarantee that none of your other software uses parts of IE that are available to third-party programmers, including virus writers.Power onI use my computer quite often during the day, so I leave it running from about 9am until about midnight. Will this do it any harm?Arvind AhluwaliaJS:I leave my computers running 24hours a day, just like most of the computers that are permanently connected to the net, though I turn the monitors off overnight. I believe that leaving PCs running makes them more reliable than turning them on and off; it is certainly    more convenient. If power-saving features are used, "always on" may also be more economical.BackchatMost of this week's mail came in response to my repeated advice to install thecumulative security update.The most common problem was users not knowing which version of Internet Explorer they had, or whether any Service Packs had been installed. Having searched Microsoft sources in vain, I eventually found Scott Schnoll's unofficial guide,How Can I Identify What Version of IE I have?This valuable page also includes a list of the main Microsoft security bulletins, with links to the appropriate patches.
Turning rats intorobots. . . .
Luigi's MansionGameCube 	&#163;39.99  Nintendo 	***A Nintendo console launch without a Mario game? The portly plumber, a videogame icon long before Lara, is not back until Christmas.In the meantime, his brother gets his first solo outing in Luigi's Mansion. Anyone expecting the platforms and tricky jumps characterised by the Mario games will be disappointed. But Luigi's offers everything else that Nintendo fans have come to expect: invention, original ity and cute characters. The control is inventive, making full use of both analogue sticks, while the game's main premise - vacuuming up ghosts - is pleasingly different. And the graphics are splendid, particularly the lighting effects.Perhaps realising that the ghost sucking can get repetitive, Nintendo has added some interesting puzzles. As with most Nintendo-developed games, exploration and experimentation is rewarded by hidden goodies.Unfortunately, longevity is an issue here. Even casual games players should complete Luigi's within a few hours, although there is some incentive to replay with new elements waiting to be discovered. The short length isn't necessarily a problem - after all the enchanting visuals and simple premise should make this attractive to irregular gamers. But at times, Luigi's feels more like a demo, designed to show off the lighting effects and controller, rather than a full game. Luigi's Mansion is fun and looks gorgeous, but this is one sibling still destined to live in his brother's shadow. (GH)PikminGameCube	&#163;44.99 Nintendo	*****Nintendo is banking on its resident games design genius, Shigeru Miyamoto, to create a steady stream of masterpieces for the GameCube. Pikmin may be the first. It's also Miyamoto's most original concept for years. You play the potato-headed Captain Olimar, whose spaceship has crash-landed on a strange planet. With the help of Pikmin - think of a cross between an ant and a daisy -   you must recover the 30 missing parts of Captain Olimar's ship, in less than 30 days.Sounds weird? It is, in time-honoured Miyamoto fashion. You must use the Pikmin to move and destroy obstacles, gang up on predators, build bridges and solve puzzles that   are reminiscent of missions in real-time strategy games.The game is split into days (at the end of each, the Pikmin must be tucked up in their onion home) and much of the gameplay revolves around growing more Pikmin, which is achieved by   picking up energy pellets and taking them back to the onion. Pikmin can also be made to sprout flowers, which powers them up.Pikmin may sound busy and perhaps a bit manufactured, but somehow, it is intuitive to play, thanks mainly to its control system. It also seems a bit cutesy, but the arrival of freakish predators which munch on Pikmin adds a welcome touch of darkness. Miyamoto has endowed the gameplay with a smooth progression from familiarisation to head-scratching, and all but the most hairy-chested shoot-'em-up fanatics will find themselves utterly hooked, very swiftly. The only quibble is that it's all over too soon. (SB)Star Wars Rogue Squadron II: Rogue LeaderGameCube 	&#163;39.99 Factor 5/ Lucasarts	****Fact: Rogue Leader has the most technically impressive visuals ever seen on any home console. Vistas of starship hulls bristle with turrets and trenches way into the distance; space nebulas furnish a stunning psychedelic backdrop to dogfighting; hot-air balloons hang ghostly in a smoggy sunset. Everything is drenched in real-time lighting and shadows. Add superlative   surround-sound effects, with the whine of TIE fighters circling your head and R2D2's cute wibbles behind you, and this space shooter puts you right in the middle of the Star Wars universe.It plays very much like its predecessor, Rogue Squadron on the N64. Ten core missions range from the Death Star assault (like the original Star Wars coin-op on polygonal steroids) and the snowy Battle of Hoth, to further adventures on Hothlis and Endor. They all throw up compelling combat situations and moments of adrenaline-fuelled awe.But the game has structural problems. Whereas Rogue Squadron had a smooth learning curve, the difficulty of Rogue Leader hops about randomly from level to level. Mission objec tives sometimes feel obscure, and the lack of mid-mission savepoints can become highly frustrating. All this militates somewhat against the flow of the playing experience.Add occasional bouts of inexplicable slowdown, and a disappointing rendition of John Williams' superb score, and it becomes clear that   Rogue Leader hasn't cohered into the package that its aesthetics promised. Most players will tire before collecting all the medals and unlocking all the bonus missions. For half an hour at a time, though, it still offers an unmatched blaze of retina-entrancing action. (SP)
It's cute and deceptively small but Nintendo's GameCube is a giant threat to Sony and Microsoft. Launching tomorrow in the UK, the GameCube is the final entrant in the latest videogame console battle. But is it worthy of the hype?The machine is certainly attractive - dinky and compact - and contrasts positively with the enormous XBox. However, GameCube looks more like a toy than its competitors. The joypad is a slight disappointment, with loose buttons and a lack of the innovation that normally accompanies Nintendo controllers.But games are the key, and it's here that Nintendo is particularly strong. Historically, Nintendo hardware releases have been accompanied by a Mario game and little else. The GameCube has 22 releases out tomorrow, the largest ever for a console launch, with two from Nintendo itself.Although there is nothing that matches Mario 64 - released with the N64 in 1997 - there is a variety that was sadly lacking then.  Luigi's Mansion and Star Wars: Rogue Squadron 2 are the standout games, encapsulating Nintendo's plan to widen its appeal. Luigi's is a gorgeous interactive cartoon, with variety and charm to interest all ages. The basic premise - sucking up ghosts - is superbly executed, although experienced gamers may find it a bit easy. Lucas Arts' Rogue Leader is the most realistic Star Wars game ever and will appeal to older gamers, even if the space blasting action is far from unique.Luckily, the graphics make up for any gameplay conservatism, with a Star Wars universe unmatched elsewhere. The second Nintendo title is Wave Race, a jet ski game that mixes impressive water effects with    a solid racing challenge.  However, the real difference with GC compared to previous Nintendo launches is the amount of third-party games available. Big publishers such as Acclaim (Burnout, Crazy Taxi) and UbiSoft (Batman Vengeance) are represented, as are Electronic Arts, with Fifa 2002 on the way.Older gamers will be surprised to see once arch-rivals Sega producing games for a Nintendo machine. In fact Sega's Monkey Ball is a launch-day treat whose simple premise - guide your ball-encased monkey to the end of the course - masks a tricky, yet satisfying experience. Other notable releases include THQ's snowboarding sim, Dark Summit, and Konami's ESPN Winter Sports. Overall, this is a well-rounded lineup aimed at a wide  age group. Nintendo, which has historically appealed to a younger audience, needed a variety of releases.While the under-18 audience is still profitable, gaming has grown up in recent years. "Titles like Capcom's Resident Evil show that we are serious about appealing to all ages," says Nintendo Europe's David Gosen.  Nintendo has also improved relations with third parties. Rob Cooper, managing director of UbiSoft Europe, says: "From the beginning Nintendo has ensured that third-party publishers have been involved with the GameCube."Creating the games seems to be easier as well: "The power of the machine is easy to harness early on in development. Development teams are able to concentrate on content instead of battling against the hardware," says Matt Wilkinson, managing director of Bam Studios. All this is good news for potential owners: it means more games. The ability to link Game Boy Advance to GameCube is only available with one launch title - Sonic Adventure 2 - but the potential is massive.  While GameCube doesn't have the high technical specifications of the Xbox, it has made a great start.
There is a market so brutal that manufacturers have to slash prices even before their products hit the market, or within weeks of the launch. This is today's console games business. Nintendo has cut the price of its GameCube console, launched in Europe tomorrow, to &#163;129, following Microsoft's decision to drop the price of the Xbox by &#163;100, to &#163;199.David Gosen, managing director of sales and marketing at Nintendo Europe, says: "The new price point makes it the cheapest price ever for the   launch of a new console." Both the Sony PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Xbox appeared at &#163;299, while the Sega Dreamcast, launched in September 1999, cost &#163;199.Which is not to say that Nintendo has suddenly become altruistic. Some of the price cut is being borne by dealers and retailers. At Nintendo's suggested price, they stand to make only &#163;10 or less on each GameCube sold.Stuart Dinsey, managing editor of MCV, the leading games trade weekly, says: "Retailers don't know whether to laugh or   cry. Nintendo has driven a stake through the heart of their expected profits. But they have 100% guaranteed the success of the machine. It's absolutely brilliant value. Demand is going to be huge."There could even be stock shortages, but perhaps not for long. Gosen says 500,000 units will be available for the European launch, with another 500,000 available over the next eight weeks. "It's the biggest number of consoles ever brought into Europe for a launch."To be fair, Nintendo will also make little, if any, profit on the machines it sells, and this is the way the console industry works. The profits are made on sales of games at up to &#163;45 each, so there are two key numbers: the installed base (the number of consoles in use), and the "attach rate" (the number of games sold for each console). The bigger the installed base, the bigger the potential market. And the bigger the attach rate, the better the long-term profitability.The problem for both Microsoft and Nintendo is that Sony got there first. The PlayStation 2, launched in Japan two years ago, is not as good as newer rivals, as you would expect. However, it has the biggest installed base and the most games.Ray Maguire, managing director of Sony Computer Entertainment in the UK, says: "We've got over 2m PlayStation 2s in homes right now, in the UK, and more important for us, we've got 245 games in the marketplace. By and large, people want to play the latest and greatest games, and the games coming out this year are the best we've ever had."Sony's position is strong but under attack, and the nation's attics are stuffed with the remains of games consoles that once dominated the market - the Atari VCS, the Nintendo Entertainment System, Sega's Megadrive, Nintendo's SNES, and so on. For Nintendo, Gosen says: "The market could grow to 60m systems across Europe. Sony has sold 6-7m, which is just over 10% of the market. In truth, the largest part of the market is still there to be grabbed. We see this as a marathon, not a sprint, and the race is just beginning."Microsoft takes much the same view of the Xbox, with Richard Teversham, head of Xbox games marketing in the UK, saying: "We're six weeks into a 10-year project."The Xbox had a great start in the US market, where it outsold the GameCube, launched in the same month. But it seems to have done badly in Japan, and not as well as expected in Europe -   hence the savage price cut.Teversham says: "We're completely new to the market, we launched in a weak period, and expectations were extremely high, but coming from nothing to being a key competitor is good. The people who've actually played the Xbox absolutely love it, so the price coming down is to remove the last barrier people had to purchase." People who bought an Xbox before the price cut will get a "reward bundle" with a higher value.Paul Jackson, an analyst with Forrester Research in Amsterdam, says: "It was brave of Microsoft to come in at a high price point and say   'this is a premium device'. It is the most sophisticated console ever, but it was more than a lot of people wanted to pay. &#91;The price cut&#93; shows how determined Microsoft is to crack the market."Nintendo has several strengths that should help it do well in the current market. First, there are a lot of devoted "Nintendo families", many of whom have owned more than one of Nintendo's seven previous consoles. Second, it has games featuring popular characters such as the Mario brothers, the Zelda series, and Pokemon creatures, all of which are exclusive to Nintendo. Third, "the GameCube is a great second system for people who already have a PS2 or an Xbox - especially at the price," says Peter Tyson, a games industry analyst with Datamonitor in London. Nintendo's Gosen   also reckons the ability to link a GameCube and a Game Boy Advance handheld will help stimulate sales.Microsoft also has some strengths. The Xbox has the most sophisticated features, which appeal to more advanced gamers, and the highest "attach rate", according to figures from US research firm NPD Intellect. Indeed, Teversham says "the UK had the highest attach rate of anywhere in the world." The use of PC technologies also makes it the most suitable for online gaming, but this is an idea that has yet to catch on in the console market.Gosen says: "It's the sort of thing we should get excited about - but at some time in the future. There's not yet a mass market, and the business model doesn't stand up, but when it becomes a reality, Nintendo will be there." At   Sony, Maguire agrees "the business model is not yet defined", but adds: "It's a question for BT. From our point of view, it works. We're just waiting for the infrastructure to be built."As for who wins, the answer seems to be everybody. Tyson reckons the market is big enough to support all three systems, with no company being squeezed out like Sega or Atari. Jackson thinks the independent games producers such as Electronic Arts win, with hardware manufacturers spending more on promotion and selling more systems. Everyone thinks consumers win, because they have a choice of better consoles at lower prices. Maybe the dealers don't win in the short term, but as Dinsey says: "They'll get over it."
People will doubtless bring their own colourful associations to a car named after one of Spain's most remarkable holiday destinations - from notions of sun-baked hedonism and joyous release to images of people in their early 20s with union jack boxer shorts on their heads lying face down in puddles of recently regurgitated lager. That's the kind of wonderfully various word Ibiza is.But do any of these resonances help us understand the new Seat Ibiza for 2002? Or has the car grown up and left the island for a somewhat more sober holiday in Italy? And if so, who's going with it?Seat was definitely looking for a little youth action when it named a hatchback after the clubbers' paradise. One version of the car was even known as a 1.4 Chill. Here was a bold piece of vacation-specific niche marketing that other car manufacturers could well have profited from, according to their own demands. Yet nobody followed Seat's lead - disappointing those of us who had very much looked forward to the arrival of, for example, a Rover Padstow, available as a 1.6 Afternoon Nap.But times change and drugs wear off and, for the new Ibiza makeover, Seat has chilled on the Chill. The three variations on the entry-level 1.2-litre Ibiza are called, straightforwardly and with no reference to club culture at all, S, SE and Sport. Both the body and the interior still have about them, in some measure, a slightly cheeky, unfettered-by-responsibility feeling, making this a car that would almost certainly be popular among students, if students could afford cars.At the same time, the Ibiza has undergone an injection of style that seems destined to lift it out of the "fun car" category and open its appeal to a slightly older market with more money. In short, what we're looking at here is something a little less charter and a bit more scheduled. Something about the Ibiza's new poise and sophistication suggests that it's not going to spend much time flashing up into the mountains with five people on board to check out the dawn. It may, however, get to spend more days than it used to sitting in a provincial railway station car park waiting for its owner to return from work on the 6.35.From the front, and through half-closed eyes, you could mistake the car for an Alfa Romeo, which ought not to be surprising because it has been styled by a former Alfa designer, Walter da Silva. The cat's-nose radiator grille in particular looks as   if it could have been lifted directly off recent Alfas, and the bonnet swoops down towards it in a quietly Alfa-like tribute to the Batmobile.The most revolutionary alteration, however, is to the lights, which used to be the definition of bog standard, but now come sealed in curvaceous units, partly resembling the eyes of expensive collectors' dolls. And round the back, there's a go-faster spoiler forming a funky lip to the roof and a boot catch that is cunningly designed as a Seat badge.Not all these external changes are mere acts of prettification, of course. Air-flow enthusiasts can rest assured that, according to Seat's literature, the new profiled door mirrors improve the aerodynamic coefficient by 6% over the previous, slightly clunkier, ridged models.I didn't have a chance to test these figures for myself, having no access at the present time to a wind tunnel, but I did drive the car up a dual carriageway in a strong breeze and can at least confirm that the wing mirrors didn't seem to hold it back to any noticeable degree.Even discounting the new mirrors, the Ibiza is wider than all its rivals - not just in the figurative sense, but literally. This means, among other things, that one can change gear without having to ask the front passenger to remove their overcoat and without undue clashing of heads during three-point turns. On the three-door version, children under seven are very easily stored in the rear (and you could probably fit two more in the boot, if it were legal), though any adults intending to use the back seats on a regular basis might find it handy to have at least a basic grounding in escapology.Overall, the car is extremely light to the touch. In fact, it offers a virtually transparent driving experience: less Ministry of Sound, more Chris de Burgh. Steering wheel, gearstick and pedals require next to no exertion in order to do their thing - almost to the point where you began to wish they would fight back, if only in the interests of keeping you awake.That may, in the end, have to be the job of the stereo, one of the few features in the pleasingly spare interior. The idea inside the car seems to have been to recreate some of the frugality familiar to racing drivers, albeit while offering more comfortable seats and better suspension. The circular air vents and clocks and dials certainly have rally fans in mind, and even if it isn't actually one's intention to thrash the car through woods at night, those details sit more happily in the Ibiza than would a mock-executive look. The former youthful spirit isn't entirely dead, then. It's just looking a little older and wiser.
The Guardian's Duncan Campbellexplainswhat the Webbies are all about (they're by far the most significant internet awards around, presented each year in San Francisco). Meanwhile theSan Francisco Chroniclesuggests that this year'sshortlistreflects a change in the wider net: many of the nominees have more modest commercial ambitions, in contrast to the dot.coms of yore. Is the labour of love back in fashion?
Here'sa curious argument: in the US the video on demand industry is in a tug of war over what exactly broadband is: simply faster than, say, 56kbps dial-up modem access, or much much faster - fast enough to deliver streaming video, for instance? The video companies need lots of really high-speed connections to be sold, so that the market for their services is bigger. Broadband ISPs simply need lots of paying customers, so they don't go the way of Excite@Home, which went spectacularly bust last year. So the video companies want to call broadband something that runs at 750kbps (expensive), while ISPs want to call broadband something that runs from just 256kbps (cheap). For consumers, it seems to make sense to have lots of different pricing options: cheaper if you just want to surf today's world-wide web a little faster, more expensive if you want fancy-dan features like video on demand. Only allowing certain speeds to be called "broadband" would be confusing. But there's an interesting - possibly more serious - dispute happening on the sidelines of this particular debate, claims MSNBC. As cable companies become more involved with providing high-speed internet services, and as more entertainment gets pumped down those cable company lines, might the cable cos try and strike deals with content providers (as they do now for cable TV) to govern which ones we can access? For instance, you get Sony movies but not MGM on your computer, because Sony has paid your cable company/ISP and MGM has not? For those cable internet customers, the net would cease to be the net (hey - Onlineblog would have to pay for access to cable internet homes!)... commercial suicide for the cable companies, in other words. And that makes me think this might just be a bit of sabre rattling by the video on demand folks...
Shares in France Telecom today sank to an all-time low as a dispute with German affiliate MobilCom and a disappointing earnings report took their toll.France Telecom reported a 5.6% rise in first quarter revenues as growth at its Orange mobile phone arm made up for another decline in its fixed line business.Orange, the arch rival to Britain's Vodafone, contributed 3.8bn euros (£2.3bn) to France Telecom's revenues on a 16% rise in sales during the first three months of the year. Meanwhile, Orange's total number of customers went past the 40m mark.But France Telecom shares slumped 6% to an all-time low of 26.66 euros amid disappointment that it announced no end to its long-running dispute with partner MobilCom. The two are locked in a dispute as to who should fund MobilCom's future.France Telecom also came under pressure as its fixed-line business took a hit from fresh competition and falling prices. French fixed-line sales showed a 4.5% decline to 4.7bn euros. Total revenues for the first quarter came to 10.6bn euros, at the lower end of forecasts, which ranged from 10.7bn to 11.1bn euros."People are worried about fixed line, which went down more than expected. The second worrisome element is that no solution has been found for the MobilCom problem," a Paris trader said.France Telecom's finance director, Jean-Louis Vinciguerra, said that the group was still in talks with MobilCom and a solution to their row over a disputed business plan could be reached within a few weeks."We have nothing to announce at the moment. We are continuing discussions with &#91;MobilCom&#93; and the banks, and we hope to find a solution in the coming weeks," Mr Vinciguerra said.But that failed to satisfy investors, although the outlines of a deal emerged last week. Under the plan, a consortium of banks would out MobilCom's boss Gerhard Schmid, who owns a 39.4% stake in MobilCom, The banks are expected to pay 22 euros a share, about twice MobilCom's current share price.The consortium would hold the stock, while Orange would advise on strategy. Orange chief financial officer Graham Howe said that worries that the deal could end up with Orange being saddled with its debts of over 6bn euros were unfounded."A lot of the market assumes that MobilCom will be fully consolidated within Orange and Orange will bear the brunt of the liabilities, and I think that's unlikely to be the outcome," Mr Howe told CNBC television.
FT.com, the online version of the Financial Times, has unveiled details of new subscription packages for its web content, confirming months of speculation about the planned cost of services.From May the site will introduce a two-tiered subscription package, charging its users £75 or £200 a year, FT.com has confirmed.The editor of the Financial Times, Andrew Gowers, said the changes would make FT.com "even better"."Since I became editor six months ago I have lost count of the number of times business leaders have praised FT.com, but, in the next breath, asked me why on earth we don't charge for at least part of our excellent online offering. Shortly, we will be doing precisely that."Zach Leonard, the chief operating officer of FT.com, said the model allowed the site to combine the best of both subscription and advertising.Latest news, access to the week's analysis and comment including one Lex comment column a day, and a searchable seven-day archive will remain free, along with personal finance and investment news.For £75 a year, users can access five years' worth of Financial Times newspaper archives online, as well as viewing pages of the print edition of the Financial Times the night before publication.The "level one" package gives users briefings on their selected industry including an email news service, FT surveys on market and international trends and a personal office organiser.For £200, users get all of the above plus access to financial information on 18,000 listed companies over the world and a press archive from over 500 news sources.FT.com, one of the most successful newspaper websites, has long been predicted to start charging for content, with a user base of some 2.7 million monthly users.It has spent an estimated £200m on the site and is expected to break even by the end of this year, according to the Financial Times's owner, Pearson.
In the UK, Sharp has launched what it describes as the first commercial Linux PDA, the Zaurus SL-5500. People have been putting Linux on PDAs for a couple of years, and you can run it on a Compaq iPaq, but the attempt to selll such a device to innocent end users (rather thangeeksordevelopers) could be considered brave. Unfortunately the specification is pretty much the same as an iPaq, with the usual 206HMz StrongArm and 64 megabytes of memory, and so is the price: £449.99 (inc VAT). Given that it doesn't have the software or hardware support of an iPaq or similar Palm m515, it looks like being a tough sell.... In the US, the device was launcheda month agoat $449.99.
TheeMac(UK link) is the sort of thing we expected a couple of years ago for the mass market, but would have been a hard sell because of the price of larger, flatter CRT* screens. It's now quite attractively priced, even in the UK: £729 (plus VAT) gets you a 700MHz PowerPC G4 with 128 megabytes of memory, while for £879 (plus VAT), Apple upgrades the CD-ROM to a CD-RW/DVD-ROM Combo drive and throws in a 56k modem. * In repsonse to comments, I've amended my poor phrasing here: as the link makes clear, this is a tube-based eMac not an LCD model.
Apple surprises everyone by announcing a new machine today: theeMac, an all-in-one computer that looks a lot like an old-style iMac, only with a 17-inch screen. It looks a lot less sexy than the new iMac, but also lots more rugged and, as the name suggests, it'll only be sold to education users.News.comcarries details of that, plus a new PowerBook that sports higher screen resolution, improved processors and other goodies. All this represents a continuing move away from only announcing major upgrades and new products at the twice-yearly MacExpos, but is bound to set the gossips asking: just what is Steve Jobs going to announce at New York MacExpo in July?
