How are online resources such as AutismConnect helping to tackle autism issues?It's a strategic approach. They are facilitating exchange between the professionals, including world experts, and parents. The web attracts people of ability who are also on the autistic spectrum. There are summaries of autism-related studies from peer-reviewed publications. The editor ofAutismConnectspeaks six languages so he scans all sorts of things.So the web has helped make sharing resources much easier?It makes a world of difference. TheAwares siteis an all-Wales autism resource launched in 2002. Wales was the first country to do this. It makes a great deal of difference to a sector that is, by nature, isolated.More educational software for cognitive development of autistic children?We've funded a few major projects. One at theAutism Research Centrein Cambridge, is about reading faces and body language. We've done a voice recognition project atNottingham Universityfor people with Asperger's Syndrome. It uses VR to teach people on the spectrum how to deal with real-life problems such as how to find a seat on a bus. I think the extraordinary thing with educational software is that people are enjoying doing things they wouldn't have   done, or otherwise even tried.Is the UK still producing IT innovators?I spend a bit of time in the States and there is a perception that the US leads ... but I think that's arguable. We have people like Tim Berners-Lee. It's that stereotypical thing in this country that we're terribly good at the early role and we somehow fail to capitalise. TheInstitute of Electrical and Electronics Engineershas just done an issue on women pioneers in IT, of which I'm part, but Berners-Lee's mother was also a pioneer. We've always been there, we just have to learn to capitalise on our ideas.Any thoughts on the free software movement?I'm very un-technical but it is an interesting question as theopen source movementhas a commitment to how software is produced. My credo is that it has to   be user-oriented. It's important to the producers but users generally don't care. I have heard it said that open source software is a decade behind.Unlike the spammers?Bill Gates thinks there may be a technical solution but the truth is that it all generates from a few people. All early technologies, and we're still at that stage, don't have appropriate norms. Because tele-marketing is successful, spam is simply throwing petrol on the idea.What next for the net?There will be more interaction with broadband, interaction with wireless broadband and with a variety of technologies. That's really going to change how society works.Visit:www.steveshirley.comStephanie Shirley's favouriteswww.oii.ox.ac.ukautismconnect.orgwww.priorscourt.org.ukwww.awares.orgwww.xansa.com
Music downloadsFor some time I have been creating and playing MP3 music tracks on my computer. Now we have Apple, Napster, Coca Cola et al making tracks available for downloading legitimately, and we have the iPod and others to play tracks portably. But I hear that different machines will play different formats. Sounds like chaos. I suspect I am just confused, and that we will surely be able to play any track on any machine.Brian JonesJack Schofield replies:If you stick to MP3 then you probably will be able to play any track on any machine. However, once you start using DRM (digital rights management) copy protection, you won't. If you download tracks, your devices have to support both a specific file format and a specific DRM system.The most common DRM is the one used in Microsoft's proprietary WMA (Windows Media Audio) audio file format. This is supported by most download services, except Apple's iTunes, and by more than 200 hardware devices, but not Apple's iPod. In the short term, audio users will probably have four incompatible DRM systems to worry about, from Microsoft, Real Networks, Apple and Sony. (Sony tends to favour its ATRAC compression system, though it does have devices that support WMA.) IBM also has a DRM called EMMS (Electronic Media Management System), and Macrovision, which supplies copy protection to the video market, would also like to play in this market. I expect there will be a bloodbath before we arrive at one or   two common systems. Either stick to MP3 until this happens, or make sure the player you buy works with the music services you want to use. Caveat emptor.iPod bluesI have ordered a 20GB iPod but, having heard the stories of battery failure after a short period of time, wonder if I should reconsider. Is it a serious and widespread problem?Joseph HarrisJS:Like many portable devices, the iPod uses an advanced lithium-ion polymer battery. These are expensive but are an improvement on earlier technologies and, like all rechargeables, have a finite life. I've not seen any evidence that the batteries used in iPods are unusually prone to failure, but the iPod probably has a different usage pattern. In other words, if a battery is used for many hours each day, it is going to die a lot sooner than one used for a few minutes a day - in a mobile phone, for example. In general, I favour products that use cheap, standard rechargeable AA or (in this case) AAA cells. However, these don't have the performance features of lithium-ion polymer designs, and they limit the designer's choice of form factor. Perhaps you should consider the cost of Apple's Battery Service - &#163;79.00 including VAT, plus shipping - part of the running costs and put 10p in a jar each time you recharge it.More Ram?I have been advised to increase my Ram from 256 to 512MB, but from what I can understand about the concept of virtual memory, I could avoid such an investment by simply increasing my virtual memory allocation. The machine in question is a 2.0GHz notebook with Windows XP.TaliaJS:Windows loves memory. When it runs out, which is always, it saves things to a swapfile on the hard    drive: this is called "virtual memory". The problem is that hard disks are much slower than memory chips - and may be particularly slow on a notebook PC, if the hard drive turns off to save power. This slugs your PC's performance, so it helps if you can add more Ram. Changing the Virtual Memory setting is unlikely to help, as the default setting lets XP use as much hard drive space as it wants. However, 256MB should be enough for Windows XP - it will run in half that - so run SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy and an online virus checkhttp://security.norton.comto make sure your machine's resources are not being consumed by a virus or parasite. You could also try eliminating unwanted start-up programs atwww.pacs-portal.co.uk.Another way to improve XP's performance is to go to Start| Settings|Control Panel and run the System applet. Click the Advanced tab and the button for performance settings. Select the option that says: Adjust for best performance. This eliminates the fancy graphics effects such as sliding menus.Backchat&#183;Mike Currie was getting out-of-date web pages in Internet Explorer. Brian Marsden suggests going to Tools|Internet Options and clicking on Settings (which is in the middle, under Temporary Internet Files). "He will probably find that 'Check for newer versions of stored pages' is set to Automatically. This is the default. He should try changing it to 'Every visit to the page' to see if this helps."&#183;I mentioned EventSounds.com as a source of snappy sound files, and it promptly disappeared. The webmaster, Tom Harland, explains: "Unfortunately my site was down for a few days, just after you wrote about it, as I was changing hosts. It is now back up and running."
Intel introduced a new range of enhanced high-volume Pentium 4E processors this week, with small but significant benefits. In the long term, buyers will get faster PCs for less money, while Intel could make bigger profits.The Prescott processors - code-named after a place in Oregon, not old Two Jags - start at roughly the same speeds and prices as existing Pentium 4 chips, and won't run any faster. In many cases it's slower, though I wouldn't expect anyone running normal applications to be able to tell the difference.This makes things very simple. If you already have a PC with a hyper-threading (HT) Pentium, you don't need to upgrade to a Prescott version. However, if you are upgrading anyway, then you probably should.The old design, code-named Northwood, isn't dead yet. Indeed, on Monday, Intel introduced a new Northwood chip running at 3.4GHz. But Prescott sales are still going to boom while Northwood sales slump.Prescott is a step into the future for two main reasons. First, while it is starting at modest speeds of 2.8EGHz to 3.4EGHz (sic), it's designed to go faster. Rick Skett, Intel's country manager for the UK &amp; Ireland, says: "This technology is going to provide us with the headroom to go to 4GHz before the end of the year." Second, Prescott introduces another 13 new instructions to handle multimedia. These will provide an increase in performance when there is software that makes use of them. (Other benefits of Prescott include a larger cache memory and   improved hyper-threading, so multimedia operations can run in the background.)These small steps for users involve a giant step for Intel. Prescott is being manufactured using the latest 90 nanometer production lines, instead of Northwood's 130nm. Making smaller chips on much larger silicon wafers reduces costs dramatically. Skett reckons Intel will be able to increase its yield threefold: "We will be able to deliver &#91;Prescott&#93; in very high volumes," he says. It will also be able to drive down prices, if competition from rival AMD gets too hot.What Prescott does not do is make any visible concession to 64-bit computing, which is where AMD's Opteron could make an impact. Intel had hoped to gradually move away from the Pentium's old 32-bit x86 design to a new 64-bit   Itanium architecture, developed with Hewlett-Packard. However, while almost everyone claims to be in favour of revolutionary ideas, buyers tend to prefer evolutionary advances that are compatible with their existing software and data. That's what AMD is offering.Skett, like other Intel executives, declined to comment on any 64-bit features that may be hidden in Prescott, or the next version, code-named Tejas. It would be amazing if Intel had not taken the precaution of preparing an x86-64 strategy (code-named Yamhill) just in case, but from a marketing point of view, this would clearly be a bad time to mention it. Still, it will be interesting to see what emerges from Intel's next IDF (Intel Developer Forum), which starts on February 17 in San Francisco.Intel Developer Forumwww.intel.com/idfIndependent benchmarkshttp://reviews.zdnet.co.uk
Taking a photo with a mobile and sending it to friends and family finally seems to be taking off, with Orange and O2 yesterday reporting a dramatic rise in picture messaging over the Christmas period.Customers on O2's network sent 4.6m picture messages during the last three months of 2003, with the volume of messages growing at more than 25% every month.Orange said 4.2m picture messages were sent in the UK during the fourth quarter, compared with just 1.5m in the previous three months.The rise in picture messaging coupled with increased voice revenues and the steady growth of texting helped both companies report improvements in the revenue they make from customers.With more camera phones than digital cameras being sold over Christmas, O2's chief executive, Peter Erskine, said picture messaging was here to stay."It is here and people are using it; it obviously has not taken off as fast as text messaging did. It will be a slow burn but ... it is certainly not the gimmick that perhaps it was 18 months ago."Orange and O2 also announced growth in customer numbers over the last three months of 2003, completing the picture of a bumper festive season sketched out recently by rivals Vodafone, Virgin Mobile and T-Mobile.The four networks and Virgin, which uses the T-Mobile network, added an astonishing 2.4m customers in the last three months of 2003, more than twice the number of new customers reported over the rest of the year. T-Mobile was the overall winner, with more than 700,000 new subscribers.This growth, the strongest since the dotcom boom, has raised concerns that the networks may be double counting subscribers who picked up a new "pay as you go" package over Christmas and are running down credit on their old phone. One insider admitted the industry could be heading for a crunch over the spring as these pre-pay customers stop using their old phones.But Investec analyst Christian Maher added: "I do think there is real growth in the market and the phenomenon of people having two phones is also starting to appear."Orange added 2.2m customers in the last three months of 2003 across Europe, sending its subscriber base over 49m. In the UK, Orange added 278,000, taking its base to 13.65m - although it reported its best UK performance for more than 18 months, it was still behind the rest of the pack.O2 added 855,000 customers across its three markets, taking its total base to more than 20m. In Britain it added 430,000 new customers, making its total just over 13m, well above analysts' expectations.
Oracle, the software group, sharply increased the stakes yesterday in its hostile takeover bid for rival PeopleSoft, raising its offer by a third to $9.4bn (&#163;5.2bn).Oracle will hope that the increased offer is enough to put pressure on the PeopleSoft board to drop its fierce resistance to doing a deal. The takeover fight has on several occasions fallen into bitter exchanges between PeopleSoft chief executive Craig Conway and his former boss at Oracle, Larry Ellison.The latest bid is the second time that Oracle has raised its offer since first making overtures to PeopleSoft in June last year. The original price offered was $16 a share, valuing the company at just $5.1bn.PeopleSoft said the board would meet to review the bid and meanwhile urged shareholders not to take any action. The cash offer values PeopleSoft at $26 a share, topping the previous bid of $19.50."This is our final price," said Oracle chairman Jeff Henley. "We urge PeopleSoft's directors to seriously consider our offer and put the interests of their stockholders first."Wall Street analysts said the price would probably be enough to win over shareholders. "At $26 the bulk of the investor base would support it," said Marty Shagrin, a technology analyst at Victory capital in Cleveland, Ohio. He said the renewed offer would intensify "the pressure on management to take a good hard look at this. Before it was easier to say no, but now they have to have a really compelling reason".PeopleSoft had maintained that Oracle was not serious about doing a deal and had simply been seeking to block its own acquisition of another software firm, JD Edwards, and disrupt its day-to-day business. Mr Conway described the original offer as a "pathetic tactic".Even if Oracle can convince PeopleSoft's board to recommend the bid, it will still need approval in Washington DC. The US department of justice, which has been investigating since the takeover was mooted, is expected to rule on whether a merger of the two companies would be anti-competitive before March 12.The latest offer represents an 18.8% premium to the PeopleSoft closing price of $21.89 on Tuesday. It is an 8.2% premium on the 52-week high for the shares.PeopleSoft recently completed the $1.7bn acquisition of JD Edwards and has in recent quarters appeared to strengthen its defences by producing better than expected results. But last week it slipped, providing a lukewarm forecast for the current period.Oracle is the number two software company in the world and the acquisition of PeopleSoft would strengthen its position in the market. The target company makes software used by corporations to run everything from personnel departments to managing supplies.Oracle is better known for database software, which accounts for around 80% of its revenues.
Both before and after he killed Jane Longhurst, Graham Coutts was a frequent visitor to internet sites which deal graphically with necrophilia and death by asphyxiation.The Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which helps to police the net, examined some of the sites he had logged on to and concluded that they could be caught by the Obscene Publications Act 1959.However, as the sites are hosted by service providers overseas, the UK authorities have no power to act.The IWF said last night that such content was more difficult to combat than images of child abuse, because there was less of an international consensus about its unacceptability.There is disagreement over the link between pornography and violent sexual crime.However, the American serial sexual murderer Ted Bundy, who was executed in 1989, once said in a radio interview that he had become addicted to increasingly explicit images of violence."You begin to wonder if, maybe, actually doing it will give you that which is beyond just reading about it or looking at it," he said.
Boeing's new Dominator looks more like a model aircraft than Arnold Schwarzenegger in the movie Terminator, but it is a step towards independent robots that can seek out and destroy targets on their own. Swarms of Dominators will be released from strike aircraft. They will drop to low level and patrol a defined kill zone for up to 48 hours.When it identifies a target, Dominator asks its human supervisor for clearance to attack. According to Carl Avila, director of advanced tactical missile systems, at Boeing's Phantom Works, this go/no-go decision is the only human involvement. The rest is automated.Dominator is being developed under a five-year air force contract: Phantom Works is developing the concept and building the airframe, while the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) at Eglin, Florida, is working on sensors and target recognition.Boeing has already flown a prototype, which weighs less than 50kg. The operational version will have wings that unfold after launching to a 3.7m/12ft span. Instead of conventional controls, Dominator steers by flexing and warping its wings, an unusual arrangement but one successfully used by the Wright Flyer in 1903.Dominator will cruise at 120-150mph at just a few thousand feet, relying on stealth for survival. It carries three warheads, two for bombing attacks and the third for a suicide dive. The warheads will initially be a modified version of the Skeet anti-tank weapon, which explodes and fires a slug of metal at high velocity.   There may later be a mix of warheads for different targets.Dominators will be released in groups of three or four at high altitude by the stealthy F-22 Raptor, merging into swarms of up to 24 vehicles.These could patrol a wide area, or a specific location such as a road or a bridge. The swarm will be coordinated by a network gateway vehicle circling at higher altitude, probably communicating using a system like the existing Link 16 system. This is a secure tactical radio operating at 54 Kbps, which switches randomly across more than 50 different radio frequencies. It is hard to jam or intercept, but Link 16 is limited to line-of-sight operation, so the network   gateway vehicle has to stay in visual contact. The network gateway provides communication between the individual Dominators and also connects to the human supervisor, possibly via a satellite relay.The swarm will act as a coordinated team instead of a group of individuals. Other "smart" weapons can waste effort by attacking the same target. In one United States Air Force test, 40 smart warheads launched at an array of target vehicles scored a total of 13 hits - spread among four vehicles. The Dominator network will use enough warheads to engage all the targets located by the swarm, while ensuring that no two attack the same target.The AFRL needs to meet the chal lenge of automatic sensing and target identification. Dominator will probably have a sensor known as a Ladar or laser-based radar, using a beam of light instead of radio waves. The shorter wavelength of light compared with radio gives much better resolution, revealing details on a scale of centimetres rather than metres.Instead of being a featureless blob, a target vehicle can be seen in high resolution, so cars and trucks can easily be distinguished from tanks and Scud launchers. Ladar can also measure range and build up a three-dimensional image to determine the exact size and shape of the target. Unlike visual systems, Ladar works in complete darkness: depending on the frequency of light used, it   can see through rain, fog and cloud.Dominator will have a hierarchy of targets. Mobile missile launchers are likely to top the list, followed by command vehicles, anti-aircraft systems, tanks and personnel carriers, with jeeps and trucks ranked lowest. The recognition algorithms are a sensitive area, and details are scant. A previous Boeing system used templates, which were effective but depended on seeing the target from the right angle. The AFRL is known to be looking at "biologically inspired algorithms", which use generalised rules to identify objects of interest in a cluttered scene.Whether Dominator ever goes into service will depend on the answers to some key questions. One is whether it will be able to survive on the modern battlefield; another is how well Dominator can find and accurately identify targets.At one point, insiders suggested that Dominator might work without human oversight, but Avila is emphatic that human supervision is part of the plan for the foreseeable future. Similarly, an autonomous missile under development by Lockheed had human oversight added as a requirement after the Iraq war, possibly as a result of friendly fire incidents.Clearly, giving the kill decision will always be a serious matter. The supervisor will have to decide whether a targeted truck is full of soldiers or schoolchildren, or whether what looks like a command vehicle might have a red cross painted on the side. Dominator might have the ability to find and destroy targets all on its own, but we still can't trust the machines for that final decision.
You don't need to be an expert with a search engine to be aware that one of the most eagerly awaited events this year will be Microsoft's attempt to topple Google with the launch of its own engine. Good luck to it. Competition is good even with a product such as Google, which many users feel (wrongly) cannot be improved.If Microsoft produces a better search engine, I will be among the first to switch. There is only one proviso - it must be done fairly. There are darker rumours - as the New York Times reported this week - that Microsoft will decide that its search facility should be an integral part of its Windows operating system just as its browser, Internet Explorer, is. You have to hand it to Microsoft. Even to be   thinking about this when the European Commission is about to rule on whether the tying of its Media Player to Windows is an abuse of its dominant position shows how confident the company is in fending off governments.On one issue Microsoft is right: bundling a browser, a music player or a search engine into its operating system will improve the experience for existing Microsoft customers. But that is not the point. Microsoft is different. Its operating system is resident on nearly 95% of the world's personal computers. Nearly all of its $53bn cash mountain was built from a monopoly position that includes Word and Excel. There are lots of benefits attached to having a single operating system (not least standardisation). But these are offset by the difficulty, if not impossibility, of   new entrants successfully challenging Microsoft with products competing with in-house MS versions bundled into the operating system.Microsoft should have been split into two separate companies years ago, with Windows operating as a common carrier, and all applications for it competing against each other in the market place. Interestingly, Microsoft is conspicuously less successful in competing in non-Windows arenas than on its monopoly home territory.And, of course, if it hadn't earned such large monopoly profits, it would not have been in such a strong position to invest in other (loss-making) areas or gather so many bright graduates at its headquarters. Goodness knows what new products they might have produced elsewhere if they had not been sucked into   the Redmond money machine.Apple is an even worse kind of monopoly in that it integrates its hardware with its operating system and locks buyers into purchasing its components - but it has less than 3% of the market and does not have the deterrent effects on potential competition that Microsoft has.Amazingly, Microsoft, having been found guilty of illegally maintaining (though not acquiring) a monopoly, carries on as if it was as pure as the driven snow. If Bill Gates wants posterity to write him a lasting epitaph (in Word, of course), he should voluntarily split the company into two quoted companies - operating system and products. That would not only take the wind out of his critics' sails but would also make Microsoft more innovative. And mice might fly.
The battle for superiority in the high end of the compact digital camera market continues with the launch next month of the Sony DSC-T1. The Japanese version of the camera - identical to the UK model - has been a huge hit and it's easy to see why. First, it is truly pocketable. Despite having a 3x optical zoom, the ultra-thin T1 has no protruding lens. This is due to its Carl Zeiss Vario-Tessar optical lens that operates within the camera.The T1's second trump card is a 2.5in LCD monitor that boasts superb resolution and vivid colours. It needs to be good, though, as there is no space for a traditional viewfinder. The T1 can also take good quality 640x480-pixel moving images.The clincher, though, is the impressive five megapixel images, which are crisper and of a higher resolution than those snapped by rivals. Its only weaknesses are a flash that's a little underpowered and the high price of around &#163;500. Trust me: you'll want one.www.sony.co.uk
Lynne Featherstone'scracking websiteblogs the Liberal Democrat councillor's daily political battles in the London borough of Haringey and the London Assembly, and contains her opinions on everything from the war in Iraq to the inadequacies of the pedestrian crossing at the Shepherds Hill junction with Archway Road, N6.It's the sort of website every local politician should have. Scarcely anyone else does. Only a tiny minority of elected councillors - less than 5% - try to communicate with voters through the web.Arguably, this is a more dangerous deficit than the number of Westminster MPs without websites. Most of the time, MPs toe their party's line, which in most   national issues is well publicised. Finding out where a local councillor stands on, say, the closure of a bus station toilet, is another matter. If we don't know, who can blame us if we don't vote, or use our local vote as a national raspberry.Of course, there are good reasons. Being a councillor is demanding enough without having to sit up all night updating your web pages. Another factor is age: the average for councillors is 57, and rising.According to accepted wisdom, councils can't do much to help. Providing councillors with websites would count as political spending, about the worst crime in the local government book. As a result, councils' sites mostly contain just a list of elected members, with information restricted to party, surgery times and, if we're lucky, a mugshot.Web-minded voters in Castle Morpeth, Northumberland, however, are in for a pleasant surprise. Their council's home page may be the first in England to carry the hot button "view councillors' websites". The borough council is piloting a scheme called Councillor.info organised by the Local Government Association, which provides councillors with web hosting while, it hopes, staying inside the law.The deal is that the council pays a hosting firm to set up and maintain a blank site for each of its elected members. Councillors are free to populate it as they wish, including with political statements, subject to an agreement on "acceptable use" covering defamation, racism and other predictable issues. Anyone who crosses the line would have their site taken down.Castle Morpeth is one of 11 councils piloting the scheme. So far, most users seem rather tentative, populating their personal space with little more than contact details. One exception is Nic Best, a Green Party member, who says he feels a duty to push the boundaries. As well as local news, his site carries a personal commentary called Pistachio - "a green nut best taken with a pinch of salt".It's still too early to tell if Councillor.info will succeed. One test will be the system's ability to handle the opinions of less savoury individuals. In councils with BNP members, for example. So far, that party doesn't seem to have spotted the web's local potential. Perhaps when its councillors work out how to spell www, local web politics will really take off.
Bleep bleepDespite being the first UK record label to start selling its entire back catalogue in a digital format, the launch of Warp Record's new music download service, Bleep, went largely unnoticed last month.Visitors to the Warp site can now buy more than 2,200 separate tracks, including more than 350 albums from acts as diverse as Nightmares on Wax, Boards of Canada and the satirist Chris Morris. Individual tracks cost 99p, while an album will set you back &#163;6.99. You can listen to the tracks before you buy, and Bleep offers a number of web exclusives, including rare mixes from the likes of Aphex Twin and Plaid. Warp says that digital downloads allow it to pay a greater share of the profits to these artists.The site uses high-quality MP3 music files made with the open source Lame (originally from Lame Ain't an MP3 Encoder), sampled at 205kbps. A standard MP3 is sampled at 128kbps. Bleep also differs from other commercial MP3 sites because it doesn't use the digital rights management (DRM) or similar copy protection system. This means you are relatively free to share the MP3s among different devices, though not with friends. "We believe that most people like to be treated as customers and not potential criminals," says a statement on the website.www.warprecords.com/bleepwww.bleep.comhttp://lame.sourceforge.netConnectivityThe new BBCi Connector is a new way to meet friends and discuss your favourite television and radio programmes. Mixing the topicality of a talk board with the immediacy of instant messenging, the new application lets you chat with other users who visit the same pages of the BBCi site. It is easy to use and although you must register, you don't need to download any new software.   However, you must be over 16 to use the service.www.bbc.co.uk/communicate/bbciconnectorMr Picasso"Every child is an artist," Pablo Picasso once said, but what would the great artist make of Mr Picasso Head? This Flash-animated site, which models its name from a popular child's toy from the 1950s, lets you "create" your own Picasso painting by offering a number of his motif facial features (mouths, ears, arcs of hair etc), which you then cut and mix into a face. You can even sign them in a Picassoesque font and print them out, email them to friends or display them in the online gallery.www.mrpicassohead.comwww.picasso.comNorthern lightsToday is the start of the Jokkmokk winter festival. Jokkmokk, 70km north of the Arctic Circle, is the cultural capital of Lapland. Every year it hosts a three-day market and festival celebrating the culture of the S&#225;mi people, who live in an ice-bound homeland that stretches from the North Sea coast of Norway to the vast north of Russia. This year, a team from Ume&#229; University in Sweden will create a moblog (a photo weblog using camera phones) of the three-day event. According to the site, the moblog combines "elements of art installation, documentary, diary and the genre of road movie in extreme weather conditions". It also lets you experience a unique cultural event as it happens on Europe's northern fringe.www2.humlab.umu.se/jokkmokk2004www.turism.jokkmokk.se/eng.shtmlLove and robotsKozy and Dan are freelance illustrators who mix Japanese pop references with the 19th-century art of the panorama. A combination of digital photography and pencil, the pair's work is undeniably urban and superbly surreal. The pair are based in San Francisco, but they have created a range of street panoramas in London, New York and Tokyo. Visitors to their online gallery can buy deliciously detailed prints for as little as &#163;20.www.kozyndan.comNew &amp; notedShrek is backwww.shrek2.comEndangered specieswww.arkive.orgMark Hamill's directorial debutwww.comicbookthemovie.comSix of the best: Photo albumsUK sitewww.photobox.co.ukClean designwww.picturetrail.comA Kodak companywww.ofoto.com15 free printswww.shutterfly.comInvite friendshttp://photos.yahoo.comOrder chocolateswww.imagestation.com
Upset the balanceMichael Cross (January 29) has missed the point. The issue is the balance of power between the state and the citizen. Those who trust the state with largely unfettered power over its citizens often argue that it is "efficient". History shows that such trust is often misplaced.A mature democracy would have effective checks and balances. If the state gains a power, there should be draconian penalties for the misuse of that power, and an independent body to enforce the penalty.We need to remember that politicians are merely elected officers delegated to represent us. Any power they have is our gift. We must retain the right, and the ability, to control any abuse of that power - and not just every five years at the ballot box, because that is too blunt an instrument for a modern state.So when, for example, the Home Office wants to introduce ID cards for largely specious reasons, without any effective remedy for abuse of the databases that make ID cards possible, the only sensible response is to say no. Cross is being naive, but it does not mean every citizen should be put at unnecessary risk.Martyn ThomasBathLack of inspirationI liked Rhianna Pratchett's article (Online on the web, January 24) about bedroom coders. I have quite fond memories of that, and realise it is increasingly difficult to achieve the high production values that games now require with only a teenager, a   PC and a bedroom. Before I got a chance to wax nostalgic about rubber keys and 64K memories, however, I noticed something very alarming indeed: cause and effect.Look at the games charts. Every single full-price game in the top 10 for that week was part of a long-running franchise or a sequel. The Sims, Medal of Honour, Tony Hawks, Tiger Woods, Fifa. How many games of each of these series have been released so far? In some cases, it must be reaching double figures. And could it be anything to do with the dearth of bedroom coders with original ideas, in favour of bankable franchises that the games-playing public will predictably rush out and buy (hello The Sims)?Dr Mark PatersonSchool of cultural studiesUniversity of the West of EnglandBristolNasty phishing tripThe article on phishing (A big catch, January 29) was interesting, as I received a particularly nasty variant.  This one was in the form of a receipt for an online purchase - of a year's subscription to a child porn site. Needless to say, no such purchase has been made, and I simply deleted the thing.I noticed, though, that the phish made no mention of my name as it appears on a credit card, no other identifying details, and no date of purchase, but did have contact details if this charge was "in error". We can safely assume that any contact page would have requested me to confirm my credit card details so they could "delete" the charge.Phishing by playing on fears of being associated with porn purchases is particularly vile.Harvey Van SickleBasingstokeHear the angstJack Schofield (Column, January 29) highlights the frustrations that mobile phone users encounter across the globe with regard to compatibility of systems and networks, both between and within countries. Deaf and hard-of-hearing people - one in seven of Europe's population - have been particularly disadvantaged.The RNID is driving the EU debate on this issue. Despite the fact that the technology is available, telecommunications companies have failed to deliver accessible, interoperable and cost-effective solutions.At RNID's conference on Access to the Information Society, in Brussels onFebruary 25, these issues will be tackled by key opinion formers, stakeholders and user groups.People who rely on text to communicate with society should be able to do so while on the move, be it ordering a pizza or contacting an emergency service.As Schofield pointed out, compatibility of services will benefit all users and remove barriers and frustrations for the hearing world, too. Telecommunications and broadcasting are global technologies and so the challenges of interoperability and compatibility span borders. It is only through collaboration across Europe that universal solutions can be initiated. We would be pleased to hear from any readers throughict@rnid.org.uk.Guido GybelsDirector of new technologiesRNIDAny genre will doDerek Roughton wrote (Feedback, January 29): "If we want to go online, we use our PC. If we want music, we use our CD, Mini-Disc or Dat recorder (forget MP3 - we're not pop fans!)."  MP3 is a format. Just like CD or Dat or Mini-Disc. You can record classical, jazz, reggae, hip-hop or even plainsong and death metal as MP3. Indeed, any genre will lend itself to MP3. It isn't a format permanently linked to pop.Damian JenningsReigate
The self-employed will either have submitted their tax returns last Friday - Saturday, at a pinch, if your local office was open - or will be sitting and praying for their accountants to get on with it and save them more than they'll be paying in fines for late delivery. In the incorporated business world, the deadlines are more fluid, but they tend to gravitate around April. For such companies, there is one month after the end of each quarter to submit your VAT return or else face penalties.The frustrating thing about all of this is that for some time, the government has allowed businesses to process a lot of these transactions electronically. The difficulty has been that small businesses don't necessarily have a dedicated IT person and therefore don't have time to look into security issues, set up passwords and other procedures. This is why the British Chamber of Commerce has set up Chamber SimplySign. It is a digital signature service that is about to become available from the BCC subsidiary, ChamberTrust.The deal is that, for &#163;25, businesses can get an electronic passport to underpin an electronic identity that will    work with government sites, on emails between customers and suppliers, and anywhere else that establishing someone's identity is paramount. These IDs can be obtained fromwww.simplysign.co.uk.One prospective user is Jan Klin, proprietor of IT Consultancy Jan Klin Associates. "I travel a lot and contact people through websites and on email. It is important that my customers can have absolute verification that it's me they're dealing with," he says. He believes the complexity has put a lot of businesses off this sort of technology in the past. "Before, you needed to know exactly what you were doing, carry out certain checks to make sure your emails were properly encrypted," he says. "It's much, much easier to use now."Essentially, using the service means any email can be encrypted so that only the intended recipient can open and read it. No extra equipment is necessary: a PC with an internet browser will do nicely.Kathy Riley, head of business development for the BCC, happily admits that many of the government interfacing and other security functions in the product were already available. For VAT returns "you could Pin and password, for example. But   what we're trying to do is to give businesses added value, so you can do your VAT return but also send secure emails, for example."Riley adds that electronic VAT returns will shortly be followed by electronic payments, at which point electronic verification will become vital. "What we're trying to do is   educate people about digital identities," she says.To an extent, the BCC - whose technology in this case is supplied by security experts Trustis - is in the position of trying to sell the first telephone. However, the legal framework is in place: a digital signature will have the same force as one in hard   copy when it comes to contracts, for example. But using them is far from common at the moment.Klin says: "I think the reason it's not been taken up so far is that business owners aren't aware of it and they don't understand how it works or why it's important. As an IT consultant, I do." But Riley is keen to stress that users do not need to understand the technical underpinnings to find the service useful. She compares it to telephones: "You pick up the phone and there's a dialling tone, you don't need to understand exactly how it works." That's the position she wants to reach with digital signatures. Unfortunately, it leaves the BCC in the position of selling the first telephone, which is fine until you want to make a call and no one else has one.Tony Naggs, IT adviser for BusinessLink in Hertfordshire, gives the scheme a cautious welcome, preferring to see it as an awareness-raising exercise. "It's great that they're doing it, it's an excellent idea, but the problem we have is that digital signatures are voluntary," he says, "until someone like Microsoft puts it in the next edition of something like Outlook. It'll be fine having a digital signature but if the person you're sending to hasn't got it, so what? I know I can prove it's me, but if you haven't got the keys on your computer, you can't check." It would take a radical move like this from a software player for signatures to reach critical mass, he suggests.Naggs applauded the BCC for setting up the Chamber SimplySign scheme because the concept needs establishing. "There's a huge problem in that small and medium businesses don't have any understanding of &#91;digital signatures&#93;." And take-up will remain sluggish, he suggests, as long as there is no compulsion to encrypt and check messages in this way."What we've got is total agreement that it's important to be secure," he says, "but at this stage it's all: 'wouldn't it be nice if' and 'you can do this if you want'."
Depending on your outlook, CRM is either yet another three-letter abbreviation that should have died a death in the dotcom era, or the next big thing for small to medium-sized businesses (SMEs). Not surprisingly, Microsoft's Bill Gates is firmly in the latter camp, and after the small matter of a knighthood, he also took time last week to announce UK availability of Microsoft Business Solutions CRM 1.2 software. He believes this will drive the company into the lucrative world of CRM - something that, in theory at least, complements Microsoft's cash cow of desktop applications based on Microsoft Office.CRM is misunderstood because it can't be explained by looking at one particular business activity. In practice, CRM stands for a hatful of related applications. The common thread is managing customers and potential customers better through applications such as automated call centres, sales lead or contact management, and automated marketing campaigns.For example, when you phone your insurance firm to renew a policy, the chances are the telesales person automatically sees a screen of information about your account, which can be updated and amended when needed. That information is available to any sales person who takes your call, and it is probably used by the company to predict your and other customers' buying behaviour.More sophisticated systems also offer reporting and analytics. The holy grail of CRM is to link where necessary into financials - no small feat when you consider the wide variety of financial systems in place.But bearing in mind that the majority of SMEs spend next to nothing on CRM, because they perform basic customer relationship tasks using Outlook, Excel and Access, it is not surprising that Microsoft sees enormous potential for persuading its loyal customer base to consider buying extra software dedicated to CRM.The arrival of Microsoft CRM is something of a watershed because it gives SMEs a significant new choice in a market dominated by ACT, with its eponymous software and Frontrange's Goldmine. It is also a market in which larger CRM vendors are increasingly evident with the arrival of low-end solutions from SAP, Oracle and Siebel. Siebel is aggressively providing hosted services through IBM and BT, for example.Microsoft's big plus is its product's ability to integrate with key desktop applications, and most notably Outlook 2003. This will make it an obvious   option for firms wedded to Microsoft Office who are looking for CRM that will integrate with their applications without too much up-front cost.Microsoft CRM, aimed at firms of 10 to 1,000 employees, offers applications such as contact management, access to related information in a database, and reporting tools. But at around &#163;600 per user, it represents a considerable investment to most small firms. However, it will also be available on a pay-per-use basis through software rental services, which may allow costs to be reined in.Microsoft's plan is to let a host of partners develop and localise the software so it can fit into a number of business scenarios and vertical market sectors. For example, FlyingSpark will bundle CRM with mobile applications that offer better connectivity for mobile sales forces and the like. Another developer, Optevia, is integrating Microsoft CRM with a call centre suite. On the downside, "localisation" has only just begun, and there are few beta sites for prospective customers to inspect. And for the millions of UK firms that use Sage   accounting products, integration is just being talked about at this stage.But the big question is whether Microsoft can get SMEs to show interest in an area that is suffering from something of an image problem. Its research shows that only 10% of SMEs have any kind of automated approach to CRM beyond using basic software, and critics point out that some of the biggest IT disaster stories relate to CRM projects in large firms."Firms are afraid of the costs, despite liking the idea of CRM," says Vince Janhal, managing director of London-based reseller WEM Computers, "and SMEs are generally resistant to change. But the smart ones can see the need and know you have to do something about it". Janhal says that 90% of his customers do a form of CRM simply by making the most of the features in Outlook.But Sage is in the process of beefing up its offerings with the imminent completion of a &#163;110m acquisition of CRM vendor Accpac. This is one of Microsoft's biggest CRM competitors in the US, and has been active in the UK for two years.Accpac marketing manager, Gerry Carr, is unimpressed: "Microsoft's arrival is a bit of a damp squid. This product hasn't gone down that well in the US and I don't believe they are really committed to this market."Greg Carlow, managing director of IT developer Repton, disagrees. "If it were not Microsoft I would agree, but with its vast presence on the desktop, it has the chance to dominate with this. Existing products are fine, but you can't do things very simply. This will scale and integrate a lot better with fewer glitches. I think Sage will be disappointed it wasn't acquired by Microsoft when it was looking for CRM firms." (Microsoft bought Great Plains Software and Navision to underpin its move into business applications.)Carlow believes the biggest barrier for CRM is the fact that it can also make firms more inefficient. "We are all fundamentally lazy, and a CRM system can be a problem if people find themselves spending more time inputting data than getting on with the business in hand. I have heard of cases like that."But is there a fear that Microsoft   will become too dominant on the desktop? Recent research by Yankee Group in the US found that 43% of SMEs were "concerned about becoming overly reliant" on Microsoft products and services. In addition, 72% said they were actively trying to lessen the dominance of Microsoft products in their operations.Nevertheless, Ashim Pal, vice president of the Meta Group research company, says that curiosity has already been aroused. "Quite a lot of our clients are asking us about it so they can assess the opportunity. The UK market is fairly open because no one really dominates, and the fact that Microsoft CRM integrates with Outlook is a big pull. Because it is Microsoft, a lot of firms - even larger firms - will try it out for particular groups or departments."There is little doubt that most of the firms being targeted by Microsoft avoid CRM because of existing investments or fear of the cost of a new system. How much effort Microsoft puts into getting this product accepted in the UK market may well determine the short-term future of all the CRM vendors.
Planning to enrol in higher education? Of all the countries in Europe, Britain is the best place to do it online. But if you educate yourself at public libraries, you may be better off in Denmark: its national online search and request system is the best on the continent. High taxpayers who want an easy life should try moving to Spain, where a single online system handles wealth and income taxes.These are some of the findings of the European Commission's latest official benchmarking study of the continent's progress towards "e-Europe". The survey, by consultants Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young, covers 18 countries - the EU plus Iceland, Norway and Switzerland. Diplomatically, the commission tries not to emphasise national rankings: everyone gets a prize. But this doesn't prevent a little crowing among the winners - and the occasional cry of foul among the users.The results show wide differences in national priorities for putting services online. For example, web-savvy people investing in bricks and mortar should consider Ireland, where it's possible to apply online for planning permission. It is also a good place to register a car, along with Sweden and France. But if the car gets stolen, you'll wish you were in Spain, Britain, Denmark or Finland, the only countries allowing citizens to file reports to the police online.If you're planning to emigrate, Britain's the best place in Europe to apply electronically for a passport.If in Luxembourg, you may as well give up. The country's public services are still in the paper age, although, like every other EU country apart from the Netherlands, it is possible to   file your VAT form electronically.This year's survey, the fourth, measured two things: the sophistication with which countries run 20 basic public services online, and the percentage of fully transactional public services available online. Transactional services are the gold standard of e-government - the services involving a two-way transfer of information, such as applying for a social security benefit online.Top scorer for sophistication was Sweden (with 87%) followed closely by Denmark and Ireland with 86%. The UK was halfway down the table at eighth place with 71%, just behind France. The bottom three were Greece, Germany and Luxembourg.In the second league table, the number of transactional services available online, the UK did slightly better, scoring sixth place with 50%. (The office of the e-envoy reckons two-thirds of government services are available online, but this includes one-way services that only publish information on the web.) Here, the top three were Denmark (72%), Austria (68%) and Sweden (67%). Luxembourg again trailed, (15%).Overall, rates of progress slowed in 2003. This may be understandable as governments reach e-maturity: everyone leaves the most difficult services to last. However, the rate of progress varied greatly among countries: Austria, a poor performer in 2002, piled on both sophistication and availability, while the UK more than doubled availability between 2002 and 2003. On the other hand, Spain's progress was static in that year; Greece's almost so.Service sophistication sometimes went backwards. In 2002, the UK scored 100% for reporting changes of address. In 2003, that had slipped to   30%, presumably because of the "Shepway problem" - the legal opinion that systems sharing change-of-address data were not lawful. The UK's sophistication of public procurement also apparently halved between 2001 and 2003.Across Europe, services for business are more sophisticated and widely available than those aimed at citizens. Most developed are those concerned with collecting money. Income generation on average scores 92% for sophistication. The best performing service is VAT declaration, with a sophistication score of 97%.However, online registration is lower: 25% availability for birth or marriage certificates or announcement of moving.Health-related services do poorly: no country has all health services fully online, defined by the ability to book a hospital appointment through a publicly accessible website.Surprisingly, applying online for a permit or a licence is still a struggle. Applying for personal documents and building permission are hardly available; enrolment in higher education scores only 35% for availability.One weakness of the survey is that it covers only internet access: channels such as interactive digital TV don't get a look-in. Another is that some services are not relevant in some countries: in Britain, NHS patients book hospital appointments through a GP, so the direct booking indicator isn't relevant. Greece, Ireland and Portugal don't require citizens to tell local authorities when they move.But as Britain was one of only two countries to score 100% sophistication for social security benefits and the only one to score 100% for "personal documents", the office of the e-envoy won't grumble too much.
Spam upThe arrival of anti-spam legislation, including America's Can-Spam act, has not stemmed the flood, according to Brightmail. The proportion of spam increased to 60% of all emails sent in January, up two percentage points on the December figure. The spam filtering company bases its figures on data from more than 300 million end users and "its patented Probe Network". It processed 85bn emails last month.Open accessThe mayor of London's office is looking at the possibility of using open source software to bring the cost of e-government within the reach of lower-income families. In a policy statement, mayor Ken Livingstone says he will instruct LondonConnects, the agency responsible for e-government services in London, to look at the pros and cons of using open source. The move follows a report from the Greater London Authority last year, which showed that 90% of London families with an annual income of &#163;52,000 or more have home access to the internet, but this falls to only 20% when the income is below &#163;10,444.www.london.gov.uk/gla/publications/e-londonMobile webIn theory, you should be able to use the web with any device, including a handheld computer or a mobile phone. In practice, most websites only cater for desktop PCs. The World Wide Web Consortium has therefore developed a standard way for devices to tell web servers what stuff they can handle: Composite Capability/Preference Profiles (CC/PP). They don't have to tell the host directly, which could take a mobile phone some time, but can send the address of a web resource where the information is held. Millions of phones are already using CC/PP, because it includes the User Agent Profile (UAProf) specification developed originally by the Wap Forum. How many websites will get the message and use CC/PP to cater for a variety of devices is another matter.www.w3.org/TR/2004Market swoopSainsbury's is restructuring its IT support by buying back its intermediary company Swan Infrastructure for &#163;553m. Swan was set up by the supermarket chain in November 2000 to manage the company's IT transformation programme. By acquiring Swan's assets, Sainsbury's will regain direct control of its servers and point-of-sale hardware. This will save &#163;25m a year through improved accounting practices, the company claims. Consultancy firm Accenture will continue to service the IT operations under a new lower-cost deal negotiated in November.www.j-sainsbury.co.ukPlans awryPlans for e-government do not reflect local needs and could mean councils will be unable to meet the 2005 deadline, states a report from the Society of IT Management, the local government IT managers' organisation. SocITM has savaged the consultation document, Defining E-Government Priority Services and Transformation Outcomes, which sets compulsory targets for implementation. It is asking for talks with the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to discuss the possibility of allowing councils to set their own agenda to reflect local priorities.www.socitm.gov.uk/PublicFinancial gainEDS is leading a transformation programme for Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society in a &#163;109m business process outsourcing deal. The 13-year contract complements an existing IT outsourcing contract between the two organisations, a &#163;51m deal that has also been extended for six years. The new programme will include system consolidation, the implementation of new workflow and imaging applications and process re-engineering. EDS will also help develop business processes including underwriting, claims and back-office administration. IT staff at Liverpool Victoria's Exeter offices will be transferred to EDS.www.eds.comNHS trns 2 txtIncoming text message? It could be the hospital reminding you about your appointment, one of several ways the health service is using text messaging, according to research by industry body the Mobile Data Association. Hospitals including Homerton in east London and Addenbrooke's in Cambridge have found that text messages that remind patients a few days in advance mean they are less likely to miss appointments, which cost the health service &#163;400m a year. Also, a few doctors are providing test results by text message, in reply to an identifying message from the patient.
There's nothing about tech in this post. Move along, now, if you're wanting talk of Linux or Mac or social software or something. But this is just far too good to let pass. From theofficial White House website, we bring you"Remarks by the President to the Press Pool, Nothin' Fancy Cafe, Roswell, New Mexico"--:11:25 A.M. MST THE PRESIDENT: I need some ribs. Q Mr. President, how are you? THE PRESIDENT: I'm hungry and I'm going to order some ribs. Q What would you like? THE PRESIDENT: Whatever you think I'd like. Q Sir, on homeland security, critics would say you simply haven't spent enough to keep the country secure. THE PRESIDENT: My job is to secure the homeland and that's exactly what we're going to do. But I'm here to take somebody's order. That would be you, Stretch -- what would you like? Put some of your high-priced money right here to try to help the local economy. You get paid a lot of money, you ought to be buying some food here. It's part of how the economy grows. You've got plenty of money in your pocket, and when you spend it, it drives the economy forward. So what would you like to eat? Q Right behind you, whatever you order. THE PRESIDENT: I'm ordering ribs. David, do you need a rib? Q But Mr. President --(it continues)
It's always nice to see Guardian Online alumni doing well, and our former syndicated columnist, programmer Bill Gates, reappears today in an exclusive interview talking about how he isgiving his money away. Bill wrote (in Basic) the famous Donkey game that shipped with Microsoft MS-DOS v1 in 1981, though probably not many people are still playing it. Another former Online columnist and venture capitalist,Esther Dyson, featured in Saturday's paper.
"In the basement of IBM's Almaden Research Center in the hills of South San Jose, hundreds of computer servers gather 250 million new Web pages a week. The data -- 512,000 gigabytes' worth -- is at the disposal of a new analytical software tool called WebFountain," reports theMercury News."Four years in the making, WebFountain is the ultimate way to figure out what everybody is saying about something. Created by researchers Dan Gruhl and Andrew Tompkins, WebFountain sifts through the online data to discover patterns that even the most dedicated librarian can't find."
Was interested to see a piece onRomenescoin which a correspondent slated a Wall Street Journal reporter for quoting a Friendster profile. Friendster, for the uninitiated, is one of a swathe of personal networking sites on which you post your details and then link together with online chums to create a community of friends, and friends of friends. Of the WSJ report that used the Friendster profile, Jonathan Katz writes: "I guess there are more stupid, less ethical ways to report, but I can't think of any... The information is basically private."Well, I can think of more than a few examples of stupid, unethical reporting that, it seems, might shock Katz. But his point about the information being "basically private" is less naive. Those wanting a good examination of the issue should read Danny O'Brien'sessayon the issue of public, private and secret registers, and the dangers of the net getting rid of the private register in favour of only public and secret. Is this another example of a situation where, to paraphrase Carly Fiorina's memorable description of music pirates, technology is developing faster than our ethics?
Mac users: anew versionof Safari, the best web browser on OSX, is out today. In version 1.2 Apple promises improved compatibility and the ability to resume interrupted downloads, among other things.
Microsoft said yesterday that its websites were "fully available" despite fears of a catastrophic computer virus attack.The Mydoom virus, which has blighted home computers and shut down the website of one software company, was programmed to attack Microsoft yesterday.But early indications were that the bug had been unable to penetrate the computer giant's security systems.It had been feared that the virus would shut down Microsoft websites, creating havoc for millions of computer users worldwide.Wiping out such a giant is seen as the holy grail for computer "vandals".Despite their early successes in fending off the attack, Microsoft experts were remaining vigilant. A Microsoft spokeswoman said: "Microsoft's web properties remain fully available to customers."We continue to be focused on ensuring that our websites are available to customers and provide them with critical resources, including the latest security information."The spokeswoman added that the company was "working to stamp out the criminal behaviour behind these malicious attacks" by issuing a $250,000 (&#163;136,000) reward for information leading to a conviction of a virus distributor.The virus works by getting infected computers to send hundreds of thousands of requests for a website per minute, crippling the particular site.The virus targeting Microsoft is a variant of the Mydoom virus, called Mydoom B.An earlier version, Mydoom A, has shut down the website of Utah software company SCO Group.But security experts said that the Mydoom B variant was spreading much less quickly than Mydoom A.Microsoft has set up an alternative website for people whose computers are infected with the virus. The latest reward is the third so far under a $5m reward programme Microsoft announced in November to help authorities catch the authors of internet infections.SCO Group had previously offered a reward of $250,000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the creator of Mydoom A.
Micheal chats to PC Magazinehere.
"The Spirit rover dedicates 32MB of its 128MB of RAM to the on-board Wind River VxWorks operating system and a host of science applications, and as the mission progresses, technicians are scheduled to periodically delete old files and directories to clear out the memory for reuse.... But with all the excitement after the Mars landing on Jan. 3, and with data being returned to Earth by the rover, that step was not performed quickly enough by mission technicians," reportsComputerworld."We just ran out of memory, ran out of RAM," [Wind River's Mike Deliman] said. "This is why we initially lost contact" with the rover.
A schoolboy who hacked into the computer system at an American nuclear research lab triggering a security alert narrowly escaped jail yesterday.Joseph McElroy, now 18, was ordered to do 200 hours community service by a judge at Southwark crown court in London, after admitting at an earlier hearing unauthorised modification of the contents of a computer in June 2002.McElroy, from Woodford Green in east London, now a student at Exeter University, claimed he had just been using the immense power of the computer system at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, near Chicago, to upload and store film and music files from the internet.The court heard he had developed a software programme called "Deathserv x" which cracked the facility's electronic security shield. Staff at the lab, one of the world's main centres for high energy physics research, feared a terrorist attack on the United States and pushed the "panic button", closing the network for three days.McElroy was arrested in July 2003 by Scotland Yard's computer crimes unit, alerted by US authorities. Judge Andrew Goymer said he was very lucky he was not going to prison.
Netimperativereports on an interesting trial in Scotland, where they're using sewage pipes to carry broadband cables to homes and businesses. Makes perfect sense, when you think about it. You wonder how many cableco executives are banging their heads against walls at the moment, shouting "d'oh", as they realise they could have saved themselves a fortune by not digging up miles and miles of streets. Maybe they ruled the idea out because of the potential for dirty jokes...
An SCO press release asks people to usehttp://www.thescogroup.comaddress, rather than thehttp://www.sco.comone under attack from Sobig. I foundhttp://sco.comwas also working, mind you.Groklawis keeping track of this increasingly curious story (thanks to Damian in Frankfurt for the link). Meanwhile, SCO adds:"Security experts are calling Mydoom the largest virus attack ever to hit the Internet, costing businesses and computer users around the world in excess of $1 billion in lost productivity and damage," said Darl McBride, president and CEO, The SCO Group, Inc. "Because one of its purposes is to interrupt access to the www.sco.com Web site, we are taking steps to help our important stakeholders continue to access the information, data and support that they need from this new www.thescogroup.com Web site."
MyDoom, one of the fastest-spreading internet worms ever produced, hit its target yesterday and shut down the American software company SCO's website by flooding it with millions of requests.Security experts believe a row about software ownership may be behind the attack on the SCO Group, which was unable to defend its website despite knowing the attack was on its way.SCO has made itself unpopular by claiming that its intellectual property had been illegally included in Linux, an open source operating system, which means that its source code is freely available to everyone. Many programmers hate the idea of people trying to own it.MyDoom generates as many as one in nine of all the messages being sent globally. It may have affected more than a million PCs.It first appeared on Monday and in most cases seems to a message delivery failure notice. The worm is activated when the user opens an attached file.It forwards itself not only to all the addresses in the email system but to any address it finds on the computer's hard drive, such as those on websites which have been cached.It also "spoofs" email addresses - pretending to come from a different user - so that recipients cannot tell who is infected.It then causes the infected computer to launch a "denial of service" attack on SCO's website by requesting it every 50 milliseconds. SCO admitted yesterday that its servers had been unable to cope."The companies which are usually attacked are either anti-virus, anti-spam or Microsoft," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at the software security firm Sophos."You have to ask why SCO have been targeted and there's been controversy around them ... because of the debate about who owns Linux. It's made a lot of people very angry."Most writers on open source discussion sites condemned the virus writer yesterday, and Bruce Perens, a leading open-source programmer, issued a statement suggesting that spammers had launched the virus to smear the open source community, which has created anti-spam technology.He pointed out that spammers often used denial of service attacks to shut down opponents' websites.Microsoft is the target of a variant, MyDoom.B, which will begin denial of service attacks tomorrow, but is unlikely to be as badly affected as SCO.
In a statement issued Sunday morning, the Utah-based company confirmed MyDoom knocked its site, http://www.sco.com, out of commission," reportsReuters."The speed and severity of the attack surprised security officials. 'It was spectacularly successful,' said Mikko Hypponen, research manager at Finnish anti-virus firm F-Secure."
One of the many things I read is Randy Cassingham's free weekly newsletter,This is True. The format is simple: Randy collects odd stories from newspapers, then adds his own one-liner. Here's an example from the latest issue (THIS is TRUE for 25 January):ALL WRAPPED UP: When Chris Kirk, 33, went away on a business trip, his friend Luke Trerice, 26, took care of his Olympia, Wash., apartment for him. Kirk arrived back home to find everything in his place was wrapped in aluminum foil. Everything. The walls, the kitchen cabinets, even the spare change on his bedside table. Rolls of toilet paper were unrolled, wrapped, and rolled back up. "It went surprisingly fast," Trerice said of the project, which took 4,000 square feet of foil. "The toilet was hard. The molding around the doorways took a very long time." Trerice is "known for large-scale strangeness," Kirk said. How did he react when he first saw his home? "I heard him open the door and gasp," said a neighbor. (Olympia Olympian)Then, the inevitable scream: "Curses! Foiled again!"
Technology sold by Microsoft to the Chinese government has been used by Beijing to censor the internet, and resulted in the jailing of its political opponents.An Amnesty International report has cited Microsoft among a clutch of leading computer firms heavily criticised for helping to fuel 'a dramatic rise in the number of people detained or sentenced for internet-related offences'.The human rights group has slated Bill Gates's company for an 'inadequate response' to escalating abuses in China. 'We don't believe this is appropriate or responsible,' said Mark Allison, an Amnesty International researcher who wrote the report. '&#91;Microsoft&#93; should be more concerned about   human rights abuses and should be using its influence to lift restrictions on freedom of expression and get people out of prison. It is worrying that they don't seem to have raised these issues.'Amnesty believes Microsoft is in violation of a new United Nations Human Rights code for multinationals which says businesses should 'seek to ensure that the goods and services they provide will not be used to abuse human rights'.China is the world's most aggressive censor of the internet. Websites are banned for using words such as 'Taiwan', 'Tibet', 'democracy', 'dissident' and 'human rights'. Amnesty has recorded dozens of cases of political opponents jailed for circulating material offensive   to the Chinese government.Microsoft told  The Observer: 'We are focused on delivering the best technology to people throughout the world. However, how that technology is used is with the individual and ultimately not in the company's control.'Since China was admitted to the World Trade Organisation two years ago a succession of big US technology firms have been supplying the government. Internet use in China is close to 80 million, though this is less than 10 per cent of the adult population.Nortel Networks said in September 2003 it plans to invest $200 million in the next three years to strengthen its research and development capabilities in China.Cisco Systems, which has also been named in the    Amnesty report, has in the past denied that it tailors products for the Chinese market and has said: 'If the government of China wants to monitor the internet, that's their business. We are politically neutral.' But Allison said: 'In terms of the internet the Chinese government is arresting people who are doing nothing more than expressing themselves.It was confirmed last week   that Gates is to receive an honorary knighthood. The firm is embroiled in tough negotiations over supply of software to the NHS.
It's the last few hours for yourBloggiesvotes and yes, we'd love yours in the best tech weblog category. You'll find a fewfamiliar namesin the other categories too.
"Colonel Varley - former assistant chief of staff in Northern Ireland - allegedly liked to strip naked and show himself standing to attention over the internet. He would also chat about meetings with Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon and reveal other military secrets, according to an ex-girlfriend, Serena Christopher," according toSilicon.com."The allegations were made in the Daily Mirror [a British tabloid newspaper] and have been taken seriously by the Ministry of Defence, which has launched an investigation into the colonel and suspended him from duty."
"We may be part of Microsoft, but we're really Mac users," said Roz Ho, general manager of the Mac Business Unit. "Many of us use Macs both at work and at home, and I think that's what keeps us current on what's happening in the Mac environment."Employees of the Mac Business Unit echo that sentiment, speaking of their enthusiasm for making Mac software and their fondness for Macs in general. In an employee video shown at an event last year, they recounted with pride such tales as the colleague who broke up with a girlfriend who bought a Windows PC.TheSeattle Post-Intelligencerreports on Microsoft's Mac Business Unit.
"Gateway said it would pay about $235 million in cash and stock for eMachines, maker of low-priced personal computers sold through retailers Wal-Mart, Best Buy and Circuit City. Analysts said the deal makes Gateway a stronger, though still not threatening, No 3 player in PC sales, well behind Dell and HP," says theMercury News."Privately held eMachines has 138 employees and claimed more than $1 billion in sales in 2003. Gateway has 7,500 employees and reported $3.4 billion in 2003 sales. But Gateway has also had a combined $1.84 billion in net losses in the past three years."
Mobile road warriors, to say nothing of technology journalists, often dream of the day in which the broadband web surfing speeds they enjoy at home are available everywhere.Sure, GPRS mobile phone systems are great for checking e-mail. But for downloading large files and serious surfing they are far too slow.So far we have had a tantalising glimpse of the potential of broadband to go with the growth of Wi-Fi hotspots in the UK.Two announcements made this week means that pretty soon there will another method of accessing the internet at speed on the move: via 3G.Vodafone has announced trials of a 3G card for laptops with a view to a full launch later in the spring. Basically the card fits into a laptop's PCMCIA slot to deliver data transmission speeds of up to 384kbps.While not quite as fast as most people's definition of broadband, which delivers speeds of at least 512kbps, or for that matter the average Wi-Fi hot spot, which is also around that figure, it is still a huge leap on from the snail-like GPRS speeds.The network is far from complete too, with Vodafone only promising 3G coverage in cities like London and Manchester. Road warriors may have to wait until at least 2005 to be able to access 3G networks across the UK.Still, if the trial proves successful and the launch goes as planned the road warrior's among Vodafone's business customers may have the product they have been waiting for.It isn't just Vodafone that is intent on freeing your laptop from the constraints of slow connections. This week the Carphone Warehouse announced the arrival of Nokia's 3G handset, the 7600. The phone comes with 3G services provided by Three. However unlike 'official' Three handsets like the Motorola A920 and NEC e606, the Carphone Warehouse claims that the phone can be used as 3G modem for a laptop delivering those ultra fast download speeds.Although we are still at the "we'll believe it when we see it stage" with this claim, it is certainly news that some business users have been waiting for."There is a huge demand for 3G connectivity for laptops," says Roger Butterworth, MD of Expansys, one of the UK's largest retailers of both Wi-Fi equipment and mobile phones. "Thousands of people have bought a GPRS card for their laptops from us. If you offer them something that is seven or more times faster it is an obvious upgrade. People want to be able get online no matter where they are and not have to worry about finding Wi-Fi hot spots."There are rumours too that Three is about to unleash its business services which will include being able to use its handsets as a modem. Three has other advantages too in that its 3G network now encompasses most of the UK and the company has also had over a year to get the service working properly too. The dream of being able to access the web at fast speeds anywhere is not far from being realised.All of this comes in a week when BT has been offering free trails of its Openzone Wi-Fi system.That it needs to do so perhaps reflects the tricky positions Wi-Fi operators are finding themselves in. For while there has been an explosion in the number of hot spots, the number of people actually using those hot spots is, and I am guessing here, minimal (obviously everyone in the Wi-Fi industry argues this isn't the case).Personally I have never once had to share a Wi-Fi connection in a hot spot, and given the number of different accounts I have, and that I am a fairly frequent user, that's rather a sorry claim.So why are there so few takers? Price has to be a key issue. Most providers charge around 6 an hour for their service - around a fiver more than many internet cafs charge for access.Roaming is another unresolved issue. Granted, with the additon of The Cloud's range of pubs, BT's Openzone now has a good selection of over 2000 Wi-Fi hot spots across the UK. Yet I prefer Starbucks Coffee, which uses T-Mobile's Wi-Fi network, to Costa (the company that BT has the deal with) and with no roaming I am forced to maintain a pair of accounts.Lastly there are usability issues. If you don't have an account actually getting online can take the best part of ten minutes, by which time your coffee may be cold and the urge to check your e-mail diminished.So does the arrival of 3G on laptops sound the death knell for Wi-Fi? It could do. For if users are not getting online at hot spots now, they are even less likely to when they have the choice of a very fast permanent connection everywhere on their phone."Paid for Wi-Fi hot spots were always destined to be a short-lived," argues Expansys' Roger Butterworth. "They are the Rabbit &#91;a forerunner of digital mobile phones&#93; of our time. No one is going to use them when they have access to data connections anywhere via 3G."Not surprisingly, Dave Hughes - chief executive of BT Wireless Broadband - disagrees. "Wi-Fi and 3G are complimentary technologies. 3G might have ubiquity, but it can't match Wi-Fi's speed."Inevitably, how much 3G eats into Wi-Fi revenue will be all about pricing and not just how much 3G costs, but how operators charge for usage."The landscape will depend on pricing models with people used to flat rates being charged per byte. It will be interesting to see what the take up is like," says Angelo Lamme, international product marketing manager, wireless and security at 3Com."At the moment users pay around 1 per MB with GPRS," says Dave Hughes. "The average business user is probably going to download 10MB worth of e-mail at a time using 3G. That's 10 which is much more expensive than Wi-Fi. Besides they aren't paying any more for the hardware as Wi-Fi is integrated on almost all laptops anyway."However much Vodafone and Three charge for their 3G services the good news for consumers is that the arrival of 3G connections for laptops is likely to deliver a serious kick to the Wi-Fi operators, forcing them to tackle the key issues of price and roaming. Should a wireless price war begin there's only really likely to be one winner, and that's the consumer.
During the dotcom boom Esther Dyson made Allan Leighton, the executive who invented the concept of "going plural" in the number of jobs he held down, look workshy.In the late 1990s, the woman dubbed by the American media "queen of the internet" sat on the board of half a dozen companies, from advertising group WPP to her own research firm EDventure. She held posts on many industry bodies, including the chairmanship of ICANN, the closest thing the internet has to a government. She also advised presidential hopeful Al Gore as member of his National Information Infrastructure Advisory Council, and his Republican rivals heard her views through the Progress and Freedom Foundation.Clocking up an estimated 250,000 air miles a year, she was courted by everyone from venture capitalists and boffins desperate to get their start-ups off the ground to industry heavyweights like Bill Gates. To top it all, her Release 1.0 newsletter was required reading for the digerati and anyone who aspired to an understanding of the internet and how it was changing business and society.Even when the boom turned to bust, the calls kept coming. Everyone - with the possible exception of George W Bush, who never returns her calls - wants a piece of her. The calls, or rather emails, as that is Esther's preferred method of communication, keep coming. "I should not reveal this, but I have one wonderful line if I'm not interested, which is, 'Dear X, I am so sorry but I don't have the time or money to give this the attention it deserves'. It's left to the reader to figure out exactly what that means," she says.Such comments are typical of Esther, and she smiles impishly as she says it. Imp is quite an apt word, as she is diminutive and looks younger than her 52 years. But anyone taking her small stature for a lack of intellectual presence would be very wrong. Both her parents were eminent mathematicians and she grew up in the academic hothouse of Princeton, New Jersey, before studying economics at Harvard at 16. She speaks fluent Russian and is a frequent visitor to eastern Europe.TransparencyOne of the reasons Release 1.0 is so popular is that it is insightful and well-written, not full of the management gobbledegook that characterises so much writing about the internet. The medium needs people who can provide clear explanations. After September 11 2001 and the subsequent "war on terror", the American authorities have started seeing the worldwide web as a breeding ground for terrorists, while if the UK media is to be believed, the internet is crawling with paedophiles. Both governments want more power to monitor the web, while authorities in countries such as China and North Korea don't want their people to use it."In the fullness of time there is no anonymity," says Esther."You can certainly find an internet access point somewhere in an anonymous caf&#233; and pay with cash and send an anonymous message, but if you happen to be tracked by a security camera or you tell a friend where you were anonymity is not as binary as people think."In the end, I do want to be able to trace people with enough effort because there are terrorists, but I want it to be very difficult and I want the police to have to get a warrant to go to someone's house, and they need to show cause to get my name from an internet service provider."I am comfortable in a world of shades of grey in both directions, but one thing that I am not going to do is have enlightened governments like those in the US and UK say that anonymity should be completely illegal because the North Koreans will use that as carte blanche to do what they want."Despite her realistic views on anonymity, Esther seems at heart an idealist, like many leaders of the internet world. Working with one of her numerous thinktanks, she has developed a concept she calls "the accountable net, rather than the regulated net"."If there is a golden rule for the internet, it is 'do ask, don't lie'. It is not always 'tell'. The individual has the right, and for self-preservation almost the obligation, to find out who they are dealing with. Understand what they are trying to get out of you, why they want to be talking with you. The other person's obligation is not to lie. If they do not want to answer your questions about their identity then they can say they want to remain private, and you have the option of saying 'I do not want to deal with you'. The more transparency, the better. People who are visible behave better."The debate about how much information should be held on users within the internet infrastructure is raging within the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, the non-profit organisation that ensures machines connected to the internet can speak to each other. Pressure is growing for ICANN, which Esther still advises, to be given a regulatory role, something she vehemently opposes."ICANN should have as little power as possible, and it certainly should not be setting global standards that governments can then use to go after people. The less power it has, the less likelihood that it is going to taken over and become an arm of control. ICANN should be limited to setting policy for the technical infrastructure."Esther is preparing to give up her advisory post with ICANN as she cuts down some of her responsibilities. "I am trying to become more focused on a few good things. I am beginning to realise I can do more good for a few people than by spreading myself too thin. I do not want to be melodramatic, but I do not have all the time in the world so I am trying to set priorities on life more explicitly."There have been many attempts to drag her into politics, and she does admit to being a fan of Democratic nomination hopeful General Wesley Clark - they are both avid swimmers. But though she believes "if you live in the world and you can make things happen, you almost have an obligation to do so" she prefers to concentrate on nurturing companies.RussophileHer latest venture is Midentity, which is somewhere between an online contacts book and Napster, with business cards instead of music. She is a personal investor in the Cambridge-based company. A service is being tested and the company is likely to make a splash later this year.As with all of the companies in which she has invested, she describes Midentity with the affection people usually reserve for children. But Esther, who has not had children, really gets maternal when she talks about eastern Europe. Her love of all things east European and especially Russian was instilled in her by her father, the astrophysicist Freeman Dyson, who was taught at Cambridge by eminent mathematicians, many of whom came from behind the iron curtain.Ever since she first went to Russia in 1989, Esther has been fascinated by its sometimes painful transition to a free market economy. She has a very public bet with Bill Campbell, the chairman of software group Intuit, that by 2012 either the Wall Street Journal or the New York Times will have referred to Russia as the world leader in software development."I like watching things get better. If I were a maid, I would like dirty rooms. What is the point of coming to a clean room? What can you do with it? Russia is the ultimate dirty room."The CVBornJuly 14 1951, SwitzerlandEducationSchool in Princeton, New Jersey; year at Loughton County  Grammar School, Essex; Harvard, at 16,  BA in economicsCareer1972, fact checker, reporter, Forbes magazine; 1977, Wall Street  analyst for New Court Securities; joined  Rosen Research and bought out the firm in 1983, changing its name to EDventure Holdings; numerous non-executive directorships, including i-Gabriel, WPP  and Meetup.com; current or former member of advisory bodies including National Endowment for Democracy,  Eurasia Foundation, Technology  Empowerment Network, Institute for East West Studies, Global Business  Network, Santa Fe Institute, Electronic Frontier Foundation, Markle Foundation; 1998-2000, founding chairman of  ICANN, now on its advisory committee;  former adviser to Al Gore as member of National Information Infrastructure Advisory Council; also advised  Republicans through the Progress and Freedom FoundationInterestsRussian, swimming
The Economist(subscription only) has an interesting leader on Microsoft this week, which puts very succinctly the trouble with Microsoft. It notes the anti-trust settlement in the US in 2002 had little impact on the company's behaviour, and that "Microsoft's exploitation of its monopoly will continue as long as the monopoly itself does". Google and Apple (in search and music, respectively) will be the company's next "victims", it says."Isn't this simply a matter of Microsoft competing vigorously? The strange thing is that its products invariably succeed in PC-based markets where the dominance of Windows provides an advantage... in other markets that have nothing to do with PCs, such as mobile phones, set-top boxes and games consoles, the company is far less successful. Odd, that."The paper concludes the only way to stop the "too-mighty" company is through a breakup, because Linux is unlikely to put up a proper challenge to Windows, and the rents it earns from its Windows monopoly far outweigh the bad publicity and legal battles that the monopoly generates.
More on the big virus outbreak onGuardian Unlimited. "Government officials have described the $250,000 rewards as the highest in recent memory funded entirely by the private sector - akin to cash bounties paid in the late 1800s by Western banks to vigilantes who hunted robbers."
Cash-strapped students face starting the September term penniless, due to teething problems with a new online student loan system.Some student support officers are warning that the new system is so slow that they cannot guarantee that September's loan cheques will be on time.The new "Protocol" software has been introduced by the Student Loans Company, to enable students to apply for their loan and check its progress on theStudent Finance Directwebsite. But so far the software has been dogged by hiccups. Last year a pilot scheme struggled with slowness in the system and the extra administrative input it requires. One official admitted that some students were left waiting until November for the loan cheques.The threat of another computer software-related fiasco could cause further embarrassment to the government, after a series of glitches and delays to public IT projects in the past few years. The criminal records bureau, the passport office, air traffic control services and immigration services have all experienced high-profile problems with computer systems.Protocol is being rolled out nationwide from April, but some local education authorities - whose student support officers are processing applications - say the system could produce similar problems on a national scale. The Student Loans Company admits that the scale of the project is causing "issues", but insists loan cheques will be issued on time.Stephen Laidman, head of student supports and accounts at Durham County Council, one of the pilot areas, said: "It was a struggle last year and we didn't actually get them &#91;loan cheques&#93; all out, there was a backlog until October/November. My colleagues on the pilot all had a backlog which was unusual."This year it's been very volatile. The system is quite slow. We had a message the other day saying that they've suspended the rollout while they fix it. We've got the timetable for this year and to be honest I wouldn't commit that we can get the loans out. It all depends on this system."Six other student support offices contacted by EducationGuardian.co.uk today reported having experienced problems. Officers reported slowness with the system, the system "timing out" while an officer is using it, and added workload caused by the extra inputting required. Officers manning student helplines reported having had their passwords since the first week of January, but being unable to use them.Julie Atkinson, a student support officer at West Sussex county council, said they had experienced similar problems. "It depends how many people are in the system," she said. "Today most of my colleagues are on an away day so there are only four of us using the system today and it's OK. But we have been having a nightmare time with it. It's a brilliant system and it's going to be beneficial for students who will be able to tell exactly where they are - but at the moment it's wait and see."Stuart Berwick, head of student support services at the London borough of Camden, said: "I rather hope that we can meet our deadlines, but I haven't got a crystal ball so I can't give a guarantee. I'm trying to be optimistic because I do think it has potential."However Nottinghamshire county council, who were also part of the pilot, said that despite 5% of last year's cheques arriving late, this year things were going more smoothly and they expected to be on target.The Student Loans Company issued a statement in response to questions from EducationGuardian.co.uk. It said: "Following a successful pilot, this system is now being rolled out to all local authorities and will be fully operational for the academic year which starts in September. Students who apply on time will be paid on time."In rolling out a project of this size, issues will always arise. We will continue to work with local authorities to ensure that they are resolved in good time."A spokeswoman added: "Recently, there were some problems around system performance. Fixes have now been introduced and LEAs have confirmed that performance has improved. We would also emphasise that the rollout is being carried out at the time of the year when LEAs are at their quietest, so any issues can be addressed well before the start of term."There would be contingency arrangements to ensure no student suffered hardship, she said.Mandy Telford, president of the National Union of Students, said: "It has never been tougher to be a student. The student loan is the bulk of money students have coming in and, although it is way short of meeting all their costs, it is vital to pay rent and buy books at the start of the academic year."Historically there have been many problems with loans not arriving on time and students really struggling to get by at a time when they are trying to adjust to university life. There is still seven or eight months until term starts, so I trust the SLC will get their house in order and make sure no student is forced to wait for their loan when term starts."Graham Lane, chair of the Local Government Authority education committee, said: "There is some evidence that there have been technical teething problems emerging. When a system such as this goes national there will always be the usual problems. I think there will be issues of compatibility to iron out. There's lots to do but it's early days yet."
Teachers, police officers and computer experts were due to meet today to discuss how best to protect children from paedophiles.The conference has been organised by West Midlands police, one of the three UK police forces which specialise in investigating internet paedophilia. It aims to devise a strategy for schools on how to educate young people about the potential dangers of the internet.Delegates are assessing how police officers could support teachers who suspect that a pupil is at risk of abuse.The assistant chief constable of West Midlands police, Stuart Hyde, said: "With the advance in technology and its impact on society it is important we have safeguards in place to protect vulnerable young people."Mr Hyde, who is also the Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on combating child abuse on the internet, added: "By working with teaching staff who are in direct contact with children we believe we can together develop the right guidance and support to protect children and ensure they are not exploited."The seminar at the West Midlands police training centre in Birmingham brings together primary and secondary school teachers, child protection experts from children's charities and representatives from the police and crown prosecution service.
Microsoft has promised to pay $250,000 (140,000) to anyone who helps authorities to find and prosecute the author of the fast-spreading computer worm MyDoom.The internet security experts mi2g have declared MyDoom the second worst piece of malicious software (malware) of all time and estimated the economic damage wreaked on computers in more than 200 countries at $22.6bn.DK Matai, the executive chairman of mi2g, said: "It is now only a matter of time before MyDoom surpasses Sobig as the most damaging malware ever."Microsoft's cash reward for MyDoom.B, a more potent variant of the earlier MyDoom.A malware, is the third so far under a $5m programme announced by the software giant in November to help to track down the authors of unusually damaging viruses and worms aimed at consumers of the company's software products.The MyDoom.B worm - also known as Novarg - was first detected on Wednesday. It infects computers via an email with an attachment carrying the file extension .bat, .cmd, .exe, .pif, .scr, or .zip. The message's subject line also varies, but it can include Hi, Hello, Status, Error, Undeliverable, and Mail transaction failed.Computer users who open the attachment will open up their computers to further attacks from hackers and automatically send infected emails to everyone in their address book. MyDoom also blocks access to sites of antivirus companies and the Microsoft site. The virus poses as an authentic-looking error message.MyDoom is also programmed to use infected machines to launch a denial of service attack against Microsoft.com and sco.com, the website of SCO Group, another computer firm, this Sunday, flooding them with useless web traffic so that legitimate users cannot gain access."MyDoom has been incredibly fast at achieving this notoriety and its components of piracy, surrogacy, denial of service and associated hazards are yet to come into play. What lies ahead on Sunday and beyond is difficult to predict," mi2g's Mr Matai said.Brad Smith, Microsoft's senior vice-president and general counsel, has described MyDoom as "a criminal attack"."Microsoft wants to help the authorities to catch this criminal."Among the only clues to the identity of the possible author was a mysterious message inside the virus: "Andy; I'm just doing my job, nothing personal, sorry."Microsoft urged anyone with information about the author of the worm to contact the FBI or Interpol.The SCO Group had offered a $250,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the creator of the Mydoom.A version. Experts have said the same person probably created both versions.Government officials have described the $250,000 rewards as the highest in recent memory funded entirely by the private sector - akin to cash bounties paid in the late 1800s by Western banks to vigilantes who hunted robbers.Internal FBI documents, obtained by the Associated Press news agency, indicate the US government is a cautious supporter of Microsoft offering cash bounties.FBI officials gave conditional approval to Microsoft for the proposal in October. But they cautioned that they will not share secret details of any investigation with Microsoft executives nor necessarily launch an investigation whenever the company announces a reward.In the documents, obtained under the US Freedom of Information Act, the FBI said it was developing "a more formal operating protocol for working with Microsoft" and with other companies that want to offer similar rewards.Microsoft said residents of any country are eligible for the $250,000. The company has said previously it will not pay rewards to anyone involved in creating the viruses.Previous rewards of $250,000 each were offered for information about those responsible for the Blaster and Sobig viruses, which spread rapidly last summer among hundreds of thousands of computers running Windows.
"With millions of junk e-mails from the first strain of the e-mail worm still crossing the Internet, virus hunters Wednesday discovered a new variant, Mydoom.b, that reportedly targets software giant Microsoft's Web site. If opened, Mydoom.b also blocks access to several common anti-virus sites, an attempt to make the virus more difficult to remove," reportsThe Mercury News.Microsoft has also followed SCO, the original target, in offering a $250,000 reward "to anyone who helps authorities find and prosecute the author", addsAP.
"Pixar Animation Studios is ending talks aimed at continuing its relationship with The Walt Disney Co and will seek a deal with another studio, Pixar chief executive Steve Jobs said Thursday. Pixar, which co-produced last year's top-box office draw, Finding Nemo, said it will look for an agreement that allows it to retain ownership of future movies," according toAP.
"Pettus-Brown's life as a fugitive began to unravel when the woman decided to find out more about her prospective date by running his name through the Google Internet search engine. A few mouse clicks later, she learned that Pettus-Brown was wanted for a lot more than a dinner and a movie," reportsThe Cincinnati Enquirer."The Google search turned up an FBI warrant for Pettus-Brown's arrest in connection with alleged wire fraud related to a project to rehab a historic theater near downtown Cincinnati. The woman, who has not been identified, contacted the FBI and told agents where he would be Friday night. "
(viaHaddock):Thisis said to be raising a weary laugh in BBC newsrooms this afternoon, on a remarkable day for the corporation.
So, how did the technology in your business grow up? Was it planned from the start by someone technically minded who knew prechisely what they were doing and who adds and subtracts from it judiciously, ensuring at all times that they know precisely what it's doing for your organisation and how to prove it?No? Thought not. The vast majority of IT in smaller organisations happens on a rather more ad hoc basis: you start small, you put something in that solves a particular problem, then you tweak it again when another problem appears soluble, and so on. Eventually you end up with an IT environment that might tactfully be called "mixed".So it was with timber shipping company TTS, currently run by two of the four co-founders, Dougie Bryce and Barrie Holt. The business started in January 1988 to ship timber from Finland, Sweden, Spain, Portugal and Canada. As the political landscape changed, Canada became a less important source and the former Soviet Union opened up and made the same species of tree available.But the core business of shipping wood has remained constant. Thirteen people now work for the company, one of whom is based at the port in Hull while the rest remain in the Melton Mowbray oce. A private company that doesn't divulge turnover or profits, Bryce says it accounts for around 20%-25% of timber shipments into the UK.It started off processing all of its business manually, explains Bryce. The first move towards technology came fairly early on with an investment in an Amstrad PCW8512, which got used principally for word processing and a small amount of spreadsheet work. This was, after all, the 80s, when for a small business that was a serious computer."We gradually got into it and computerised our finances," he explains. "We got one or two computers and saw a lot of value in speeding things up." So far so good, and so common to everyone who's done so much as throw a typewriter out in favour of a word processor. It was at this point that the organisation started looking for outside help. "A couple of computer support companies started to look after the basics for us," he says."Basics" in this case was slightly different from the way the rest of the world might understand the term. Windows, it's easy to forget, came into its own only in the 1990s with the release of Windows 3.0 and its successors; its ubiquity was far from established before then.Its predecessor was called DOS - Disk Operating System - and the various companies involved would do a little DOS development, some database work and supplied the computers needed to run these programs. One independent software developer locally was Richard Hatherall, who designed the business's database.It's worth taking a step back and looking at what was actually happening during the reasonably smooth business progression outlined above. It was the early days of pervasive computing; Bryce describes the servers the business had at the time as "non-dedicated terminals" and the idea of a computer on every desk was far from commonplace. As it grew though, he had the idea that the computers they were buying were the ones on which the supplier could get the best deal rather than the ones best for the business. "I'm not blaming anybody, they were working for their business, which was fine." As the role of the technology grew more and more central it made sense to have someone with vested interests in TTS rather than in the success of its suppliers.At this point Hatherall came to Bryce and Holt with a proposal in which he would become IT manager. "I didn't think there was a full-time job in there," says Bryce, but he saw the plan and relented, hiring Hatherall into what would quickly become TTS Software Solutions in September 2000. As an employee a step away from the core business, Hatherall would be able to continue his other IT activities for other local companies, but his prime focus was on the TTS shipping operation.As the director closest to the technology, Bryce had a number of ideas that would be central to the direction the systems would take. "We didn't want to buy shrinkwrapped software because we would have had to compromise on what it would do," he explains. Hatherall's brief was to replicate what the business was already doing without the tedium of the multiple entries. "We had pieces of information that were being entered 10 or 12 times," says Bryce. Every invoice, dispatch docket, delivery note and accounts entry was essentially duplicating something that was already happening.Hatherall's eventual plan would be quite radical: throw the heart of the old system away and start again.This he did in an evolutionary manner rather than literally ripping everything out. But he soon decided that the company needed to move its servers to the Linux operating system. This is an alternative to Windows, which at first glance appears to have fewer bells and whistles but which - depending on the outcome of a legal case starting to gain profile as this issue went to press - has the virtue of being free of charge."We didn't think primarily of the money spent on Linux but about the fact that it would do the job," says Hatherall. "It just happened to be free." The fact that IBM - which now claims that 25% of small and medium businesses are in the Linux market - was interested in pushing the system actively, and supporting it added weight in the eyes of the directors.He based the core of the system on Linux, replacing Novell NetWare. "We pretty much gutted the existing system which had been built piece by piece as equipment had been bought from the various outsourcing companies over the years," explains Hatherall. "Nobody had the time to think this could have been done better."For example, faxes are important to the shipping industry, but perhaps not so important that you need three work stations dedicated to it, working through an analogue system. These were quickly consolidated on to one server. "We ended up with file sharing, print sharing, fax and other functions without the overhead of an operating system," says Hatherall.The introduction of the new database met with a predictable sigh of apathy from many of the staff, followed by a little resentment when they realised they would have to type all of their information into the system. Bryce freely admits it took time and people found it tedious in the extreme. "They realised quickly, though, that they would only have to type it in the once."This raises the interesting possibility of selling the shipping system to other non-competing companies; there are no plans as yet, say Bryce and Hatherall, but presumably Hatherall's software operation is given a slightly different name for a reason. Logistics would mean getting more people on board to take any such software to the market, and parts of it are still in development, says Bryce, but you get the impression that the possibility is already under consideration long term.And it works. Benefits were immediate in spite of staff reservations. Productivity increased because people weren't duplicating effort everywhere. "The volumes of product we've handled have increased 60% compared to five years ago, and our turnover has gone up 70%, and we now have four fewer staff." None of this would have been possible without the new approach to the company's technology.The classic image of the 13-person organisation, only 12 of whom are in the same building, is of a company with no dedicated IT support and an ad hoc system. A full-time IT person is often seen as the province of a larger company, and until hiring Hatherall, Bryce would have agreed."It's changed our attitude," he says. "Beforehand IT wasn't something we'd actually want to spend a lot of money on, but we do so now because we need something reliable." They're not profligate, though; the company's work stations still run Windows 2000 after running Windows 98 for a while, and there are no plans to change.This also made the transition less painful; tear out a system's underpinnings and replace them by all means, and the staff won't notice. Mess with their desktop and they'll start bleating, although it's not impossible to do. Hatherall runs Linux on his desktop too, though, and sees no reason not to change should the business case prove compelling: "I have Linux and use OpenOffice &#91;free software again&#93; and can happily open Word or Excel documents when they're sent to me."Asked whether he can advise other business managers considering putting resource behind their IT support, Bryce hesitates. All businesses will be different but his experience has been positive. Building trust has been a process: "We saw the results and accepted some of the ideas, rejected others, but saw it working," he says. "I didn't believe we had enough work for a full-time guy and I was most definitely proven wrong. We've had, in our terms, revolutionary sales with a lower level of staff, so we've seen a lot of success."
GadgetsState of the artMany PDAs now boast the kind of processing power and functionality that was state of the art on PCs a few years back. Hoping to take advantage of this is Synosphere, which recently unveiled its Blue Dock, a docking station that enables PDAs to function in the same way as a desktop PC. Once placed in the dock, users can create, modify and edit data on the PDA via a PC monitor and a full-sized mouse and keyboard. The dock's Ethernet socket also means users can have access to the web, email and network resources such as printers. The dock is expected on sale later this year for around &#163;200.www.synosphere.comNo expense sparedThe world's smallest, and quite possibly most expensive, digital camera has gone on sale in the US. Just 69.1x16.8x 24mm, Sony's Qualia 016 can nevertheless take two megapixel images, features a 4x digital zoom and stores images on Memory Stick Duo card. The camera is accompanied by a range of accessories, including a snap-on flash that is almost the same size as the camera. To ensure images are steady and to counteract the movement of the hand, the 016 takes up to four pictures in rapid succession and then combines them into one image. The Qualia is available for $3,980 fromwww.dynamism.com.www.sony.net/SonyInfo/QUALIA3GLaptop trialVodafone has announced trials of a 3G card for laptops with a view to a full launch later in the spring. The 3G Mobile Connect card fits into a notebook's PCMCIA slot to deliver data transmission speeds of up to 384kbps in areas where the Vodafone 3G network is available (essentially cities such as London and Manchester and along the M4). When the card leaves a 3G area, it apparently shifts seamlessly to a GPRS network. The card's early testers are likely to be its major corporate customers, although the network hopes to extend the trial to smaller business in the coming months. Vodafone is expected to launch a full 3G service in the summer.www.vodafone.co.ukBroadbandMinisterial upgradeEvery telephone exchange in north-east England will provide ADSL broadband by March next year, as a result of regional development agency One NorthEast paying BT &#163;4.7m. Broadband will be available to 94.5% of people in the north east, excluding   those more than 3.7m (6km) from exchanges. The prime minister, Tony Blair, saw his local exchange, at Trimdon in County Durham, upgraded last week.Also last week, BT upgraded the 1,000th exchange as a result of its trigger-level scheme, at Needham Market in Suffolk. Around 600 triggered exchanges are awaiting upgrades: when all are connected, more than 90% of Britons will have access to ADSL broadband.Double timePermanent connections to the internet - primarily broadband - are more than doubling in number annually,    according to National Statistics. Data collected by the government's statistics agency from internet service providers showed permanent connections increasing by 118% between November 2002 and November 2003, and up   5.5% on October 2003, in figures released last week. Permanent connections represented 21.5% of all internet subscriptions in November, compared with 10% a year before. The survey also found that pay-as-you-go dial-up access made up 39% of connections, compared with 46% in November 2002. Overall, internet subscriptions were up 5.3% year-on-year, although dial-up connections fell 7.5%.InternetOff with the birdsIn what it is billing as the airborne version of the Grand National, Ladbrokes.com is offering punters a chance to bet and follow on the internet a race involving Tasmanian shy albatrosses as they migrate from Australia to South Africa. Each of the 18 birds is tagged with a satellite transmitter that beams their whereabouts back to the UK. Not all the birds will finish the journey. Many become ensnared in one of the thousands of baited hooks dragged behind boats that use controversial longline fishing techniques. Ladbrokes hopes the race will raise awareness of the birds and their plight. The profits will be donated to conservation charities.www.ladbrokes.comWirelessAll aboardTwo airlines are competing to become the first to offer laptop owners wireless internet facilities while aboard long-haul flights. Last week, Emirates announced that from March, passengers on its   flights from Dubai to Sydney could send and receive email over an onboard Wi-Fi network for around &#163;15. Around the same time, Lufthansa is set to become the first airline to offer a wireless version of the Boeing Connexion system delivering full internet access and email from &#163;20 a trip. Connexion, to be available on transatlantic and Asian flights, is also compatible with virtual private networks. BA also recently trialled the Connexion system and is expected to offer it on long-haul flights later in the year.www.emirates.comwww.connexionbyboeing.comStat of the week: Crooks go phishingOnline scammers took $437m from Americans in 2003, with the Federal Trade Commission recording a 40% rise in incidents. More than 40% of complaints related to identity theft such as "phishing". Our chart shows the areas hit hardest by online fraud.
The last issue of Business Solutions explored websites offering information and advice for start-ups. You knew nothing, you wanted to know where to go for help, you read our article and you were no doubt eternally grateful. Briefly.Because the difficulty with the countless start-up sites out there is that they are precisely that. If you want to know how to write a business plan, there are plenty of places to help. But suppose it's a couple of years down the line and the planning is done?It's perhaps strange that there are far fewer resources out there to help people in mid-stream. On a recent factory visit, a representative from the Federation of Small Businesses was heard to grumble that everything was aimed at the start-up.But there are sites out there. Takebusinesslink.gov.ukfor example. Granted, it offers a lot for the start-up, but there's plenty more. Perhaps your needs are more specific in terms of region. It's worth doing a web search, butbusinesslinkforlondon.comdoes what it says on the tin and Opportunity Wales atopportunitywales.co.ukhas a similarly accurate name.All business queries can be fielded to these. Don't forget the banks as well:ukbusiness.hsbc.comandsuccess4business.com(from Lloyds TSB) may be there because ultimately they want your custom - but it's no less useful for that.Accountancy firms will also look to gain your trust by offering free advice:bdo.co.ukis the site of BDO Stoy Hayward, for example, and all of the major accounting companies will do the same.Others are less dependent on larger concerns:j4b.co.ukrounds up loads of business stories and presents them to you in an easily digestible manner. Anddm-u.co.ukcaters for people in the digital media industry and offers a number of services to members. Speaking of memberships, the Federation of Small Businesses (fsb.org.uk) continues to act as a pressure group for all small business, while people with a view to higher growth and profile (and premises they can use when they need to) can join the Institute of Directors (www.iod.com) instead.Would-be award winners can scangrowingbusinessawards.co.ukwhich will shortly have details on how to enter for the 2004 awards. Details of the 2003 awards are up there now. The more you look, the more you find. Want customers? Visitkellysearch.comwhich will offer you a free listing. If you want benchmarks,e-consultancy.comhas more white papers and other good stuff.Having trouble with direct marketing? The Royal Mail'sdm-online.co.ukshould be worth a look. Oh, and if you're looking for information on growing your business,growingbusinessmag.co.ukhas a lot to say on marketing, PR, funding and a lot of other stuff. Hence the name, probably.
Secret Weapons Over NormandyXbox, &#163;39.99 LucasArts, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Secret Weapons of Normandy was unjustifiably overlooked in the Christmas blockbuster rush. This is flight sim with an emphasis on fun. Set in the second world war, players fly numerous aircraft from that time, as well as experimental machines. While some planes may be accurately portrayed, the manoeuvring isn't.The steep dives and unforgiving collisions may make it less realistic but allow more enjoyment. The dog fighting is intense, with the simple controls allowing rookie pilots a smooth learning curve. The production quality is high, with the graphics and audio, in particular, evoking a wartime feeling. The action covers Africa, the Pacific and France.Unlike similar games, players can save mid-level, meaning failure of one objective needn't mean having to constantly replay the same sections. The ability to manipulate time is welcome. Pilots can slow things down if it gets too frenetic or speed up over long distances.Infuriatingly, Secret Weapons has no Xbox Live support for online gaming, restricting itself to the odd download. A singular blot on an otherwise enthralling landscape.Greg HowsonCrash Bandicoot Nitro KartGameCube (also PS2, GBA) &#163;39.99 VU Games/Vicarious Visions, &#42;&#42;&#42;When it comes to the kart racing genre, it's nice to see someone chal lenging the might of Nintendo's Mario Kart games, especially on the GameCube. Crash Nitro Kart, the latest game starring the ever-grinning Crash Bandicoot, is trying to do this by revamping the original PS 1 Crash Team Racing.The game has a bit of a storyline woven around the madcap driving antics, revolving around Crash and his mates being sucked into an intergalactic kart race and forced to save the earth from being destroyed by a giant, green, floating-headed baddie named Emperor Velo. So that Crash feels at home, Velo has also kidnapped his arch nemesis Dr Cortex and his cronies, allowing you to play as different members of both the Crash and Cortex teams.The gameplay is as you would expect, with colourful tracks, crazy power-ups and weapons. It some times feels too easy, but there are a few sophisticated features to master, such as power slides and jump boosts. In the tradition of kart gaming, Crash has plenty to keep you occupied, with adventure, single player and good multiplayer modes, but not a lot that's particularly innovative.Rhianna PratchettLegacy Of Kain: DefiancePS2, Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Crystal Dynamics/Eidos, &#42;&#42;&#42;Crystal Dynamics' Legacy Of Kain series of gothic, vampire-related action-adventure games has always enjoyed a much bigger following in America than elsewhere.It is possible that Defiance, however, will arouse the curiosity of Tomb Raider fans seeking clues about Lara Croft's next starring vehicle, as that game will be made by Crystal Dynamics. The developer is justly renowned as a safe pair of hands - it churns out a Legacy Of Kain game each year - but it has seemed a stranger to innovation since making Gex for the long-defunct 3DO console.Legacy Of Kain: Defiance does nothing to dispel that impression. It is, like its predecessors, a tidy but rather lacklustre effort. This time around, you get to play as both Raziel and Kain, and can take advantage of an effectively revamped combat system, which mixes a ranged attack with several responsive, melee moves.Gameplay is the usual mix of combat, finding objects, platform-style jumping and climbing, plus basic puzzle solving. Kain has some nice moves: he can pull off a 20-yard jump and can walk through gratings. But the overwhelming feeling is that you have seen it all a thousand times before.The storyline struggles to stop your attention wandering, and there are a few pleasantly surreal sequences, but only those who bought all the previous versions will derive a satisfying experience. Even the graphics are average. It suggests that the next version of Tomb Raider may well be bug-free, but dull.Steve Boxer
