The Nokia Lumia 1520 is the Finnish manufacturer’sfirst entry into the phablet market, a 6in blown-up clone of its smaller 4.3in Lumia 720 with the latest processors and a great camera.Like theSamsung Galaxy Note 3andHTC One Maxbefore it, the Lumia 1520 stretches hands with its large screen and slab-like form factor.Reach out and (try to) touchThe Lumia 1520 is the largest phone in the currentNokialineup and it is a giant. Its 6in screen is far bigger than any of the other Lumia smartphones, which top out with 4.5in screens – smaller than most 5in flagship Android phones for instance.Like every other Windows Phone available to date, the Lumia 1520 doesn&apos;t offer a stylus. It&apos;s relatively thin for a phablet at 8.7mm, 1.59mm thinner than the HTC One Max and only marginally thicker than the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 (8.3mm).The size and shape of the device makes one-handed operation near-impossible, given the rather angular corners. With my average-sized male right hand, I couldn&apos;t reach the &quot;Back&quot; button (on the bottom left of the screen) with my thumb without my palm touching the screen as I stretched.Nokia Lumia 1520: more than a handful. That Back button on the bottom left isn't easily accessible.Though it isn’t much bigger than the 6in screen, it&apos;s just too big (3.4in wide by 6.5in high) to comfortably fit into pockets, which could be an issue.Nokia&apos;s impressive build quality continues: this feels solid but not leaden. My test of a device is to try to twist it when held firmly in two hands; there was only slight flex, which bodes well for longevity. It&apos;s available in bright yellow, red, white and black, and the polycarbonate shell wraps around the device - no cracks or join lines visible.The front of the device is dominated by a 6in full high-definition screen, which is sharp, vibrant and very good looking. Text appears crisp on websites and documents, with images richly coloured and detailed. The large screen is great for sharing videos too: viewing angles are really wide.Nokia’s ClearBlack polarisation screen technology also ensures the display is visible even in bright outdoor sunlight [you found bright outdoor sunlight during a British winter? Well done - Tech ed], while the screen is touch sensitive enough to work through thin gloves.SpecificationsScreen:6in full HD IPS LCDProcessor:2.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:32GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 64GB cardsOperating system:Windows Phone 8Camera:20MP rear camera with optical image stabilisation, 1.2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), NFC, Bluetooth 4.0, and GPSDimensions:162.8mm x 85.4mm x 8.7 mmWeight:209gPower to the peopleIt&apos;s got the biggest Windows Phone screen yet; and also the fastest processor seen on the platform, with Qualcomm’s current flagship 2.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 800 processor, putting it in good company with the likes of the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 and theNexus 5, among others.Switching between apps works as fast as Windows Phone will allow (hit the back button and, allowing for a necessary transition, you&apos;re there), while games and applications fly with no lag or stutter. That&apos;s an improvement over the experience on some apps on other less powerful Windows Phone handsets, though the OS itself has never suffered from either.The Lumia 1520 comes with 32GB of storage as standard - but also includes a microSD slot for up to 64GB more.Nokia Lumia 1520 back view: can you see the camera yet?Windows Phone 8 is aggressive on power management, killing processes that weren&apos;t needed or used, leading to long battery life. In my testing the 3,400mAh battery easily lasted two days of general usage, with frequent checking of Twitter, Facebook andInstagram, lots of web browsing and hundreds of emails coming in.For comparison, the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 (3,200mAh) lasted just under two days with similar usage, so Nokia’s phablet - which has a larger screen area to light - does more with almost the same power.One annoyance: the Lumia 1520 can’t be charged while the phone is off. Plugging in a charger turns the phone on, and turning the phone off while plugged into a charger automatically reboots the phone. If you charge the phone at night and don’t want to be disturbed, you&apos;ll need to put it on airplane mode and also to silence the device (to avoid calendar alerts and so on).Windows Phablet 8?The Lumia 1520 runs Microsoft’s latest phone operating system,Windows Phone8. One of the beauties of Windows Phone is that it is pretty much the exact same experience regardless of the different phones you use it on.The Lumia 1520&apos;s big screen means you can get a third vertical line of tiles rather than the standard two. That means much more glanceable information visible on the home screen, thanks to the plethora of live tiles available for everything from mail and message notifications to weather and status updates to your next calendar appointment.However Nokia has made some very small changes to the operating system in what it calls its “Lumia Black” software. For example, double-tapping the screen wakes the device, “Glance” notifications appear when you move the device if its screen is off, and there&apos;s Bluetooth 4.0 low-energy support for connecting to accessories and devices such as fitness trackers.Nokia Lumia 1520 side view: thin. Also red.Windows Phone 8 does all the general phone and messaging tasks easily with integrated software. All the major email providers (including Gmail) are supported. The Windows Phone Store has over 190,000 apps, and Microsoft has gone to great lengths to bring the most well known and high profile apps from iOS and Android to Windows Phone.Some common social networks are baked directly into Windows Phone, including Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn via the People hub. (There are also separate, downloadable apps for Twitter and Facebook. But there&apos;s no Google+ – not baked in or as an app.) You can also get Spotify andInstagram, and favourites like Evernote and LastPass. It is only when you start looking for slightly more niche apps like GetGlue that you start to be disappointed. Though there&apos;s a YouTube &quot;app&quot; it&apos;s actually just a glorified web app. There&apos;s no official Google Maps app, or Google Now, or (as noted) Google+. But if Google looms large in your life, you probably wouldn&apos;t buy a Windows Phone anyway.Nokia adds the most value to Windows Phone through its own apps. Highlights includeHere Maps, Nokia’s solid answer to Google Maps; Here Drive, a turn-by-turn car navigation app; Nokia MixRadio, which provides free streaming music from a plethora of artists, and a collection of interesting and useful camera applications.Generally, Windows Phone is fast, efficient and for the average user, comprehensive. It is very different from Android and Apple’s iOS, and with its large, bold coloured interface is arguably on par with them for the most part short of the availability of applications.Nokia Lumia 1520 review &ndash; Instagram is now available for Windows Phone, as shown on the Lumia 1020, taking advantage of Nokia's camera prowess.CameraThe Lumia 1520&apos;s camera is a step down from the 41-megapixel monster onthe Lumia 1020, but still well ahead of the competition, offering a 20-megapixel sensor, and borrowing some software tricks from its higher-resolution brother.Nokia uses &quot;supersampling&quot;, where each pixel is the summation of its neighbours; that generates 5MP images from the 20MP sensor. The result is a photo that is free from artefacts, for the most part, and thanks to the built-in optical image stabilisation, clear and sharp.In low-light conditions, the camera produces shots that are brighter than most of the competition, and handles colours a lot better when the flash is used than the likes of the Nexus 5, which also has optical image stabilisation.Overall, the camera with dedicated two-stage shutter button (press a bit to focus, press more to take the shot) is highly competitive with the likes of the Samsung Galaxy Note 3, Sony Xperia Z Ultra and even theiPhone 5S.Nokia’s Pro Camera app is noteworthy: it combines some of Nokia’s other imaging apps into one, do-all camera application. It provides both a simple but intelligent point-and-shoot experience, as well as every option a camera phone photographer is likely to want, all clustered under an intuitive ring interface.Nokia’s Refocus app, which allows you to focus your photo after the fact using software and a multi-capture approach, is also fun, as long as you keep the phone steady when taking the shot.It achieves something similar to the Lytro light field camera, but instead of capturing a light field – the intensity, wavelength or colour and direction of all the light entering a camera lens rather than just light intensity and colour – it works by capturing multiple focus points in quick succession to blend into one picture which you can tap to refocus or have everything in focus at the same time.Nokia Lumia 1520 review &ndash; Nokia's range of accessories includes a folding cover and stand.Usability: get backUsing a screen this size with Windows Phone becomes a usability tradeoff. The OS doesn&apos;t offer gestures or customisable button placement which could otherwise make using a 6in screen easier from day to day.A key point: Windows Phone relies, like Android, on a bottom row of capacitative buttons for persistent functions - Back, Home and Search (always ordered that way, left to right). But that makes it simply impossible to use this phone one-handed - it doesn&apos;t matter if you&apos;re left- or right-handed, because you won&apos;t be able to reach the lower opposite side of the screen with your thumb without adjustment. You then end up with the phone perilously balanced, with only your thumb saving it from falling off your hand. This is a niggle at first but soon becomes an annoyance.The buttons are key to using Windows Phone for switching between running apps. The multitasking interface is invoked by holding down the back button for about a second - which can’t be done easily with one hand. Once you do have the menu, you can flick through the running apps with one thumb and pick one with a single tap.The screen size makes the on-screen keyboard very easy to use, but takes up half of it, making viewing what’s actually being written unnecessarily difficult. Why not just have a smaller keyboard and take advantage of the extra screen size?On the whole, like most other phablets, day-to-day usage is easy as long as you can deploy both hands. But it becomes a problem if travelling or in situations where you can&apos;t and need to operate various functions and reach across the screen.PriceThe Nokia Lumia 1520 is one of the most expensive Windows Phones available, costing around £550 SIM-free, or from around £38 per month on contract in the UK. It will be available from 6 December.Verdict: too bigThe Nokia Lumia 1520 is unashamedly a phablet. It&apos;s got a large screen yet offers great battery life and has an eye-catching bold interface with lots of at-a-glance information.Some think Windows Phone&apos;s large tiled interface doesn’t make the most of the increased screen area; I think it really suits it. The tiles become more useful when they’re bigger and easier to read, while Internet Explorer on Windows Phone scales well, making it more like using a desktop browser than a mobile one. (In this it&apos;s different from HTC&apos;s One Max, which just scales everything up.)The camera also strikes a good balance between performance and bulk. It doesn’t add much in the way of a bulge to the phone, but performs well with some really clever and useful camera applications.However, it absolutely does need two hands to operate it: the way that Windows Phone works means that access to essential elements such as the Back button requires you to hit it. You can&apos;t reach it one-handed, so this is not really a phone (or phablet) for strap-hangers.Overall, the Nokia Lumia 1520 is a great large phone. But it&apos;s too big and unwieldy for your average user.Star rating: 3/5Pros:Good battery life, great screen, very fast processor, lots of room for at-a-glance information, great cameraCons:Too big, limited app selection from the Windows Phone store• Compare:Samsung Galaxy Note 3 review: is it a tablet or a phone?
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear fromEli Horowitzwho along with co-authorKevin Moffettcreated a digital incarnation of a novel titledThe Silent History. The work was created specifically for iPhone and iPad and uses the app to geo-locate the narrative in New York.Also Aleks is joined by Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurand Guardian technology reporterAlex Hernto discuss some of this week's big news stories including the first Bitcoin ransom paid by the US police, Tim Berners-Lee on why government surveillance is undermining public confidence in the web and Google win's an important legal battle with the Authors Guild in the US over its scanning and archiving of books.
Doctor Who&apos;s special 50th anniversary episode was abig hit around the world. Now BBC Worldwide is hoping to capitalise with the release of a new mobile game, Doctor Who: Legacy.The game, releasedfor iOSandfor Androidtoday, adopts the dominant business model of the app stores: free-to-play, and making its money from in-app purchases of virtual items.BBC Worldwide worked with developers Tiny Rebel Games and Seed Studio on the game, which focuses on the sixth and seventh seasons of the rebooted TV show. That means Matt Smith&apos;s Doctor, companions Clara, Rory and Amy, and monsters including the Weeping Angels, The Silence and the Daleks.The developers say some more classic characters, including K-9 and Sarah Jane, will be added in the run-up to Christmas, with content based on new Doctor Who&apos;s fifth season to be added early in 2014. There&apos;s some blurring of the boundaries already: David Tennant&apos;s Doctor can be spotted in app store screenshots for the game at launch.The inspiration for the game&apos;s characters and plot may be its parent series, but the gameplay owes a debt to something else: Japanese hitPuzzle &amp; Dragons, which is currently one of the most lucrative mobile games in the world.Doctor Who: Legacy adopts similar gameplay to Puzzle &amp; Dragons.As with that game, players match colourful orbs at the bottom of the screen to attack monsters at the top, levelling up characters as they go. The Doctor Who game&apos;s virtual currency – time crystals – can be earned through playing, or bought to speed up progress in amounts ranging from £0.69 for one crystal to £34.99 for 70.Puzzle &amp; Dragons helped its publisher, GungHo Online, make $446m in revenues in the second quarter of 2013. Mobile analytics company Distimo estimates it wasthe fourth top grossing app in Apple&apos;s App Store worldwidein October, and the top grossing app on Android&apos;s Google Play store. Rival App Annieagreed on the latter point, but placed Puzzle &amp; Dragons third on Apple&apos;s store for October.BBC Worldwide will be hoping Doctor Who: Legacy can find similar success on both stores, although it&apos;s not the first official Doctor Who app to be released or licensed by the broadcaster&apos;s commercial arm.Fans recently got their hands on aSonic Screwdriver app for iOS, which joined an officialDoctor Who Comicsapp; aDoctor Who: The Mazes of Timemobile game; aDoctor Who: EyeStalkphotography app to &quot;take photos and movies using a Dalek point of view&quot;; and aniOS version of the Doctor Who Adventures magazinefor younger fans.
In a cavernous hangar way out in the industrial wilds of Acton, west London, where the ground is strewn with junkyard shrapnel and the sky is October grey, a film crew hopes to condense PlayStation’s 20-year history into an advertisement. It’s a tall order. Not only is Sony’s series of increasingly powerful video game systems about to enter its fourth generation when the monolithic slab known as PlayStation 4 launches this week, this is also an empire that has transformed the cultural landscape.PlayStation remains Sony’s most iconic brand. It’s proved more enduring than the Walkman, and is more culturally embedded than the Bravia. By the early 2000s it was the company’s key source of profit. Indeed, the Japanese electronics company’s current slogan &quot;Make. Believe.&quot; appears to be founded on the essence of gaming. Outside of Sony, the console has had a disruptive influence. The video game designer Yoshiki Okamoto recently said: “PlayStation has completely changed the distribution, sales and image of video games.”That transformative effect is borne out in the figures: approximately 350m PlayStations have been sold around the world since the first iteration launched in 1994 – equivalent to the total number of iPods that have been sold to date. There is, then, an awful lot of history to squeeze into 90 seconds.Into a teenager&apos;s bedroomBut the plan – and it&apos;s a good one – is to simplify and personalise the story. No need to take viewers on a whistle-stop tour of Sony’s Tokyo headquarters, where some of the world’s leading tech mavens have, through their designs, steered the video game industry. Nor will the cameras peer into the thousands of development studios around the world, where PlayStation’s defining games have been produced, generating billions of dollars. Instead the film crew is headed into the eye of a cliche: a boy’s pungent bedroom, where the PlayStation has provided the focal point for millions of likeminded players.The ad’s script shows two friends playing PlayStation across the years, as the London skyline seen through the bedroom window morphs into its current arrangement of cogs and spires. The boys’ hairstyles change, along with their girlfriends and the accompanying soundtrack, but the PlayStations remain, blinking and whirring in the corner. Sony believes that its consoles have been the life constant for at least two generations of young people around the world. It keenly hopes that will continue with PlayStation 4.The inspiration came from Twitter. This year, one of the company’s so-called community managers devised the hashtag #PlayStationMemories. Twitter users were encouraged to share their memories of a life spent growing up with PlayStation. The response was tremendous, with tens of thousands of tweets reminiscing about the consoles and the place they’ve had in our lives.The ad is what’s known in the industry as a “heritage piece”, designed to play on the viewer’s nostalgia for the product. For this particular scene the bedroom is dressed circa 1996: the newspaper of the day lies crumpled on the carpet; the actors wear historically accurate Levi&apos;s and pristine trainers. Dominoes even reprinted some of its pizza boxes from the era: realism has always been of paramount importance when it comes to the modern video game. Sony believes that heritage is the key differentiator between its PlayStation 4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One, the two rival “next-gen” video game systems that will battle for the valuable prime real estate beneath our television sets this Christmas and beyond.But there is one part of the heritage Sony’s keeping well away from the cameras, the secret of its origin story. PlayStation, far from being the result of a Japanese master plan is, in fact, an empire built upon a grudge.Humiliating turnaboutAt the Consumer Electronics Show in June 1991, Sony unveiled its first video game console, a joint venture with the dominant video game maker of the time, Nintendo. The system was to be Nintendo’s route into the emerging world of multimedia entertainment. But the following day the Kyoto-based company announced it was terminating its deal with Sony in order to partner with rival manufacturer Philips. Few snubs in Japanese business have been played out so publically, and the turnabout humiliated Sony. The following month president Norio Ohga called a meeting to plan a lawsuit.Ogha explained that financial recompense would not be enough to sate his appetite for revenge. He stood to his feet. “We will never withdraw from this business,” he declared to the room, which included among its occupants Ken Kutaragi, an ex-Nintendo contractor who was desperate to design a video game console. “Keep going,” he urged.It’s a promise that Sony has stuck to with grim resolve ever since. The first PlayStation, designed by Kutaragi, helped define the 3D era of video games. All 100,000 PlayStation launch units sold out in Japan on their day of release. Over the course of console’s life innumerable game mechanics were established, countless technological boundaries overcome and a vast number of best-selling franchises launched. Sony sold 102m PlayStation 1s across the world, success that only grew with the launch of its successor, the plainly named PlayStation 2, which soon became the best-selling video game machine yet made.Today, history is set to repeat. PlayStation 4 is, in a sense, a video game console built upon a vendetta. In recent years the company has slipped from its once-dominant position in the industry. Since its launch in 2006 PlayStation 3 sold around half the number of units as its predecessor. This year Sony reported the operating income of its PlayStation business was down by 94.1% year-on-year. From a financial perspective PlayStation 3 was a disappointment. But from an engineering point of view, it was nothing short of a disaster.The PlayStation’s rise had coincided with a cultural shift in emphasis away from hardware engineering towards software, one best exemplified by Apple’s iPod music players. When Sony had developed the Walkman, the device was almost entirely hardware-based. But with the rise of digital music, pairing devices with intuitive software had become the key to success. Sony’s innovations focused on making products smaller and sleeker, with the software that fired them almost an afterthought. Despite the rise in PlayStation’s importance, the company had been slow to embrace the idea it was now a software developer.The father of PlayStationThese rifts were made clear in the PlayStation 3’s development: the hardware team developed the machine in relative isolation, before handing a near complete product to the software guys. Sony’s US president, Jack Tretton, would later identify this as the key issue for PlayStation 3, a system hamstrung in its early days by the lack of collaboration within Sony. Kutaragi himself, now widely known as the &quot;father of PlayStation&quot; exacerbated the situation. The success of the PlayStation 2 had given the designer the position of renegade auteur.In September 2006, just before the PlayStation 3’s launch Kutaragi spoke out against his company. “If I was asked whether Sony&apos;s quality of manufacturing has declined, I would have to say &apos;yes,&apos;” he said. At a board meeting a few weeks later the designer told the assembled executives that he planned to slash the price of the console by 20% before launch in order to make it more competitive, increasing the amount of money lost on each console. Meanwhile the message coming back from developers was that the system’s architecture was difficult to develop for and came with inadequate tools.It’s this last issue that PlayStation 4 has been designed to specifically rectify: righting a wrong that indisputably hurt its predecessor. Just as books sell eBook readers, films sell Blu-ray players and music sells iPods, video games sell consoles. “For PlayStation 4 we placed developer needs first and foremost in the equations,” Andrew House, the current president of Sony Computer Entertainment tells me. “That for me was what we had to do with this machine.”On the eve of PlayStation 4’s launch, it&apos;s clear that Sony is confident in its product. It has prepared a console that is arguably more powerful than its competitors, easier to produce games for and, unexpectedly, $100 cheaper than the rival Xbox One. But the company wasn’t always this confident. Following the PlayStation 3’s disastrous launch, Ken Kutaragi was replaced as president of SCE. Five months later he retired. For Sony this presented a tremendous problem: who would design the next PlayStation now its father was absent?• Part two tomorrow: the battle for hearts, minds and wallets
Grand Theft Auto V may be flying high in the console charts, but its developer Rockstar Games is already planning the next GTA game – one that will be familiar to fans of the series.The company has announcedplans to re-release 2004&apos;s Grand Theft Auto: San Andreasfor smartphones and tablets in December. The game will be available for iPhone, iPad, Android (including Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire) and Windows devices.Rockstar also says that the game has been given a makeover to ensure it&apos;s up to scratch in 2013. &quot;Newly remastered graphics including dynamic and detailed shadows, greater draw distance, an enriched color palette, plus enhanced character and car models make this the best-looking version of San Andreas yet,&quot; claimed the company.&quot;Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas also features brand new touch controls including contextual control options to display buttons only when you need them and three different control schemes for driving and maneuvering, as well as a reworked checkpoint system for easier progression.&quot;On iOS, GTA: San Andreas will be one of the most high-profile games yet to support Apple&apos;s Made for iOS controller feature. That means fans will be able to use accessories likeLogitech&apos;s PowerShell Controllerand theMOGA Ace Power Gamepadto play the game with physical buttons and joysticks.San Andreas will become the third GTA game to be re-released for smartphones and tablets, following Grand Theft Auto 3 and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, which both sell for £2.99 on app stores. Rockstar has also released a companion app,iFruit, for GTA V.
Google Street View has been about more than streets for some time now: in recent months, the internet giant has addedUS national parks,ski resorts,Venice&apos;s canalsand theGalapagos Islandsto its database.Now the company is turning its attention to some indoor locations, although they&apos;re not quite as picturesque. Google has added 16 international airports and 59 train and subway stations to Street View, including a number of British locations.They include Gatwick Airport and train stations in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool, Manchester and Leeds, as well as a (nearly) full set of London mainline stations: Paddington, Victoria, King&apos;s Cross, St. Pancras, Charing Cross, Waterloo, London Bridge, Cannon Street, Fenchurch Street and Liverpool Street.Google is pitching the new additions as a feature for tourists. &quot;Now, in addition to scoping out your destination, Street View can help you cut down the stress of traveling by giving you a preview of your journey, too,&quot;blogged Street View program manager Ulf Spitzer.&quot;Our first efforts to map global transit locations include 16 international airports, over 50 train and subway stations, and even a cable car station in Hong Kong.&quot;Google has published aninteractive map showing the new Street View transit locations. This isn&apos;t the first time Street View cameras have peeked inside British buildings: in May, the University of Sheffield addedfull 360-degree panoramas of some of its facilitiesto Street View.However, Street View has been controversial in the UK too. In May,Google was threatened with criminal proceedingsby the information commissioner&apos;s office (ICO) for failing to delete private data collected by its Street View cars from public Wi-Fi networks.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid is eating the world &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:I wrote a few weeks ago about how Android is enabling appliance electronics to get more intelligent. In this regard, Android is very similar to embedded Linux. Android is likely poised to power refrigerators, thermostats, coffee pots, robots, you name it. Android as a platform in this regard is very interesting. But again this the embedded version of Android, not the one that powers smartphones, tablets, TVs, etc. That is a very different Android. This version of Android is the most interesting to me…Had Google not released Android what platform would have risen to serve the low end? Android is in fact helping develop, developing parts of the world. From a technology standpoint, Android's role in helping to develop emerging markets is in fact a good thing.It's pretty much a given that AOSP (Android Open Source Platform) will power the Internet of Things.Apple patents Lytro-like refocusable camera suitable for iPhoneApple's US Patent No.8,593,564 for a "Digital camera including refocusable imaging mode adaptor,"describes a method in which a user can take a picture at a certain resolution and refocus the resulting image after the fact. Also noted in the patent is the inclusion of such a system in portable devices, like an iPhone.The patent describes a plenoptic camera, otherwise known as a "light-field camera," that uses a microlens array in the form of an adaptor rather than a fixed and integrated component as seen on what is arguably the most famous consumer light field camera, the Lytro."Most famous consumer light field camera" is one of those titles with few contenders. Wonder if PrimeSense technology could play any part?Tablets to make up 50% of PC market in 2014 &gt;&gt; CanalysCanalys predicts that next year tablets will almost out ship all other PC form factors combined, forming almost 50% of the total client PC market (desktops, notebooks, and tablets). The worldwide client PC market grew 18% in Q3 2013, despite desktop and notebook shipments continuing to decline. Tablet PC shipments accounted for 40% of PC shipments in Q3 2013, less than half a million units behind global notebook shipments. Tablet domination is set to continue, with Canalys forecasting 285m units to ship in 2014, growing to 396m units in 2017. Apple and Samsung are expected keep ahead of their competitors in the medium term, but there could be challenges for both vendors as competition in the tablet market continues to heat up.This may rest somewhat on the definition of "tablet". Microsoft is forecast to get 5% of the market in 2014, up from 2% this year.What screens want &gt;&gt; Frank ChimeroA fantastic essay which uses far, far more than just words - there's James Burke, galloping horses, and fashion GIFs - to make his subtle points:One of the reasons that I'm so fascinated by screens is because their story is our story. First there was darkness, and then there was light. And then we figured out how to make that light dance. Both stories are about transformations, about change. Screens have flux, and so do we.(Thanks @paulcarvill on Twitter for the link.)Demolition Man: why does Fab's CEO keep building big companies that suddenly implode? &gt;&gt; The VergeBen Popper:Just like [Jason Goldberg's previous site] Jobster's employees, those inside [Fab] were perplexed by the changes. The decision to end flash sales is widely seen by current and former staffers as a rash move. "There is this myth that flash sales were a flawed model and that Jason was leading the company in a better direction," says one Fab director. "But the truth is that they were working really well for us; it was the engine of our growth." It might have made sense to create a business that wasn't entirely reliant on this one approach, "but Jason acted like it was a fad whose time had passed."Traffic to Fab's website and mobile apps peaked in November of 2012, according to ComScore, just before Goldberg announced the pivot away from flash sales. In the 10 months that followed unique visitors fell from 5,275,000 to around 1 million in total this September, a drop of roughly 75 percent. The decline in visitors has been mirrored by a slowdown in sales growth. When asked to comment on the sharp dip in traffic, Fab says that it doesn't share internal numbers, but that the company is more profitable than ever. "That's a little confusing," jokes a source familiar with the company's finances. "Maybe they mean less not profitable?"BlackBerry gets multiple Android OEMs to preinstall BBM on smartphones &gt;&gt; BerryReviewBlackBerry announced this morning that they managed to win over quite a few smaller Android OEMs that are big players in emerging markets. Android is flooding these emerging markets where BlackBerry used to lead so this is a good move for BlackBerry to keep users hooked. Currently they have leading OEMs across Africa, India, Indonesia, Latin America and the Middle East. That means that starting next month Android smartphones from Be, Brightstar, Celkon, EVERCOSS, IMO, Micromax, Mito, Snexian, Spice, TECNO, TiPhone and Zen will come with BBM preinstalled.Facebook in Asia &gt;&gt; Jana MobileLast week, we at Jana ran our sixth in a series of weekly surveys of mobile phone users in emerging markets. The theme for last week's survey was Facebook in Asia. We surveyed over 2,000 people in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, The Philippines, and Vietnam.In India, 68% of respondents prefer to use it on a mobile phone rather than a computer. Nokia looks to have some solid support too.23andStupid: Is 23andMe Self-Destructing? &gt;&gt; ForbesMatthew Heper:23andMe's business was never going to be selling genetic test kits at $100 a pop; even if the company reaches its goal of selling 1 million kits cumulatively, that's only $100m in revenue, a small sum by the standards of biotech and play money at Google. But what a large enough database of people who were sharing not only genetic information but information about their health and their bodies offered was something greater: a tool that could be used to find new genetic connections, for detecting drug side effects, maybe even for finding new diagnostics or cures. That's why 23andMe needs to get to 1 million kits sold – to build that database. That promise has brought on other investors, including Facebook billionaire Yuri Milner.If the selling point of the 23andMe kit were that it allowed people to participate in science, maybe the [US Food and Drug Administration] could have let this go. But 23andMe's website specifically told the story of people who got tests results related to breast cancer genes. The FDA probably felt it had little choice. This is not the story of a big regulator choosing to squash a small company, but of a company that decided that it didn't have to follow the rules.The truth about Samsung Knox for Android security &gt;&gt; InfoWorldGalen Gruman:Though Samsung regularly touts Knox, the US Defense Dept. certified it for government use, several vendors tout their support of it, and there've been many stories in the technology press describing it as a here-and-now option, the truth is it doesn't fully exist. When it does finally become available later this fall, enterprises will discover an unpleasant fact: You have to pay to use it, on top of the subscription fees charged by your mobile device management vendor.To use Knox, your device must support its virtualization technology at the hardware level, which restricts Knox to these Samsung devices: the Galaxy Note 3 "phablet," the Galaxy S III smartphone, the Galaxy S 4 smartphone, and the 2014 model of the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet. Today, the Note 3 and S4 can run Knox, but only on some carriers' models: Sprint and Verizon for the S 4; AT&amp;T and Verizon for the Note 3, if you install their Premier Suite updates. The Wi-Fi-only Note 10.1 also runs Knox.Samsung says it will deliver updates to make Knox work on the S III and on other carriers' S 4 and Note 3 versions, but it also notes that each carrier decides when and if Knox compatibility is made available for the devices on its network. Not only do few devices support Knox, the carrier you use determines when or if those devices will actually be able to work with Knox.Confirmation from Samsung: per-device charge for deployment in enterprise. Also: can't be managed via Microsoft's Enterprise Active Sync. It's like the BlackBerry model again.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Browser gaming remains a vital proving ground for rising games design talent and all that's needed to play their creations is a web browser and the occasional free plug-in.A recent highlight from the furiously productive browser gaming scene isOlav &amp; the Lute, which takes its cues from the point-and-click classicLoom, tasking players with overcoming puzzles in a sombre netherworld. The fantasy title is brief and basic, but that isOlav &amp; the Loot'scharm, and in a lunchbreak it can whisk you away to a ravished world that is utterly engrossing.Those who prefer something more upbeat may opt instead forWreck, an irreverent 2D platformer focused on Miley Cyrus, who is out to assassinate her own alter ego Hannah Montana with a giant laser cannon that also serves as a jetpack. Behind the daftness of the theme lurks a solid, distinct distraction that adeptly balances absurdity and style.Equally slick isExperimental Shooter 2, a barebones 2D-action game centred on controlling a unicycle cannon in minimalist one-screen levels. A hybrid of traditional shoot 'em up and platformer, it proves that there is plenty of room for deft game design in a strikingly simple world.
Xbox One owners using “excessive profanity” while playing games, uploading recordings of their gameplay using the share function, could see themselves banned from Xbox Live.Customers complained that they were losing the ability to use Skype and other applications reliant on Xbox Live on their new consoles, with one user known as rbevanxcomplaining“I get the message &apos;Choose something else to play&apos;simply because I assume MS was not happy about a video I uploaded.”Microsoft confirmed the situation in a statement totechnology blog TechCrunch, saying that while peer-to-peer communications such as Skype are unmonitored, videos uploaded through the Xbox One’s “Upload Studio” game recording sharing feature were being monitored and that “excessive swearing” would be treated as a breach of terms of service.To be clear, the Xbox Live Policy &amp; Enforcement team does not monitor direct peer-to-peer communications like Skype chats and calls. Also, we take Code of Conduct moderation via Upload Studio very seriously. We want a clean, safe and fun environment for all users. Excessive profanity as well as other Code of Conduct violations will be enforced upon and result in suspension of some or all privileges on Xbox Live. We remain committed to preserving and promoting a safe, secure and enjoyable experience for all of our Xbox Live members.Microsoft failed to clarify whether the monitoring of uploaded video was conducted via automated means or not, or whether the account suspensions used as a deterrent would escalate with repeated offences.Double standardsOnline gaming is notorious for its foul language with users experiencing abuse at the hands of other gamers across in-game chat services, which has lead to a reporting mechanism where victims can flag abusers eventually leading to warnings and possible bans.However, banning users for swearing in certain games that themselves employ profanity as part of the game’s mechanic could highlight double standards, as users of Microsoft’s official Xbox internet forum point out:“I think it&apos;s strange that MS allows you to record any game footage when there are games with really bad foul language and I say something like plonker or crap and I get my benefits removed especially I had 100% feedback when I was on 360 for about five to seven years on Xbox Live,” said rbevanx.• In November, Microsoft’s Xbox One consolewas causing “juddering” issues, which made UK TV content “unwatchable”
Microsoft looks ready to kill off Windows RT, its version of Windows devised for chips based on ARM's architecture, judging by remarks by senior executive Julie Larson-Green.Larson-Green, who is executive vice-president of Devices and Studios at Microsoft, said that the aim of Windows RT was "our first go at creating that more closed, turnkey experience [that Apple has on the iPad]…" but that Microsoft now has three mobile operating systems: "We have the Windows Phone OS. We have Windows RT and we have full Windows. We're not going to have three."Hercomments, made at a UBS seminar, appear to confirm the growing suspicions that Windows RT has been a failure both with OEMs PC makers and developers, who have all but abandoned it. Only Microsoft and Nokia's handset division, which is being acquired by Microsoft, make any RT devices. Microsoft had to write down $900m at the end of the June quarter on unsold Surface RT devices.Richard Windsor, who runs the Radio Free Mobile consultancy, commented: "I have long suspected which is that Windows RT will be killed off sooner rather than later. Always one to treat hot potatoes delicately, Microsoft has not explicitly said that RT will be terminated but has made it very clear that there will not be three operating systems. Windows RT is an orphan child that sits between Windows 8 and Windows Phone and is neither fish nor fowl. Hence the devices that are based on it are underpowered with hideously limited functionality on the desktop making them inferior to both Android and iOS tablets.""I suspect that there will be no Surface 3 and no successor to the Nokia 2520 [an 8in tablet running Windows RT]. Furthermore I am confident that RT will be quietly put to sleep during 2014."A focus by Microsoft on Windows Phone and "full-fat" Windows - the latter able to run all the legacy applications from the past two decades - would simplify the company's OS strategy.Larson-Green explained the original aim of Windows RT: "Windows on ARM, or Windows RT, was our first go at creating that more closed, turnkey experience [like the iPad], where it doesn't have all the flexibility of Windows, but it has the power of Office and then all the new style applications. So you could give it to your kid and he's not going to load it up with a bunch of toolbars accidentally out of Internet Explorer and then come to you later and say, why am I getting all these pop-ups. It just isn't capable of doing that by design."So the goal was to deliver two kinds of experiences into the market, the full power of your Windows PC [on the Surface Pro], and the simplicity of a tablet experience that can also be productive. That was the goal. Maybe not enough. I think we didn't explain that super-well. I think we didn't differentiate the devices well enough. They looked similar. Using them is similar. It just didn't do everything that you expected Windows to do. So there's been a lot of talk about it should have been a rebranding. We should not have called it Windows."Microsoftannounced Windows RT at the Consumer Electronics Show in January 2011, and launched it in October 2012 at the same time as Windows 8, having planned it to take advantage of what it thought would be a new wave of personal computers built on ARM chips rather than Intel. ARM chips generally have the advantage of low power requirements, leading to their use in smartphones and tablets.But the market never materialised, and buyers mostly shunned the Surface RT because of a relative lack of apps, and confusion over why popular programs such as Apple's iTunes and Google Chrome were not available for it.Manufacturers abandoned it rapidly as they saw that there was no market for PCs based on Windows RT. Samsungdecided not to sell its RT-based Ativ line in the USbefore January, citing weak demand and no clear idea of the "value proposition."In July, Asus's chairman Jonny Shihsaidthat "the result [of building RT devices] is not very promising."In September, a Lenovo executivesaidthere was "no longer a need" for Windows RT given the improvements made by Intel in power consumption in its Haswell chip.Dell was the last besides Microsoft to leave the RT space,dropping its XPS 10 in September.Meanwhile Windows Phone has been scaled up to larger and larger screens, such as the 6in 1520, and smaller 8in tablets with Intel architecture have begun to go on sale - leaving Windows RT with no obvious niche.Nokia's release of the 2520 has surprised some - though its announcement after the deal with Microsoft to buy the handset business points to an attempt to support its buyer's aims.But Windsor said that it would have been made in small quantities: "I suspect that volume commitments to the Surface 2 [an RT tablet] and the Nokia 2520 are almost non-existent. Hence I am pretty certain that there will be no repeat of the huge write-off endured by Microsoft for either company."He said that the decision to sideline RT is "excellent news" as "Microsoft is being more pragmatic in its approach to strategies that don't work. If Microsoft can apply this pragmatism to the rest of the company and to its choice of CEO, we might just have a phoenix rather than a turkey."Larson-Green also acknowledged that the reorganisation of Microsoft by outgoing chief executive Steve Ballmer was part of a long-running discussion within the company. "When I ran the Windows organization my job was to really get other groups inside of Microsoft to bet on the platform and we had Bing build apps for us.  We had Xbox team build music and video that became the default music and video experience for Windows.  We had Office building OneNote on our new experience.  And so it's not completely foreign to us to work cross group.  But, the incentives in how you worked, we had different ship cycles, we had different P&amp;L goals.  There was no mal-intent, it was just we were busy with our own things.  Now we're busy with one thing.  We're busy with bringing together the experience for our customers at a Microsoft level."Asked how Microsoft would compete in tablets, Larson-Green said: "with Apple there was an inflection point with tablets, or with phones, with touch… There will be another inflection point and it's going to come from the hardware input model. So that's why you've seen us doing things with Kinect, with gesture. You see us doing things with voice. There's one coming."Asked how Windows on tablets could compete with Apple's app ecosystem, she said: "So you enable a new kind of app. So [Apple] were very successful in creating a curated set of applications that took what most people were trying to do on the web and made it valuable to do it on the device and created a model for them to get paid and all those things. There will be another one of those coming is my belief. I think you already start to see some of it. I think connecting apps to each other, because so many things are special purpose, you'll start to see new ways for apps to integrate across. I think there's a lot that's going to come from the web in smart information about you and your location."
When we met at Deutsche Telekom's main office in Berlin, Michael Bartsch could barely contain his excitement over the company's newest mobile phone."We can't say which countries we've been contacted by," the 40-something executive who is head of mobile security for the telecom company, said. "But security people from embassies have called us asking for devices to test out. In fact, we've been getting calls from everyone, even from outside the EU."On the mahogany conference table in front of Bartsch lay a panoply of the smartphones he uses, modifies, and ultimately tries to market: an iPhone 5s, a Blackberry Z10, and what looked, to the casual observer, like last year's Samsung Galaxy S3.But, in fact, the unassuming Galaxy was actually a Samsung device running the Korean company's secure Knox version of Android, which Telekom has modified with its own security software, called SimKo.An earlier variant is the phone that Chancellor Angela Merkel uses. And Telekom wants to sell it to you – or your government, or your company, or to anyone looking to migrate away from American and British technology solutions in the wake of the NSA spying scandal. But critics of the initiative say that equally secure products can be had for a fraction of the cost, and that Deutsche Telekom's ties to the German government make SimKo problematic for potential foreign government buyers.Telekom's SimKo project was born in 2004 at the behest of the German government, whichowns a 32% stake in Telekom. It wanted a solution that would encrypt data and eventually voice traffic on 10,000 civil servants' government-issue phones – both when they communicated with one another on the phones and when their phones were connected to the government's secure email network.After five years of research, the first SimKo phone, a modified HTC Touch Pro 2 running Windows Mobile 6.5, was released in late 2009. It could encrypt text messages and email, but voice traffic was left unencrypted because at the time telecom providers thought the encryption built into their 3G networks was robust enough to thwart hacking. This was wrong, as the Berlin-based Chaos Computer Club group proved in late 2009, when iteasily hacked into 3G networks.This incident sent Deutsche Telekom looking for another solution – and it came in the form of Samsung's Knox-enabled phones, which were unveiled this year at the mobile phone industry's annual trade show in Barcelona. Presently Knox is only available commercially for the Galaxy Note 3 "phablet"; the Galaxy S3 and S4 require an update that hasn't been provided yet.Software like Knox solves the critical flaw in the "bring your own device" (BYOD) movement – where employees using their (insecure) personal phones open business presentations or upload company documents to services like Dropbox.Samsung puts two distinct operating systems on the same device – a "secure" version of the Linux operating system (SE Linux), where an employee's encrypted email and files are isolated and linked to a company's secure cloud; and a normal version of the Android OS, where the user can run personal apps such as Facebook.Employees like Knox because they can use it for both work and play; employers like it because they always have control over the secure side of the phone, which they can remotely monitor or wipe if an employee leaves a company.Samsung's platform is aimed primarily at the US Department of Defense, whichsaid this past spring that it plans to buy600,000 "secure classified and protected unclassified mobile solutions that are based on commercial off-the-shelf products." Government-wide purchases of secure smart phones could eventually reach 8m devices in the US – and Samsung, as the largest maker of Android phones, hopes to grab a big chunk of that business. At present the DoDlists only BB10, Apple's iOS 6 and Samsung's Knoxas having met its requirements for mobile security.So keen is Samsung to garner US government contracts that it developed the Knox platform almost entirely to US government specifications, with particular emphasis on modifying the open-source SE Linux programming language to meet Department of Defense requirements. The company says in its whitepaper: "Samsung R&amp;D teams have worked very closely with the NSA to port and integrate this technology into Android. This port of SE Linux to Android is commonly referred to as Security Enhancements for Android, or 'SE for Android'."Knox phones destined for the US Department of Defense aregiven an extra layer of security by General Dynamicsand defence software contractor Fixmo. Both companies are adding voice encryption and special authentication protocols that allow the devices to sign on to secure government networkslike the DoD's SIPRNet, which was where the WikiLeaks diplomatic cables were stored.But can an American chief executive or the President of Brazil get one of these ultra-secure Knox phones from General Dynamics? Unlikely. An employee at General Dynamics G4, who asked not to be quoted by name, said the devices that it modifies for the government "are based on software technology that goes to the root of the phone. Our technology is not used by other countries".This is where Deutsche Telekom hopes to fill a niche. It's adding a similar, extra security layer to its phones as well. And it says it will sell the same device that it makes for Angela Merkel –the Merkelphone– to anyone willing to pay the €1,700 asking price.Telekom's version of the Samsung Knox encrypts all voice and data traffic into and out of the phone with a cryptocard made by cergate and software by NCP, both based in Nürnberg. The phone's L4 microkernel is made by Berlin-based Trust2Core, a start-up that Telekom owns, in a partnership with the Technical University of Dresden and Dresden-based Kernkonzept.Amicrokernelis essentially a bespoke package of code that "provides basic memory management, task and context switching, and little else". This core is very difficult to infect with malicious code, so it's well suited towards keeping the two operating systems separate, while at the same time allowing both OSes to share storage memory and components, like the screen, camera, or microphone.Telekom's Bartsch said the company assumes that attempts will be made to hack into its systems."We assume that there are organisations that want to obtain information, like the NSA. The NSA has every piece of technology that exists to decode security keys in a relatively quick timespan," Bartsch said.For this reason, he said the company creates a new secure key to all its SimKo devices everyday. Telekom's assumption is that code breakers would need longer a longer than a day to crack their keys."We change the security keys every 24 hours," Bartsch explained. "Every morning at 4am, the system cuts off all VPN connections, creates a new key, and then reconnects with the gateway."But privacy experts in the US and Europe are critical of the initiative. They say the system is at best an expensive executive toy, and at worst problematic for foreign governments due to Telekom's ties to the German government.A German chief executive, whose company sells interception systems for phone and internet networks in 80 countries, praised Telekom for not engaging in warrantless wiretaps against people within Germany – but pointed out that it would be perfectly legal for Germany's spy agency, the BND, to ask Telekom for information about its foreign clients or for information about global organisations based in the country that might be breaking laws."I have not seen any proof that the BND is doing any tapping inside Germany – it's a typical play by the books, cover-your-ass organisation," the executive told me. "But if a bank here is increasing its mail traffic to North Korea, that would be interesting. Or if an organisation is communicating a lot with Afghanistan – maybe that's drug trafficking. You'd have to ask the BND, of course, but I'd say that would be fair game."Christopher Soghoian, principal technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union, notes that Europe's telecom operators have a poor track record of defending net neutrality and data protection, and tend to do their governments' bidding when asked."I would think that Telekom gives the same level of help to the German government as AT&amp;T does to the US government. Like all telecoms around the world, when a government says jump, they jump." And he notes that even in the unlikely event that Telekom can assure potential foreign clients that it won't snoop on them, the system is still too expensive – and thus, small – to be relevant."Even VIPs call her husbands and wives," Soghoian noted. "Both ends of the call have to be on this platform for it to work. Unless the security is deployed internationally and nationally, it's not going to work. It's not going to help you if you can only talk to a few thousand people."When asked about its ties to the German government, Bartsch said the company ordered the Samsung Knox phones it sells with an interchangeable cryptochip slot to address this very fear."Yes, this is a German solution, approved by thegovernment's standards office. But it can be combined with other countries' security standards too. Countries that buy the platform from us can manufacture their own cryptochips to work with this phone, so they would hold their own encryption keys," Bartsch said.But the German tech executive who sells interception hardware pointed out that SimKo is expensive compared to secure voice and text chatting apps such as Silent Circle and RedPhone which are available at a fraction of the cost."The compartmentalising aspect of SimKO is useful. But other apps work just as well. I trust Phil Zimmermann's [inventor of Silent Circle] background and history. Microphone logging could be an issue through a backdoor in the Android or Apple iOS – in that case, Silent Circle wouldn't help you. But most business people will never have to worry about this problem."In its marketing of SimKO, Telekom is using the tag line "superior privacy Made in German." And this is not altogether surprising – German tech companies are trying to capitalise on what is seen as a massive breach of trust in their America competitors.The person spearheading this effort is Rene Obermann, Deutsche Telecom's CEO. This autumn, Obermann has hosted data privacy conferences and written op/ed pieces in which he hascalled forGermany to wall off its internet from the US, and to create Europe-only clouds. Yet, while seemingly championing online privacy in Europe, another division of the company he runs – T-Mobile USA – serves as an active partner in the U.S. government's massive dragnet targeted against U.S. citizens.German tech blog Netzpolikpointed out this incongruityat the beginning of the NSA/Snowden leaks affair. It asked Deutsche Telekom whether Obermann knew about T-Mobile's longstanding agreement with the US Justice Department when he declared this past summer that "We are not cooperating with foreign intelligence services."The company's response: "Of course Deutsche Telekom cooperates with intelligence services, when obliged by law to do so."And that is, of course, the same line that Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, AT&amp;T and Verizon – Telecom's competitors in the secure enterprise space – have used throughout this NSA scandal.
Xbox Oneowners in the UK trying to watch TV through their new consoles are seeing juddering picture problems bad enough that some are calling it “unwatchable”.One of the most heavily advertised features of Microsoft’s next generation console, the media passthrough abilities means that TV and video signals from other set-top boxes provided by Sky, Virgin and Freeview TV services can be fed through the console to the television - thus removing the need to switch inputs when going from gaming to TV viewing.But UK owners who have got their hands on the new device say they have problems. &quot;It&apos;s really bad on sport. Unwatchable. Perhaps the reason no Sky support at launch? Disappointed,” complained a user called Damatrison the official Xbox user forums.Defaulting to the US television standardThe cause appears to be the difference in refresh rates between UK and US TV sets and services. In the UK, the TV broadcast standard is 50Hz, or 50 frames per second (FPS), which most television set top boxes including Sky, Virgin and Freeview services output. In the US, the standard is 60Hz or 60FPS, and by default the Xbox One is set to the US, not UK standard.&quot;Assuming the reports are true, this represents a significant issue Microsoft has to address,&quot; Richard Leadbetter of visual testing company Digital Foundrytold Eurogamer. &quot;Displaying 50Hz video at 60Hz means that every sixth frame will be a duplicate, resulting in noticeable judder on a lot of material – scrolling text on news channels, fast pans in TV and movies, and the left to right sweep of the camera in football matches.&quot;Microsoft said that it is aware of the issue, but did not have a comment at the time of publication.No easy solutionsLeadbetter said that there are no easy solutions to the difference between 50 and 60Hz, and that altering a 50Hz picture to match a 60Hz refresh rate would likely have a detrimental impact on image quality. It is unknown how Microsoft is going to deal with the issue.A work around has beendiscovered by a HDTVtest userandverified by gaming site CVG, which involves tricking the Xbox One into outputting video at 50Hz rather than 60Hz. However, this forces the console to use 50Hz all the time – which could cause issues for games that should be played and output at 60Hz.&quot;This is a major disappointment as the Xbox&apos;s main selling point is its TV / media capabilities, but the reality is it&apos;s broken and doesn&apos;t work,&quot;complained Potty Monster.• In November, the Microsoft Xbox Onesold more than 1m units in the first 24 hoursof being on sale in the UK and 13 other countries
YouTube is changing its revamped comments system to fend off a new wave of spam, but the company is sticking with its controversial decision to tie the system to its Google+ social network.The original changes weremade in early Novemberin what YouTube described as an attempt to ensure &quot;YouTube comments will become conversations that matter to you&quot;. Channel owners were given more tools to moderate comments and block certain keywords, while the comments section was re-ordered to bubble up &quot;engaged discussions&quot; to the top.Since then, creators have loudly complained that the changes have fuelled a new wave of spam – YouTube&apos;s own video explaining them featured a prominent ASCII-art penis for some time.The site&apos;s most popular creator, Swedish gamer PewDiePie, eventurned off his comments, claiming that his videos were being overrun with &quot;Links to virus sites, advertisers, self-advertisers, spam, copy and paste pics of dogs&quot;.In a new blog post,YouTube admits that there have been problems. &quot;While the new system dealt with many spam issues that had plagued YouTube comments in the past, it also introduced new opportunities for abuse and shortly after the launch, we saw some users taking advantage of them,&quot; it explains.The company says it has rolled out a number of updates including better recognition of bad links and impersonation attempts, changing how long comments are displayed for, and (bad news for digital dog and genitalia artists) &quot;improved ASCII art detection&quot;.&quot;We know the spam issues made it hard to use the new system at first, and we’re excited to see more of you getting involved as we’ve fixed issues. New features like threaded conversations and formatted comments are coming to life, thanks to you and your fans,&quot; claims the blog post, which adds that YouTube will soon introduce tools to help channel owners bulk-moderate their comments.What hasn&apos;t changed is the deeper integration of YouTube and Google+, which has proved to be the most controversial change of all, including for the site&apos;s own co-founder Jawed Karim, whocomplained in a post on his channel&quot;why the fuck do i need a google+ account to comment on a video?&quot;AChange.org petitiondemanding that YouTube stop forcing its users to create Google+ accounts if they want to post comments has gathered more than 214,000 signatures so far, and asThe Guardian&apos;s open thread on the topic showed, there&apos;s a lot of anger about this particular change.That may well flare up again at the sight of YouTube dealing with spam issues without addressing (or even acknowledging) the arguments around Google+.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Amazon Whisperer &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyJason Feifer:Chaim, it turned out, was Chaim Pikarski, an Orthodox Jewish man with a wispy red beard who seemed amused at my attempt to understand his business. He also knew his Hipe speaker would appeal to me, because that insight--knowing what people are searching for on Amazon--is at the core of what he does. He has an entire team of people who read reviews on Amazon, looking for moments when people say, "I wish this speaker were rechargeable." Pikarski then makes a rechargeable version. Hipe exists, in essence, because enough people think like me.Clever: turn the factory inside-out so the demand creates the supply.Time &amp; Relative Dimensions In The Internet of Things &gt;&gt;IBM Insights on BusinessPaul Brody:We have a problem that probably only the Doctor can fix: our quarterly EPS-driven attention spans do not last for years. Not so for most enterprise and public infrastructure. The average car lasts for more a decade. The average smartphone lasts for about a year.While it is GM's wildest dream to get everyone to replace their cars every year, that's not going to happen. Instead, companies will need to re-think how they design their business models for longevity and endurance.Here's who (probably) did that massive $150m Bitcoin transaction &gt;&gt; Washington PostI asked Sarah Meiklejohn, a computer scientist at the University of California, San Diego, for her thoughts. She's the author of a recent paper demonstrating that sophisticated analysis can reveal a lot of information about who is responsible for Bitcoin transactions. She has compiled a large database of Bitcoin addresses tagged with their likely owners.While she says she can't be sure, Meiklejohn says that that 194,993-bitcoin transaction was probably done by Bitstamp, the world's second-largest exchange for trading dollars for bitcoins:Essentially a bit of shuffling around of the coins.Trap Streets &gt;&gt; Twelve Mile CircleIf you search for "Heterodox View Avenue" on Google Maps, you get five hits in different states in the US. But you can't actually find them. Are they "trap streets", designed to trap copyists?Mistakes happen. I've also observed numerous cases of "paper streets," including entire subdivisions, which were planned at one time and never constructed. Let's also not discount the possibility of pranks intended as harmless insertions by bored or playful cartographers.Were the appearances of various Heterodox View Avenues sufficient evidence of genuine trap streets in Google Maps? It seemed more plausible than finding several unrelated, unintentional errors having the same exact name, or paper streets overlaid upon actual streets, or a not particularly clever prank. I doubt Google would ever admit to the existence of trap streets even if they were true so we will never know. It will be interesting to watch what happens now that Heterodox View Avenue has been outed.Announcing Twitter chat with Rob Enderle, Tuesday 10th December &gt;&gt; Inside BlackBerry for Business BlogOn Tuesday, December 10th we'll be hosting #EMMRealities Twitter® chat from 6-7pm EST! @BlackBerry4Biz is teaming up with guests of honor Rob Enderle to discuss BYOD (Bring your own device) and where does it fit within your corporate policy. We will also be focusing on emerging trends and key issues in a BYOD corporate environment.That would be the Rob Enderle who explained "Why 2013 is RIM's BlackBerry year" which included the memorable line that "BlackBerry 10 is based on an OS that is used to operate machinery".BlackBerry ousts three key executives &gt;&gt; AllThingsDQuite the executive purge. Orchestrated by interim CEO and executive chairman John Chen, it says a lot about the company's view of the leadership put in place by recently ousted CEO Thorsten Heins. [Chief operating officer Kristian] Tear and [chief marketing officer Frank] Boulben were both Heins appointments, brought in from the outside as BlackBerry geared up for the launch of its next-generation mobile platform, BlackBerry 10. They'd been in their respective roles for just a year. Sacking them so soon after Chen's hire suggests that the former Sybase executive is moving quickly to do what he can to right BlackBerry and shore up its crumbling business.How Afghan amateur mappers unintentionally punked Apple &gt;&gt; UN DispatchJanuary 2013:Wall Street Journal Kabul bureau chief Yaroslav Trofimov noticed something strange when he loaded Apple's map of Afghanistan's capital city on his iPad today &amp;#8211;the existence of a street named "Bad Monkey." Amused, Trofimovtweetedhis odd find, appending his tweet with a screenshot. Then he noticed a street near the upscale and heavily fortified Serena Hotel labeled"MoJo Way."Had the municipal government adopted an irreverent approach to naming its thoroughfares while no one was paying attention?The reason is surprising.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Perhaps it was entirely predictable that Apple's Maps app for the iPhone would garner millions of users as soon as it became available;enough, according to ComScore, for Google to lose 23m users in the US.After all, Apple Maps became the default on the iPhone - and most people don't change defaults. On the iPhone, in addition, it's particularly hard to do so without "jailbreaking" the device; though on a standard phone one can use different mapping apps, any geographic link in an email or calendar appointment will open in Apple's app.But when the Guardian published that data, some queried the data collection (though ComScore's methodology is robust). Others queried whether the Israeli company Waze (which Google bought in June 2013) might have made up the difference, or at least some of it.And yet others suggested that Apple's Maps are worse in Europe than in the US, and that therefore use of Google Maps would be higher in Europe (and the UK) than in the US - or at least that the drop-off would have been less.But data supplied exclusively by ComScore to the Guardian suggests that none of those is the case - and that the fact of being the default app on the iPhone has meant that Apple Maps is far more used than Google's offering on the iPhone.The data for the latest figures was collected via the GSMA Mobile Metrics measurement product, so measures the app being used if someone queries map data while not connected to a Wi-Fi network.European numbersAccording to ComScore's European data, in the UK in October 2012 Google Maps usage on iPhone was 6.07m users - against no measurable number for Apple's Maps app.The data about app use is collected anonymously from mobile operators. Hesham Al-Jehani, Europe mobile product manager for ComScore, noted: "the Google Map figures are only based on those who use the app using an operator data network, so it doesn't include those who use it only on a Wi-Fi connection." But he thinks the latter "is probably not that many and shouldn't affect the trend."In October 2012, ComScore's separate data, collected from its statistically robust panel of owners, shows that there were 8.57m iPhone owners in the UK - which would mean that 70.8% of owners used the maps app, which would be Google's, at some point.But by September 2013, total use of Google Maps had dropped to 1.83m UK iPhone users even though the total ownership had grown to 10.35m. Apple Maps users, meanwhile, totalled 6.23m, or 60.2% of all users.There's no way to tell how many of the Google Maps users deployed it exclusively, nor how many carried on using it because they were still using phones running the older iOS 5, which cannot use Apple Maps.Even so, it suggests a dramatic drop in the number of Google Maps users on the iPhone - by 4.24m, or 70% - which mirrors that in the US.For Apple, removing Google from the iPhone and installing its own maps system was a strategic move which it made to be able to control elements such as voice-guided satellite navigation, location-based search, advertising and shopping, and to avoid giving up user data which Google would be able to monetise - and grow stronger from.It has extended that shift to its desktop OSX operating system, where it has replaced Google Maps as the default mapping app, and has its own separate desktop application which can also send links directly to iPhones.iPhone maps use in UK: Oct 2012 to Sept 2013UKchangeSept 2013Oct 2012Google Maps on iPhone6.07m1.83m-4.24mApple Maps on iPhone-6.23m+6.23mWaze usersn/a0.186mn/aTotal iPhone owners8.57m10.35m+1.78mData: ComScoreWaze: not a factorAs forWaze - acquired by Google in June for $1.3bn- other data collected by ComScore suggests that its user numbers in Europe are too small to significantly affect its loss.According to ComScore, in November 2013 Waze has just 186,000 users in the UK - out of a total of 1.5m in the "EU 5" countries (UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain). That would be far too small to generate any signficant uplift to the lost users for Google's maps on the iPhone.That compares to a total claimed by Waze worldwide of around 50m - though the company has never given a breakdown by country, and Google has not either.•Apple maps: how Google lost when everyone thought it had won
It's Tuesday.
Hailing &quot;a new chapter of digital journalism,&quot; Yahoo has hired television news fixture Katie Couric to anchor an online broadcast, the company announced Monday. Couric, 56, joins Yahoo after two years in an anchor job at ABC News. She will continue to host her syndicated talk show, Katie, currently in its second and seeminglyfinal season.Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer hailed Couric&apos;s arrival in a statement Monday. &quot;Katie&apos;s depth of experience, her intellectual curiosity, and her charisma make her the perfect choice to anchor Yahoo News and the whole Yahoo Network,&quot; Mayer said.Couric’s new title is “global anchor”. Mayer said Couric will be the “face of Yahoo News”.Couric’s move is separate from anexisting partnershipbetween ABC News and Yahoo in which ABC talent appear in spots produced exclusively for Yahoo, a Yahoo spokesperson said. The partnership was announced in October 2011 and has beenhailed as a successfor both sides, pulling in tens of millions of unique visitors a month. An expansion of the partnershipwas announced last spring.If someone sees a good explainer for WHY Yahoo is bringing Katie Couric on board, can you alert me? I doubt such a piece is possible, but...&mdash; Jay Rosen  (@jayrosen_nyu)November 25, 2013Further reading on the move:Katie Couric Moves To Yahoo, But It’s Unclear What They’re Getting Out Of ItAlyssa Rosenberg, Think ProgressYahoo, in other words, is getting Couric at the low end of her value, and at a moment when, The Hollywood Reporter suggests, her brand has been blurred between the hard news and challenging interviews she seems to prefer, and the friendly, cheerful approach viewers–and guests–seem to want from her. When Sirius signed Howard Stern to a five-year contract worth $500 million in 2005, they knew they were buying his army of listeners, who could be counted on to turn into subscribers. Couric has no such army in evidence, though there’s no evidence that her deal was anywhere near as rich as Stern’s. [...]Katie Couric&apos;s Bad Bet: Leaving ABC News for YahooAfter stints at CNN, NBC, CBS and ABC, maybe Katie Couric is going to Yahoo because there is simply nowhere else to go.While reports Friday suggesting Couric is exiting her ABC News deal a year early to move to Yahoo shouldn’t be surprising considering the move has been rumored for months, that doesn’t make her impending arrival seem any less an awkward fit.Katie Couric on Yahoo Deal: We Are Going to Try ThingsAlex Weprin, Capital New York:&quot;I don’t think it is going to be a half-hour evening news broadcast or a two-hour morning show,” Couric said in a telephone interview with Capital last night.And if that&apos;s precisely the reason many television executives are scratching their heads about Couric&apos;s decision to leave a major broadcast network with the highest-rated morning show on television for position of &quot;global anchor&quot; at a digital news portal, it&apos;s one of the things Couric said she was happiest about.Does Katie Couric’s Move to Yahoo Signal the End of Old Media Dominance?David Freedlander, The Daily Beast[Yahoo vice president Rob] Barrett and [editor-in-chief] Megan Liberman were circumspect when asked to provide specifics on the details of the expansion, except to say that the newsroom will grow far beyond their current couple of dozen headcount, and that there will be a similar investment into the engineering side.“The identity piece of Yahoo news has sort of been absent,” said Liberman in an interview at Yahoo New York headquarters last month. “We are trying to build it. Which means bring in great writers and names people recognize and people who add something to the conversation, both in breaking news and original enterprise work and recognizable voices.”
AccommodationWant to pay your rent with Bitcoin? Not a problem. You just have to be happy to move somewhere you have never wanted to live, or even heard of. The holiday resort of Druskininkai in Lithuania, for example, where for €10 a night you can rent aroom in a 10-bedroom apartmentjust a short walk from the aqua park. With regular access to water slides, you'll soon forget the fact you're crying yourself to sleep from the loneliness of linguistic isolation. Other options include:a log cabinin Glaciers Reach, Canada; apartmentsin Rio de JaneiroandDubrovnik; and aboutique tour of Vietnam.Health and happinessHere's the great news: you can already pay your dentist using Bitcoin. ThePenny Meadow Dental Practicein Ashton under Lyne has gone digital. They even have 41 likes on Facebook. If your teeth are fine but you've been hitting the booze too hard, a trip to Swiss detox clinicEscape Ambulatoriumcould make a world of difference. Or at least a little aromatherapy, courtesy ofHappy Tree Cosmetics.Going outBerlin restaurant "ROOM77, the restaurant at the end of capitalism", boasts on its website, "we're too fucking cool to brag about ourselves", lists its address right down to "Earth, Solar System, Milky Way" and promises visitors "warm beer, cold women and fast food made slow". So, you know, book now or live for ever in regret. If that doesn't appeal, you can take a trip to Salt Lake City'sFirehouse BBQ, famous, according to the site's "What you all are sayin' about us!" section, for its world-beating pulled pork. Or, if you happen to have $250,000 in Bitcoin to spare, you could always splash out ona brief trip to spacewith Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic.Food and drinkThe options for Bitcoin foodies are limited but eclectic. You can sampleGeorge's Famous Baklava, for example, described by testimonials on its website as the "best ever", "awesome and amazing" and "De-Lish!", or stock up on emergency rations and "cave food" for the coming apocalypse atSurvivalFood.com. American vineyardRollingdale Winerysells a pinot noir and a pinot grigio, while "Booze4Bitcoin" offers a range of alcoholic beverages packaged, for some unknown reason, like high-end shampoos, in flavours including "tea bitter", "citrus" and "outlaw". The last, at 72% alcohol, could come in especially handy when you just want to get drunk enough to forget moving to Lithuania.Staying inOnline board game retailerNestor Gamesoffers family favourites such as chess and backgammon alongside the unimaginable delights of "Sugar Gliders", "Tattoo Turtles" and "The Aztec Market". If you have the place to yourself and feel a little saucy, you could experiment with one of severalsexual hypnosisdownloads, visit 3D fantasy and sci-fi porn siteLynortis, hire a Birmingham escort, or get into gambling with Singapore horse-racing analystskranjiracing. The more devout may choose, instead, to make a donation to the Church of Saint John the Evangelist in New York, which claims to be the first Catholic church to accept the online currency.Clothes and shoesFrombabbletees("T-shirts for cheeky-cool smart people!") toHeat Slingers' Nike trainers ("Simply put, we are sneaker heads"), there are plenty of respectable choices for the snappy Bitcoin dresser. There are also a few more exotic options.Mono für Alle, purveyors of "T-shirts made in Berlin from garbage", competes for your clothes-you-will-never-wear-in-public dollar with pirate shirt companyR-Shirtand a libertarian T-shirt site(right)that appears, sadly, to have vanished in the cut-and-thrust of the free market.Interior decoratingWorried that apartment in Dubrovnik lacks a certain sense of academic decorum? Bitcoin's furniture-makers have the answer. Add a formal air to the living room with &lt;a href="an acrylic podium, from which to lecture guests and practise the speeches you'd have given at this year's weddings if you didn't live in Dubrovnik now. Less intrusive ornaments includean array of colourful bubblers, pipes and dabbersfrom an online glass-blower andPocket Artillery's "mini cannon to end all mini cannons", which looks like a hole punch but fires ball bearings across the room at genuinely dangerous velocities, to the delight of owners and the terror of their dinner guests.
The past weeks have seen a surprising meeting of minds between chairman of the US Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke, the Bank of  England, the Olympic-rowing and Zuckerberg-bothering Winklevoss twins, and theUS Department of Homeland Security. The connection? All have decided it's time to take  Bitcoin seriously.Until now, what pundits called in a rolling-eye fashion "the new peer-to-peer cryptocurrency" had been seen just as a digital form of gold, with all the associated speculation, stake-claiming and even "mining"; perfect for the digital wild west of the internet, but no use for real transactions.Bitcoins are mined by computers solving fiendishly hard mathematical problems. The "coin" doesn't exist physically: it is a virtual currency that exists only as a computer file. No one computer controls the currency. A network keeps track of all transactions made using Bitcoins but it doesn't know what they were used for – just the ID of the computer "wallet" they move from and to.Right now the currency is tricky to use, both in terms of the technological nous required to actually acquire Bitcoins, and finding somewhere to spend them. To get them, you have to first set up a wallet, probably online at a site such as Blockchain.info, and then pay someone hard currency to get them to transfer the coins into that wallet.A Bitcoin payment address is a short string of random characters, and if used carefully, it's possible to make transactions anonymously. That's what made it the currency of choice for sites such as the Silk Road and Black Market Reloaded, which let users buy drugs anonymously over the internet. It also makes it very hard to tax transactions, despite the best efforts of countries such as Germany, which in August declared that Bitcoin was "private money" in which transactions should be taxed as normal.It doesn't have all the advantages of cash, though the fact you can't forge it is a definite plus: Bitcoin is "peer-to-peer" and every coin "spent" is authenticated with the network. Thus you can't spend the same coin in two different places. (But nor can you spend it without an internet connection.) You don't have to spend whole Bitcoins: each one can be split into 100m pieces (each known as a  satoshi), and spent separately.Although most people have now vaguely heard of Bitcoin, you're unlikely to find someone outside the tech community who really understands it in detail, let alone accepts it as payment. Nobody knows who invented it; its pseudonymous creator, Satoshi Nakamoto, hasn't come forward. He or she may not even be Japanese but certainly knows a lot about cryptography, economics and computing.It was first presented in November 2008in an academic paper shared with a cryptography mailing list. It caught the attention of that community but took years to take off as a niche transaction tool. The first Bitcoin boom and bust came in 2011, and signalled that it had caught the attention of enough people for real money to get involved – but also posed the question of whether it could ever be more than a novelty.The algorithm for mining Bitcoins means the number in circulation will never exceed 21m and this limit will be reached in around 2140. Already 57% of all Bitcoins have been created; by 2017, 75% will have been. If you tried to create a Bitcoin in 2141, every other computer on the network would reject it as fake because it would not have been made according to the rules of currency.The number of companies  taking Bitcoin payments is increasing from a small base, and a few payment processors such as Atlanta-based Bitpay are making real money from the currency. But it's difficult to get accurate numbers on conventional transactions, and it still seems that the most popular uses of Bitcoins are buying drugs in the shadier parts of the internet, as people did on the Silk Road website, and buying the currency in the hope that in a few weeks' time you will be able to sell it at a profit.This is remarkable because there's no fundamental reason why Bitcoin should have any value at all. The only reason people are willing to pay money for the currency is because other people are willing to as well. (Try not to think about it too hard.) Now, though, sensible economists are saying that Bitcoin might become part of our future economy. That's quite a shift from October last year, when the European Central Bank said that Bitcoin was "characteristic of a Ponzi [pyramid] scheme". This month, the Chicago Federal Reservecommented that the currency was "a remarkable conceptual and technical achievement, which may well be used by existing financial institutions (which could issue their own bitcoins) or even by governments themselves".The First Bitcoin ATM, in Canada. Photograph: REUTERSIt might not sound thrilling. But for a central banker, that's like yelling "BITCOIIINNNN!" from the rooftops. And Bernanke, in a carefully dull letter to the US Senate committee on Homeland Security, said that when it came to virtual currencies (read: Bitcoin), the US Federal Reserve had "ongoing initiatives" to "identify additional areas of … concern that require heightened attention by the banking organisations we supervise".In other words, Bernanke is ready to make Bitcoin part of US currency regulation – the key step towards legitimacy.Most reporting about Bitcoin until now has been of its extraordinary price ramp – from a low of $1 in 2011 to more than $900 earlier this month. That massive increase has sparked a classic speculative rush, with more and more people hoping to get a piece of the pie by buying and then selling Bitcoins. Others are investing thousands of pounds in custom "mining rigs", computers specially built to solve the mathematical problems necessary to confirm a Bitcoin transaction.But bubbles can burst:in 2011 it went from $33 to $1. The day after  hitting that $900 high, Bitcoin's  value halved on MtGox, the biggest  exchange. Then it rose again.Speculative bubbles happen  everywhere, though, from stock markets to Beanie Babies. All that's needed is enough people who think that they are the smart money, and that everyone else is sufficiently stupid to buy from them. But the Bitcoin bubbles tell us as much about the usefulness of the currency itself as the tulip mania of 17th century Holland did about flower-arranging.History does provide some lessons. While the Dutch were selling single tulip bulbs for 10 times a craftsman's annual income, the British were panicking about their own economic crisis. The silver coinage that had been the basis of the national economy for centuries was rapidly becoming unfit for purpose: it was constrained in supply and too easy to forge. The economy was taking on the features of a modern capitalist state, and the currency simply couldn't catch up.Describing the problem Britain faced then, David Birch, a consultant specialising in electronic transactions, says: "We had a problem in matching the nature of the economy to the nature of the money we used." Birch has been talking about electronic money for over two decades and is convinced that we find ourselves on the edge of the same shift that occurred 400 years ago.A Bitcoin wallet on a smartphone. Photograph: Bloomberg via Getty ImagesThe cause of that shift is the internet, because even though you might want to, you can't use cash – untraceable, no-fee-charged cash – online. Existing payment systems such as PayPal and credit cards demand a cut. So for individuals looking for a digital equivalent of cash – no middleman, quick, easy – Bitcoin looks pretty good.In 1613, as people looked for a replacement for silver, Birch says, "we might have been saying 'the idea of tulip bulbs as an asset class looks pretty good, but this central bank nonsense will never catch on.' We knew we needed a change, but we couldn't tell which made sense." Back then, the currency crisis was solved with the introduction first of Isaac Newton's Royal Mint ("official" silver and gold) and later with the creation of the Bank of England ("official" paper money that could in theory be swapped for official silver or gold).And now? Bitcoin offers unprecedented flexibility compared with what has gone before. "Some people in the mid-90s asked: 'Why do we need the web when we have AOL and CompuServe?'" says Mike Hearn, who works on the programs that underpin Bitcoin. "And so now people ask the same of Bitcoin. The web came to dominate because it was flexible and open, so anyone could take part, innovate and build interesting applications like YouTube, Facebook or Wikipedia, none of which would have ever happened on the AOL platform. I think the same will be true of Bitcoin."For a small (but vocal) group in the US, Bitcoin represents the next best alternative to the gold standard, the 19th-century conception that money ought to be backed by precious metals rather than government printing presses and promises. This love of "hard money" is baked into Bitcoin itself, and is the reason why the owners who set computers to do the maths required to make the currency work are known as "miners", and is why the total supply of Bitcoin is capped.And for Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the twins who sued Mark Zuckerberg (claiming he stole their idea for Facebook; the case was settled out of court), it's a handy vehicle for speculation. The two of them are setting up the "Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust", letting conventional investors gamble on the price of the currency.Some of the hurdles left between Bitcoin and widespread adoption can be fixed.  But until and unless Bitcoin develops a fully fledged banking system, some things that we take for granted with conventional money won't work.Others are intrinsic to the currency. At some point in the early 22nd century, the last Bitcoin will be generated. Long before that, the creation of new coins will have dropped to near-zero. And through the next 100 or so years, it will follow an economic path laid out by "Nakomoto" in 2009 – a path that rejects the consensus view of modern economics that management by a central bank is beneficial. For some, that means Bitcoin can never achieve ubiquity. "Economies perform better when they have managed monetary policies," the Bank of England's chief cashier, Chris Salmon, said at an event to discuss Bitcoin last week. "As a result, it will never be more than an alternative [to state-backed money]." To macroeconomists, Bitcoin isn't scary because it enables crime, or eases tax dodging. It's scary because a world where it's used for all transactions is one where the ability of a central bank to guide the economy is destroyed, by design.For Bitcoin developer Hearn, that's not a concern. "Bitcoin's monetary policy would only be relevant if it were to be adopted by an entire economy, which isn't going to happen any time soon."Already, alternatives based on  Bitcoin have sprung up: for instance,  Litecoin speeds up transaction processing and Freicoin introduces measures to stop people hoarding their money, but both are essentially the same technology, "forked" from the original. There's even nothing to stop a nation state declaring its own version of  Bitcoin as legal tender.So even if the currency of the future looks like Bitcoin, it might end up being a distant successor of the pioneer. "Is the technology of Bitcoin a window into the future?" asks Birch. "Yes. Is Bitcoin itself? No."
Bono addresses the audience at the sale, which included Harrison Ford, John McEnroe, Terence Conran, Gayle King and Charlie Rose, not to mention Tim Cook and Laureen Powell Jobs. Photograph: Patrick McMullan Co/REXA pair of 18k rose gold Apple earbuds. Sold for $461,000. Photograph: Anthony Behar/RexA thermal window for the US space shuttle on a custom stand designed by Jony Ive and Marc Newson. It sold for $845,000. Photograph: Southeby'sA new Steinway piano that Ive and Newson redesigned to make the inside red. Chris Martin and Bono performed two songs 'just to prove that it works.' Bidding on the piano reached $1.6m. Photograph: Patrick McMullan Co./REXA Fiat 600 Jolly. Photograph: John Moore/Getty ImagesA Star Wars stormtrooper helmet, signed by George Lucas. Sold for $245,000. Photograph: Mike Coppola/Getty ImagesA pair of George Cleverley &amp; Co custom-made leather shoes. Photograph: Theo Wargo/Getty ImagesDieter Rams vintage hi-fi system, produced by Braun, and sold for $100,000. Photograph: Southeby'sA Zvezda cosmonaut suit from 1990 worn on a Soviet space agency mission into space. Sold for $305,000. Photograph: Southeby'sLeica digital rangefinder camera.Custom-made by Jony Ive and Marc Newson for the auction, it sold for $1,805,000. Photograph: Southeby'sAn Apple Mac Pro which sold for $977,000. Photograph: Southeby'sAzzedine Ala&iuml;a pink dress, sold for $149,000. Photograph: Southeby's
ThatApple is paying $350m for PrimeSense, the Israeli company, suggests that its systems will be a key technology for the company. It really wants it for something - and fast.The amount paid is comparable with the $356m that Apple laid out in July 2012 to buy the fingerprint recognition company Authentec - whose scanning technology was incorporated into the iPhone 5S, released in September 2013 - and the $390m paid in December 2011 for Anobit, another Israeli company, which specialises in flash memory technologies.The Authentec technology must have been built into the phone rapidly, because the typical lead time for a phone design is at least a year, and the incorporation of fingerprint scanning would have required extensive testing. Apple was almost certainly working with Authentec ahead of the acquisition, but seems to have seen its technology as so important it had to own everything about it.Similarly, Anobit&apos;s specialism, of making flash memory (used in almost every Apple product, including its computers) function better, seems to have triggered a decision by the Cupertino company to snap it up. The results aren&apos;t as visible as a fingerprint scanner, but it seems a certainty that the expertise that Anobit had is being applied across the product range.The price is highOther acquisitions by Apple (there&apos;s alist at Wikipedia) show that about $250m seems to be the &quot;key technology&quot; tipping point: PA Semi (April 2008, $278m), the semiconductor maker, whose expertise has been used to build the iPhone and iPad CPUs; Quattro Wireless (January 2010, $275m) is in mobile advertising (where Apple has so far flopped, but thought it would be important); C3 Technologies (August 2011, $267m) provides 3D mapping, which was used a year later in Apple&apos;s Maps; and since then Authentec and now PrimeSense.And as a counterpoint, Apple reportedly refused to buy another Israeli company, the travel app Waze, for around $500m earlier this year (the two companies haven&apos;t confirmed that the talks took place, but rumours in that sector tend to be reliable). Instead,Google bought it for $1.3bn- which was seen as a huge victory for Google, and loss for Apple. Except Apple seems to have been satisfied with the progress it was making with maps; while to Google, getting the data about vehicle drivers is far more valuable than it is to Apple. Waze&apos;s business model of shared information is a better fit with Google than its map data was to Apple.So PrimeSense is important, and Apple wants to use its technology soon. Its3D sensorshave a range of up to 3.5 metres - about the depth of the typical living room, or the sort of distance most people sit from a TV set - and were used in the original Microsoft Kinect add-on for Xbox. (For the second-generation Kinect, Microsoft has moved to a different supplier - which it acquired.)We know what the original Kinect could do: it could detect faces, movements, people and map them all in 3D space. So what is Apple interested in doing around that?What&apos;s on - TV?The rumours of a stand-alone Apple TV set will naturally aggregate around this: rumours that Apple is working on a TV set have been around for a colossally long time.February 2009 is the earliest confirmed sightingof financial analyst Gene Munster forecasting one. The idea that Apple would make TV sets though, with their low replacement rate (10% per year, compared to 50% per year in smartphones) and the problems of persuading people to buy a premium product just don&apos;t seem to hold together.Yet something that works like the Kinect, which can sense gestures, or identify people, might make sense in the living room if paired with the existing Apple TV set-top box; it could be an optional add-on just like the first Kinect was.One point to note about PrimeSense&apos;s sensors: they&apos;re quite large. AnFAQ pagedescribes some of their limitations, especially relating to outdoor use:Different lighting conditions can affect the sensor’s depth acquisition abilities. In general, the PrimeSense Sensor is designed for indoor use and will work less optimally in direct sunlight.That seems to rule out use in phones when you&apos;re out and about, for example. It can &quot;see&quot; you if you are standing still (&quot;Yes, the sensor is not motion based. A full depth map is provided for each frame. The depth maps are standalone and do not carry forward information from previous frames.&quot;) The optimal distance is 38cm (slightly more than a foot - and so slightly longer than typical reading distances of phones or tablets).View from a mobileThere is already amobile application- the &quot;Capri&quot; sensor can be embedded into smartphones and tablets, and &quot;empowers your mobile device with a whole new level of understanding by enabling it to see the world in 3D&quot;.As the page explains, &quot;mobile devices powered with 3D sensors allow you to immersively interact with your surroundings and offer new amazing capabilities. You now have the ability to see any environment in 3D providing a new level of understanding and awareness and even blurring between the real and virtual worlds.&quot; That&apos;s the Capri, an embedded sensor which uses a system-on-a-chip (SoC) design which the company says makes it &quot;ideal for embedding in consumer electronics devices such as tablets, TVs, PCs, All –in-One PCs, , laptops, mobile phones, consumer robotics and more.&quot;The question is, what would Apple want with this?The key is not to overthink it. Authentec does fingerprints; Apple used it for fingerprints. PA Semi makes chips; Apple&apos;s using it to make chips. C3 does mapping; Apple&apos;s using it for mapping. And so on. If PrimeSense offers embedded sensors which generate indoor real-time maps of the space around them, that&apos;s where Apple has seen a space for development.With Microsoft and Sony both bidding for control of the living room, and particularly aiming to be the channel to your TV set, and Google making a fresh effort after the failure of Google TV with the Chromecast dongle to become a player in the same space - not to mention other participants such as Roku - it looks as though Apple has decided that the time is ripe to get into the set-top box business in earnest, and to provide a new way of controlling it. Perhaps Apple TV is going to cease being a hobby – finally. (In which case perhaps we can hope that Apple will also offer iPlayer, ITV Player and 4OD apps – something that has been sorely missing from the Apple TV for Britons.)So in one sense it&apos;s simple: Apple&apos;s buying PrimeSense because it wants its technology exclusively, in a hurry, for a key product. But quite what that product is, and what it&apos;s going to do, will take about a year to be revealed.
Tech journalist and entrepreneur Paul Carr’s last venture was surprisingly old-school. NSFW Corp, a news site that billed itself as &apos;the Economist written by the Daily Show&apos;, put out a print magazine – and it even put up a paywall. Despite winning fans, it didn’t make money. Now Carr and co are off to join tech blog PandoDaily, a move likely to be met with applause and snickers in the incestuous world of tech hackery.Carr, a former Guardian columnist, has made a reputation as one of the feistiest writers on the tech beat. His Twitter spats are legendary, as are his bust-ups with former employers including Arianna Huffington and AOL.His colleagues at NSFW are equally punchy, and include Mark Ames, who edited the Moscow-based eXiles magazine, and is famous for combining practical jokes and stories of gory mob slayings, drugs and prostitution with serious, highly respected, political reporting.PandoDaily, a two-year-old tech blog, bills itself as &quot;the site of record for Silicon Valley,&quot; has so far dealt in lighter fare and has been accused by some of pandering to the tech community and the interests of its billionaire backers. Rival blog Valleywag recently called founder Sarah Lacy “tech’s most loyal sycophant.”Also, unlike NSFW, which Carr has often said was constantly on the edge of running out of cash, Pando has also managed to raise money – $3m to date from some of the Valley’s biggest names, including Marc Andreessen, Netscape founder, and Peter Thiel, PayPal co-founder and Facebook backer.The NSFW team, including Carr, Ames, fellow ex-eXile Yasha Levine and syndicated political commentator David Sirota, will anchor a new, long-form investigative journalism unit at Pando. Carr says what looks like a study in contrast is actually a marriage that has long been in the planning. The site will rename itself Pando.com.“The two companies are very similar and very connected,” said Carr, who used to work with Lacy at TechCrunch, another tech blog. He said both sides saw the Valley as the new power center, increasingly as involved in areas like education and politics as in technology. “Sarah and I are interested in this huge story that is happening at the intersection of technology and the rest of the world. Tech is taking over everywhere. Look at the NSA story. It’s the story of our time.”Carr said he did not see Pando as pandering and said the site had been critical of the Valley and its backers on numerous occasions. “With this deal, I challenge anyone to say Pando is too friendly to Silicon Valley,” said Carr. “That meme had begun before Pando published its first word,” he said. “If you want to see Silicon Valley friendly, go to TechCrunch and see press release after press release after press release written up by children,” he said.Part of Pando’s perception issue, he said, was because “Sarah is a woman in Silicon Valley, so go for it.” (His comment comes after Lacy herself was accused of overlooking Silicon Valley sexism after branding criticism that Twitter had no women board members “manufactured feminist outrage.”)Carr said he expects Pando to start making more waves, but for different reasons. Pando’s investigative team would target all the most powerful people in the Valley and challenge them “when they need challenging,” he said. Some of Pando’s investors “were going to shit himself” when they heard NSFW’s team was joining Pando, he added.NSFW Corp will bring some other aspect to the Pando party. The company will publish a paper edition that Carr said had proved popular with his subscribers. About 3,000-4,000 people were subscribing to NSFW’s print edition, said Carr. “The people who loved it the most were the people who spent the most time on the internet,” he said.
Modern music is just noise. You can&apos;t hear the words properly. Those electronic things aren&apos;t proper instruments. Why is it all so loud? You can&apos;t dance to this, not like in my day.This is your father speaking. It&apos;s everyone&apos;s father speaking. It may even be you speaking. Inter-generational arguments about the merits of popular music will never cease, but how has musicreallychanged over time? Maybe data, rather than dads&apos; disapproval, holds the key to answering that question.The Echo Nestis one of the more interesting music technology companies in 2013, with a database of more than one trillion data points about 35m songs from 2.6m artists, which it provides to digital music services from companies including Spotify, Deezer, Rdio, Nokia and Vevo, along with tools to make sense of all this metadata.However, it also publishes its own research, including a series of blog posts this year about studies by its &quot;data alchemist&quot; Glenn McDonald, running tests on the 5,000 hotttest [sic] tracks from 1950 to 2013 to see how specific attributes – including energy, loudness, organicness, acousticness and mechanism – have changed over that time.The results make for interesting, sometimes surprising reading (caveat: it&apos;s popular songs, not a snapshot of all music). Here are some of the highlights, with each section title a link to the full blog post outlining the results.Is music happier or sadder?Start with an examination of &quot;valence&quot; – a psychological term referring to happiness. Can you really measure a song&apos;s happiness with an algorithm? The Echo Nest reckons you can, and in less than three seconds (&quot;We have a music expert classify some sample songs by valence, then use machine-learning to extend those rules to all of the rest of the music in the world, fine tuning as we go&quot;).How does this valence attribute change over time from 1950 to the present day? &quot;Apparently, regardless of decade, prominent musical styles, or any other factor, we pretty much always like our pop music, on average, right in the middle of happy and sad,&quot; explains The Echo Nest&apos;s blog post.&quot;Yes, we see a few spikes — the ’50s oscillated between happy or sad music being preferred — and we’ve seen a general trend towards lower emotional valence since right around the emergence of punk rock, which makes a certain kind of sense. However, overall, the emotional effect of our favorite music has tended right towards the &apos;happy medium&apos; between happy and sad.&quot;&nbsp;Is music more or less mechanistic?The mechanism rating assesses whether a song sticks rigidly to a click track or drum machine, or is more organic and &quot;tempo-wandering&quot;. No big surprises here: the latter has become less evident (remember: in the 5,000 biggest tracks) over the years.&quot;Popular music’s mechanism held pretty steady through the ’50s and ’60s, increasing slowly but steadily throughout the 70s, shooting way up during the ’80s (drum machines?) and a bit more in the ’90s (more drum machines?), mostly stabilizing after that, right up until the present day,&quot; explains The Echo Nest&apos;s blog post.&quot;In other words, music has gotten more mechanistic over the past few decades, but it has stopped getting evenmoremechanistic. Some people say that overly mechanistic music lacks a human feel. Perhaps our popular music has gotten as mechanistic-sounding as it will get.&quot;&nbsp;Is music more or less acoustic?Yes yes, there are a fair few banjo-plucking folk artists making it big in 2013, but on the whole, music has got less acoustic over the decades, thanks to the introduction of new technology. The Echo Nest rates songs by how many prominent acoustic sounds they have versus how electronic they are: acoustic guitars and tambourines versus synthesizers and drum machines, for example.&quot;Popular music started out fairly acoustic in the ’50s. After that, its “acousticness” declined steadily, decade after decade, mirroring technology’s integration into greater society at large,&quot; explains its blog post.&quot;You don’t have to be Skrillex to appreciate that music has gotten more electronic, of course. And, everybody knows that the ‘80s saw a big rise in drum machines and synthesizer. We all have an instinctive sense that music has sounded more electronic, and less acoustic, over time. We can trust our ears, this time around.&quot;&nbsp;Is music more or less organic?This one seems obvious, and it is: music has become less &apos;organic&apos; over time: that meaning more rhythmically precise and artificial sounding (not intended as a criticism, by me at least). The Echo Nest&apos;s organicness attribute is a combination of mechanism and acousticness.&quot;The drum, metronome, drum machine, MIDI, samplers, and the rest — all of this, generally speaking, has represented a march away from looser, acoustic music, and towards tighter, electronically-derived music,&quot; explains its blog post.&quot;&quot;High organicness means more acoustic instrumentation and more human tempo fluctuations (think sumptuous, fluttery harp music), and low organicness means more electric and more click-tracky (think relentlessly pounding techno).&quot;&nbsp;Is music getting louder or quieter?Music IS getting louder: it&apos;s one of those things a lot of people think, even if they don&apos;t know the scientific proof. But is there scientific proof? In a word: yes.&quot;The loudness of the hotttest 5,000 songs each year increased very slowly from the ’50s through the ’80s, and then more rapidly and steadily, all the way to the present day,&quot; explains The Echo Nest.&quot;Popular music started getting louder during the heyday of Elvis Presley, Buddy Holly, and The Everly Brothers, but only by a little bit. Right around the rise of the compact disc, in the very late ’80s, music started getting louder at a faster rate. The trend continues to this day.&quot;&nbsp;Is music more or less bouncy?Bounciness? That&apos;s a measure of how rhythmic and &quot;sonically spiky&quot; the music is: tech house, reggae and salsa have bounce to spare, while choral music and atmospheric black metal are... less so. And interestingly, we&apos;re not in the bounciest age of music.&quot;In the ’70s, popular music grew bouncier once again — but that was its last peak. Music has been getting less bouncy (i.e. smoother) ever since,&quot; explains the blog post.&quot;Maybe we just like our music with less bounciness, as the years have passed, similarly to the way a bouncing ball bounces less over time. Or, maybe we’ve been making our music more complex, adding more and more bits (and then compressing our music to make it louder), so that there’s just less space in between the notes.&quot;&nbsp;Is music getting faster or slower?The world is getting faster, but is music following suit? Interestingly, not as much as you might think.&quot;As everything else speeds up, the tempo (also known as &apos;beats per minute&apos;) of the music we like has remained fairly constant over past few decades,&quot; explains the blog post.&quot;There was, however, a time when the speed of our favorite music was accelerating. Starting in the ‘50s, the advent of rock n’ roll may have combined with our growing obsession with the automobile and/or other factors to propel the tempo of our favorite music to new heights, leading to highpoints in 1980 and 1983.&quot;Also worth knowing for a pop quiz (possibly) – the fastest year for music was 1980, with an average of 110 BPM. The slowest was 1960, with a BPM of 101.&nbsp;Is music getting more or less energetic?You might think this was the same question as the last one, but no. The Echo Nest&apos;s definition of energetic includes loudness, beats, structural changes and the sounds of instruments. And that shows that while music isn&apos;t getting much faster, itisgetting more energetic.&quot;Notably, popular music’s energy level plateaued slightly during the ’80s. Other than that, we’ve seen a pretty consistent ramp-up in the energy level of our favorite jams,&quot; explains the blog post.&quot;This &apos;energy&apos; attribute results in a scaled floating point metric from 0 to 1, where 1 is the most energetic. From this analysis, popular music’s energy level started out around .3, and has now climbed to .7 — a big increase, and one that took decades.&quot;If Cliff Richard&apos;s looking tired, now you know why.&nbsp;Is music getting more or less danceable?Finally, something to unite the generations: music has always kept around the same level of danceability (yes, a real attribute used by The Echo Nest and its clients to measure how likely songs are to instigate twisting, potato-mashing, vogueing, daggering or all four).&quot;From the days when Elvis ruled the airwaves through the hippy ’60s, the smooth rock and disco ’70s, the new wave, synthpop, and hip-hop of the ’80s, the grunge-y ’90s, the boy bands that followed, all the way to the hip-hop-tinged pop that’s popular today, our favourite music has remained approximately as easy to dance to,&quot; explains The Echo Nest.&quot;In other words, from the time when your parents or grandparents demurely cut a rug to Elvis, all the way to Miley Cyrus’s controversial twerking at the VMA Awards last week, we’ve preferred our music to have just over average danceability.&quot;&nbsp;
Almost 80% of the Bitcoins received by Dread Pirate Roberts (DPR), the pseudonymous head of the Silk Road digital black market, may not have been seized by the FBI, according tonew researchby two Israeli computer scientists.When the FBI seized the Bitcoin wealth of DPR, believed to be 29-year-old San Franciscan Ross Ulbricht,it publishedthe addressto which it moved the money. Now, Dorit Ron and Adi Shamir have examined the &quot;blockchain&quot;, the public record of every Bitcoin transaction ever made, and identified not only the accounts from which the FBI transferred the 144,000 Bitcoins (presently worth $115m) it seized from DPR, but also several other accounts which appeared to be under his control.Around a third of the Bitcoins which entered the accounts the FBI seized were moved back out of those accounts prior to the seizure. Some will have been spent, on running Silk Road and paying DPR&apos;s living expenses. But the researchers also believe that he had other accounts which the authorities have failed to access entirely.For the months of May, June and September 2013, the DPR-run accounts received no income from the Silk Road itself. As the site operated on a commission model, taking around 7% of each sale, they conclude that the money for those months must be hidden elsewhere.&quot;Assuming that DPR continued to receive at least some commissions from Silk Road during these months,&quot; they write, &quot;it seems likely that he was simply using a different computer during these periods, which the FBI had not found or was unable to penetrate.&quot;Moreover, going by the known volume of Silk Road transactions – more than 9.5m Bitcoins were spent on the site – then around 633,000 Bitcoins will have been generated in commission. That would mean that the FBI&apos;s seizure represented just 23% of the site&apos;s gross income.The research backs up reports from October that the FBI wereunsuccessfully struggling to seize a further 600,000 Bitcoins belonging to DPR.As well as highlighting the difficulty the authorities have in dealing with technologies like Bitcoin, the paper also underscores one of the most popular misconceptions of the currency: that it is anonymous.While Bitcoin payment addresses need not have any direct link to the person or organisation using them, the decentralised nature of the currency requires transactions to be public. As a result, it is sometimes possible to look at the pattern of transactions carried out by one payment address and deduce who owns it.The researchers also report on the possibility that Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous inventor of Bitcoin, may have been connected to DPR. Nakamoto, who invented Bitcoin in 2009 and provided the computer power which ran the network for the first year of its life, stopped communicating with colleagues in 2010, and hasn&apos;t been heard from since.But the researchers find that one account, which sent a thousand Bitcoins to DPR in 2013, is linked through a string of high-value transactions to an account which has been active since 16 January 2009, and so Ron and Shamir argue that it is &quot;reasonable to assume&quot; that the account was owned by Nakamoto. They speculate that the transaction &quot;could represent either large scale activity on Silk Road, or some form of investment or partnership&quot;.•Forgetting about Bitcoin can pay off. Kristoffer Koch&apos;s £17 of Bitcoin bought in 2009 paid for a new house in 2013.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Twitch Taking a Harder Look at PS4's Playroom After Livestream Mayhem | KotakuWhat happens when closed hardware meets, um, open minds? Well, sort of this. A few days after the launch of PS4, people have worked out how to use the console's live streaming capabilities in conjunction with its augmented reality app, Playroom, to film themselves... doing stuff:People have used Playroom for off-topic purposes, however, in one case turning a livestream into a kind of call-in show. In another, a husband and wife appeared to drink themselves into a stupor and, after a brief blackout in the broadcast, the woman appeared totally nude. Twitch banned the account associated with that broadcast.Twitch has reminded users via a series of Tweets that the live streaming service is for game footage only and can you please put that away no one wants to see it.Minecraft introduces one-click Twitch broadcasting | MCVWe're unlikely to see the same sort of raunchy tomfoolery on Minecraft, but now Mojang's 'Let's Play'-friendly blockbuster is including an instant livetsreaming option, so there's even less of a reason for players not to transmit their building prowess to the universe:Twitch and Mojang have teamed up to introduce simple Twitch broadcasting to the PC version of the smash-hit game.Users who wish to do so must visit their Mojang account page and link a Twitch account to their profile. Then it merely needs to be activated in the game's options menu.Broadcasting can be triggered by simply hitting F6.In the future, everyone will be famous for 15 minutes of game footage.Sony looks to make $250m entertainment cuts | GamesIndustry InternationalGrim news from Sony HQ:Sony is looking to make $250 million worth of cuts in its entertainment business, including shifting movie investment to TV production and media networks, and reducing the output of Columbia Pictures.The company's largest investor has suggested Sony should consider selling-off parts of its business, but at a meeting of investors yesterday CEO Kaz Hirai made the case for keeping its entertainment divisions as one.There are no clear ramifications for PlayStation just yet.On Character design| Heroes of the Storm BlogLast week, Rock,Paper, Shotgunran an interviewwith Heroes of the Storm game director Dustin Browder. He was asked about the overt sexualisation of the title's female characters, and dodged the question, responding, "We're not running for President. We're not sending a message." Writer Nathan Graysonwrote about his frustrationafterwards. Now, Browder has apologised."It takes work to make compelling characters, but it's important to take a step back to ensure that we're not alienating our players," Browder wrote. "We have an amazing roster of heroes and we will always strive to make sure that everyone can have a hero that they identify with and feel powerful using."I would like to thank Rock, Paper, Shotgun as well as our players for their feedback on this important issue," he added. "We want to do better, so keep the feedback coming and thanks for the continued support."Now let's see how much changes.Doom Creator John Carmack Officially Leaves id Software | IGNIt's the end of an era as Doom co-creator John Carmack finally lives Id Software for good. He joined VR headset manufacturer Oculus as CTO earlier this year, but retained an interest in his old development studio. Not anymore:"John Carmack, who has become interested in focusing on things other than game development at id, has resigned from the studio," id's studio director Tim Willits told IGN. "John's work on id Tech 5 and the technology for the current development work at id is complete, and his departure will not affect any current projects. We are fortunate to have a brilliant group of programmers at id who worked with John and will carry on id's tradition of making great games with cutting-edge technology. As colleagues of John for many years, we wish him well."Good luck, John!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Apple&apos;s senior executives regularly take potshots at Android during their iPhone and iPad launch events, but now Google&apos;s Eric Schmidt has trolled them right back.In a post on his Google+ profile titledEric&apos;s Guide: Converting to Android from iPhone, Schmidt has suggested that iPhone owners are ripe for conversion to his own company&apos;s smartphone platform.&quot;Many of my iPhone friends are converting to Android. The latest high-end phones from Samsung (Galaxy S4), Motorola (Verizon Droid Ultra) and the Nexus 5 (for AT&amp;T, Sprint, T-Mobile) have better screens, are faster, and have a much more intuitive interface. They are a great Christmas present to an iPhone user!&quot; wrote Schmidt.&quot;Like the people who moved from PCs to Macs and never switched back, you will switch from iPhone to Android and never switch back as everything will be in the cloud, backed up, and there are so many choices for you. 80% of the world, in the latest surveys, agrees on Android.&quot;His post outlined a series of steps to ensure data, content and (Google) apps successfully transfer from iPhone to Android when switching, including a potshot at Apple&apos;s Safari web browser: &quot;Be sure to use Chrome, not Safari; its safer and better in so many ways.&quot;Apple is no stranger to the idea of encouraging people to switch from one platform to another: Schmidt&apos;s mention of people moving from PCs to Macs is a direct reference toApple&apos;s &quot;Real People&quot; advertising campaignin 2002, which featured people explaining why they&apos;d switched computers.More recently, the company has directly criticised Android during speeches and interviews. For example, Apple&apos;s chief executive Tim Cookdiscussed the &quot;pretty bleak story&quot; of fragmentation on Androidduring his WWDC speech in June, telling developers that &quot;more than a third of Android users are using an operating system that was released in 2010&quot;.In March, the company&apos;s marketing chief Phil Schiller was even more outspoken,telling the Wall Street Journalthat &quot;Android is often given as a free replacement for a feature phone and the experience isn&apos;t as good as an iPhone&quot; while disputing market share figures for the respective platforms.Eric Schmidt&apos;s blog post merely continues the public trash-talking between Google and Apple, although his contribution carries extra spice given his position as a member of Apple&apos;s board of directors between 2006 and 2009.More reading:Why an 80% market share might only represent half of smartphone users.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow we cope with spammers, fakers and cloners &gt;&gt; The Echo Nest BlogThe Echo Nest knows approximately 2.4 million artists as part of our database of music information, which is the largest in the world. However, we also keep a list of artists to ban from our system intentionally, so they never get recommended on any of our clients' services, or in their apps.This isn't a matter of taste (so Coldplay and Raffi are in no danger). It's because those banned artists are spammers.Musical spam is much less familiar than email spam, but it works the same way: If it's too hard to find the 10 people who might enjoy a shady or questionable product, spammers go for sheer volume, in their attempts to spoil your online experience with unwanted email or music.The one who just does silent tracks is quite something.Magnus Carlsen's win in chess championship shows powerful role of computers &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWhen [chess computing] engines suggest surprising moves, or arrangements of pieces that look "ugly" to human sensibilities, they are often seeing more deeply into the game than their users. They are not perfect; sometimes long-term strategy still eludes them. But players have learned from computers that some kinds of chess positions are playable, or even advantageous, even though they might violate general principles. Having seen how machines go about attacking and especially defending, humans have become emboldened to try the same ideas.Computers have gone so far that the top human players are now those who most often play the moves that would be chosen by the best engines (which sport names like Houdini, HIARCS and Rybka). Magnus Carlsen's biographers dub him the "hero of the computer era." Indeed, a study published on ChessBase.com earlier this year showed that in the tournament Mr. Carlsen won to qualify for the world championship match, he played more like a computer than any of his opponents.Nanoparticle-infused speaker could mean better sound in a smaller package &gt;&gt; ExtremeTechA team of researchers from Sweden's KTH Royal Institute of Technology have created a new kind of loudspeaker that relies on nanoparticle-infused membranes to generate sound without need of a permanent magnet.The main constituent of the membrane is cellulose fiber -- the polysaccharide component of plant cell walls. Researchers mixed the cellulose fibers in solution with ferromagnetic salts at 90 degree Celsius, then left the mixture to bond over the course of two months. The remaining water was drained at the end of this period to reveal a hydrogel (a hydrophilic collection of polymers) composed of magnetic cellulose fibers.Your medical records - now on sale &gt;&gt; Light Blue TouchpaperRoss Anderson:Your medical records are now officially on sale. American drug companies now learn thatMedRed BT Health Cloud will provide public access to 50 million de-identified patient records from UK.David Cameronannounced in 2011that every NHS patient would be a research patient, with their records opened up to private healthcare firms. He promised that our records would be anonymised and we'd have a right to opt out. Ipointedoutthat anonymisation doesn't work very well (as did theRoyal Society) but the Information Commissioner predictablywent along with the charade(and lobbyists are busyfixing upthe new data protection regulation in Brussels to leave huge loopholes for health service management and research).How the Apple-Samsung jury split the difference &gt;&gt; Fortune TechAlthough she was a substitute witness hired after Apple's first accounting expert died, [Apple accounting expert witness Julia] Davis kept her cool under tough cross-examination by Samsung, according to jurors. They call her a "superstar witness."On two of the three baskets - lost profits and lost royalties - the jurors agreed that Apple should get everything it asked for.On the third - Samsung's $230m in profits - they "butted heads," according to Colleen Allen, the former U.S. military medic who served as forewoman.Samsung had argued that there were operating costs associated with those profits - $178m, to be exact - and that to be fair the jury ought to reduce Samsung's profits of $230m by $178m.Allen didn't buy it. She agreed with Davis that "absolutely none of it should come out," because Samsung hadn't provided evidence to show that all those operating costs were associated with the devices at issue in the case.Notable that the damages assessed for the Nexus 4G ramped up considerably in the new result.I've been called the "Erin Brockovich" of revenge porn, and for the first time ever, here is my entire uncensored story of death threats, Anonymous and the FBI &gt;&gt; xoJaneCharlotte Laws:I'd never heard about revenge porn prior to the call, but for many months after, I would hear about little else. I cancelled appointments, put work on hold and ignored routine tasks because a naked image rarely comes off the Internet unless someone becomes obsessed with its removal. RP website operators are consumed with what they do; therefore, anyone who hopes to prevail against them must be equally consumed.I emailed the site owner, Hunter Moore, and asked him to take down the photo in accordance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. He refused.I was not surprised...The website was not about pornography; it was about ridiculing and hurting others.An astonishingly determined woman - which is what was needed in this case.Mainstream large-screen smartphones to be 5- to 6-inch modelsHandset vendors are expected to continue launching large-size smartphones mainly with 5- to 6in displays, as sales of smartphones with a display size of 6in and above have been weaker than expected, according to industry sources.The current availability of large-size smartphones with over 6in displays include Samsung Electronics' Galaxy Mega 6.3, Huawei's Ascend Mate, Sony Mobile Communications' Xperia Z Ultra and HTC's HTC One Max. But the sources said that sales of these models have been short of original expectations due mainly to concerns of mobility.While sales of 5-7in smartphones accounted for over 20% of global smartphone sales at the end of the third quarter of 2013, the ratio of smartphones with display sizes of up to 6-7in reached a mere 3%, revealed the sources.Taiwan's Acer struggles to redefine its niche &gt;&gt; FT.comAll PC companies are struggling as consumers spend money on new smartphones and tablets instead of PCs. Some, such as Lenovo, have been able to offset that with steady sales to corporate clients or, in Dell and Hewlett-Packard's case, sales of consulting services.Acer, however, hashistorically focusedon selling low-frills computers to consumers, making up their low profitability with large volumes.Margins in the consumer PC business have become so tight that US companies are likely going to pull back from it, leaving only Asian brands more familiar with low margin work, Jerry Shen, Asus' chief executive, said recently.(Subscription required to read full article.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday! Do you have an Xbox One yet? Tell us all about it!
Rubber is burning on the race circuits and enemy armies are crumbling on the battlefields. Microsoft has sold more than 1m Xbox One consoles in 24 hours, smashing previous records, and enthusiastic gamers are already putting their machines to the test.The third version of the US firm's best-selling console, and the first new design to appear in eight years, made its debut in the UK and 13 other markets on Friday, but is already sold out in most retailers.Microsoft statisticians estimate that owners of the new console have already dispatched more than 60m zombies, driven 3.6m miles and earned 43m fit points as they explore some of the 22 titles available at launch."Xbox One is now sold out at most retailers," the company said in a release. "We are working to replenish stock as fast as possible to meet the unprecedented demand from our customers."The Xbox One is being pitched head to head with Sony's PlayStation 4. The Japanese company's first console release since 2006 sold 1m units in a day after going on sale in just the US and Canada on Friday 15 November. The PlayStation 4 arrives in the UK on Friday.John Lewis sold its entire stock within two hours of the Xbox One being available online, the retailer said on Sunday. This helped push the department store group's sales above a record £100m for the second week running. The retailer predicts Microsoft's console, which costs £429.99, will outsell Sony's, despite the PlayStation 4's lower £349.99 price tag.Gamers will be drawn to titles that are exclusive to the Xbox One including Forza Motorsport 5, and a forthcoming live action television series directed by Steven Spielberg and based on the Halo game."With exclusive titles, a strong multimedia offering, plus a thoroughly re-worked Kinect motion control system, the Xbox One appears to be ahead of the game this Christmas," said John Lewis gaming buyer Robert Hennessey. "Time will tell which brand continues to deliver the goods, but for now, it's advantage Microsoft."British games designers will be among thebiggest winnersfrom the console wars. The UK industry is spending £68m advertising these new machines and the titles that accompany them in anticipation of a bumper Christmas.Kinect Sports Rivals, driving game The Crew and the science fiction title Fable Legends are among the UK games designed for the new consoles, and sales will add a final flourish to a record year in which Grand Theft Auto V, created by Scottish firm Rockstar North, became the fastest-selling title in history."We are working hard to create more Xbox One consoles and look forward to fulfilling holiday gift wishes this season, said Yusuf Mehdi, a marketing and strategy executive at Xbox.
Price £87,959MPG 28.5Top speed 184mph"Oooofff, it gets you right in the vulva!" howls Julia from the tiny back seat. The middle-aged mother of three had never sat in a Porsche before and to give her a taste of what the world's most lusted-after performance car can do, I had floored the accelerator without warning. That effortless, visceral, forward rush, underscored by the engine's distinctive rorty note, is as close to an automotive high as you can get. It's the reason Porsche drivers often seem to be grinning – it's not just because they know they earn more than you do…ThisPorsche is the new 911 Carrera 4S. It's the largest sports car the German masterbuilder has ever created – though Julia is still having to sit in the back with her knees in her armpits and the boot is a joke. But up front I am as comfortable as a chubby banker in his favourite club chair.There's never a day when you wouldn't want to find yourself driving a car like this, but this week it feels particularly apt as the 911 has just celebrated its 50th birthday.The original Porsche 911 from 1963.To mark the occasion, Porsche has created a commemorative model. Aside from a few extra flounces and period references, it is the same as the one I'm driving here. But it's worth noting – as this is the kind of obsessional attention to detail that Porscheophiles love – its multi-spoked wheels are inspired by the originalFuchsrims, the dials have green lettering, as the 1963 car did, and the badge colours are repeated in the headrests' stitching. Porsche has also only made 1,963 of them. I love that sort of numerical homage.Porsche does make other models – from the "poor man's" Boxster up to the unlovable Panamera, and it sells more of its hideous Cayenne SUVs than all the others put together – but the 911 has always been the beating heart of the brand. It's the quintessential sports car and the benchmark against which all others measure themselves. It's the Steve McQueen; the steak baguette; the… You could go on. Porsches do this. They make you feel like you're in love.Porsche then and now: 50 years in the making of an icon.Over the 50 years more than 820,000 911s have been built. Most have made their way into their owner's lives as surprisingly useful, everyday cars. Everyday? Actually, yes. There are not many supercars with room for two little elfs in the back and, despite being so low-slung, my elderly neighbour managed to clamber in and out. It's biddable in town and even surprisingly frugal with the fuel. But all 911s, given half a&nbsp;chance, are flyers with the potential to let rip on the track. And to have such a limitless supply of power, grace and ability on tap is something that always improves your mood.This all-wheel-drive car is powered by a phenomenal 3.8-litre six-cylinder 400bhp engine – which I, of course, spent the week driving responsibly. It's also fitted with a new seven-speed manual gearbox. It's the world's only seven-speed manual and it's easy to see why – it's a complete pain. You never seem to know what gear you are in, or should be in. My father's first car only had three gears and that served him well enough.I rarely drive on my own. But late last Sunday I headed out to the quiet, dark lanes of Kent for one last go before the car was collected the next morning. I drove 50 miles in 50 minutes – Porsche would like that. No music, just the engine's mesmerising buzz. Fast, slow, straight, cornering… and grinning.Time to start the Christmas shoppingStep on it: a lovely classic pedal car from the RAC's online shop.It can be hard buying for the car-lover in your life. But luckily the RAC has come to your rescue with the launch of a new online shop. It will stock 80,000 different products for motorists, ranging from headlights for a 1960s VW Beetle to a seat belt for the family dog. And also this amazing old-fashion pedal car… Have a look atracshop.co.uk.Muscle-car maniaFord is to reveal the new Ford Mustang to the world on 5 December. It will be unveiled in six cities round the world, including Barcelona, where Ford of Europe will hold a "Go Further" event to introduce new vehicles and technologies. Mustang is the most "Liked" vehicle onFacebookwith more than 5.5 million fans. As part of Ford's countdown to the unveiling, Facebook andInstagramwill showcase what Mustang has meant to its millions of fans during the last 50 years. The "Go Further" event will be hosted by Stephen Odell, president of Ford of Europe, and will be live-streamed from 2pm on 5 December. You can watch it here:gofurtherlive.com.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
A national economy is an unimaginably complex system. And yet we compress all its complexity into a single measure, and then focus obsessively on that. If you want a metaphor for this, think of King Kong spending most of his time staring at a pinhead, worrying about whether it is moving or not.  That pinhead is GDP or, to give it its full moniker, gross domestic product.It'sdefinedas "the sum of all goods and services produced in a country over time, without double counting products used in other output. It is a comprehensive measure, covering the production of consumer goods and services, even government services, and investment goods." From the movement of this single number over time we get an idea of whether the economy is contracting or expanding, which is why governments all over the world at the moment, and especially in the UK, devote every waking hour to monitoring it.  If it's up by 0.3%, then it's trebles all round in Whitehall; if down by 0.3%, then Cameron and Osborne start thinking of life after&nbsp;government.That this is absurd goes without saying. In fact, it's been absurd ever since GDP was invented in 1934 by the economist Simon Kuznets. The measure has been subjected to ridicule and criticism for as long as I can remember. If a parent chooses to stay home to look after his or her children, then the "work" involved (producing stable and happy children?) doesn't get counted in the GDP.  But if the same parent employs a nanny, then it does.  People have pointed out that increasing GDP may simply be an indicator of how quickly we are boosting global warming rather than increasing social welfare: a gas-guzzling, high-emission SUV contributes the same amount to GDP as much as a thousand bicycles.  And&nbsp;so on.Deciding that the health of a nation's economy can be measured by a single number is as daft as thinking that a single measure of "intelligence" (the IQ) can sum up an individual's capability and potential. As Howard Gardner pointed out many years ago, there aremany different kinds of intelligence, and each person occupies a different point in that multi-dimensional space. Similarly, the health of an economy needs to be measured along several axes. But we seem to be stuck with GDP because that's the only thing economists know how to calibrate.To the measure's age-old contradictions, the internet has now added a really puzzling one. The world of traditional "production", in which industries and businesses produced goods and services and in the process created value that could be measured and included in GDP, has been augmented by a parallel universe in which there is a great deal of activity,  most of which is invisible to the bean-counters who compute GDP.Take Twitter. It has more than 230m active users, 100m of whom use the service daily to send 500m tweets. Since Twitter was founded, these users have dispatched more than 300billiontweets. And in exchange for this wonderful service they have paid Twitter precisely £0.00.Now you may balk at the idea of tweets being "product", but they are what has turned Twitter into a company apparently worth $24bn.  So there's economic value there,&nbsp;somewhere."But," as theNew YorkercolumnistJames Surowiecki writes, "as far as GDP is concerned, they barely exist. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist Erik Brynjolfsson points out that, according to government statistics, the 'information sector' of the [US] economy – which includes publishing, software, data services and telecom – has barely grown since the late 80s, even though we've seen an explosion in the amount of information and data that individuals and businesses&nbsp;consume".One way of thinking about this comes from recognising that attention has become the really scarce resource in a world of information overload.  Using the insight that even when people do not pay cash they must still pay "attention", Professor Brynjolfsson and his MIT colleagues have computed an estimate of annual change in the value of online applications that have very low or zero prices. The idea is to measure how much time we spend online (on the assumption that time is money) and then convert that into dollars. Theyconcludedthat over the period 2002-2011 the increase in consumer surplus created by free internet services was more than $30bn per year in the US alone, which amounts to about 0.23% of average annual GDP.  Given the scale of people's engagement with the internet, this seems low to me. But it's a start. And – who knows? – when we eventually find a way of measuring the value of online activity, we might find that the economy has been growing nicely after all.
The Lego games might have started life as a fresh way into over-merchandised fictional worlds (Lego Star Warswas a post prequel-trilogy tonic), but they have evolved into ambitious virtual toy sets – a dinky, plastic, but comprehensive way of celebrating sophisticated story-telling universes.So it is withLego Marvel Super Heroes, which uses Marvel's recent big-screen imagery as a foundation to probe much deeper into the comic giant's archive. Bashing blocks with the Avengers, X-Men and SpiderMan is the top draw, but there are around 150 characters to unlock and control, including Stan Lee, who has more powers than anybody. And it's that humour that keepsLego Marvelfrom slipping, the cheeky subversion ("Dr Doom's Doom Ray of Doom!") bringing a joy to the urge to collect bolts and heroes, and making this a family-friendly pleasure.
Ostensibly, what we have here is a familiar 3D exploration game with some light combat elements thrown in. However, appearances are deceptive, and in this case belie the real magic of the gameworld Media Molecule has created.Tearawayis draped in layers of innovation, presented collectively as a Technicolor landscape of papercraft and origami-inspired design. Its greatest trick is in shredding gaming's fourth wall; an idea toyed with repeatedly, as the player serves a dual role – both as the diminutive in-game character and as the gamer clutching the Vita. To achieve this, it makes imaginative use of the handheld's distinctive features. The camera puts a live feed of the player's face into the game as an objective, while the Vita's rear touchpad can be used to thrust fingers into the gameworld, where they immediately appear to tear holes and solve puzzles.Witty, inventive and encouraging creativity throughout,Tearawayis a triumph for its developers.
Assassin's Creedhas become a divisive franchise, developer Ubisoft's yearly release cycle leading to accusations of watering down the series' quality in favour of a stable income. Observing the shortcomings inAssassin's Creed IV: Black Flag– simplistic combat, badly structured mission types, an awkward sci-fi metafiction imposed on an otherwise solid story – one would be forgiven for thinking these accusations hold weight. Yet for every failure, there is a greater success.Taking place during the Caribbean's "Golden Age of Piracy" (around 1700-1718),Black Flagoffers players control of devil-may-care swashbuckler Edward Kenway. You plunder your way around a huge map featuring Cuba, Jamaica, the tip of Florida, the Bahamas and countless other islets and coves. It's this intoxicating mixture of sun-bleached vistas, shanties and raucous characters that elevates the game's tone above that of several more earnest predecessors.The story is entertaining and rips along at a pace, although the real joy comes from picking a random direction and sailing off to engage in unscripted adventure.As unhinged as a rum-sodden buccaneer, entirely imperfect and yet charming in its flawed excess, the old tub may have wind in her sails yet.
It's a battle that makes the Samsung Galaxy versus the iPhone, Oasis v Blur andStrictlyvX Factorlook tame. Xbox and PlayStation, the two biggest names in video games, go head to head over hundreds of millions of pounds in consumer cash.Microsoft's Xbox One launched  with a spectacular live show in London's Leicester Square. Sony's PlayStation 4 will arrive on Friday in what is expected to be an equally lavish affair. Never before have two games consoles of this scale launched so close to one another. The UK games industry is spending £68m on advertising both these new machines and their games to ensure they are this year's must-have Christmas gifts.Over the past eight years Microsoft, with its Xbox 360, has been the UK's top-selling console maker, while Sony, with its PS3, has struggled. Now PlayStation is tipped to make a comeback with its more affordable PS4. The Japanese company seems to have renewed vigour under the leadership of British-born Andrew House, who became president in 2011 and is tasked with taking on Xbox.Both Xbox One and PS4 are expected to sell out this Christmas – and that's good news for the British games industry. Many of the most-anticipated video games for both consoles are being created here, including blockbusters such asKinect Sports Rivals,The CrewandFable Legends.This comes just a few months after the UK recorded its biggest video game success to date.Grand Theft Auto V, created by Scottish development studio Rockstar North, broke sales records in September by making £308m in a single day. Xbox One and PS4 also arrive at a crucial time for the UK high street. Sales of hard-copy video games have declined in recent years as consumers spend more time and money on downloadable games for tablets and smartphones. And this has had a significant impact on retailers such as HMV and Game, which have closed  hundreds of stores over the past two years. Meanwhile, Blockbuster – another key games retailer – is on the verge of disappearing altogether after going into administration for a second time this month.The launch of these new games systems is expected to be a huge boost to the retailers. Kim Bayley, director-general of the Entertainment Retailers Association, said: "The drama and excitement generated by Playstation 4 and Xbox One look set to produce the sales boost retailers have been crying out for."Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One offer a number of impressive innovations over previous consoles. The latter boasts a more advanced Kinect camera, which allows families to control the TV and games with gestures and voice commands. The new camera can pick up the gamer's heart rate and the slightest movements of the hand, and can even render console owners in full 3D.Meanwhile, PlayStation 4's new controller features a touchpad interface, and gamers will be able to upload videos of their games to YouTube simply by pressing a button. Fans who also own the portable PlayStation Vita machine will be able to stream games from the PS4 and play them on the handheld, so that other members of the family can use the television set.
Twitter has announced a significant increase in its data security as it moves to protect users from attacks by the "apex predators" of the internet.An internal team of security engineers has spent several months implementing "perfect forward secrecy", which adds an extra layer of security to the widely used https encryption deployed by banks online, by retailers and, increasingly, consumer web services.Google, Facebook, Dropbox and Tumblr have all implemented forward secrecy already, and LinkedIn is understood to be introducing it in 2014.Users may not immediately notice any difference, other than a barely perceptible time lag as they use the service across desktop, mobile and through third-party services, but for Twitter the move asserts its credentials as a company fiercely protective of its users' data.That data includes not only messages that users choose to publish publicly, but also direct, private messages, protected tweets and data on what users say, who they comment on and who else they read. Collectively, large datasets, such as those of Twitter's 218 million users, can be analysed to identify connections between people, locations and interests.Announcing the new implementation, which has been running as a trial since 21 October, a detailed post on Twitter's engineering blog encouraged other sites to "defend and protect the users' voice" by implementing https and forward secrecy.Documents released by Edward Snowden, a former contractor to the US National Security Agency, have shown that the agency and its affiliates are storing vast amounts of encrypted consumer data so that it can later attempt to decrypt it, either by accessing unencrypted data or by using specific court orders to force data owners to hand over the private SSL keys. But forward secrecy means data would still be secure, even if the agency obtained the keys to the encrypted data.First developed in 1992, perfect forward secrecy creates a new, disposable key for each exchange of information, which means the key for every individual session would have to be decrypted to access the data.Twitter engineer Jacob Hoffman-Andrews said implementation on Twitter was complex because of its scale, which meant that extra work was done to ensure the process did not slow the site. He wants to encourage smaller sites to introduce forward secrecy and said it could take just two weeks to implement. "We are trying to create a new norm for what it means to be a secure website," he told theObserver. "It makes it harder for anyone attempting a large-scale cryptographic attack, but this is not just about the NSA. There's more than one apex predator on the internet, including terrorists and groups outside of government – anyone well funded could use the same techniques."Fellow engineer Jeff Hodges said Twitter's policy of asserting its users' right to privacy marked it out from other services, and that the Snowden revelations had an impact inside the company. "It was a surprise, and it inspired a lot of work," he said. "There's a gap to be bridged between what developers know to be the correct thing to do next, and that becoming policy at companies so that they invest the time to make it happen. But that process is percolating up."Chester Wisniewski, senior security adviser at software security firm Sophos, said that several mainstream consumer sites have moved to improve security of user data in the wake of the Snowden revelations, but doubted that the move was due to consumer demand."This is good news for Twitter users," he said. "Not many companies of this scale are using perfect forward secrecy and this is good news for privacy advocates. Even if Twitter is compromised or compelled by a government to disclose its private keys, user communications that were intercepted on the wire will remain safe."Wisniewski said that the technical community is exploring how to establish web standards that will make encryption of web traffic a default. He said: "Most of the movement towards improved security and privacy is long overdue. For a couple of years, Google redesigned parts of its networks to offer https encryption for all of its services, and Yahoo! announced it will begin using [the secure protocol] https everywhere it can from 2014. The public pressure is welcomed by those of us who are concerned about the privacy of the average individual. It is simply unfortunate that it took a leak like this for companies to do the right thing."
Grrrrrrrrrrr. That's the&nbsp;sound of a tiger, obviously. I'm growling – with appropriate claw gestures – at the so-called "tiger nose" grille of this Kia Carens. A few years ago, South Korea's second-largest automobile manufacturer brought in a famous German designer called Peter to&nbsp;make their cars less, well, less Korean-looking. Less boxy and dull. Herr Peter's solution: stick his famous tiger nose grilles on them. But I'm just not getting it, not getting an apex predator big cat kind of vibe here, either from the nose or&nbsp;from anything behind.Not that it's not a nice-looking car. Peter has successfully unKoreanified the range, including the Carens. Here's what you need to know about it, the boring bit. It's a smallish MPV, but somehow manages to squeeze in seven seats. However, the final row is accessible only by contortionists; if your kids are fat, forget about it. Also, with those seats up, there's virtually zero luggage space. Perfect if you have lots of thin children with no possessions, then.The second row of seats is rather brilliant, though. There are basically three separate chairs that can be slid, tilted or folded away as you please. Versatility, that's what I'm talking about – fat kids, thin kids, tired kids, nonexistent kids, they all fit in. Adults, even. With their stuff, too, because the final row is now folded away and there's plenty of&nbsp;space back there.Up front? Also quite pleasing: sensible and practical. I've got the very-top-of-the-range model, so there are extra toys, a touch screen, reverse camera, panoramic sunroof, etc. But it costs nearly 24 grand, which is obviously stupid money to pay for a Korean MPV. Heading down towards £17,000 for the cheapest one, they begin to make more sense. Plus, you get the Kia seven-year warranty.To drive, well, it's not too bad for&nbsp;one of these. It's quite low-slung, so it feels more like a car than a bus. Suspension is softish, the steering is&nbsp;light to the point of lifeless – but then, you don't get a car like this for driving thrills. It ain't no tiger, that's for sure, in spite of its nose.Hey, maybe Peter meant Tiger nose, as inTiger Woods? Nah, it doesn't look much like his, either, nor does the car have much in common with the golfer. (If it did, would you come home to find it on the neighbours' drive, and does the seven-year warranty cover cheating?) No, on the golf course the Kia Carens would be…Lee Westwood, perhaps? Or a caddy. And if it were an animal, it would be a beast of burden of some sort, albeit a likable, handsome one. A compact carthorse perhaps, such as aSuffolk Punch. Neiiiiggghhh.Kia Carens 1.7 CRDi manual ISGPrice£23,895Top speed119 mphAcceleration0-60 in 10 secondsCombined fuel consumption56.4mpgCO2emissions132g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating5/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAlthough not many people seem to be buying it, Nintendo's next-gen console Wii U has been around for a year, its launch-day blues now a faded memory. Instead of half-baked non-entities, it can field games like Super Mario 3D World, which repurposes its heroic plumber's antics for multiple players, letting up to four people take on its gloriously shiny stages. Even for Nintendo, this has a spectacularly high degree of polish, each level a perfect little challenge that borrows mechanics from past Mario games and plunders Nintendo's wider catalogue in search of novelties to be used just once before being discarded. Beautiful to look at, brilliantly designed and near-perfectly realised, this is a rare treat to be savoured.
Last month's blockbusters, includingBattlefield 4,Call Of Duty: GhostsandAssassin's Creed IV: Black Flag,all get the Xbox One treatment, but there are plenty of other games arriving for launch.Killer Instinctmay not have the profile of Tekken or Street Fighter, but it's a solid, combo-driven beat-'em-up.Ryse: Son Of Romeprovides Gladiator-style third-person action, whileJust Dance 2014andZumba World Partydo their best to demonstrate the positive aspects of Kinect. For those not in the mood to drop £400 on a new console, there's downloadable contentBioShock Infinite: Burial At Sea – Episode One(Xbox, PS3, PC), which puts alternate versions of the game's hero and heroine in undersea city Rapture during its heyday.Tearaway(Vita) is an interesting if cloyingly quirky platform game from the makers of LittleBigPlanet, which uses the Vita's touch panels to neat effect.
Console launches are fraught with disappointment: the potential of new technology meets the paucity of games rushed out to meet the artificially imposed deadline of launch day. And so it is with Xbox One.Crimson Dragonis spiritual successor to on-rails shooter Panzer Dragoon, and while it's similar, it has the air of something half-finished, with a perfunctory introduction and low-resolution textures throughout.LocoCycleis a perky little idea – a sentient motorbike with guns that can punch other traffic – stretched into a disastrously repetitious and uniformly dreadful full game;Dead Rising 3puts more shuffling zombies on screen than ever before, although the effect is rarely thrilling; andKinect Sports Rivalssets out to demonstrate that Kinect isn't simply a way for the NSA to gaze at you picking your nose on the sofa by offering a selection of non-appalling motion controlled sports mini-games. Last but not least,Powerstar Golfoffers an icily competent game of golf with several courses, minimal commentary and a decent physics model.
Twitter has announced a significant increase in its data security as it moves to protect users from attacks by the "apex predators" of the internet.An internal team of security engineers have spent several months implementing "perfect forward secrecy", which adds an extra layer of security to widely used HTTPS encryption deployed by online banking, retailers and, increasingly, consumer web services.Google, Facebook, Dropbox and Tumblr have all implemented forward secrecy already, and LinkedIn is understood to be introducing it in 2014.Users may not immediately notice any difference, other than a barely perceptible time lag as they use the service across desktop, mobile and through third party services, but for Twitter the move asserts its credentials as a company fiercely protective of its users' data.That data includes not only messages that users choose to publish publicly, but also direct, private messages, protected tweets and data on what users say, who they comment on and who else they read. Collectively, large datasets, such as those of Twitter's 218 million users, can be analysed to identify connections between people, locations and interests.Announcing the new implementation, which has been running as a trial since 21 October, adetailed post on Twitter's engineering blogencouraged other sites to "defend and protect the users' voice" by implementing HTTPS and forward secrecy.Documents released by Edward Snowden, a former contractor to the US National Security Agency, have shown that the agency and its affiliates are storing vast amounts of encrypted consumer data so that it can later attempt to decrypt it, either by accessing unencrypted data or by using specific court orders to force data owners to hand over the private SSL keys. But forward secrecy means that data would still be secure, even if the agency obtained the keys to the encrypted data.First developed in 1992, perfect forward secrecy creates a new, disposable key for each exchange of information, which means the key for every individual session would have to be decrypted to access the data.Twitter engineer Jacob Hoffman-Andrews said that implementation on Twitter was complex because of its scale, which meant that extra work was done to ensure the process did not slow the site. He wants to encourage smaller sites to introduce forward secrecy and said it could take as little as two weeks to implement. "We are trying to create a new norm for what it means to be a secure website," he said. "It makes it harder for anyone attempting a large-scale cryptographic attack, but this is not just about the NSA. There's more than one apex predator on the internet, including terrorists and groups outside of government – anyone well-funded could use the same techniques."Fellow engineer Jeff Hodges said Twitter's policy of asserting its users' right to privacy marked it out from other services, and that the Snowden revelations had a big impact inside the company. "It was a big surprise, and it inspired a lot of work," he said. "There's a gap to be bridged between what developers know to be the correct thing to do next, and that becoming policy at companies so that they invest the time to make it happen. But that process is percolating up."Chester Wisniewski, senior security advisor at software security firm Sophos, said that several mainstream consumer sites have moved to improve security of user data in the wake of the Snowden revelations, but doubted that the move was due to consumer demand."The people working on the next generation of web standards are considering making encryption of all web traffic the default," he said. "Most of the movement towards improved security and privacy is long overdue. For a couple of years now, Google redesigned parts of its networks to offer HTTPS encryption for all of its services, and Yahoo! announced it will begin using [the secure protocol] HTTPS everywhere they can from 2014. The public pressure is welcomed by those of us who are concerned about the privacy of the average individual. It is simply unfortunate that it took a leak like this for companies to do the right thing."
Online surveillance is undermining people's confidence in the internet, warns Sir Tim Berners-Lee – though he predicts that its outcome will be to enshrine users' rights in the longer term.But he added that whistleblowers such as Edward Snowden, who triggered a raft of disclosures against the US National Security Agency and the UK's GCHQ surveillance agencies, were important: "I think we must protect them and respect them," he said at the launch of a new index showing web freedoms around the world.Berners-Lee, 58, the British inventor of the world wide web, said: "One of the most encouraging findings of this year's Web Index is how the web and social media are increasingly spurring people to organise, take action and try to expose wrongdoing in every region of the world. But some governments are threatened by this, and a growing tide of surveillance and censorship now threatens the future of democracy"He also said that those who have revealed secret surveillance deserved praise: "Countries owe a lot to whistleblowers – there's a series of whistleblowers who have been involved. Snowden is the latest. Because there was no way we could have had that conversation without them."At the end of the end day when systems for checks and balances break down we have to rely on the whistleblowers – I think we must protect them and respect them."Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, said that as a result of the revelations about surveillance, the collaborative online encyclopaedia will begin encrypting communications with its users all over the world so that people cannot be spied on as they access information.He said that the revelations of the extent of surveillance and data collection by western governments – such as the arrangement between GCHQ and the NSAthat let the US spy agency "unmask" Britons' data– was having a damaging effect on the west's reputation."I do hear a lot of concerns about the direction that a lot of governments are taking with respect to the web," Wales said at the same event. "One of the things that I do is campaign in authoritarian countries to explain why it's important for their economies and futures to have freedom of expression online. But when I'm meeting a minister in China or Kazakh, and saying that they're on the wrong side of history, it's important to be able to point to the UK or US as examples. And when I say that they shouldn't be spying on everyone in China or Kazakh, it rings a little hollow. We may trust GCHQ to not take activists away in the night, but if they monitor everybody's communications, then the Chinese will feel justified in doing the same."Encrypting connections to Wikipedia should make it impossible for surveillance systems to monitor what people are looking up or editing by tapping connections, although it might be possible if the user's computer has been compromised.Berners-Lee said that the focus of what "freedom" means online had shifted in the past two years, from questions of sites being censored, to fears about governments pulling the plug on connectivity, to new ones about silent surveillance."Initially there was peoples' pushback against censorship and websites being blocked, or the internet being just turned off," he said. "Now this spying is a more insidious force which has a chilling effect, where people don't use facilities that they could have used because of a nameless fear of something happening to them."
The virtual currency Bitcoin can be used to purchase pizza and to make apartment rentals – and now it can be used to buy tickets to space. Virgin Galactic, the space-flight branch of Richard Branson’s empire,announced on Fridaythat it will accept payments made by Bitcoin.“All of our future astronauts are pioneers in their own right, and this is one more way to be forward-thinking,” Branson said, in a blogpost for the company. He said a female flight attendant from Hawaii purchased a Virgin Galactic ticket using bitcoin on Friday.Flights on Virgin Galactic cost $250,000; passengers can cancel up to three months before departure. Bitcoin topped $700 on the MT Gox exchange, where it is traded, earlier this week. Branson said on CNBC on Friday that payments will be transferred into US dollars to establish a fixed price in case the customer requests a refund.Bitcoin’s value benefitted in recent weeks from growing support from investors, including China, who believe the decentralised currency could hold long-term promise as an alternative form of payment.“I have invested in some bitcoins myself and find it fascinating how a whole new global currency has been created,” Branson said. “For people who can afford to invest a little in bitcoins, it’s worth looking into.”At a US Senate committee hearing this week, the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission called Bitcoin is a legitimate financial service, but warned that the government has little power to regulate the currency.Mythili Raman, the acting assistant attorney general of the Justice Department, said the currency has the potential to “offer legitimate financial services and have the potential to promote more efficient global commerce”. She added that the anonymous nature of payment and inability to reserve payments might pose challenges to law enforcement.&quot;We have also seen, however, that certain aspects of virtual currencies appeal to criminals and present a host of new challenges to law enforcement,&quot; Raman said.Branson said he hopes the currency will become more widely accepted by other governments with some regulation. He also compared innovations in flight to innovations in currency and speculated that: “The days of carrying cash and coins could soon be over.”
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases.There&apos;s a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day. There&apos;s also a new format this week, separating out games and non-game apps. For now, read on for this week&apos;s iOS selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).APPSBear &amp; Hare (Free)Yes, them off the John Lewis Christmas advert. There&apos;s an official app for that: the story of the bear who&apos;d never seen Christmas until his big-eared friend hopped toArgosPoundlanda suitable retailer to buy him an alarm clock. The app sees DJ/presenter Lauren Laverne providing voice narration for the festive tale.iPhone / iPadXbox One SmartGlass (Free)Getting an Xbox One this weekend? You&apos;ll be wanting Microsoft&apos;s official second-screen app, which debuted this week just ahead of the next-gen console&apos;s launch. You can use it to control the Xbox One, access media, browse the web on TV, and for games that support it, use it as a companion for extra gameplay features.iPhone / iPadGoogle Play Music (Free)It took its time, but Google&apos;s All Access streaming music service finally has an official app for iOS, joining the existing Android version. The app provides the All Access catalogue, personal radio stations based on specific songs, artists and albums, and also access to your own collection if you&apos;ve uploaded it to Google&apos;s cloud. The app is neat and simple to use, although there is scope for more features to come.iPhoneCat Spanish by CatAcademy (£0.99)This sounds like a novelty app – it &quot;combines the latest learning science with the power of internet cats&quot; – but the science really is serious: cat pics as a way to teach you Spanish vocabulary, phrases and grammar. It comes from British startup Memrise, which promises the cats are backed up with adaptive testing and well-tuned repetition to ensure your brain retains the information.iPhoneCookBookKey (£1.99)I&apos;ll admit to being a little hazy on the copyright ins and outs of CookBookKey, but for cooks this app could certainly be useful. It&apos;s a database of recipes from popular cookery books, taking in Nigella, Jamie, Gordon and the Hairy Bikers among others. Scan the barcodes on the books you own – to prove you own them, presumably – and it&apos;ll let you search through their recipes by ingredient, time or cuisine type.iPhoneUCAS The Little Guide (Free)It&apos;s not time for A-Level students in the UK to panic about switching university at the last minute just yet. But UCAS, the university admissions body, has an app to help pupils prepare for the application process, with a digital guide to choosing courses, applying, handling finance and even plotting a gap year or apprenticeship. A useful tool, and good timing too.iPadVivoom (Free)There have been a few video-shooting apps promising movie-style special effects before, but Vivoom seems to have the backing to deliver it: its publisher is GenArts, which makes tools for special-effects pros. This is for everyone though: more than 100 effects from TV shows and films to add to your 15-second videos before sharing them. It&apos;s good fun.iPhoneMoshi Monsters Music (Free)Moshi Monsters may be a virtual world / online game for children, but it&apos;s been getting more involved in music – an album that went gold in the UK, and a threatened lawsuit from Lady Gaga over a spoof character singing on YouTube. Now Moshi has its own app to help kids watch its music videos, and even sing along via their karaoke lyrics. The link above is for iPhone, buthere&apos;s the separate iPad version.iPhone / iPadTate Britain Mobile Guide (Free)Heading to the Tate Britain museum? This audioguide app might just be the perfect accompaniment for your visit, providing info on the main works, including the views of the Tate&apos;s curators and other experts. And it can be used anywhere, not just at the gallery, so it&apos;s good for art enthusiasts outside London and the UK too.iPhoneChatterPix Kids (Free)This is silly in the best possible ways: an app that gets children to take a photo of a person, toy or object, draw a line where the mouth should be, then record their voice chattering away. This then gets turned into an animation where the fake mouth says those words. Like I said, silly, but judging by the reaction of my children, also rather marvellous.iPhone / iPadCTRL Music (£2.49)A lot of music remixing apps have come and gone without making a discernible impact on the App Store. Can CTRL Music fare better? It certainly looks interesting: an app where you monkey about with songs (including those in your library and streamed from SoundCloud) with more than 20 effects and synths. Music from some big artists is also available: Daft Punk, Tinie Tempah, PSY and more.iPhone / iPadBig Bird&apos;s Words: a Sesame Street App (£0.69)And now for something different: a Big Bird-branded app from Sesame Street that uses augmented reality technology for something actually useful. The app focuses on food: more than 500 words that might be found on products and packaging. The idea: kids run around the house (or supermarket) hunting down specific lists of words, with the app recognising and reading them out when the camera is pointed at them. Inventive and interesting.iPhoneClumsy Ninja for iPhone and iPad.GAMESClumsy Ninja (Free)Clumsy Ninja was first shown off at Apple&apos;s iPhone 5 launch in 2012, but it&apos;s taken this long to bounce onto the App Store. It was worth the wait though: it sees you taking ownership of a ninja and training him up with a series of activities: a virtual pet game, almost, but with startlingly-good character animation. It&apos;s utterly charming.iPhone / iPadFlick Kick Football Legends (Free)I was obsessed with the original Flick Kick Football game, and ended up banning myself from playing it on the tube due to the number of times I sailed past my stop. Now it&apos;s back as a freemium game, with a retro look and an emphasis on building up a team of players. Also, you&apos;re no longer just pinging shots at goal, but have to tackle and pass your way up the pitch.iPhone / iPadMoviePop (Free)The name is a hint that MoviePop comes from the developers behind SongPop – the guess-the-music game that was something of a mobile craze last year. This does the same thing for films: you watch clips from movies and answer multiple-choice questions about them, playing against your friends asynchronously.iPhone / iPadDoctor Who: Say What You See (£0.69)There has been a mini-flurry of Doctor Who apps leading up to the 50th anniversary episode this weekend. This is a collection of 150 &quot;cryptic picture puzzles&quot; based on the Whovian universe, with gizmos, characters and monsters hidden in a series of digital paintings. It provides a genuinely-tough brain workout, easily enough to get you through to the episode itself.iPhone / iPadHatch (£1.49)The sight of the words &quot;Tamagotchi for the 21st century&quot; on the App Store listing for this virtual pet app may send you screaming for the hills. Come back, though: Hatch is a well-crafted take on the genre, with a Fugu character that&apos;s cute without being irritating. There are some lovely touches in the app&apos;s design, too.iPhoneTouchgrind Skate 2 (£2.99)When I was at school, there was once a craze for finger-skateboards. Nowadays, I suspect kids are more likely to be playing apps like Touchgrind when they&apos;re not within clattering range of a real half-pipe. This polished skateboarding sequel sees you tricking your way through three virtual skateparks, with wonderfully-tactile touch controls.iPhone / iPadCastle of Illusion Starring Mickey Mouse (£6.99)Gamers of a certain age may remember the Sega Mega Drive (or Genesis, if you&apos;re American) console game Castle of Illusion. Now Disney has revived it for iOS in 2013 – a &quot;reimagining&quot; is how it&apos;s being described. It&apos;s an action-adventure with more to recommend it than pure nostalgia.iPhone / iPadDemon Tribe (Free)Talking of Sega, this is what that company is up to on mobile devices in 2013: a freemium game mixing elements of MOBA (multiplayer online battle arena), RPG and card-battling games. Pretty hardcore, in other words. It sees you controlling a tribe that captures demons and fuses them to make itself more powerful, with multiplayer battling and lots of depth.iPhone / iPad
Amazon has launched a virtual currency called Amazon Coins for UK customers, kicking off with an offer of 400 free coins – worth £4 – to every British owner of a Kindle Fire.The coins can be spent on apps and in-app purchases for the Kindle Fire series of tablets.Although the coins have an exchange rate of 100 to the pound, the company is also selling them at a bulk discount, rising to 10% for users who purchase 10,000 coins at once.&quot;Now, customers in the UK can purchase a broad range of Appstore content using Amazon Coins,&quot; says Jorrit Van der Meulen, the vice president in charge of Amazon&apos;s Kindle line.&quot;We are continuously working to enhance customer benefits and Coins is a great new feature that that we know they will love.&quot;But analysts question the value of the coins to consumers. &quot;There are two benefits,&quot; says Ian Maude of Enders Analysis. &quot;The obvious one for Amazon is getting people to pay the money in advance, boosting Amazon&apos;s cash-flow, and potentially boosting their sales, since most people who buy them are going to spend them.&quot;I can see also that if you&apos;ve got kids, you could buy them Amazon&apos;s coins and allow them to buy apps without giving them the credit card. But, for adults, is there much of an advantage beyond the discount?&quot;The 400 free coins are also available to customers who have pre-ordered the newKindle Fire HDXtablets, which start shipping in the UK on 27 November.•In the US, Amazon is introducing Sunday delivery for the first time ever, with the help of the US Postal Service.
This is where we currently stand. The PlayStation 4 is out in North America, the Xbox One has now arrived in major territories throughout the world. Now all that's left (unless you're in one of the less fortunate countries still further down the release calendar) is the European and Australian release of Sony's machine on 29 November.If you're thinking of taking the plunge on either console, or have come to this whole imbroglio late and have no idea what's going on, here are links to all our key coverage so far. We'll update as more articles come along.Latest news• Xbox One console breaks sales record• PlayStation 4 hot on Xbox One's heels• Xbox One and Microsoft websites marred by problems on launch day• PS4 sells 1m in US, despite mixed reviews and technical issuesThe big featuresXbox One v PS4: the complete comparisonThis step-by-step comparison of the two machines is a little out of date as it was written back in July, but the tech specs and developer comments are still relevant.PS4 or Xbox One? A parent's guideAn overview of the console war intended for new gamers or those buying a console for a child, friend or partner.PS4 v Xbox One: indie game developers have their sayA roundtable discussion with respected indie developers from around the industry looking at the promise – and the problems – of the next-gen consoles for innovative game creation.Xbox One: USS Enterprise or HAL?Cara Ellison's offbeat look at Microsoft's console, considering the possibilities including privacy and ... erotica.Executive interviewsPS4 boss Andrew House: Xbox One policies surprised usPresident of Sony Computer Entertainment interviewed at Gamescom about the battle for next-gen console domination.Xbox One's Phil Spencer: 'we're committed to the original vision'We talk to the head of Microsoft Game Studios, again at Gamescom, about Xbox One's rocky road to launch and future plans.The launch games• PS4: the 10 key launch titles• Xbox One: the 10 key launch titlesVideos• Xbox One: playthrough of the key launch titles• Xbox One: hands-on reviewReviews• Xbox One: lots of potential but ultimately a PS4 underdog – review• How many stars?? Xbox One and the madness of scoring a new console• Microsoft Xbox One review roundup: powerful, but not the finished article
Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One launch was marred by problems with its online services early on Friday which took down the official website Xbox.com, as well as microsoft.com and Office 365, Microsoft&apos;s cloud-based software service.Users were shown error messages referencing a DNS failure.A spokesman said services are now fully restored and said it would update customers once the cause was found, though previously component failure and a certification issue have caused outages for Azure, Microsoft&apos;s cloud platform.The Register speculated that aninternal DNS issuemay be to blame but was told by Microsoft that it was still investigating.&quot;We can confirm that these issues were not caused by Windows Azure. We will keep our customers updated as information becomes available. The service interruption that affected Windows Azure Storage was a separate issue and has been resolved. All Windows Azure services are running as normal.&quot;Mervyn Kelly, marketing director at infrastructure firm Ciena, said that particularly in the US, the success of internet-connected, data-hungry games consoles would depend on the underlying network.&quot;Without realising it, average households are beginning to slide into domestic data usage patterns that would mark them out as power users,&quot; said Kelly.&quot;The growth in demand for data-heavy networked and multiplayer games, online television and rich content sourced from the internet, all over a computer console, will undoubtedly make an impact on networks and data centres.&quot;Separately, Xbox vice president Phil Harrison appeared to admit that the company would struggle to meet consumer demand for the console, telling thesite MCVthat &quot;there will be difficulty getting stock through until Christmas but we will do everything we can to accelerate that&quot;.&quot;Our job on a tactical level is to ensure we get enough supply to retailers and customers as we possibly can to meet demand, and that will be a struggle but we are doing our best,&quot; said Harrison.A spokesman said: “We have been blown away with the demand for Xbox One by our fans. Pre-orders are over double the amount when we launched Xbox 360. We are doing everything we can to make sure Xbox fans have an Xbox One under the tree this Christmas but they should definitely shop early this year.”He pointed to an interview with Harvey Eagle, Xbox marketing head, which explained that any short supply would be determined by whether individual retailers chose to hold back stock or not.&quot;We have been clear with retailers in telling them their day one allocation,&quot; Eagle toldMCVin an interview earlier this week.&quot;It’s the retailer’s decision whether they hold back any stock for on-shelves. Currently pre-orders are in excess of supply, but ultimately we leave those kind of decisions to retailers.&quot;•Keith Stuart&apos;s Xbox One review: lots of potential but ultimately a Playstation 4 underdog
