I met someone new yesterday. This is a significant event; my writing and research centre around digital phenomena, and I spend most of my time in my attic home office with my head plugged into a laptop, my eyes scrolling until they roll and my trigger finger tapping like a Morse coder on ephedrine.Previous attempts to initiate human-to-human contact based upon a mutual appreciation of social software and the role of trust in virtual communities have proven too obscure for the person behind the counter making my afternoon latte. Instead, my weekly sociability quotient is usually filled by talking at the cat or overwhelming my husband Max with a barrage of witterings the instant he comes through the door. A new friend who shares my interests and wants to talk about them is a very exciting person indeed.After almost two years of following this woman's research, reading her words and referencing it in my own work, I saw her avatar across a crowded digital room at a recent public talk in virtual world Second Life. Artificially bolstered by the anonymity of my digital mask, I plucked up the courage to send her a private message. Now we plan to seal the connection. But rather than using a traditional method, like going to the pub, we're going to get to know one another by playing a game. Tomorrow we meet in World of Warcraft.WoW, according to digital thinkers, is the modern way to get to know someone. Like sharing a round of golf, getting lost together on an Outward Bound excursion or sharing too many bottles of wine at a dinner party, social interactions in this and other digital worlds help to set the glue which cements relationships.Online banter and teamwork contribute to mutual experiences, which have implications for the development of bonds in offline social networks. After all, those night elves and dwarves you play with have people attached to them, and they may be people whose thoughts and ideas inspire you in the real world. In these environments, choosing a guild is now as important as deciding which social club to belong to.The irony is that kids build galleries and blogs on social networking sites like MySpace, Bebo and Facebook to forge global and local connections while serious grown-ups are dressing up in virtual armour and wielding strangely-named armaments in massively multiplayer online role playing games. This hasn't passed me by. But because my new mate lives in the US and I'm in the UK, it's not a bad place to meet.And if wearing a gnome outfit means I can hang with some of the top-flight people in my field, pass me my Blade of Reckoning.
Outside China, Google blocks only websites with child abuse images and certain values from its search of ranges of numbers.The latter restriction, according to Google's worldwide policy counsel Andrew McLaughlin, tackles identity thieves using the search engine to trawl the web for credit card and government identification numbers, such as US social security numbers. It is still possible to search for individual numbers within these ranges, so owners can check these are not online."Beyond that, we don't do affirmative policing," McLaughlin told an Oxford University seminar earlier this month. "That's for legal, and just value, reasons."However, localised Google services abide by the law of the relevant country. McLaughlin described a legally-enforced, secret blacklist run by Germany's BPjM, the country's Federal Department for Media Harmful to Young Persons, as "troublingly free of the kind of checks and balances you would expect". Google.de complies, albeit with an announcement when links have been blocked.But although Google redirects users in Germany to Google.de through "geotargeting" (identifying your location from your internet address), it does not stop them switching to the uncensored Google.com; the link is on the front page (www.google.com/ncr).Jonathan Zittrain, professor of internet governance and regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute, described this as a "gossamer-thin fig leaf" of compliance with national regulation. "The more optimistic way to characterise what's going on is that governments recognise there are limits to their jurisdiction," McLaughlin replied, adding that geotargeting is easy to get around through anonymous web-use services.Of China, where users cannot avoid the nationally censored version, McLaughlin said the company had decided some Google was better than none for the Chinese. "We think we're making an empirically justifiable calculation," he said. "It is a contestable argument."He said that Google.com and Blogger are "the most free-speech parts of our offering", but that Google Earth had not used new images of Beirut showing bomb damage from Israel's conflict with Hizbullah last summer. McLaughlin said that doing so could have convinced governments, some of which control aerial imagery of their country, to insist on pre-publication checks, although the US and UK have taken a relaxed attitude."So far, we haven't degraded or blurred an image at the requirement of any government," McLaughlin said of Google Earth, adding: "I don't know how much longer that will be true."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Had a court in Illinois done what the winner of a case there desired, billions of spam emails could have begun landing in the inboxes of 650 million people all over the world - including the European Parliament, US Army, the White House and Microsoft - every day this month.The reason: Judge Charles Kocoras, of the district court of the northern district of Illinois, was asked to rule that a British company called Spamhaus, which runs a commercial spam-blocking service for 700 million users, should have its website taken away for failing to comply with an earlier court order - which was to stop blocking emails from e360Insight, a Chicago-based bulk emailing company.Spamhaus has for some time maintained that e360Insight belongs on its list of "known spammers"; in June, David Linhardt - the owner and operator of e360Insight - sued, asking for monetary damages and removal from Spamhaus's list. But the suit was brought in Illinois - even though, as Steve Linford, chief executive and founder of Spamhaus points out: "Spamhaus in fact operates no business in the United States, and has no US office, agents or employees in Illinois or any other US state."A lawyer representing Spamhaus in the US at first began defending the case, but the company then effectively thumbed its nose at Judge Kocoras, saying that an Illinois court had no jurisdiction over a British company. Because Spamhaus had initially shown up as a defendant, but then did not defend its case, the judge of course ruled in Linhardt's favour, awarding $11.7m (&pound;6.25m) in damages for lost business, and $1.97m in legal costs. Spamhaus has not paid it.Thus last month a new order - written by e360Insight - was submitted to the court, demanding that Icann, the California-based Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, and Tucows, the Canadian domain company through which Spamhaus is registered, should removewww.spamhaus.orgfrom the internet. The ruling did not have the force of law; but it could, should the judge choose to accept it.That sent a shiver through people who follow the application of the law to the internet. There were murmurs of a "constitutional crisis". Could a judge in America really force a company in another country off the net? If it could, would that be because Icann is based in the US? The idea that Spamhaus might be pitched into a sort of internet limbo by a judge in one country raised important issues. Would it mean that a British judge could rule an American company off the net? And if not, why not? What would make America's courts special in that regard?Those questions won't arise - at least not for now. Icann put out a statement (tinyurl.com/fwrmv) saying: "Icann cannot comply with any order requiring it to suspend Spamhaus.org or any specific domain name because Icann does not have either the ability or the authority to do so." Even if brought before the judge (which it has not been), Icann's chiefs don't have the power to suspend organisations from the net; its purpose, essentially, is to decide which domain names to hand out, and how.Tucows, too, disclaimed responsibility. "Nobody's asked us to do anything," said Ken Schafer, its vice president of marketing. "Right now it's just statements flying around." But the implications of the ruling, were Judge Kocoras to implement it, are huge.If Spamhaus vanished from the net, the volume of spam people received would increase dramatically. But Richard Cox, the company's chief information officer, says that removing www.spamhaus.org would not actually affect its ability to stop spam. The organisation works by maintaining a huge set of "blacklists" of internet addresses known to be used to send spam: client companies query the blacklist to decide whether to accept an email, based on its originating address. Being on Spamhaus's blacklist can mean your email will never reach its destination.They key point, though, is that none of those blacklists is actually kept on www.spamhaus.org - the address that e360Insight demanded should be taken off the net. So, Cox points out, if Linhardt's complaint is that emails from him are being blocked, removing the Spamhaus website from the net would bring no relief.Yet the case could have wider implications. Edward Felten, a law professor at Harvard, noted on his Freedom to Tinker blog that "the really sticky case would be a dispute over a valuable .com name. Suppose a US court ordered Icann to yank a prominent .com name belonging to a non-US company. Icann could fight, but being based in the US it would probably have to comply in the end. Such a decision, if seen as unfair outside the US, could trigger a sort of constitutional crisis for the net."Spamhaus is fighting back. A Chicago-based law firm, Jenner &amp; Block, has taken on its appeal on a pro bono basis, and last week lodged a notice to appeal: "Basically, protecting our right to appeal if we wish," says Cox. That might be important. Matthew Prince, a lawyer based in Illinois but uninvolved in the case, noted that "this judgment will likely follow Spamhaus in perpetuity. Even if it shuts down and later some of the same people reconstitute 'SpecialHamHouse' to publish similar data, the judgment will almost certainly stick to the new entity. In the long run, cute arguments and legal sleight of hand don't work."Jonathan Ezor, assistant professor of law and technology at the Touro Law Center in Huntington, New York, comments: "Might Spamhaus eventually get acquired by a US company? Possibly - what would a default judgment do to the proposed deal in that case? What if Spamhaus's executives were travelling in the US?" The question carries echoes of the problems that executives of UK-based online gambling companies have faced during US stopovers.But Cox is not fazed. "The last group of people to sue us in the US was a front for some spammers. They tried to withdraw from the case but that didn't stop them getting investigated by the FBI."Asked whether he realised that the draft ruling would have no effect on Spamhaus's operation, e360's Linhardt told the Guardian he preferred not to comment on any pending rulings from the court.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Anti-virus choiceMy Norton Internet Security runs out at the end of the month. It is the 2005 version. What should I replace it with?Janet SheffieldJack Schofield replies:If you are happy with the software you have, the obvious replacement is Norton 2007. Since Norton 2006 was an improvement on 2005, 2007 may well be too, but you can read reviews on the net, such astinyurl.com/y9wzqa. Alternatively you could switch to either AVG (fromfree.grisoft.com) or Avast (tinyurl.com/56jes). Both of these are proper commercial programs with full business versions, and both use technology developed in the Czech Republic. However, both firms have free versions available for non-commercial home users, which I have tried and can recommend. The main catch is that the free versions come with no support. If you have problems, you will have to turn to the support boards, not the companies themselves.You must also make sure that you have all aspects of security covered, not just anti-virus checking. Many firms now offer complete suites, and although some components may be weaker than others, this approach is very convenient. If you just install an anti-virus program, you may need to install Windows Defender (formerly Giant Anti-spyware) and/or Ewido (bought by Grisoft and available in a limited free version), to combat spyware and Trojans, plus a firewall. I'd also add SpywareBlaster (www.javacoolsoftware.com), which is freeware; you don't need it running all the time. Unfortunately, there are not as many good free firewalls around as there used to be. At the moment, I'm recommending the Kerio Personal Firewall, which has been rescued by Sunbelt Software (tinyurl.com/aaspz) of CounterSpy fame. Like Ewido, this comes as a trial version that reverts to a more limited level of functionality if you don't pay up. However, it's still good enough for home use.There are other good products I don't have room to mention. Sadly, there are even more bad products, and some programs that claim to be anti-spyware are actually malware. There are lots of programs that pretend to find problems with your PC then pretend to fix them, for a fee, and these often appear in Google's advertising and search results. Check the Spyware Warrior List of Rogue/Suspect Anti-Spyware Products &amp; Web Sites (www.spywarewarrior.com/rogue_anti-spyware.htm) before downloading anything unfamiliar.Still on Windows 98My anti-virus and anti-spyware subscription with Zone Alarm has expired. I am not sure if it is worth me renewing it because I could not use any of the recent updates, which were incompatible with Windows 98.Laura PicandJS:Support for old DOS-based versions of Windows (95/98/Me) is now falling but Sunbelt's Kerio Personal Firewall and many other products still work with Windows 98. Another alternative is the Jetico Personal Firewall (www.jetico.com/index.htm#/jpfirewall), which is freeware and works well. Also, Avast and AVG Free still work with Windows 98. However, support won't continue forever, and in a year or so you might think about moving on to a new PC running Windows Vista.Norton not respondingEver since I loaded Norton Internet Protection, I get a notice that says ccapp.exe is not responding whenever I log off. Does this mean that the program is not running correctly?David PrattJS:It probably is running correctly, but it may cause other problems, such as preventing a laptop from hibernating. Symantec has a help file, Message: "ccApp.exe is not responding" during computer restart or shutdown, attinyurl.com/y3z7jg.Defaulting to WMPHow can I stop RealPlayer being my default media player and make Windows Media Player play audio files instead?Joshua GoodwinJS:If Windows XP is up to date, go to Start and select Set Program Access and Defaults, then click the Custom button. The down-chevron gives the option to choose a default media player. Also, open WMP, select Tools and then Options. Go to the tab marked File Types and tick the ones you want WMA to play by default, such as MP3. Microsoft has a help file attinyurl.com/uyybl.Backchat&#183;Last week I suggested using Mailwasher to delete spam email on the server. Alan Pagett, who uses Mailwasher, points out that you can also do this viawww.mail2web.com.&#183;David Attwood says he had the same problem with spam addressed to random email addresses. "PlusNet fixed it quickly: they now 'blackhole' everything that comes into my mailbox except messages to the wanted address."
Bin raiding reveals riskIt's National Identity Fraud Prevention Week, but bin-raiding research by Fellowes (www.fellowes.com) and WastesWork in London shows that "79% of businesses sampled had not made any effort to destroy sensitive material". Fellowes sells shredders ...www.stop-idfraud.co.ukBT is switched onBT has launched a Switch On campaign to explain how it will update the UK's telecoms infrastructure by 2011.www.switchedonuk.orgChairs for gamersThe &pound;350 Ultimate Games Chair, with its 12-motor vibration system, and the &pound;225 Raptor will be available in the UK starting next month. As featured in such movies as The 40 Year Old Virgin, Stay Alive and Grandma's Boy, says the PR.www.digitalsales.co.uk/Raptor.htmWhite goods, in blackLike your LG phone? LG has now launched a "Beautiful Black Kitchen" range, which includes a washing machine, microwave and fridge.Another day, another TreoPalm has launched the Treo 680, which it says is "the smartphone for everyone". It looks like the Treo 750v but uses Palm OS instead of Windows Mobile.euro.palm.com/uk/products/treo680
Imagine the situation: you've been kidnapped, but you've still got access to a mobile phone. Making a call is out of the question - that would just alert your abductor - but you want to get word of your situation out. So you try to send a text message.That's exactly what happened last month to 14-year-old American Elizabeth Shoaf, who was rescued after stealing her kidnapper's phone and sending a message to her mother. But what if Elizabeth hadn't known a number she could text off by heart?Emergency 999 calls have become a feature of life in the UK since being introduced in 1937, but there is not yet a standard equivalent for texters.Some police forces do operate limited emergency SMS services, aimed at preregistered users with hearing and speech impairments. While it undoubtedly helps those individuals, such bureaucratic systems are not necessarily that useful in a tight spot.And there are other problems with SMS, say those with experience. A spokesman for West Yorkshire police, which operates a text service, pointed out that messages cannot be prioritised by the mobile networks - thus raising the possibility that emergency communications may not arrive for several hours. That issue had tragic consequences last year when Sally Geeson, a student, was abducted and murdered in Cambridge. Sally, whose phone had run out of call credit, sent a series of texts asking for help to friends, apparently not realising that she could have made a 999 call for free.So what's the solution? Some may look at enhancing existing systems over time, but for others there isn't even a question to answer. "Why would you want to text 999 when you can call it instead?" one spokesman for a large force told Technology Guardian.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: BitTorrent is considered by most content owners, including broadcasters and studios, as a scourge because it encourages the illegal sharing of content. How do you respond to that?Ashwin Navin:BitTorrent grew because people were using it to publish unlicensed TV shows and music and, big surprise, people like to download TV shows and movies and music, so now we've got 80 million people out there that have the software. The idea now is to convert this user base into paying customers. BitTorrent was never specifically designed for the purpose of stealing content, but it was designed to deliver content efficiently and if we can be a distributor of content using our tools we can be more efficient than all of our competitors. Hopefully that will mean more margin for the publishers and better quality for the consumer.TG: That sounds good, but a lot of people would say peer-to-peer networks and content protection are oxymorons.AN:Five years from now we will be laughing about that because every service online uses some kind of peer-to-peer delivery. As file sizes get richer and bigger, P2P is fundamentally the only way to deliver content on the internet without breaking the internet itself. BitTorrent doesn't get in the way of content protection. It is actually a separate layer.TG: This all sounds very rational and grown-up and is the future that you are trying to invent for BitTorrent, but when BitTorrent was founded in 2001 by Bram Cohen it was a very different story ... it was more of a Napster, I mean the original Napster, of course.AN:Actually from the day Bram founded BitTorrent it was a web-publishing tool and very controllable and distinct from other layers of service and technology that would be required to make it viable. Bram Cohen committed the grave crime of giving away this very powerful tool for free! Anyone would consider that a crime because he never benefited from its use. Now that we have got this large number of users on BitTorrrent we think there is huge commercial value in becoming a distributor of content.Just to be clear, file sharing is one application of P2P. Napster, Grokster and Kazaa basically made a directory available to the public in exchange for everyone else's directory. BitTorrent doesn't work that way at all. BitTorrent uses P2P as a means to an end, so it is completely invisible to the user.TG: You joined BitTorrrent in 2004, three years after Bram founded the company. You came into the company to create a business model, correct?AN:Well, let's just say that before I joined, Bram had a phenomenally successful T-shirt company. (The only way BitTorrent was getting money was through donations and selling T-shirts.) It took a certain amount of convincing to actually point him in the direction of a commercial entity.TG: The judicial system in the US has taken a dim view of peer-to-peer networks - in fact, Grokster is out of business. Why is BitTorrent still around?AN:If your technology looks like it was designed for illegal purposes, you'll be held liable for it. It's kind of like the pornography standard, I can't define it but I know it when I see it and that is basically what the court handed down. From the beginning of BitTorrent, Bram vociferously discouraged the use of BitTorrent for piracy and warned users there is no anonymity.TG: So now the plan is to license content and sell it, but what about monetising the traffic you have? You already have some advertising. How is that going?AN:BitTorrent does have a lot of traffic and we make some money from advertising, but that's not where we think we'll be wildly profitable.TG: So the wildly profitable part means you need to license content and so far you've signed a licensing deal with one studio, Warner Bros. But you haven't actually started offering any paid-for content yet. Why's that?AN:What we want to show the world is that BitTorrent is the most efficient way to deliver content and there are attractive legal purposes for it. The second phase beyond that is to take the core component of the BitTorrent delivery system and make it available for a fee for anyone who has a website and wants to deliver content efficiently.TG: And why is the Warner Bros deal the only one you've signed so far? Are you still proving the technology?AN:We haven't announced any other deals but we've been quite successful working with all the other studios.TG: Apple has licensed TV shows such as Lost and Desperate Housewives on the iPod. There's lots of other content on other sites, more each day. Why wait or is it a case of you not being able to get the deals you need?AN:The idea is to get a comprehensive catalogue. We also want to offer high-quality, fast downloads so it is a good experience to discover not only major content, but also independently-created, high-quality content.TG: So you are still working on the technology. Clearly a big part of that is the copyright protection software. How do you convince the Warner Bros of the world that you can protect their shows?AN:There will never be a digital rights managment (DRM) system that works [universally]. It's sort of like expecting a $75 door lock to protect all your valuables. Fundamentally you've got to get to a speed bump that works for 90% of the users. Ten per cent of the users may have the interest and time to break something that is available for sale for $1, but most people aren't going to bother with that. At our launch we are using Windows DRM, which is the accepted standard today. We're always looking for a standard that is independently created, cross-platform, and the studios are as well, especially when they see that Apple and Microsoft are starting to exert their control and lock in users.TG: So what's the solution to having Apple or Microsoft dictate terms?AN:I think the next phase is about DRM-free. It will be like the watermarked approach, so that content is labelled as mine and the process of putting it up on a P2P network is not attractive because I paid for it and so others should probably pay for it, too. Do I want something with my name on it all over the web? No. So that can be a pretty effective form of copy protection.TG: What is your view on the pricing for these kinds of offers? I mean, your 80 million users are getting this stuff for free now.AN:One of the things that seems to be proven is that consumers need a consistent pricing framework. The pricing needs to be commensurate with the value proposition of getting a digital download and so we are learning from others. We are shaping that up.TG: What about user generated content (UGC)? Will you encourage it and try to become YouTube 2?AN:We care about the users who have created the content, not necessarily the people who have posted content that they haven't created or which they don't own. Right now we have a submission tool that allows people to submit content on an invite-only basis.TG: So, controlled UGC. Sounds like you don't see it as the future, which is interesting given that only a few days ago Google spent $1.6bn to buy YouTube.AN:People use BitTorrent to post UGC to their own sites and then our webcrawler picks it up. So instead of allowing people to post to their own sites, we are going to allow them to post to our site as well and therefore we hope to have a better connection with the artists and the file sharers. One thing about BitTorrent is we are all users as well.TG: And all under the age of 25, no doubt?AN:Well, I think the average age of BitTorrent staff is 29. But we in a sense don't need to do endless focus groups because we are the focus group!Curriculum vitae: Ashwin Navin, president of BitTorrentEducationDual BA from Claremont McKenna in government and economicsCareerBefore joining BitTorrent in 2004, Navin was a member of the corporate development group at Yahoo! where he was responsible for mergers and acquisitions, divestitures and company strategy in the US, India and South Korea. Before Yahoo!, Navin worked on Wall Street at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co and Merrill Lynch as an investment banker and research analyst&#183;Read the full interview atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Admit it: you've never bothered reading the End-User Licence Agreements (EULAs) that came with your desktop software. But licences do matter.For proprietary applications, they deprive you of all sorts of rights. In the realm of free software, by contrast, they grant you rights - for example, the right to copy, change and distribute the software. So perhaps it's not surprising that a plan to revise the "constitution" of the free software world, Richard Stallman's General Public Licence (GPL), has split the hacker world in two.The Free Software Foundation (FSF), which oversees the GPL, has taken great care to seek input from interested parties. In January it placed a first draft of the GPL version 3 (GPLv3) online for comments (See: A lawyer who is also idealist - how refreshing, Technology, March 30).A second draft was released on July 27. On September 15, 10 of the key people who work on Linux, the heart of the larger GNU/Linux operating system formed by combining it with elements from the FSF's GNU project, published a white paper entitled The Dangers and Problems with GPLv3 (lwn.net/Articles/200422).'TiVo-isation' is the problemIt concluded: "We implore the FSF to re-examine the consequences of its actions and to abandon the current GPLv3 process before it becomes too late."A week later, an "informal poll" revealed that of the 29 top kernel coders canvassed, all but one were against the GPLv3 with varying degrees of vehemence. At the head of the list was Linus Torvalds, the man who, 15 years ago, had started work in his bedroom on something that turned into the Linux kernel, and who had later chosen to release his code under the GPL in the first place.As he explained on the kernel mailing list: "The reason the poll and the white paper got started was that I've obviously not been all that happy with the GPLv3." He preferred to stick with GPLv2.Greg Kroah-Hartman, a contributor to the white paper, says: "We just did not think it was going to be a problem, as the kernel was not going to change licences."Linux was never likely to convert to GPLv3, because the copyrights to the kernel code belong to hundreds of contributors, all of whom would have to agree. But the white paper was written because many of the kernel coders felt that the GPLv3 was indeed changing the rules, with a new clause to combat "TiVo-isation".TiVo-isation? It's like this. The digital video recorder (DVR) TiVo runs GNU/Linux. Under GPLv2, TiVo makes the source code freely available, but as Kroah-Hartman explains, only "approved" kernels from the company will run properly on the hardware. You can modify TiVo's code, but you can't use it on the DVR. Should this be allowed?The FSF says no: Richard Stallman says TiVo has turned "the freedom to study the source code and change it so the program does what you want" into a "sham".The main kernel hackers say yes: TiVo is complying with the terms of the GPLv2 because it provides the source code; it would be unreasonable, they argue, to impose conditions on the hardware too. After all, the GPL is a software licence.FSF's main concern is that TiVo is just the beginning of a bigger problem. "If it were only that one company, we probably wouldn't pay attention," Stallman says. "But the idea is floating around, and there are many different plans to use it."Those on the other side point out that if the GPLv3, including its anti-TiVoisation clause, were used for GNU/Linux, TiVo and other companies would probably avoid free software and choose a closed operating system, leaving users worse off, since they might not even get the source code as they do now.'People feel strongly'For Stallman and the "free software" movement, it's a question of principle: there can be no compromise if the user's freedom is at stake. Torvalds and the kernel coders - the "open source" crowd - are battling for a different freedom, that of being able to use Linux for any purpose.As Torvalds put it in a posting entitled Ode to GPLv2: "You can use the end result any way you want (and if you want to use it for 'bad' things, be my guest)." (see:lkml.org/lkml/2006/9/24/246)While it's almost certain that Linux won't change its licence, for the many GNU software projects, which the FSF will soon move to GPLv3, it is more complex. As Dave Miller, another senior kernel hacker, explains, if the developers are unhappy with the new licence, they can "fork off a GPLv2 copy". That is, they can start their own version - a fork - licensed under GPLv2. In this case, Miller says, "the FSF is at a loss, because while they can mandate whatever they like, such mandates are useless if the developers don't want to contribute to the GPLv3 variant".Stallman says this is not the start of civil war: "There are many programs with other licences in the system as well, and there's no problem at all."On that, Torvalds agrees: "It's not like the actual split between the open source and the free software mentality is in any way new, or even brought about by the GPLv3 license."In all honesty, it's not like open source developers don't spend a lot of time arguing anyway. One of the reasons the thing gets so heated is that people - very much me included - feel very strongly about their licences."Some people, at least.&#183;The current draft of the GPLv3 can be found atgplv3.fsf.org
Oh great - a self-service till at my local supermarket. What a brilliant idea for those of us blessed with the unenviable knack of always picking the slowest queue to stand in. Except here we, the customers, create the queue by doing the scanning ourselves. This isn't scan-as-you-shop. It's scan-after-you-shop, then hand over the money.You're thinking that scanning your own barcodes must be simple, right? Wrong. The lack of thought that has been invested in these things is mind-boggling.One accidental press of the wrong button and I'm in deep trouble. A tinny alarm sounds and suddenly I understand how the man with the bottle of Bells concealed in his overcoat feels.But with head down and arms full, I get on with the job in hand. As the monotonous robotic voice instructs me to put my items in my bag, I'm consumed with an insatiable curiosity about what would happen if I didn't. I get an inkling when a bottle of water ends up on the floor instead of in the bag, thanks to my seven-year-old daughter. Another alarm bell rings."You can't put your shopping on the floor, it will think you are trying to make off without paying," says a supervisor, who is eyeing my every move. Well, sorry, I didn't realise I was up against a convenience store's answer to RoboCop."Shall I sit here, Mummy?" asks my daughter. Before I have time to say no, her bottom is indeed on the cold metal shelf of the "scanning unit", like the opening credits of The Simpsons. And yet another alarm is ringing. That's two alarms in two minutes set off by a child. Who could possibly have predicted that - children at a supermarket checkout?"Get up, darling," I say through clenched teeth. "Let's carry on."Marvellous. Not only the supervisor but most of my fellow shoppers are watching my every move. I start to feel guilty.Next come the bananas, but for some reason there isn't a picture of them. "They come under miscellaneous fruit," chips in the stony-faced supervisor. "Of course they do," I smile meekly.I've not felt like this since I stood before my ferocious headmistress for etching the name of a childhood sweetheart into my desk.Oh, but hang on. Horror of horrors, the bananas are reduced; the barcode doesn't work. I'll have to ask for help. Again. The supervisor tuts and works her magic on the "self-service" unit's buttons."Hang on," I ask. "If this is self-service, why do you need to watch?""Because I do. There are a lot of problems with these machines. They take some getting used to."Too right. Next time I think I'll brave the "10 items only" queue, even if I have sneaked in one too many tins of beans.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Now there's a great-looking looking female searcher who talks to you, though searching isn't her strong point.Ms Deweyis good for a bit of a laugh, but has little or no chance of forming a long term relationship, given that she's amazingly slow at coming up with results, and they are displayed in an extremely poor way.However, you're not really supposed to search for things, just type in searches that will provoke interesting reactions.Have a go before reading on (spoiler)....This actually seems to be a viral for Microsoft Live, and may ultimately prove to have Zune connections, or else it's just a bit of fun. (Try some team member names.) In one clip, she plays Halo, so try that for a tip.The lovely and talented Ms Dewey is a singer and actress,Janina Gavankarwith a minimalist Web site athttp://www.janinamusic.com/. As Janina Ziona, she hosted theSony PlayStation E3 Party 2006. Which just goes to show what a very small world it is.(Anybody know what she says when she talks backwards?)
Yes, I know, you're wondering "enough for what?" We'll come to that.Apple's numbers:The Company posted revenue of $4.84 billion and net quarterly profit of $546 million, or $.62 per diluted share. These results compare to revenue of $3.68 billion and net profit of $430 million, or $.50 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. Gross margin was 29.2 percent, up from 28.1 percent in the year-ago quarter. International sales accounted for 40 percent of the quarter's revenue.Apple shipped 1,610,000 Macintosh computers and 8,729,000 iPods during the quarter, representing 30 percent growth in Macs and 35 percent growth in iPods over the year-ago quarter."This strong quarter caps an extraordinary year for Apple. Selling more than 39 million iPods and 5.3 million Macs while performing an incredibly complex architecture transition is something we are all very proud of," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "Looking forward, 2007 is likely to be one of the most exciting new product years in Apple's history."Apple now has $10 billion sitting in the bank, which likely bumps up the profits nicely by earning interest (we've not broken out the numbers on that). But now to that 5.3 million number for Macs sold. Is it enough?According to a former senior Apple sales staffer blogging atApplepeels, to stay with the growth in the PC market, Apple would have to sell a total of 6 million computers. Selling fewer means it's falling behind - that is, losing market share. Sure, selling more computers, getting more money, but it's an island surrounded by a growing sea. That doesn't mean it's going away; only that it still needs to do something more if its operating system doesn't become a rump to iPod sales.But in July, hecalculatedthatbreaking the 1,500,000 unit mark in a quarter would be the best indication that Apple has achieved significant growth beyond the pent up demand of Mac users like myself.And what do you know? It has.Another interesting stat that the Applepeels blogger comes up with, after some back-of-the-envelope calculation: each Apple store sold computers to 720 "switchers" (from Windows). Sounds good - but there are only 150 stores worldwide. "That would mean that there are only 108,000 switchers from the stores from this past quarter [the third, ending in July] in the whole world."(Stores generated 50% of switchers, Apple claimed.)Overall? Apple sure sold a lot of iPods. And Macs. And now it's got a lot of money too.
First there was this...McDonalds Japan has launched a recall after discovering that MP3 players it offered as a prize were loaded with a particularly nasty strain of malware. Up to 10,000 people might have been exposed to the problem after claiming a Flash MP3 player pre-loaded with ten tunes and a variant of the QQpass spyware Trojan.Punters received the contaminated gift after purchasing a large drink form the fast-food chain in Japan and submitting a serial number contained on the beverage holder as part of a competition, sponsored by McDonalds and Coca-cola. Users who connected the McDonalds-branded MP3 player to their Windows PC were exposed to spyware code programmed to transmit their web passwords and other sensitive information to hackers. The cause of the accidental infection is unclear but past experience suggests a contaminated machine involved in loading content onto the players is the likely culprit.And then there camethis, from Apple:We recently discovered that a small number - less than 1% - of the Video iPods available for purchase after September 12, 2006, left our contract manufacturer carrying the Windows RavMonE.exe virus. This known virus affects only Windows computers, and up to date anti-virus software which is included with most Windows computers should detect and remove it. So far we have seen less than 25 reports concerning this problem. The iPod nano, iPod shuffle and Mac OS X are not affected, and all Video iPods now shipping are virus free.A quick update on RavMonE: it's a piece of adware, and by all accounts extremely nasty. (Then again, are there many charming viruses?)Apple went on:As you might imagine, we are upset at Windows for not being more hardy against such viruses, and even more upset with ourselves for not catching it.Well, that's a whole world of upset, then. Reaction towards Apple has not been kind.Matt Deatherage suggeststhat Apple should "provide a free, limited, supported, non-trial version of one or more anti-virus programs that remove the affected virus on any system with an iPod connected, not just for 30 days, but in perpetuity."Hard to argue with that - especially since, as Deatherage points out, Apple plays on the prevalence of Windows viruses compared to Macs for its adverts. Given that iPods now make up more than half of Apple's revenues, and that Windows buyers buy more than half of iPods, it's a peculiar way to behave - "we hate this operating system you're using, but give us your money anyway."
Earlier in the week Ipostedabout a really poor scam on Ebay in which aphotoof a Wii was being offered to gullible gamers who thought they were getting the real thing. Ebay cancelled the sale of course, but that was just the beginning. PlayStation 3pre-ordersare now selling for up to USD1,200 on Ebay - yes, that's just the pre-order. US blog Sci-Fi Tech has discovered onesuccessful example. Search for 'PS3 pre-order' and you'll find more similar offers. Crazy stuff.
A reader, Helen Mulgray, has recommended a program called eMailTrackerPro, which makes it simple to find the source of spam and other unwanted emails and report them. I hadn't heard of it so I went to the site, where I found an online demo:http://emailtrackerpro.visualware.com/All you have to do is paste in the email headers and it tells you all about the real source and the forged address -- though I can't see a button that would generate an abuse report. I reckon most of us have, at some point, struggled to decipher email headers, and I've not seen anything else that makes it quite so easy.I had planned to mention the reader and the program in tomorrow's Backchat but did not have the space.
There is always concern in the UK about the stupidity and incompetence of the European Commission, and in this case it concerns updates to the Television Without Frontiers (1989) directive that would, according totoday's Times, "require websites and mobile phone services that feature video images to conform to standards laid down in Brussels". The story says:Shaun Woodward, the Broadcasting Minister, described the draft proposal as catastrophic. He said: "Supposing you set up a website for your amateur rugby club, uploaded some images and added a link advertising your local sports shop. You would then be a supplier of moving images and need to be licensed and comply with the regulations."Woodward has the support of Slovakia, and "Ofcom, the media regulator, is also opposing the proposed directive, which it believes could discourage new multimedia business in Europe."Comment: For more information, seeIt's TV, but not as we know it, published in the Technology section on Thursday July 6, 2006.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Intel's profits fell by 35% to $1.3 billion in its latest quarter, on revenues that fell by 12% to $8.74 billion, as the company came under pressure from AMD. However, both numbers were above Wall Street expectations, and the company now thinks it has got through the worst of its slump.Business Weekhas more details.Meanwhile, Yahoo's profits fell by 38% on revenues that grew by 19%. According toGuardian Unlimited: "Yahoo!'s net income was $159m (£85m) in the third quarter, down from $254m in the same period last year. Revenue was $1.58bn, up 19%.As AP points out: "The company's market value has plunged by 38% so far this year, wiping out $22 billion in shareholder wealth."However, IBM's profits jumped 47% to $2.22 billion (though growth was only 15% if you discount a tax charge), on revenues that grew by 5% to $22.6 billion. Software sales climbed 8.5% to $4.41 billion following a buying binge: IBM has just spent $3.6 billion taking over software companies.ReutersandThe New York Timeshave more details.Apple unveils its quarterly results later today.
As a rule, I don't do magical thinking. I'm not superstitious. I don't recognise supernatural phenomena. I don't even read horoscopes. My attitude is that there's enough unreason in the world without me adding to it.But the one part of my life where my rationalist forcefield goes on the blink is cycling. When it comes to the bike, my belief system goes haywire. It's not just that I have "lucky shoes" when I race - though I do (and lucky socks, mitts and shorts, too); it's also that whenever anything goes wrong, it is loaded with meaning for me.Take punctures. You can go for months without one, then suddenly you get three within a week - or on one day, even. Explain that without resort to a notion of providence.No problem, says the rationalist: punctures happen for two reasons - first, wet weather washes more flints and shards on to the road, and then they work their way in to damp tyres more easily; second, worn tyres are more susceptible and yours probably need replacing.Nice try ... so why can I not escape the conviction that, at the very least, a puncture is intended as a lesson that you can never take anything for granted and that, if you do, you're bound to take a fall? In fact, as I pump up a tyre by the side of the road, I am searching my conscience for some specific misdeed for which this is a punishment. This usually takes less time to resolve than the repair itself. Because it's so obvious: when you get a flat, it's your karma.And that's just punctures. If your chain snaps, or you break a spoke, or worse ... well, it's clearly time for some serious soul-searching. On Sunday, my seatpost snapped. The rationalist - O siren voice! - would say that this was hardly surprising, as I was hacking around a cyclo-cross course, a pastime that takes a heavy toll on rider and machine alike. But as I trudged homeward, head bowed in chagrin, with my crippled, saddleless bike, I knew better: this was atonement. I'm not sure what for, but I'll think of something.Sure, you'll say, we all ride about with our invisible panniers of guilt. These are the tricks the mind plays, searching for meaning - an archetypal narrative - among essentially random events. Or rather, events that may have a logical explanation, but no emotional significance. All very plausible. But the more I cycle, the more I am struck by how it seems ever more a metaphorical, even metaphysical, exercise. All life's ups and downs seem mirrored by what happens to you on your bike. Not for nothing is samsara - the cycle of birth, life and death - known in Buddhism as "the wheel of suffering".That said, I'm sure you can get to nirvana by bike, too. In fact, there may be no other way.Bike doctorYour cycling questions answeredDear Matt,Following the diagnosis of a malignant melanoma some years ago, I have to always wear a hat with a large brim whenever I'm out in sunny weather. I ought also to wear a helmet, but combining the two defeats me. Any ideas?Sue Smith, via emailThe short answer is to keep wearing your prescribed hat. Without getting into the vexed (and frankly tedious) debate about the merits of helmet use, and whether you wear one or not, the risk of death or serious injury from cycling is extremely small - far too small to take any precedence over your medical condition.There may even be a safety benefit in wearing your hat. The recently reported research of traffic psychologist Ian Walker found that motorists left more room when passing cyclists who were not wearing helmets; they left more room still when they thought they were passing a female cyclist.So the hat wins, on several counts. I bet it suits you better, too.&#183;Email your bike-related quesries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
The stock options scandal that has affected Apple, McAfee and CNet has claimed another victim, and this time it's one of the pioneers of Silicon Valley's chip business. The San JoseMercury Newsreports:Semiconductor pioneer Kenneth Levy stepped down as chairman of KLA-Tencor on Tuesday in the wake of an internal inquiry that determined that stock options granted to him and other insiders were misdated and not properly accounted for.Levy, 64, who presided for 31 years over the company he founded in 1975, formally retired Tuesday, one day after the San Jose company announced the severing of its ties to a former chief executive and the resignation of its general counsel.The story adds:More than 40 valley firms, among more than 130 nationwide, have been caught up in government and internal investigations of options grants. KLA-Tencor has been under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department. The options controversy has spurred the departures of 18 executives and directors at various Bay Area companies.
USA Today has done a big piece on the dysfunctional online music business,Closed systems leave song buyers out in the cold.The problem is the popularity of Apple's closed, proprietary monopoly of the paid-for download business, but the article reckons that Microsoft launching a rival closed, proprietary service -- Zune -- just adds to the chaos rather than solving it. This gives RealNetworks, San Disk and Best Buy the chance to claim to be the only "open system" with their new Sansa Rhapsody portable player (which is also compatible with other devices and music stores using Microsoft's Plays For Sure system).But the article finally gets on to the real problem:The obstacle is copy-protection, or Digital Rights Management (DRM) in industry lingo. Apple, Real, Microsoft and Sony all have competing DRM systems. That's why a song purchased on Sony's Connect service won't transfer to an iPod.DRM was a proposed solution to making sure songs wouldn't be traded illegally online. The reality is that "DRM has done nothing to stop piracy," says Yahoo music chief Dave Goldberg."Consumers should be able to do whatever they want with their digital song purchase, just like they can with a CD," says Goldberg. "We think DRM is bad for consumers and artists."Comment: Wouldn't be a problem if people were smart enough to boycott all copy-protected music from whatever source. Any chance of that, do you think?
Researchers in America have developed a new DNA computer which can play noughts and crosses, reports theNew Scientist:MAYA-II, developed by researchers at Columbia University and the University of New Mexico in the US, uses a system of DNA logic gates to calculate its moves.A DNA logic gate consists of a strand of DNA that binds to another specific input sequence. This binding causes a region of the strand to work as an enzyme, modifying yet another short DNA sequence into an output string. Scientists have already developed DNA computers capable of various similar simple calculations. But the researchers behind MAYA-II say their design should prove particularly useful for exploring ways to identify the genetic markers associated with certain diseases.OK, so it's not particularly advanced - it has to start each game with a X in the centre of the board, and moves take up to 30 minutes to calculate - but it's a step forward. Will see the advent of biocomputing any time soon?
No doubt you've already booked your ticket for the Gamesblog'Grumpy Old Games Industry'event taking place at this year's GameCity festival. (If you haven't, get it sorted - they're selling fast apparently). Well now there may be a reason to travel up to Nottingham a day early.On Friday night at the Kudos bar, developer Free Radical Design will be hosting an open night for prospective game designers, inviting industry wannabes to pitch their concepts at a panel of experts - live on stage. Sort of Dragon's Den meets Pop Idol. If you don't have any ideas of your own, you can go along and watch - the audience is invited to boo boring or derivative ideas. If only we could turn up at videogame publishers and do that.The evening also includes Guitar Hero demos and two live bands, Narco and Idiot Joy - both of which sound like they would make decent videogames...Find out morehere
If only the Saints hadn't succumbed to a late Cardiff winner yesterday evening would have been perfect. The reason? Pro Evolution Soccer 6 had arrived for the Xbox 360. And guess what? It's good and still plays a great game...but I've been slightly underwhelmed so far. Graphics aside there's nothing that couldn't have been done on PS2 and online in particular looks like a missed opportunity. Yes the refs are far more realistic, allowing play to go on most of the time which will please fans of the pressing game. And yes there seems to be more variety in getting on to the end of crosses in the box - I scored a couple of cracking stooping headers - but there is most definitely an evolution rather than the next-gen revolution that was hoped for. Of course, it takes a while before a new PES reveals itself and I'm expecting to fall in love once I've played more games. But there are more niggles than I expected.The lack of official licence - Merseyside Reds (Liverpool) vs Hertfordshire (Watford) anyone? - somehow seems worse when you're playing in HD. Not sure why, but it does. Not enough to make me play FIFA, of course, but enough to niggle more than it ever did on PS2. What else then? Well, the graphics are pretty, especially on an HD telly. They won't blow you mind - although a quick look back at say PES 3 will show you how far things have come in such a short time - but the players certainly look realistic with none of FIFA's zombie faces. And they feel good too, as they shield the ball or lay off a pass. I do hate the sprint button being the right shoulder rather than trigger though - the trigger just seems more natural. This can be changed in the settings but makes it harder to do some of the numerous, and to be honest, frivolous special moves. Talking of moves there appear to be more than ever, with what sees like hundreds of different skills available to those who have the patience and dexterity to manage, for example, to retain possession when prodding the directional pod in a 90 degree opposite angle to the ball while holding the left shoulder button down . Hardcore PES fans will love it but I've got a feeling PES6 may be too clever for its own good.The area I'm most excited about is Live but - bah - it looks like Konami have missed their opportunity. Live was down yesterday so I'm just going by what the manual says, but it appears the online features are basic and no real advancement on PES 5. The real annoyance is the lack of online co-op, a feature that the otherwise dreadful England Football Manager managed on the Xbox a couple of years ago. What's your excuse Konami? (and EA, there's no co-op in FIFA either) Let's hope they've sorted out the lag issue that bugged PES5 - Ill found out later when I finally get on.Very early days then, but PES 6 looks promising in terms of on-pitch action but is clearly not the online/offline footy revolution that I'd hoped for. More impressions later in the week.
Janesays it so much better than I could:Hey big thinkers and wranglers of ideas, the MacArthur Foundation Series on Digital Media and Learning has a series of discussions planned for the next month, all centered around interactive entertainment and its impact on our world.From the introduction to the project:The working hypothesis of the effort is that digital media tools have advanced significantly in recent years, enabling new forms of knowledge production, social networking, communication, and play. People who have grown up with access to these new digital tools are engaged in an unprecedented exploration of language, games, social interaction, and self-directed education that can be used to support learning. They are different as a result of this exposure to and use of digital media and these differences are reflected in their sense of self, and how they express their independence and creativity, and in their ability to learn, exercise judgment, and think systemically.If you're interested in taking part in these chats, you can find out more information and join uphere. For my take, from a computer games perspective (as commissioned by DfES and ELSPA) you can get to grips withUnlimited Learning, which I compiled and edited.
Some mobile gaming news at last (you've already downloaded Splinter Cell Double Agent and Stranded, right?). Capcom Europe has officially announced that mobile versions of Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney and forthcoming Xbox 360 thriller, Lost Planet, will be launching in the UK next year. The former involves similar gameplay to the recent DS title, with players collecting evidence, examining testimonies and overcoming corruption in the pursuit of justice. Visuals capture the spirit of the series pretty well, with sharp manga styling.The latter, meanwhile, forms a prequel to its next-gen big brother, pitting players against the evil alien Akrids. As in the console version, you get to jump into super tough mechs to boost your firepower. You must also keep an eye on your body temperature - the action takes place in an inhospitable frozen wasteland. The top-down viewed visuals look pretty nice, bringing to mind - as mobile games often do - the glory days of late-eighties scrolling shooters.Capcom has also announced one of three brand new titles set for release on the 3 network.Warriors of Fate is a horizontally scrolling fighting game, pitching your well-armed soldier against endless waves of enemies. Moves such as throws, crushes and punches are combined with weapons like swords and firebombs - think Golden Axe infused with Dynasty Warriors.It's an impressive line-up from Capcom, which, along with other big Japanese publishers like Sega and Namco, is taking the European mobile games market seriously at last. Street Fighter II and Resident Evil Confidential Mission are already out.
Dr Tero Ojanpera is chief technology officer and an executive vice president of Nokia, the market-leading mobile phone manufacturer. I met him at the company's headquarters in Espoo, Finland, and asked him for his thoughts on the future of the mobile industry.What are the biggest things in mobile right now?I would say that now internet on mobile is what's happening. In the mobile phone market there's a lot of fashion; but with multimedia computers, the functionality is everything. There is a need not only embrace what is there, but also to build platforms.Doesn't an open software platform make it harder to sell new phones? After all, that's still Nokia's ultimate aim.We still recognise that the main part our business is selling hardware. However, there are lots of things that drive the upgrade cycle - and that can include features which software can use. Software is a big focus right now. Now we are truly seeing the advantage of creating open platforms. In the enterprise market that's going to be big, but also in the consumer market too.But can you make enough money from this approach?The business models are all still in development: right now it's about enabling content creators. But we have seen that early adopters - maybe 200 million of them worldwide - is the target group. They'll show the way.Haven't we already heard everything about mobile internet?Well, first time around it was 2001 or 2002 when we started to talk about this. Only now are things starting to actually happen. In some ways we can claim that we've seen it all - that the technology isn't new. But actually, something like GPS is only just migrating into the mass market. And if most devices were location sensitive then there are all kinds of possibilities.So that's what you were predicting five years ago. What do you think will be happening five years in the future?I think there will be a blending of the virtual and the physical worlds; blending web presence and adding location - these are the things. We have said we're looking at acquisitions to help this, and we're looking as we speak... but I would still highlight the openness; that's the only way to build success on the internet.But now we are putting web servers into the phone. It is one of those things that radically changes the picture; your device is now a node in the internet. Now you're saying it's a fully distributed platform - that will change everything.
At Wired News, Leander "Cult of Mac" Kahney has returned to the topic ofthe birth of the iPod, which is no doubt going to end up as a reasonable academic study some day soon. And while many of the facts are fairly well known, the latest story stresses the team aspects -- probably correctly, since that's how the vast majority of industrial products are developed.Kahney's 2004 tilt at the story,Inside Look at Birth of the IPod, which contains much more interesting detail, was based on information from Ben Knauss, a former employee of PortalPlayer. Naturally this put greater emphasis on Apple's use of PortalPlayer's reference design as the basis for the iPod, and PP's work with numerous partners. (See, for example,Electronics Design Chainmagazine for more details.) The new story shifts the emphasis towards hardware engineer Jon Rubinstein, who was one of the NeXT team that took over Apple.As for the iPod name, which initially sounded like an odd variant of Compaq's iPaq, Kahney writes:The iPod name came from an earlier Apple project to build an internet kiosk, which never saw the light of day. On July 24, 2000, Apple registered the iPod name for "a public internet kiosk enclosure containing computer equipment," according to the filing."The name 'iPod' makes much more sense for an internet kiosk, which is a pod for a human, than a music player," said Athol Foden, a naming expert and president of Brighter Naming of Mountain View, California.
Last week I was sent two new videogame books for review. Now, we're not spoiled for choice in this genre - once you've bought David Sheff's Game Over, Leonard Herman's Phoenix: The Fall &amp; Rise of Videogames, Jaro Gielens' Electronic Plastic and Van Burnham's Supercade you've pretty much built yourself the ultimate library of videogame literature. You could also throw in More Than A Game by Barry Atkins and/or Stephen Poole's Trigger Happy if you're of an academic bent, but then you're getting into shadier territory.So two new books at once is something of a flood, and certainly worth a look...The first is Game On (Headline, GBP 14.99), provocatively sub-titled 'The 50 Greatest Videogames of All Time'. It's essentially an extended magazine feature, with each entry seeking to place its game in historical context as well as providing a lengthy retrospective review. Two ex-Edge writers, Ste Curran and Dave McCarthy, are involved, together with ex-journalist-cum-PR chap Simon Bryon - and the writing is duly spiky, confident and engaging. This trio also runs one of the videogame industry's best blogs,Triforce.com, although little of that site's sheer cheek and downbeat cynicism makes it into the text - understandably, perhaps, given the subject matter.The design, apart from the excellent cover, is a little dated and even slapdash in places - the text deserves something cooler and more refined. Edge re-thought by Taschen, perhaps. It's fun to argue with, though (no Doom! No Paradroid!), and will tell you a few things about classic games that you didn't know. The trivia about Ico's cover art (a homage to surrealist painter Giorgio de Chirico) was new to me, for example, although it probably oughtn't be. The book also sets out to make you want to play these games again - and certainly succeeds in this area.The bizarre Video Games Guide (Boxtree Publishing, GBP16.00) is an attempt at a Halliwell or TimeOut -style guide... but for games. The press release claims it's the 'first ever comprehensive guide to computer and video games, from the earliest arcade classics right up to the present-day hits', but the 'comprehensive' label quickly turns out to be a fanciful.This is, in fact, an idiosyncratic and highly subjective romp through videogame history, which happily takes in dozens of forgotten C64 and Spectrum titles, but neglects Pokemon, Animal Crossing, Lumines and all but one of the Final Fantasy series - among many others. Author Matt Fox also has a tendency to slip into autobiographical revery and happily admits to key games he's never played. The Battlefield 2 entry, for example, quickly makes clear that the writer never played the game's massively important and influential predecessor, Battlefield 1942. Riiiight.Comprehensive? Maybe when referring to Matt Fox's game collection, but for everyone else, the quintessential videogame reference guide is yet to be written.
In what must count as the biggest single attack on filesharing to date, the IFPI - the global recording industry body - today launched 8,000 new cases against illegal sharers across the world.Legal actions are being extended to Brazil, where more than one billion music tracks were illegally downloaded last year and a country where record company revenues have nearly halved since 2000. Mexico and Poland are also seeing actions for the first time - while a further 14 countries are launching fresh actions against illegal file-sharing.John Kennedy, chairman and chief executive of IFPI, said: "We reluctantly continue with our legal actions and today sees the latest escalation of that campaign to show that file-sharing copyrighted music does carry real legal risks."According to the IFPI release, more than 2,300 of those have already paid up average settlements €2,400 - which comes out as a whopping £3.75 million. Is it worth it?
Nothing to do withLarry Pageappearing on page 3, but a solar energy story.Reuters reports:Google plans a solar-powered electricity system at its Silicon Valley headquarters that will rank as the largest US solar-powered corporate office complex, the company said on Wednesday.The Web search leader said it is set to begin building a rooftop solar-powered generation system at its Mountain View, California, headquarters capable of generating 1.6 megawatts of electricity, or enough to power 1,000 California homes.It won't power data centres.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Any plans for Christmas yet? For me, and I guess some of you, the latestZelda gamewill play as big a part as turkey and booze. Let's face it, the latest installment of the classic series - it launches alongside the Wii - is one of the few truly must-have games this year. But after myinitial experienceswith the Wii and somedisturbing reportselsewhere I'm beginning to think the Gamecube version - out a week later on Dec 15th - will be the one to get. The graphics appear to be the same and I can live without the Wii-only fishing element if it means I can play a potential classic for hours without being removed from the gaming illusion by fatigue or frustration. I've got hands-on session planned for next week so I'll get a clearer impression of how Wii Zelda feels after an hour's play. For Christmas Day gaming with gran the Wii will be perfect but I've got a feeling I'll be dusting down the Gamecube for one last hurrah.
We're now more or less used to our total subjugation by tax authorities, summed up in the old Beatles lyric, "Be thankful I don't take it all". The question now is how The Taxman will attempt to invade virtual worlds such Second Life and World of Warcraft.A Reuters story reports:"Right now we're at the preliminary stages of looking at the issue and what kind of public policy questions virtual economies raise -- taxes, barter exchanges, property and wealth," said Dan Miller, senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the US Congress."You could argue that to a certain degree the law has fallen (behind) because you can have a virtual asset and virtual capital gains, but there's no mechanism by which you're taxed on this stuff," he told Reuters in a telephone interview.Comment:If you make profits in a virtual world then you are already taxed if you find a way to cash out. However, tax authorities prefer to take multiple bites, so you are taxed on what you earn, taxed on what you spend, then finally, when you die, you're taxed on the remaining value of whatever you bought. I wouldn't bet against having to pay real taxes on virtual dollars.
Famous hackerKevin Poulsen- now a member of the staff at Wired News - has revealed how he used code to catch a convicted sex offender trawling for under-age victims on MySpace.Poulsen built a Perl script which compared MySpace profiles with a database of registered sex offenders. His analysis of a third of MySpace profiles, he claims, confirmed 744 offenders with profiles, and almost 500 of them paedophiles. Working with a New York state police department, one man was tracked down and arrested.According to the article:MySpace busts are rare in this unit. About half the work done by the eight detectives here is aimed at online predators, but the networking site poses challenges that open chat rooms -- a dying social scene among today's youth -- never did. "It's a dangerous place for kids," says Frank Giardina, a good-natured, 49-year-old detective with salt-and-pepper hair and a matching mustache. "It's also difficult for law enforcement."That's because much of what happens on MySpace unfolds outside public view. The computer crime unit has erected bait profiles registered to fake underage teens, but so far the tactic has netted only one arrest. Proactively scouring MySpace pages is futile: The smarter sexual predators stick to private messages, and diligently prune their public comment boards of any posts from young friends that hint at what's happening behind the scenes.Of course, there's nothing illegal about a convicted criminal having a MySpace profile, but previously the site has said it can't keep control over its members. And the fact that offending registers in other countries - such as Britain - aren't available in the same way as those in the US, means it's hardly out of the bounds of imagination to expect that the number of sex offenders active on the site is much greater.
For some inexplicable reason, people ask me how they can get into the computer games industry. Hey people, I'm a journalist - I don't make 'em, I justwriteabout 'em. Nor do I have any designs on making 'em, so I've not even researched that part.However, someone who knows a bit about making games, working in the industry and experiencing success has compileda great listof the 50 books to read if want to give up your life to be a pixel pusher.Ernest Adams, author of The Designer's Notebook among others, has selected books which should speak to everyone "from Ken Kutaragi to part-time testers".The list answers a criticism I once heard a programmer say to a designer: the programmer complained that much of his time in programming school was spent considering human-computer interaction (HCI) yet designers often do not know anything about the field and have never read anything about it. Well, there're plenty of HCI-pickings in this lot (perhaps too many?). Don't come here for a "programming for computer games" textbook. Instead, expect to see mostly titles like, "Balance of Power: International Politics as the Ultimate Global Game" by Chris Crawford, "Theory of Fun" by Raph Koster and (the excellent) "Community Building on the Web: Secret Strategies for Successful Online Communities" by Amy Jo Kim.If I have one complaint, it's that his "inspiration" category only includes things like Lord of the Rings, Dungeons and Dragons and Star Trek. PLEASE. We do NOT need any more games based on these premises. If I have to play another orcs and goblins or space battle game I will go postal. Think outta the box, people. Try something new. Look elsewhere for your inspiration! How else will we ever move forward?viaAJUPDATE:Here're a few morefrom the business perspective, via Microsoft's Kim Pallister (and viaWonderland). I profoundly agree that Adams also missed out on including Neal Stephenson's Snowcrash in his list of inspirations.
Microsoft and the European commission yesterday welcomed an unprecedented break in their seven-year legal war of attrition that will enable the European launch of the software group's new computer operating system, Vista, to go ahead next month.Neelie Kroes, competition commissioner, who fined Microsoft &euro;280.5m in July for failing to comply with commission anti-trust rulings, said: "They promised they would behave and take into account our rules and regulations. Well, I'm a happy woman." Ms Kroes, nicknamed "Nickel Neelie" because of her hardline stance on competition, reached an understanding with Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, late on Thursday that the group would make significant changes to Vista to ensure rival software is available on its operating system.For Microsoft, fined a record &euro;497m in March 2004 for abusing its market dominance, the breakthrough after seven months of tense negotiations is a portent for the future. "For once, we may be able to launch a product without entering into a hailstorm of legal suits," an insider said.Yesterday, sources close to the group said the commission had shown a more proactive approach towards Vista. Ms Kroes, meanwhile, is said to have been impressed by the software group's flexibility and willingness to make information available.Both sides agree that the commission has not given the "green light" for the commercial launch of Vista to business users next month and to retail customers in January. But Brad Smith, the group's general counsel, has said Microsoft accepts it is obliged to comply with antitrust law and believes the revised Vista does comply.Microsoft has agreed to make three key changes in the form of commitments to address EU concerns about "bundling" software into its operating system. First, users can now choose their own search engine. Second, after complaints from rival security software companies such as Symantec, it has agreed to create a new set of codes (APIs) that will enable rivals to gain access to Vista's core. Third, it agreed that its new fixed layout document format, XML, similar to that of Adobe's PDF files, will be scrutinised by a standards body.
Over a picture of a groovy "full 360-degree view" head-mounted Toshiba display,The Daily Mail asks: "Is this the way we will all be 'enjoying' our television programmes and computer games in the future??"Comment: Since you ask, no. However, it does make you wonder what's going on at The Daily Mail. Exactly how do they think you can see a 360 degree display? At best, given a dome-shaped fish-eye screen, you mght see 180 degrees or even more, but most of us don't have eyes in the backs of our heads. (Projecting a real 360 degree display from a point source is a bit tricky, especially if there's a human head in the way, but so is making spherical LCD screens.)Perhaps the Mail has its calendar mixed up and thinks it's April 1, or perhaps the Mail's site has been hacked, or perhaps someone from Toshiba (or pretending to be from Toshiba) has pulled off a great jape. I'd rather believe any of those than think this is the real thing.If you feel witty, they are having acaption competitionat Engadget.
The E3 games trade show could yet arise from the ashes. According toGamesIndustry.biz:The E3 Media and Business Summit will run from July 11-13 in Santa Monica and, according to an ESA statement, will provide a platform for companies to "stage major press events, and to have intimate meetings in premier hotel suites and meeting rooms with media, retailers, developer partners and other audiences".The hotels where these events and meetings take place will be within walking distance of each other, and there will be a shuttle bus to take attendees to major off-site conferences organised by the likes of Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo.Note: "Entry to the event will be by invitation only, and booking is set to open within the next 30 days."
So will the UK be able to spawn a Web 2.0 start-up to rival the likes of Google, YouTube or MySpace? Business is not so sure. Brits have no shortage of ideas but the entrepreneurial spirit is rather more conservative in the UK than across the other side of the Atlantic, and America has one huge advantage: scale."I am afraid I am a bit pessimistic because the US does have such a huge advantage with the size of the domestic market," says David Soskin, a former City banker and now chief executive of travel site cheapflights.co.uk. "If you've got a website that works well you've immediately got 300m consumers in the US rather than 60m in the UK."Cheapflights weathered the last dotcom storm and recently celebrated its 10th birthday. Profitable since launch, it has never raised any funding from venture capital firms and has been embracing Web 2.0 ideas such as online communities. The scale of opportunity enjoyed by American start-ups became obvious when it launched in the US. After three years its fledgling American arm is fast approaching the size of its UK business and in the first six months of this year grew a staggering 186%.Then there are the cultural differences between the US and Europe. Nils Hammar, UK chief executive of online community siteLunarStorm, reckons: "The American psyche is much more geared to taking risks and working long hours to achieve business success."The idea of becoming very rich through hard work and dedication is both more achievable and more widely believed stateside. The underlying fact that business is much more mainstream in the US means that entrepreneurs are far more likely to receive the support and admiration of their peers. In the UK, despite advances of recent years, technology entrepreneurs still remain the subject of television shows rather than the daily norm."Failure is taken in the US as a sign of experience, rather than treated as a mark of shame as it can be over here. Chris Coffman, senior analyst at technology watchers Informa Telecoms &amp; Media and a former analyst with Silicon Valley-based financiers BlueRun Ventures, reckons: "One of the issues the UK faces is there's not as much of a culture of business risk among the entrepreneurs - there's still a stigma around failing in business. Whereas in the US, and especially in Silicon Valley, it's all experience that feeds your next project. This results in a lot of experienced entrepreneurs, which helps lubricate the process."
Microsoft and the European Commission today welcomed an unprecedented thaw in their seven-year legal war of attrition that will enable the software group's new computer operating system, Vista, to be launched in Europe next month.Neelie Kroes, the competition commissioner who fined Microsoft 280.5m in July for failing to comply with commission anti-trust rulings, said: "They promised they would behave and take into account our rules and regulations. Well, I'm a happy woman."Ms Kroes, nicknamed "Nickel Neelie" because of her hard-line stance on competition, reached an understanding with Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, late on Thursday that the group would make significant changes to Vista to ensure rival software is available on its operating system.For Microsoft, fined a record 497m in March 2004 for abusing its market dominance, the breakthrough after seven months of tense negotiations is a portent for the future. "For once, we may be able to launch a product without entering into a hailstorm of legal suits," an insider said.Relations between Ms Kroes and Mr Ballmer are said to be on a more even keel after their last conversation, in late August, broke down in mutual recrimination and the Dutch commissioner publicly accused Microsoft of a co-ordinated campaign to discredit her while denying she in turn was pursuing a vendetta against it.Sources close to Microsoft said today the commission had shown a more pro-active approach towards issues it had raised about Vista and made the negotiating process more efficient. Ms Kroes, meanwhile, is said to have been impressed by the software group's unusual flexibility and willingness to make information available it had previously ruled out.Both sides agree that the commission has not given the "green light" for the commercial launch of Vista to business users next month and to retail customers in January. But Brad Smith, the group's general counsel, has said Microsoft accepts it is obliged to comply with antitrust law and is convinced the revised Vista does comply.Microsoft has agreed to make three key changes in the form of binding commitments to address long-standing EU concerns about "bundling" software into its operating system.First, users can now choose their own search engine, making it and not necessarily Internet Explorer 7 the default search tool on their computers.Second, after complaints from rival security software companies such as Symantec, it has agreed to create a new set of codes (APIs) that will enable rivals to gain access to Vista's core or kernel. Mr Ballmer said these would be available from last night.Third, it agreed that its new fixed-layout document format, XML, similar to that of Adobe's PDF files, will be scrutinsed by a standards setting body and that the licensing terms under which the format is made available to rival software companies will be revised."It's a bit premature to shout 'peace in our time', " one source said, pointing to the absence of any guarantee that legal action may yet ensue. Ms Kroes has also indicated she will be forced to act if she receives a large body of complaints from rivals.And, hanging over the thaw in the cold war, is the continuing threat of renewed sanctions - fines of up to 3m a day - for Microsoft's failure to comply with the original March 2004 ruling that it ensure full inter-operability between its operating system and rival software.The group has submitted hundreds of thousands of technical documents that are being assessed by an independent trustee, Prof Neil Barrett, and his team. If they are approved, the two sides then have to agree on the licensing terms for rivals to access the secret protocols.But, in advance of next year's expected decision by the Court of First Instance, Europe's second highest court, on Microsoft's appeal against the 2004 ruling, there are the first green shoots of a "normalised" relationship.
With staggered international launches for both PS3 and Wii due over the coming months, desperate gamers should prepare themselves for plenty of auction site evil. Digg.com managed to cachethisWii scam before Ebay took it down. The seller, who claims to work for a 'gamer magazine' is offering a pre-production Wii for sale with immediate delivery promised. In a very small font half-way through the product description, however, are the words:"You are bidding on a picture of the system and not the system itself."Not the most ingenious piece of confidence trickery, but rest-assured, there will be smarter versions out there. When the Xbox 360 was launched, there were several sellers apparently offering the hard to get hold of machine - but the small print revealed that you were actually bidding on empty packaging.All part of the fun of the modern console launch...
More names are diving head-first into theSecond Lifephenomenon (Adidas, Reebok, American Apparel, Toyota), but the latest two biggies to dispatch into the social space areCNET.comandReuters.The pair have launched in the world as its account population soared to over 900,000, doubling EverQuest's subscription rate when it was population leader in the days before the World of Warcraft tsunami.According toClickable Culture, "Last month, CNET News.com opened up a virtual office in Second Life with the intention of using the space to hold promotional events." Not a new idea (theBBCwas the first big name to get there first), but significant in the news distribution space.Reutersintends to adapt the platform to extend its brand, using it as a tool to expand its audience and tap into the SL zeitgeist. According to a launch article,Starting on Wednesday, Reuters plans to begin publishing text, photo and video news from the outside world for Second Life members and news of Second Life for real world readers who visita Reuters news site.Reporting SL news to the outside world? Now that's quite a step. Will anyone who's not already involved in the virtual space be interested?
Here are the headlines. In the desert two armies made up of Daleks are attacking each other. A city is besieged by self-replicating goo, and interest rates have shot up 12-fold.This, at least, is what is happening in Second Life, a virtual reality world which has broken out of American (and now British) bedrooms and has attracted almost a million inhabitants worldwide. So far, so weird. And it's about to become twistier still.From this week, Second Life will take another step closer to reality, for wandering around this pixillated landscape, roughly the size of Amsterdam, is a virtual journalist.That bastion of objective old world reporting, Reuters, has decided it needs to bring the business "news" from Second Life to the rest of us. Residents will also be able to keep up with news out here by visiting the Reuters building which the 155-year-old wire service has built within Second Life.Joining a list of Reuters alumni which includes Ian Fleming, John Buchan, the author of The 39 Steps, and Frederick Forsyth, will be "Adam Reuters" - in real life, a London-based media reporter Adam Pasick, whose job it will be to sniff out and report on the important news events in Second Life.To Reuters, which has reported on global events since 1851 and is a byword for journalistic conservatism and quality, the move is recognition that the old media world is changing fast.But to some, it looks like a desperate attempt to grab some of the sparkle that goes with the internet.Not so, say Reuters executives, who are adamant that there are real business ideas evolving within Second Life and an important economics story to tell. There is $3.2m in real money washing around the Second Life system, with upwards of $70,000 traded daily on the currency exchange - known as the LindeX. Inhabitants of Second Life are given an allowance by Linden Lab, the US-based company behind the website, which can be exchanged back into real money.They can also buy more virtual cash with their real-life credit cards. Reuters is even thinking of compiling a Second Life consumer price index.But professor Adrian Monck, head of journalism and publishing at City University in London, is not impressed with the latest in virtual journalism. "It's more fascinating to report on the kind of people who spend half their lives living out fantasies in those kind of places. In my opinion it's still the people behind the computer that are the most interesting thing."Second Life is one of those curious internet phenomena. Anyone with a fast enough computer, broadband connection, and more time on their hands than they know what to do with can join in, start building their own virtual home, make virtual friends, go shopping and essentially hang out. It's much like real life, except you don't need to eat or drink and can choose to be represented by a furry animal. Oh, and you can fly. Second Life has a burgeoning economy based on the Linden dollar - currently running at about 275 to the real dollar.Businesses from Reebok and American Apparel to Sony, have been experimenting with selling clothes promoting new bands and setting up online music festivals. Individual users have also been setting up businesses, designing houses which they sell to other players, and there is a seedier black market in digital sex.Unlike other major online environments such as World of Warcraft, there are no dragons to slay and no princesses to rescue in Second Life. Academics have become interested because digital worlds present the possibility of social experimentation without the mass graves and invasions of neighbouring countries which such experiments traditionally entail.
"A pro-Wal-Mart blog called Wal-Marting Across America, ostensibly launched by a pair of average Americans chronicling their cross-country travels in an RV and lodging in Wal-Mart parking lots, has been reduced to a farewell entry. One of its two contributors was revealed to be Jim Thresher, a staff photographer for The Washington Post," reportsOnline Media Daily.The blog, launched Sept. 27, was profiled in this week's issue ofBusinessWeek, which exposed the site as a promotional tactic engineered by Working Families for Wal-Mart (WFWM), an organization launched by Wal-Mart's public relations firm Edelman. WFWM paid for the RV and all travel expenses, rerouted the trip's original plan, and plastered a logo on the RV's side. Although the blog featured a link to WFWM, it did not identify the organization as a paid sponsor.The stupidity is obvious enough, but is spelled out:"This is so foolish on so many levels, it makes me scratch my head," says corporate blogging consultant Debbie Weil, author of "The Corporate Blogging Book." Everyone involved violated the basic rule: Be transparent. If you're found out, it comes back as a slap in the face."Comment: The blog'sfinal postoffers a defence. Laura and Jim wanted to make the trip, and Wal-Mart does let people stay in its parking lots for free.Given the litigious age we live in, we decided to get permission from Wal-Mart to do so. So I called my brother, who works at Edelman and whose clients include Working Families for Wal-Mart, in order to find out if we'd be allowed to talk to people and take pictures in Wal-Mart parking lots. As a freelance writer, I've learned over the years that it's always better to ask about stuff like that in advance.They didn't just give us permission. They said they would even sponsor the trip! A blog seemed the perfect medium to tell those stories -- a perfect way to present a diary of my trip. I would post about the trip, not after the fact but from right out there on the road. And even more exciting, no editors! What writer could say no to that?All in all, it was a perfect fit. Working Families for Wal-Mart wants to get the word out about all the good things Wal-Mart does for people. I wanted to make this trip and write about it. It just seemed to work.And we kept our professional lives out of it -- where we work and what we do for a living -- because this was not about the organizations we work for - I did this blog because I thought it would make a great story. Jim did this because we live together. We took vacation time in order to make this trip. We weren't out there as representatives of our employers, or anybody at all but ourselves.All this seems more than a bit naive, and it's hard to believe the entries would have been so (in Business Week's phrase) "relentlessy upbeat" if they weren't being paid for. However, you also have to wonder if the couple would have taken so much stick if it hadn't been about Wal-Mart. "We had heard that Wal-Mart's critics could be vicious in their attacks. Now we know those concerns were valid."Update: Richard Edelman fromEdelman PR has now apologised.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Terrible headline, of course, but still,iPod Killers for Christmas 2006does provide an interesting round up of the MP3 players available for those who want an alternative to the market leader. The products featured include the Disney Mix Max (touch wheel with mouse ears), the tiny wearable iRiver S10, Toshiba's undermarketed Gigabeat V, and various models from Archos, which picked up a fan club before the iPod came out.
I've been spending a fair bit of time on Xbox Live over the weekend - partly getting beaten at Table Tennis, but mainly trying to get playPhantasy Star Universe. I haven't managed it yet - the servers have been constantly full -but I'm keen to see how the latest instalment of the online RPG matches up to my nostalgic memories of the Dreamcast version. Back in the painful dial-up days it was a revelation, with four players able to battle through four levels of sci-fi act... ok, it doesn't sound like much in the these days of WoW and Guild Wars but Phantasy Star Online was a console revolution in that dark pre-broadband era. Anyone managed to get on Universe yet?Talking of online gaming,Eurogamerhave had a look at Sony's PS3 offering. With Microsoft's Live service setting the standard for online console gaming Sony have got a lot of catching up to do and you can imagine there will be a few more articles like this popping up over the next couple of months as the PR machine grinds into action. The good news then is that Sony appears to be getting the online side right, which is obviously in sharp contrast to the rest of the PS3 launch. The Playstation store in particular sounds impressive, especially so when you consider the navigational nightmare that is Xbox Live Marketplace.But there is still no firm news on how or if Sony will replicate Microsoft's addictive gamerpoints system. More than one person has told me they will buy the 360 rather than PS3 version of the same game purely because they will "get points for it". Online console gaming has come a long way since the Dreamcast first pioneered it.
In a web-only interview with Steven Levy (who has written a book about the iPod, and wrote the recent Guardian Weekend article about whether the iPod's shuffle functionreally israndom), Apple chief executive gives his reaction to the music-sharing function of the Zune:I've seen the demonstrations on the Internet about how you can find another person using a Zune and give them a song they can play three times. It takes forever. By the time you've gone through all that, the girl's got up and left! You're much better off to take one of your earbuds out and put it in her ear. Then you're connected with about two feet of headphone cable.Read the full interviewhere.
After winning a court victory against Google, Belgian newspaper publishers are now going for MSN ... with Yahoo and the rest presumably next in line. According toIDG News Service:The newspaper group, called Copiepresse, wrote a letter to MSN Belgium earlier this week, asking it to stop posting Belgian newspaper articles to its Web site without permission, said Margaret Boribon, the group's secretary general.Comment: Basically, the Belgian publishers want a share of the ad revenue from online news aggregation services, so MSN may be able to do a deal. Google has no ad revenue from Google News and, I assume, doesn't want to set a precedent. If you start sharing search ad revenue with newspapers then surely you ought to share it with other sites, bloggers, spammers etc, whose pages come up whenever you search Google.Of course, you might decide that if Google (or whoever) is sending you loads of visitors that it would otherwise cost large sums to get, you should just put ads on your own pages and monetize traffic that way. However, if you think you are giving Google (or whoever) a free lunch by letting it steal your content, you might want a portion of that lunch for yourself.
Cadillac BLSPrice:&pound;21,473Top speed:131mphSeats:5Good for:green lightsBad for:green cardsAs you may already know, there are more Indian restaurants in Britain than any other, and chicken tikka masala has pipped roast beef to take its place at the top table of the country's favourite dishes. A fillip to the nation's enthusiastic embrace of cooking from the Indian subcontinent ... Except for one thing: chicken tikka masala is not actually Indian. It's British. The CTM has been invented purely for our discerning taste buds.Which brings us rather neatly to the latest offering from Cadillac. A premium, midsize saloon that's been designed specifically and uniquely for the European motorist. And, just as most Indians will never get to round off an evening's largering with a plate of bright-orange chicken tikka, so most Americans will never get to park their bee-hinds in the front seat of a new BLS.But how does a US car company go about turning its All-American product into something that will appeal to the British palate? The first thing, obviously, would be to reduce the size of its portions. We Brits won't swallow those great lumps of road-going metal the American likes to chew on, and neither can we afford the fuel bills. Therefore, the BLS is the dinkiest car that Cadillac has ever made, and also the first Caddy to come with an economical diesel engine. Its 1.9-litre, 150bhp powerplant will churn out 46 miles to the gallon - there are macho American wagons that can swig a gallon just getting out of the garage. (If all this talk of frugality is making you jittery, don't panic, the BLS does also come with a fuel-gurgling 2.8-litre V6 auto - you never know, there may be Americans over here longing for the familiar taste of home.)So, Cadillac have clearly gone to a lot of trouble on our behalf. Well, sort of ... What they've actually done is a bit easier. They've basically stuck their American badge on a European car. You see, the BLS is in fact a Saab. This isn't as strange as you may think, as both brands belong to General Motors.Sitting in the BLS, there are certain clues that you are in a Saab - the handbrake and steering wheel, for instance, are identical - except for a different crest. But GM has taken every opportunity to put some clear water between the two cars. Whereas the suspension in Saab's 9-3 is firm and utilitarian, the BLS is as smooth and silky as Roger Federer's glossy bob. Extra sound proofing in the doors and wheel arches means it's whisper quiet, too, while the seats are larger and more padded. The BLS has more sharply defined contours, a striking wedge shape, and boasts Cadillac's trademark vertical tail lights. The bodywork is scored with lines - a crease runs from the enormous 'egg-crate' grille, over the bonnet to the boot, as if the car's been folded and then ironed flat again. As you'd expect, it comes packed with goodies, from a wicked Bose stereo to parking assistance and F1-style gear paddles.It costs the same as a Saab. So why buy a Cadillac? It all seems to depend on whether you prefer burgers or herrings.martin.love@observer.co.uk
