A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid phones hit by 'ransomware' &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comNicole Perlroth:Now those same criminals are taking their scheme mobile, successfully infecting Android devices at disturbing rates. In just the last 30 days, roughly 900,000 people were targeted with a form of ransomware called "ScarePackage," according to Lookout, a San Francisco-based mobile security firm."This is, by far, the biggest US targeted threat of ransomware we've seen," said Jeremy Linden, a senior security product manager at Lookout. "In the past month, a single piece of malware has affected as many devices in the US, as a quarter of all families of malware in 2013."In addition to ScarePackage, Mr. Linden and a team at Lookout have also been tracking another strain of ransomware dubbed "ColdBrother," or "Sypeng," which not only locks users out of their device, but can take a photo from the device's camera, can answer and drop phone calls and search for banking applications on the device.And in just the last three weeks, Lookout discovered a new form of ransomware called ScareMeNot, which has already managed to infect more than 30,000 Android devices.Victims get infected with the ransomware through a method known as a "drive-by download" in which they simply need visit a website — in some cases a pornography site — to inadvertently download the ransomware onto their machine. In other cases, they download the ransomware by downloading fake apps that masquerade as popular services such as Adobe Flash or an anti-virus product.Once infected, it is very difficult to remove.Rather different from the"Oleg Pliss" iPhone 'ransomware', which came via phishing iCloud accounts, which then were used to remotely lock phones.Amazon will acquire Twitch for more than $1bn &gt;&gt; Re/codeGoogle had been in talks to acquire the company, but that deal died, according to the source. Amazon then entered the picture and completed what is one of its biggest acquisitions to date, this person said.For the uninitiated, Twitch is a platform for making and talking about videos of videogame play. About a million users a month record themselves playing videogames, while the rest — pegged at 50 million unique viewers in July — watch and comment on the videos. In January, Twitch reported that 58% of its viewers spent more than 20 hours per week on the site. It originated as an offshoot of a general-purpose live video site, Justin.tv, but in time surpassed its original home; earlier this month, Twitch said Justin.tv would shut down.Amazon's past video efforts have been more like Netflix than Twitch, with a library of streaming movies, TV shows and original series that have thus far failed to mount much of a challenge to Netflix. Bringing the videogame streaming site into the fold arms it with a totally new vertical of YouTube-style user-generated content, since anyone is able to broadcast his or her games to Twitch for free.One big question: Will Amazon let Twitch operate as a standalone business as Facebook did with Instagram and as Google, according to a source, had contemplated doing with Twitch? Or will Amazon try to integrate it into its current video business in some way?Either way, the Seattle-based online retailer likely has its eyes on the site's video advertising potential, since it mostly attracts young men, who are an attractive but hard-to-reach shopper demographic.Read on for something Amazon is doing that will be a good fit with this purchase.The rumoured iOS screen fragmentation &gt;&gt; Rusty RantsRussell Ivanovic (whose Shifty Jelly does podcasting apps for iOS and Android:What does this mean in practice? It means iOS developers will now have to do more work than their Android counterparts in order to support the increased variation in iOS screens. The best tools for that exist in iOS 8, which also makes it likely a lot of apps will go iOS 8 only to avoid the manual layout pain. It's not all bad news though, this might actually result in better large screen iOS apps vs their Android counterparts. This is because on the 5.5″ iPhone there would be more content being shown, rather than everything just being bigger.The fasinatng … frustrating … fascinating history of autocorrect &gt;&gt; WIREDGideon Lewis-Kraus explains that we all have Dean Hamachovitch of Microsoft to thank:The notion of autocorrect was born when Hachamovitch began thinking about a functionality that already existed in Word. Thanks to Charles Simonyi, the longtime Microsoft executive widely recognised as the father of graphical word processing, Word had a "glossary" that could be used as a sort of auto-expander. You could set up a string of words—like insert logo—which, when typed and followed by a press of the F3 button, would get replaced by a JPEG of your company's logo. Hachamovitch realised that this glossary could be used far more aggressively to correct common mistakes. He drew up a little code that would allow you to press the left arrow and F3 at any time and immediately replace teh with the. His aha moment came when he realised that, because English words are space-delimited, the space bar itself could trigger the replacement, to make correction … automatic!Shanghai to San Francisco in 100 minutes by Chinese supersonic submarine &gt;&gt; South China Morning PostChina has moved a step closer to creating a supersonic submarine that could travel from Shanghai to San Francisco in less than two hours.New technology developed by a team of scientists at Harbin Institute of Technology's Complex Flow and Heat Transfer Lab has made it easier for a submarine, or torpedo, to travel at extremely high speeds underwater.Li Fengchen, professor of fluid machinery and engineering, said the team's innovative approach meant they could now create the complicated air "bubble" required for rapid underwater travel. "We are very excited by its potential," he said.Water produces more friction, or drag, on an object than air, which means conventional submarines cannot travel as fast as an aircraft.However, during the cold war, the Soviet military developed a technology called supercavitation, which involves enveloping a submerged vessel inside an air bubble to avoid problems caused by water drag.The problem was always that it went fast, but couldn't be steered (because the steering gear was inside the air bubble). Now the Chinese say they may have solved that. Could have big implications militarily - superfast submarines would be a big threat.GT Advanced Technologies is on target to produce sapphire for the iWatch and iPhone 6 &gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaMatt Margolis:The latest Production Notification request from Apple and GT Advanced Technologies confirm that the Mesa, Arizona sapphire plant will be producing not one but two key sapphire components for Apple. The two components are distinct and different.…The introduction of sapphire crackle into the sapphire growing process will lead to improved boule quality, which will lead to less defects and higher useable sapphire yields. Previous reports have indicated yield issues coming from Mesa and this latest request provides even more concrete evidence that GT has addressed the sapphire yield issues in an effort to maximize yield and improve overall production costs.One component is sapphire finished goods not suitable for jewellery and the other sapphire finished good is jewellery specific. The first component is sapphire for the manufacturing of sapphire cover screens for the iPhone 6 and the second is sapphire cover screens for Apple's upcoming iWatch.He seems to have found the documents to help the speculation along. ("Sapphire crackle". Love it.)Amazon preps a challenge to Google's ad business &gt;&gt; Wall Street JournalInitially, Amazon plans to replace those ads on its pages that Google chiefly supplies with a new in-house ad placement platform, said people familiar with the matter. In the future, that system could challenge Google's $50 billion-a-year advertising business and Microsoft Corp.'s, they added.The Seattle-based retailer already has a limited business placing ads on other sites. In a sign that it has larger goals, Amazon is testing ways to expand that program with new types of ads."Amazon could use the data it has about buying behavior to help make these ads much more effective," said Karsten Weide, an analyst at researcher IDC. "Marketers would love to have another viable option beyond Google and Facebook for their advertising."The Internet of Things will cost companies more than they're ready for &gt;&gt; VentureBeatPaul Brody:Today, smartphones are powerful hubs surrounded by less intelligent objects. Each device is managed and operated from a few centralized data centers. This is not yet a major issue as devices currently last only a year or two before being decommissioned. The cost of managing data centers is limited in duration and underwritten by a constant flood of replacement devices with short lives.Not so in the Internet of Things era: an LED lightbulb has an expected life of 20+ years; aircraft are expected to remain in service for decades; the average car on the road in the US is now more than a decade old. Applying a centralized cloud-based business model to these devices will mean decades of expense without decades of associated revenue. At IBM we already see clients that are struggling with device-related services that have failed to meet revenue targets, but cannot be switched off for fear of angering an installed base.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday. How was your Bank Holiday weekend?
The battle between Amazon and the French publisher Hachette is not just a spat about the price of books. Their row over ebook prices, which led to the online retailer freezing out pre-orders of Hachette books and has provoked angry words from authors such as Donna Tartt and Phillip Pullman, could determine the next chapter of the publishing industry.On one side is"the everything store"that sold $75bn (£45bn) of goods online last year, from toothbrushes to tents – and is estimated to sell 90% of ebooks in Britain. On the other is one of the world's biggest publishers, whose parent company, French conglomerate Lagardère, earned €7.2bn (£5.8bn) last year from its print and broadcasting empire.But Hachette's starring role is more than anything a quirk of timing, as all the major publishers face fresh negotiations with Amazon over the coming months. And this latest dispute, which strikes at the heart of their business model, comes as the traditional publishers face changes sweeping through the industry. Independent bookshops continue to close, while mobile games and on-screen entertainment are competing for readers' scarce attention like never before.Even before the latest dispute, publishers were thinking about how to reinvent themselves, from developingtheir own digital contentto trying to build a direct relationship with readers by hosting author events and using social media. The world's biggest publisher, Penguin Random House, recently launcheda social network site for readers, allowing people to showcase their favourite books and buy them from independent stores.In another closely-watched development, HarperCollins has unveiled a revamped version of its US website, making it easier for fans of Agatha Christie, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and David Walliams to buy their titles direct from the publisher.A new version of the UK website is to be unveiled in the autumn, as the redesign is rolled out across all HarperCollins's English-language sites. The timing of the launch prompted headlines that the initiative was a device to bypass Amazon, but Chantal Restivo-Alessi, chief digital officer at HarperCollins, says she never had any intention of competing with the internet company."Do you think I am mad?" she says. "I don't think that's realistic and why would we want to. They are one of our biggest retail partners. We want to create different channels and opportunities for our authors to sell our products."The HarperCollins site encourages consumers to shop around, providing links to almost two dozen other retailers including Amazon and Apple, often selling the book cheaper. For example, the official autobiography of One Direction was available to pre-order on HarperCollins website for $21.99 in hardback, but a $14.84 version was only a click away on Amazon. While HarperCollins is only selling the book, Amazon is also chivvying browsers to buy the group's albums, wall calendars and posters, post their own reviews and create wishlists.HarperCollins is not revealing the percentage of sales it is seeking to generate, but Restivo-Alessi says that is not the whole point. "Even if we get a small percentage of sales, that small percentage will give us a better insight into the author's consumer, which will make us a better publisher and provide a better service to our authors."A secondhand section in a bookshop. 'Books are cultural artifacts', says Tim Godfray, head of the Booksellers’ Association. Photograph: Rob Whitworth/AlamySome smaller publishers have already moved into direct sales. When Colin Robinson co-founded OR Books in 2009, he decided to bypass Amazon and sell directly to readers, printing books on demand. He says Amazon would have taken a 60% cut on the list price, money that can instead be spent on advertising and promotion.OR Books is "handselling" its books, he says, "like the person who works in the bookstore [and] knows you". It is a model that suits the New-York based publisher, which Robinson says publishes books that are "written, edited, reviewed, bought and read by people with sympathy for ideas that are politically and culturally off-piste".Recent publications include an account of the rise of Isis (Islamic State) in Iraq, by a veteran Middle East reporter and a collection of short stories by Cuban authors. "The future of the business, especially for small to medium-sized publishers, who have got quite targeted audiences for their books, the future is is to sell direct."But industry watchers doubt that this model would be easy to replicate for a big conglomerate, such as HarperCollins, which sells 40,000 books online, from "hot and steamy" $1.99 novels through to self improvement and cookery.Douglas McCabe at Enders Analysis thinks large publishers will continue to need the middleman, pointing out that readers don't set out to buy HarperCollins or Penguin books, just as they don't watch a film because it is made by Pinewood Studios.For now publishers have no choice but to deal with Amazon - the publisher's "frenemy" in the words of Restivo-Alessi.  "When it comes to negotiation you are enemies because obviously you are both trying to maximise returns for your business, and in our case our authors … and at other times you are friends because you are both trying to increase the amount of the product."Road to petition: how the narrative unfoldedThe dispute over the price of ebooks  flared up in May, when Amazon removed the pre-order button for some Hachette titles, including JK Rowling's latest detective novel.Some of the book world's biggest names have weighed in against Amazon. Stephen King, Philip Pullman, John Grisham,  Donna Tartt and Antony Beevor are among 900 writers who signedan open letteragainst Amazon.Last week, almost 1,200 German-language authors, including the Nobel prize winner Elfriede Jelinek, added their names to a similarmissive criticising Amazon's tacticsagainst the Stockholm-based publisher Bonnier.But Amazon has its champions. Almost 8,500 writers, including some of the most popular self published authors, such as Joe Konrath and Hugh Howey, havesigned a counter-letterin praise of Amazon for allowing themfreedom of expression versus the "self-serving" traditional publishing industry.Nobel laureate Elfriede Jelinek was one of 1,200 German-language authors to criticise Amazon. Photograph: Rudi Blaha/APIn a nutshell, Amazon proposes to cap the price of most ebooks at $9.99. It would keep 30% of the proceeds, while authors and publishers will split the remaining 70%. Amazon contends that ebooks are "unjustifiably" expensive, because they do away with the cost of printing, warehousing and transport.But Hachette's chief executive, Michael Pietsch,accused Amazon of seeking more profit and market share"at the expense of authors, bricks and mortar bookstores, and ourselves".Douglas McCabe at Enders Analysis questions Amazon's assumption that paper, print and ink is the costliest part of a book. "It is not the most expensive part of the publishing process by any means."Industry sources support this analysis citing the cost of paying advances, editing, proof-reading, promotion, distribution, legal approval, pictures and design. In the UK a hardback book with no pictures can cost around £1.60 to print; a text-only paperback just 70p.Champions of Amazon argue that savvy authors will be able to buy editing and marketing services using their receipts from a larger share of the proceeds. But McCabe is not so sure. "Not all of that work is profitable, it is only profitable because it is part of a much larger publishing cycle."The traditional publishing model means the proceeds from JK Rowling and Stephen King allow a publisher to put out the fourth volume of a little-known poet, he adds.Booksellers, which have been hard hit by Amazon's steep discounting, are watching anxiously. "Books are more than just consumer products; they are cultural artifacts," says Tim Godfray, chief executive of the Booksellers' Association. "What bookshops don't want is for Amazon's growing competitive advantage to lead to a monopoly which stifles a diverse marketplace for publishing, authors and, ultimately, the consumer."
Sony claims that its PlayStation Network (PSN) online gaming service has recovered after being attacked by an apparent hacker group over the weekend.On Sunday, the network, which allows PlayStation owners to access the internet and play against each other in multiplayer games, was hit with a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack, in which a company’s web servers are bombarded with a huge amount of fake traffic in order to overload capacity. DDoS attacks are not strictly “hacks” as they do not require the instigator to access and sabotage the target system, but they can cripple a company’s network.PlayStation owners were unable to get online for several hours. Originally, an onscreen message claimed that the service was down for maintenance, and Sony tweeted that it was dealing with the issue.Network update: our engineers are aware of the issues and are working to resolve them. We&#39;ll keep you posted - sorry for the inconvenience&mdash; PlayStation (@PlayStation)August 24, 2014However, the company, later admitted the DDoS attack on its official blog, and made a statement:Like other major networks around the world, the PlayStation Network and Sony Entertainment Network have been impacted by an attempt to overwhelm our network with artificially high traffic.Although this has impacted your ability to access our network and enjoy our services, no personal information has been accessed.Several hours later, the blog post was updated withan announcementthat the service was back online:The PlayStation Network and Sony Entertainment Network are back online and people can now enjoy the services on their PlayStation devices. The networks were taken offline due to a distributed denial of service attack. We have seen no evidence of any intrusion to the network and no evidence of any unauthorized access to users’ personal information.PlayStation owners are confirming on Twitter that the service is working.Responsibility for the attack has been claimed by an apparent hacker group named Lizard Squad. The group has also been implicated in a bomb threat received by American Airlines on Sunday which led to a passenger flight from Dallas to San Diego being diverted to Phoenix. On board the plane was Sony Entertainment Online president John Smedley.Shortly after the aircraft took off from Fort Worth International airport, Lizard Squad tweeted:.@AmericanAirWe have been receiving reports that@j_smedley&#39;s plane #362 from DFW to SAN has explosives on-board, please look into this.&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardSquad)August 24, 2014The group then continued to retweet messages from the plane’s angry passengers, reacting to the diversion. Later, the the Lizard Squad twitter profile sent a message directly to Smedley..@j_smedleyGlad to see you following us. How&#39;s your day?&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardSquad)August 24, 2014Later on Sunday, another hacker named “Fame” also claimed responsibility for the PlayStation Network attack, criticising Lizard Squad onthe @FameGod Twitter feed for taking credit. Fame later posted a YouTube video claiming to have carried out the DDoS attack to draw attention to alleged security failings in Sony’s system.This is not the first time the PlayStation Network has been subject to an attack from a hacker group. In 2011, the service was brought down for several days in one of the biggest corporate hacks so far recorded; the personal details of over 70 million users were thought to have been exposed. PSN was offline for several days and Sony was criticised for its handling of the attack. Last January, the companywas fined £250,000 by the Information Commissioner’s Office.For its part, the Lizard Group Twitter account is now suggesting that Microsoft’s Xbox Live service may be the next target. A tweet dated Monday, 3.50am, states, “’Sup XBL Login, just performing tests.”Sup XBL Login, just performing tests.&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardSquad)August 25, 2014Fame has posted a similar warning:Xbox is Next.#ProjectMicro&mdash; Fame (@FamedGod)August 24, 2014It’s alsobeing reportedthat Lizard Squad group was behind DDoS attacks on the servers of Blizzard, the creator of the multiplayer online game World of Warcraft. The company has tweeted that the issues have now been resolved.Little is known about Lizard Squad beyond its recent attacks. The group’s Twitter posts contain references to the Jihadist group Isis – a tweet posted just after the DDoS attack on PlayStation Networkdeclared“Today we planted the ISIS flag on @sony’s servers #ISIS #Jihad”. However, it’s possible that the claims are satirical.Such attacks are now a common part of the games business, with most titles now providing online multiplayer features. Major publishers Electronic Arts and Ubisoft have also had their systems attacked by hacking groups, often claiming to be showing up alleged failures in data protection.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStates with faster internet access have smarter people &gt;&gt; High Speed Internet blogDespite several doomsday claims that the Internet is breeding a generation of morons, new analysis suggests the opposite may be true.We gathered the 2013 average ACT scores for each state from act.org and compared them with the 2013 Internet speed data from Akamai that was highlighted in a recent Broadview article. We found a correlation of .57. Given that a 0 is no correlation and a 1 is perfect correlation, this strong correlation of .57 shows that students from states with faster Internet speeds have higher ACT scores on average.This sound like something fromTyler Viglen's Spurious Correlationssite - which manages far better correlations, such as the divorce rate in Mainehaving a 0.992 correlationwith US per capita consumption of margarine.Conjecture regarding larger iPhone displays &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber:after giving it much thought, and a lot of tinkering in a spreadsheet, here is what I think Apple is going to do:• 4.7-inch display: 1334 × 750, 326 PPI @2x• 5.5-inch display: 2208 × 1242, 461 PPI @3x@2x means the same "double" retina resolution that we've seen on all iOS devices with retina displays to date, where each virtual point in the user interface is represented by two physical pixels on the display in each dimension, horizontal and vertical. @3x means a new "triple" retina resolution, where each user interface point is represented by three display pixels. A single @2x point is a 2 × 2 square of 4 pixels; an @3x point is a 3 × 3 square of 9 pixels.I could be wrong on either or both of these conjectured new iPhones. I derived these figures on my own, and I'll explain my thought process below.iPhone 5 battery replacement program &gt;&gt; Apple SupportApple has determined that a very small percentage of iPhone 5 devices may suddenly experience shorter battery life or need to be charged more frequently. The affected iPhone 5 devices were sold between September 2012 and January 2013 and fall within a limited serial number range.If your iPhone 5 is experiencing these symptoms and meets the eligibility requirements noted below, Apple will replace your iPhone 5 battery, free of charge.US and China only at present; will be extended to other countries from 29 August. You have to input your serial number if you think you're affected on the page; it doesn't offer the range.Swing Copters, clones and the dismal failure of the 'open' app store &gt;&gt; PolygonBen Kuchera:This is also how we end up with games likeCombat Trigger: Call of the Modern Shooter Dead Duty 3D. I'm not one to shy away from optimizing for search, you can check out this story's URL for yourself, but there has to be a line somewhere.This isn't the title of a gamethat anyone took seriously as anything other than a honeypot.This isn't one problem, it's a series of problems. It's not localized in one place, but literally everywhere apps are sold. There's not a ton of incentive for platform holders to kick ass and clean things up, because they get paid regardless, and asking for refunds is often a long, tedious process that likely isn't worth the buck or two you may have lost.Which is, of course, part of the reason clones, scam apps and SEO releases are so attractive. It's all about scale.There's no easy solution, and fighting back is impossible without Apple, Google or Microsoft onboard. But games are being strangled, customers are losing money and no one is happy. Something has to give.Chinese search giant Baidu thinks AI pioneer Andrew Ng can help it challenge Google and become a global power &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewRobert Hof:Andrew Ng, newly appointed chief scientist at Baidu, China's dominant search company, is here to talk about his plans to advance deep learning, a powerful new approach to artificial intelligence loosely modeled on the way the brain works. It has already made computers vastly better at recognizing speech, translating languages, and identifying images — and Ng's work at Google and Stanford University, where he was a professor of computer science, is behind some of the biggest breakthroughs. After his talk, the audience of about 200 entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, and tech workers sends him off with two rounds of applause.The avid reception helps explain why Baidu has made Ng, 38, the linchpin of an effort to transform itself into a global force. The company hired him in May to head its research organization, which includes a new artificial-intelligence lab in Silicon Valley and two labs in Beijing, one focused on deep learning and the other on large-scale data analysis. Often called China's Google, the company plans to invest $300 million in the new lab and a development office on the same floor over the next five years.Hear HERE – "Halbherr is Not Here Anymore." &gt;&gt; TelemapicsMike Dobson looks at the departure of Nokia HERE's boss:I doubt that Nokia can afford to compete in the mapping wars with Google and Apple.The last potentially meaningful data we have on Navteq's database development and delivery was that it spent $273 million in the first nine months of 2007 in the pursuit of a better database. At that time the amount that NAVTEQ spent during a partial year far outstripped the combined expenses of all of its competitors for several years. I doubt that HERE is now spending at a comparable rate to maintain and expand its database.While the amounts that Google is spending to expand its mapping/navigation/location databases may not be sustainable in the long run, the large investments in mapping that they continue to be willing to make have put them far ahead of anyone in the mapping arms race. Perhaps the more important issue is that few potential acquirers will understand that the amount of money HERE is spending on database development is grossly inadequate to grow the business in the mapping/navigation/location marketplace or to compete with Google or Apple in the future.Market monitor: Q2 2014: China, LTE &amp; smartphones &gt;&gt; Counterpoint Technology Market ResearchNeil Shah:Global smartphone market grew to a record all-time-high shipment volumes surpassing 300m units in Q2 2014 surpassing the Q4 2013 holiday season surge• Smartphone shipments now account to 70% of all mobile phone shipped during the quarter, highest ever• China was the big factor this quarter clocking record high smartphone shipments, more than 100m units• China now accounts to more than a third of the global smartphone volumes up from a quarter, eight quarters ago• The major growth in China is as a result of unparalleled demand for smartphones: almost 94% of the total phones shipped compared to the US, where smartphone still represents 88% of the total phones shipped in Q2 2014• During the quarter, LTE was one of the big factor driving smartphone volumes and the LTE phenomenon is just getting started in China• Within three quarters or so, China has raced to become the second largest market globally in terms of LTE smartphone volumes, almost a fourth of global LTE volumes and almost non-existent LTE volumes in the same quarter a year agoA niche of a niche &gt;&gt; CCS InsightDemographics don't always correlate with the realities of the market. Smartphones for seniors seems an obvious niche given the expanding penetration rate of smartphones and the growing elderly population. However, it appears there's been limited demand for such devices.Yesterday, Doro, a Swedish phone manufacturer specialising in handsets for seniors, reported that its smartphone makes up only 7% of its mobile device sales. The company's portfolio has several simplified, big-button feature phones and one smartphone: the Liberto 810. Doro has stripped away levels of complexity in its user interfaces and made the hardware large and clear, with screens optimised for older eyes and sound optimised for older ears.Contains the phrase "younger seniors", which may be a first.The golden age of neuroscience has arrived &gt;&gt; WSJMichio Kaku:The Pentagon, witnessing the human tragedy of the wounded warriors from Iraq and Afghanistan, has invested more than $150 million in the military's Revolutionary Prosthetics program, so that injured veterans can bypass damaged limbs and spinal cords and mentally control state-of-the-art mechanical arms and legs. Already, the technology exists to let you walk into a room and mentally turn on the lights, control appliances, surf the Web, write and send emails, play videogames, dictate articles, control a distant robot or avatar, and even drive a car.Not just our bodies, but even our memories are now being digitized. Last year at Wake Forest University and the University of Southern California, scientists for the first time were able to record and upload memories directly into an animal brain, which is something straight out of a sci-fi movie like "The Matrix." Scientists there trained mice to perform certain simple tasks, which can be recorded by sensors placed in their brains. After they forget the task, the digitized memory can be reinserted back into their brain, allowing them to remember.Kaku is a professor of theoretical physics at the City College of New York.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
We drive through the mist, down a long country road, to reach Peixie. At first sight this remote village seems to have little connection with the 21st-century economy. But step inside the company started by Hua Yongle, on the main street, and you will soon see why it is one of the 20 Taobao villages selected by internet e-commerce giantAlibaba. The firm launched by Chinese entrepreneurJack Ma(due to be floated soon on the New York stock exchange) – or more exactly itsTaobao subsidiary– has completely changed the face of Peixie.Over a quick tea Hua, 32, explains how he started his business. Behind him two staff members respond by email to potential buyers, register orders and sort stacks of invoices. The hammer-and-sickle Communist party emblem hangs on the wall. He is a member, but sees nothing odd about devoting all his time to trade. Hua has been particularly successful in growing a retail business, which delivers all over China, selling locally manufactured bamboo mats.Like many young Chinese, Hua often made purchases on Taobao, the country’s equivalent of eBay. Four years ago he realised the site’s potential for marketing locally sourced bamboo mats. He reckons he owes a great deal to Ma, who started Alibaba about 15 years ago with a group of friends. It launched as a business-to-business venture enabling companies all over the world to find the right supplier in China. Then in 2003 Ma added Taobao, for consumers.Wall Street brokers probably have little idea how much Alibaba’s various portals have changed the lives of ordinary Chinese. With a smartphone and Alibaba’s online payment service, people can settle their utility bills in just a few seconds. They can call a cab too and pay the fare on arrival, with no need for cash. Even in the remotest areas a huge range of products can be had at competitive prices. Look in any bookshop in China and you will find countless biographies, all claiming to explain the key to success following Ma’s example.Logistics have developed apace. Mats made in Peixie, Fujian province, are delivered in two or three days, in an area reaching 1,000km to the north and all round Shanghai. Although labour costs have increased in China, they are still low enough for transport to only account for one-10th of the price of the product.The benefits of the digital economy are not lost on local officials. Quite simply it has saved the mat factories, first established after the economic reforms of 1993. Finding the right distributors used to be a struggle, but Taobao has changed all that.In the summer of 2013 party leaders in Peixie decreed that e-commerce now counted as one of the pillars of the local economy and must be encouraged. This is consistent with Beijing’s drive to modernise the whole economy. “China is developing this type of service very fast,” says Liu Jianqiong, the deputy village chief. He has been tasked with ensuring that this new form of retailing has access to optimal logistics.The local authorities have decided to exempt online businesses from paying rent and have provided them with a shared warehouse and canteen. Liu says they simply needed to support a growing trend, fed by the younger generation. “They open their shops here and then they can hire older people, so it’s good for jobs,” he adds.Peixie is witnessing an unexpected change of fortune. In most rural districts of China thelure of the cities is taking away young people, but here in the south-east corner of the country the trend has been reversed. “Some are only 18 or 19. In other places they would be moving away, leaving only children and old people. But here they can do business,” Liu says.Hua endorses this view. He is relieved that he will not have to choose between staying close to his ageing parents in the country and the need to earn a living in the city, a wrench all too familiar to most young people. Plenty of his contemporaries started by going off to the big cities in search of work. Some have since returned to their birthplace and set to work on a laptop.This article appeared inGuardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde
In 2009, an American civil rights lawyer created a mashup mappinga neighbourhood called Coal Run, Ohio. It showed which houses were connected to the town's water supply and which houses were occupied by black or white families. A mashup uses data from more than one source, usually publicly available information, and almost always presents it on a map. The results were extraordinary: the map showed that almost all the white households in Coal Run had water piped to their homes, while all but a few black households did not. Those without piped water had to carry water home from the water plant by whatever transport they could muster, pump it from wells contaminated with sulphur and oil from old mining operations or, in extremis, collect rainwater.For more than 50 years, Coal Run's African American residents had called on local authorities to remedy this inequity. Nothing happened except that, during that time, public waterlines spread around Coal Run to new businesses and homes – overwhelmingly to white people's homes. The mashup helped them get what they wanted when it was used as part of a discrimination complaint to the Ohio civil rights commission. But what had changed? Surely the disgraceful facts were already at the complainants' disposal? The answer was that the data could be assembled differently online."We could articulate the case in words," said civil rights lawyer Reed Colfax who represented the residents. "But when you'd put up the maps,they'd stop listening to you and look at them [as if to] say, 'Is this really possible?'"Since Coal Run was connected to the city's water supply, a federal jury has awarded its residents $11m in damages from the city of Zanesville and Muskingum County. Now it's only a few older residents who think that when it rains it's a good time to do the laundry.The case is used by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the man who invented the world wide web nearly 24 years ago, as an example of the sharing, perhaps caring and certainly egalitarian principles realised by means of his invention. Ata recent Ted talk, Berners-Lee also cited as evidence of the help the web can be to humanity the case of GeoEye, a company that shortly after Haiti's 2010 earthquake released satellite imagery of the devastated areas, with a licence that allowed people to use it. Quickly, relief workers zoomed into it – and added to OpenStreetMap details about the devastated area – to build up a picture of which roads were blocked, which buildings damaged, where refugee camps were growing and when medical ships were reaching port. "The site rapidly became the map to use on the ground if you were doing relief work," said Berners-Lee.This sort of thing was what he hoped would be made possible after the birth of the world wide web at Cern in Geneva in December 1990. "It consisted of oneweb siteand onebrowser, which happened to be on the same computer," he recalls. The simple setup demonstrated a profound concept: that any person could share information with anyone else, anywhere. In this spirit, the web spread quickly from the grassroots up.Berners-Lee demonstrates the world wide web to delegates at the Hypertext 1991 conference in San Antonio, Texas. Photograph: Cern Photograph: Cern"The web evolved into a powerful, ubiquitous tool because it was built on egalitarian principles and because thousands of individuals, universities and companies have worked, both independently and together as part of theWorld Wide Web Consortium[established by Berners-Lee so that stakeholders could work together in open groups to build a better web than any company could build by itself], to expand its capabilities based on those principles."But, in spreading from the grassroots up, his invention has arguably lost many of the egalitarian principles Berners-Lee hoped for.It has become less straightforwardly a force for good. Earlier this month, Charles Leadbeater, former policy adviser to the Labour government and a champion of the web's potential to give power to hitherto deprived groups, published a report called A Better Web for theNominet Trustpointing to the pervasive misogyny of the web as an example of how thedemocratising potential of the internet has not been fulfilled."There is some sense in which the internet is in danger of not meeting its potential," says Leadbeater, "the promise that was there in the mid-2000s, which was about collaborating to create better ways to do things." That promise was something Leadbeater and other Pollyanna-ish proselytisers for the web only a few years ago believed would be realised. In 2008, he published a book calledWe-Think: Mass Innovation, Not Mass Production; at the same time in the US, fellow web evangelist Clay Shirky publishedHere Comes Everybody: The Power of Organizing Without Organizations. Both stressed the internet's genesis in 60s counterculture and its historic ethos of sticking it to the Man. Both revelled in the fact that new web-based social tools helped single mothers looking online for social networks or pro-democracy campaigners in Belarus. When Ireviewed these books for the Guardianat the time, I worried that neither sufficiently realised that these tools and this rhetoric could just as readily be co-opted by the Man (by which I meant profit-based organisations and overbearing governments). But arguably that is precisely what has been happening in the intervening period."We've had a year now in which the internet is regarded with a sort of weary cynicism by a lot of people, because Facebook are just locking you in, and others are using your data without you knowing it. Some people are enthusiastic about that, because they get really good services and they love it, but quite a lot of other people are either quite doubtful or outright sceptical," says Leadbeater.Sceptical is right. The world wide web has increasingly facilitated the global spread of misogyny, the hate crime of revenge porn, corporate and state surveillance, bullying, racism, the life-ruining, time-wasting, Sisyphean digital servitude of deleting spam, the existentially crushing spadework of fatuous finessing of those lies, one's Facebook profiles. It has spread from the grassroots up, from Berners-Lee's desktop to the world, has been coterminous with lots of other intolerable things.Yes, you might well reply. We can all draw up lists of how terrible our experience of online life is. But you're moaning about the internet, not the world wide web: they are two very different things. (Basically, the internet contains the web; the web is a particular pipe inside the broader "internet" pipe. "Web" tends to mean, "take these files and lay them out on a screen in a particular way"; "internet" means, "here's a file, do whatever you want with it.") Indeed, Wired magazine, only four years ago, had an all-orange cover with four black words that read: "The Web is Dead". It went on to argue that Berners-Lee's beautiful egalitarian vision had been supplanted by a customised, commercialised online paradise or hell (depending on your politics).Internet penseur Chris Andersonwrote that increasingly we're abandoning the open, unfettered web for simpler, sleeker services online that work – and make lots of money for app creators.The Wired magazine story that argued Berners-Lee's vision had been supplanted by commercial forces. Photograph: WiredIf Anderson was to be believed, most internet users could measure out their days, not with coffee spoons, but with app usage. Consider a typical day: you check your email on your iPad before getting out of bed, browse Facebook, Twitter and the Guardian over breakfast, listen to a podcast on your smartphone on the way to the office, at work have Skype conversations, and then go home to play games on your Xbox Live, and later settle down to binge onOrange is the New Blackon Netflix."You've spent the day on the internet – but not on the web," argued Anderson. "This is not a trivial distinction. Over the past few years, one of the most important shifts in the digital world has been the move from the wide-open web to semiclosed platforms that use the internet for transport but not the browser for display. It's driven primarily by the iPhone model of mobile computing. And it's the world that consumers are increasingly choosing, not because they're rejecting the idea of the web but because these dedicated platforms often just work better or fit better into their lives. The fact that it's easier for companies to make money on these platforms only cements the trend."On that last point, it's worth considering the outcry that arose earlier this summer when an intriguing experiment performed onFacebook users went public. It was revealed that, for a week in January 2012, hundreds of thousands of Facebook users had between 10 and 90% of the positive emotional content removed from their newsfeeds (a newsfeed is the selection of friends' posts that appear on your homepage when you log in to Facebook). The removals were part of a study by three researchers – two US academics and a Facebook employee – into what they called "emotional contagion via social networks". The study found that reducing the number of emotionally positive posts in someone's newsfeed produced a statistically significant fall in the number of positive words they used in their own status updates and a slight increase in the number of negative words. "These results suggest that the emotions expressed by friends via online social networks influence our own moods, constituting … the first experimental evidence for massive emotional contagion via social networks."Have we become patsies whose moods can be altered to boost Facebook’s revenues? Photograph: AlamyThe outrage was over the possibility that Facebook might use such emotional contagion more widely to alter the moods of its users, like a Big Brother looking to maximise shareholder dividends by means of mind control. There was a disgust at the possibility that Facebook wanted to make us happier on their site so that we'd stay there longer, be exposed to more ads whose revenue would be passed on to Facebook so that Mark Zuckerberg can buy more yachts than you've had hot dinners. A loathsome business model, premised on sucking from us our most valuable and irreplaceable commodity – time. But, for Thomas Jones, who wrote aboutthe mood-altering Facebook experimentfor the London Review of Books, such outrage was naive. Facebook does this sort of stuff all the time, he pointed out. "The purpose of Facebook is to harvest, organise and store as much personal information as possible to be flogged, ready-sifted and stratified, to advertisers." He added: We aren't Facebook users, we're its product."But have we become patsies whose moods can be altered like lobotomised lab rats to boost Facebook's revenues? Is that what Berners-Lee had in mind in Cern a quarter of a century ago? Again, Jones saw naivety in the premise of such questions. "Your newsfeed is constantly being refined and adjusted to show you what you most want to see – so you'll stay on the site for longer, hand over more information about yourself, and see more ads that you're more likely to click on." We are, to put it another way, complicit in our online downfall, choosing the very services that diminish us. Maybe that is what the internet is, but it certainly isn't what the world wide web was supposed to be.No wonder, them, that Berners-Lee recentlytook a pop at Facebookagainst taking over the web. "There's this huge corporate pushback," he warned. "We're seeing things in the balance." What he excoriated most was internet giants like Facebook and Twitter treating certain kinds of online traffic differently from others. He calls for net neutrality, which means that internet service providers would be obliged to treat anything – from emails to websites – equally, rather than charging users more for access and services, making it harder for us to communicate freely online, to share data and so make stuff there incomprehensible to those whose minds are dominated by the profit motive. He rounded on Facebook, which has made a lot of noise over its plans extending web access to the developing world for making such connectivity conditional on facilitating the greater domination by Facebook of the digital world. Or as he put it pithily to Zuckerberg: "Don't you dare make a phone that can only go to Facebook.com."How this ideological struggle plays out remains to be seen. But, given the ruthless success of capitalism, a betting man wouldn't put his money on a guy like Berners-Lee, who isn't in this for money. When his invention went live in Geneva all those years ago, he didn't envisage his open web would become a system of semi-closed platforms that restrict access to their users. Nor did he envisage that his invention would facilitatesurveillance on a scale beyond the imaginings of Orwell. At its inception the world wide web seemed to promise an escape from corporate and governmental powers, an egalitarian free-for-all. Now? It has increasingly become a sophisticated extension of them. The hopes once nurtured by the man who invented the web have been not so much abandoned as betrayed.
Last summer, German secure email provider Posteo faced a do-or-die moment: give in to  police threats to seize its servers or fight back in court. Investigators in the state of Bavaria had contacted the Berlin-based startup because they wanted the identity of a Posteo account holder who was thought to be using the service for illicit purposes. But Patrik and Sabrina Löhr, the husband-and-wife team who run the swiftly growing email provider, told police time and again that they simply couldn't comply: Posteo is an anonymous email provider; it doesn't store any data on its customers' identities."We went around in circles with the authorities," Patrik Löhr says. "But when we looked at their search warrant, we saw that it didn't, in fact, give them permission to search our whole office. They were only allowed to receive a list of our bank transactions – which they already had gotten from the bank." Löhr filed a suit against police officials, accusing them of intimidation. That move, the media attention it generated, and a stated commitment to transparency made all the more relevant in the wake of theEdward Snowden leaks, has helped Posteo become one of Germany's fastest growing email providers with a business model of fee-driven, privacy-oriented email services.The immediate effect of Posteo's tangle with the German authorities was the pressure it put on global telecoms giant Deutsche Telekom. Just days after Posteo released Germany's first transparency report on government requests for information,Telekom dashed out its own paperdetailing the extent of its cooperation with police and intelligence officials. The revelations were eye-opening. In 2013 alone, Telekom gave authorities in Germany nearly as much data on its customers as AT&amp;T andVerizonhad furnished that same year to US law enforcement.This resulted in Germans ditching American email providers in Posteo's favour. "We went from 10,000 subscribers before the Snowden leaks a year ago to 70,000 today," Löhr says.The site is currently only offered in German, though an English-language version is expected to be rolled out this autumn. It's not free: a 2GB account starts at €12 a year. But in exchange for that, Posteo promises users a private email experience. In fact, privacy is the company's unique selling point. Löhr says it doesn't deploy users' emails or contacts lists to serve up ads. It neither saves users' IP addresses nor tracks them as they click around the web. He says the company also deletes bank and card details immediately after it has processed payments. It even gives users the option of mailing or hand-delivering to the company's Berlin office payments in cash – around 20% of the service's customers have paid the annual fee in this way."We don't want the data from our customers," Löhr says. "We don't want their names, their addresses, their dates of birth. And because we don't have this data, we can't lose it or be compelled to give it away." He wants users to feel that Posteo is diametrically opposed to large, faceless email providers, that it adheres to an ethical standard that has become all the more topical since theNSA leaks last summer. But there's also the company's commitment to providing a personal touch. Löhr describes a situation – not unlike the early days of the internet, when people used local dial-up providers – in which "customers knock on our door and walk into our office to open an account".But as friendly as the service claims to be, Posteo does resemble mainline email providers in a few key ways. For example, users' email is stored unencrypted on Posteo's servers in Frankfurt. The company states in its data protection policy that it has the ability to read any mail stored on its servers, much like its competitors. But it is working on a solution that will give users the option of encrypting their mailboxes using an open-source system based on two-way encryption. Once this is rolled out, Posteo would not be able to read its users' mail. Posteo users can already encrypt their contacts lists this way. But there are drawbacks: users who forget their passwords are essentially locked out of their accounts. Once that happens, no one, not even Posteo's support team, can unencrypt the data. And here's another trade-off: encrypting mailbox content renders email searches impossible, thus disabling a key feature that many of us rely on daily.While the company has had issues with reliability – on 15 June its site was offline for six hours after its server lost power– it defends its record on security. Indeed, the company has been a global leader in rolling out secure technologies. Last May, it became the world's first email provider to adoptDNS-based Authentication of Named Entities(Dane) on its servers. Dane makes it very difficult, if not impossible, for hackers or governments to launch man-in-the-middle "fishing" attacks on web browsers. According to the NSA documents leaked by Edward Snowden, Britain's GCHQ, for example, has launched such man-in-the-middle attacks usingfake LinkedIn pages. "We protect your metadata with encryption and Dane," Löhr says. "But we are also encouraging our users to encrypt their email message with PGP."PGP is a robust global encryption standard, but installing the software and registering for the requisite public encryption key can be a daunting process. Posteo's solution? It is opening a retail space in September, and will charge a flat fee for walk-in encryption tech support. It's a move that, for the Löhrs, is the next logical step in building a business around respect for its users' privacy. "We see it as part of our mission to help people understand encryption," Löhr says. "It's one of our business goals."
'Be careful what you wish for," runs the adage. "You might just get it." In the case of the internet, or, at any rate, the world wide web, this is exactly what happened. We wanted exciting services – email, blogging, social networking, image hosting – that were "free". And we got them. What we also got, but hadn't bargained for, was deep, intensive and persistent surveillance of everything we do online.We ought to have known that it would happen. There's no such thing as a free lunch, after all. Online services cost a bomb to provide: code has to be written (by programmers who have to be paid); servers have to be bought or rented, powered, housed, cooled and maintained; bandwidth has to be paid for; and so on. So there were basically only two business models that could have supported our desires.One model involved us paying for stuff. But we (or most of us, anyway) proved deeply resistant to this idea. We had the fantasy that everything online should be free, after we'd paid an ISP for a connection to the net. So paying for stuff was a non-starter.The companies that provided the "free" services therefore had to find another business model. And in the end they found one: it was called advertising or, rather, putting advertisers in touch with the users of "free" services. And it turned out that the only way to do this involved intensive surveillance of everything those users did online.Which brings us to where we are today, a world in which,as the security guru Bruce Schneier puts it:"The business model of the internet is surveillance. We build systems that spy on people in exchange for services. Corporations call it marketing."When you put it like that, it sounds as though our emerging dystopia is the product of some sinister plot. But it isn't. It happened through the slow aggregation of lots of short-term decisions. There are no smoking guns in this story – and precious few evil geniuses.In fact, if there are geniuses in the story, they were often naive. Not as naive perhaps as those of us who thought that free services were really free, but naive nonetheless. One of the nicest and most thoughtful of them is a guy namedEthan Zuckerman, who now heads theCentre for Civic Media at MIT. Just over a week ago, he publishedan extraordinary article in theAtlanticdescribing the unwitting role he had played in committing what he calls "the internet's original sin".From 1994 to 1999, Zuckerman worked for Tripod.com, helping to plan, design and implement a website that sold content and services to recent college graduates. When that business failed to catch on (it wasn't "free", remember), Tripod.com became a web-hosting provider and then an early type of social network."Over the course of five years," Zuckerman writes, "we tried dozens of revenue models, printing out shiny new business plans to sell each one. We'd run as a subscription service! Take a share of revenue when our users bought mutual funds after reading our investment advice! Get paid to bundle a magazine with textbook publishers! Sell T-shirts and other branded merch!"In the end, Tripod did find a route to financial viability. "The model that got us acquired," Zuckerman explains, "was analysing users' personal homepages so we could better target ads to them. Along the way, we ended up creating one of the most hated tools in the advertiser's toolkit: the pop-up ad. It was a way to associate an ad with a user's page without putting it directly on the page, which advertisers worried would imply an association between their brand and the page's content. Specifically, we came up with it when a major car company freaked out that they'd bought a banner ad on a page that celebrated anal sex. I wrote the code to launch the window and run an ad in it. I'm sorry. Our intentions were good."I believe him. Zuckerman is a patently good person and he now does great work in the public sphere. But what he inadvertently kicked off was an arms race in which internet companies, realising that the most valuable ads are always those that are most likely to motivate the target to purchase something (which is why Google makes so much money), seek to learn more and more about each user in order to perfect the advertiser's aim. The result is the dystopia that is the modern web.It didn't have to be like this, of course. But for the path of online history to have been different, we – the users – would have to have been willing to pay for the privilege. You could say, therefore, that we have got the web that we deserve.
Based on one of the most popular anime series in years,Sword Art Onlineimagines a world where players trapped in an MMO must fight for their lives, both virtual and literal, to escape.Hollow Fragmentaligns with the first half of the series, but drastically changes the story's direction.Playing as either the default protagonist, Kirito, or customising an avatar to suit, the task is to battle through 25 levels of the game world uncovering the true mysteries of your imprisonment. Adopting the tropes of an actual MMO, combat is a mix of real-time attacks with an almost rhythmic element. Over 100 party members with their own skills can be recruited from a "friends list", although persistence rather than tactics seems to overcome most challenges.Original Japanese language with English subtitles means this will appeal most to fans of the anime, but also proves an entertaining action-RPG for on-the-go players of all stripes.
Peter Molyneux, designer ofPopulousandFable, is no stranger to hype, but withGodus(22cans, iOS, free), a freemium title funded on Kickstarter to the tune of £526,000, he was always going to face an uphill task living up to expectations. The game puts players in the familiar position of deity to a collection of simple natives, and initially the landscape is manipulated with a swipe of a stubby digit, to either help the people build, or voyage to a new area. Sadly, this is where the first gripe emerges – it should be a fantastically intuitive way to control a god game but it's clumsy and inaccurate, which is all the more frustrating when the ability to minipulate is limited by the amount of "belief" generated by your worshippers. This is earned over time – a lot of time at the start ,when your tribe is limited in size, unless you're willing to spend some money on the in-app currency, gems (£2.99-£69.99). It's well worth shelling out – because once in control of enough people the belief starts to flow freely, godly powers grow and the grumbles about the awkward controls fade as omnipotence starts to feel like it could be yours.Rules!(iOS, The Coding Monkeys, £1.49) is simpler – a memory-test game that presents you with a 4x4 grid of numbered squares in which lurk different coloured beasties. Level one has one rule – hit the numbers in descending order. Level two has a second – hit greens – which you do, followed by rule one, until the squares are clear. This continues, piling rule upon rule, until level 11 when new diktats begin. It's a real brain workout – and demonstrates that more complex design does not necessarily make a better game.
Metricopresents an intriguing world, woven from the pages of maths textbooks and financial reports, but understandably one that does not present a particularly enticing premise for a puzzle-platformer. Yet thisreimagining of bar graphs and pie chartsas ever-changing landscapes that twist and warp under the protagonist's feet is as captivating as it is distinctive in subject matter.Mechanically, the game obeys the fundamentals of the platformer genre – leap between ledges on a 2D plane while avoiding or dispatching enemies – but what sets it apart is the way its environments react to player movement, opening and closing the route to the exit with increasingly cunning animated parodies of infographics. And, almost relentlessly, the rules change. It can feel frustrating at times, as the game persistently lays traps and plays tricks, but when the puzzles are quite so sharp, and make such great use of the Vita, it's easy to forgive these minor flaws and be drawn in by its very peculiar charm.
Starting life as a PC game, before being recreated on nearly a dozen other formats, Plants Vs Zombies has been a surprise hit. And, because Electronic Arts now owns the developer that made it, that success is in the process of being turned into a franchise. This involves churning out new episodes, one of which was the dreadful freemium Plants Vs Zombies 2. The other is this excellent third-person shooter. In its game of floral combat you pick a side in the flowerbed war and partake in heroically chaotic online battles and co-op levels, its distinctly offbeat sense of humour and essential silliness removing the usual horror of war in favour of something more lighthearted. Garden Warfare was one of the Xbox One’s early – and slightly mystifying – exclusives, but now PlayStation owners have their turn to play this unusually family-friendly shooter.ALSO OUT THIS WEEK80 Days, iOSBreaching the line between interactive fiction and boardgame, 80 Days tells the story of Phileas Fogg’s attempt to win a bet by circumnavigating the globe, accompanied by you: his faithful pal, Passepartout. As well as ensuring that your master is properly attired and in good spirits, you also need to explore cities to discover new roads, faster forms of transport, and to shop for souvenirs. Decisions are presented as a set of options in the style of a Choose Your Own Adventure book, but you’ll also need to plan routes, take calculated risks and occasionally neglect poor old Fogg in favour of a little reconnaissance. Its near-text only representation of a cyberpunk Victorian-era world is charming and strangely evocative, and while there’s no action other than reading, choosing and gentle discovery, 80 Days delivers a hugely satisfying sense of pioneering exploration.Inkle, £2.99
Although the Wii comfortably outsold PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, Nintendo’s latest console, the Wii U, hasn’t been as successful. That’s left Nintendo open to ideas it might previously have dismissed. For example, next week sees the launch of free downloadable content forMario Kart 8that adds three Mercedes Benz models to the game’s list of wacky cartoon vehicles. Naturally, the sturdily engineered German automobiles have been given cute, bulbous makeovers and are just as susceptible to spinning out when they hit a banana skin as the game’s existing karts, but this still marks a significant departure for the usually highly conservative Japanese game-maker. There will be a special Mercedes Cup online tournament available to players with an internet connection from 27 Aug (the 22nd anniversary of the launch of the very first Mario Kart) to 23 Sep.
Cars, even beautiful ones, like people, even beautiful ones, generally have good angles and bad ones, look better from the front, the side, the back or wherever. Porsches and baby Bentleys (the footballers' one) are better from the front and the side; while the relatively humble Peugeot RCZ is best admired from the rear, mainly because of its double bubble glass which looks very much like the rear of a beautiful person.The coupe version of Jaguar's F-Type sports car, however, is gorgeous from any angle. I'm walking around it, nodding appreciatively like a Top Gear car bore. From above, too, gazing adoringly down from our bedroom window at it parked outside, phwoar. The convertible roadster which Jaguar interestingly brought out first was already a very pretty car, but a soft top can never achieve such design cohesion. In the coupe, the lines flow into a lozenge of almost swallowable yumminess, an E-Type for the 21st century. The coupe is also stiffer and lighter than the roadster, even better to drive. Cheaper than the roadster, too. OK, £60,000 isn't a snip (and it's actually almost 74 grand with all the extras on this one, including a £1,700 12-speaker sound system). But compared to a comparable Porsche it's not so outrageous, if I had the money I&nbsp;just&nbsp;might…Of course, in many ways it's a ridiculous car. Driving today is 95% about misery, it's about dealing with regulations and speed bumps and traffic and more traffic. Is there really a place for a car that is 100% about the joy of the open road. The open road that barely exists? Plus there's the small problem that there's only room for 50% of my family. Well that one is easily solved: leave them – all of them – at home, and go for a pre-breakfast morning solo blast. So I don't have the wind in my hair, but on the plus side I've got more space in the boot than in the convertible, room for my dinner&nbsp;jacket (ha, like I've got one), a bottle of champagne (ditto) as well as my dreams.I find the open road, the last open road, away from the speed bumps and before the traffic. And I find the joy, the last joy, of sucking in Oxfordshire's A roads like tagliatelle. Schlurrrrp… actually it sounds like a delightful naughty roar.It sounds lovely, it feels lovely to drive, we know it looks lovely. The only downer is that a partridge (not A Partridge!) doesn't get out of the way in time. But then this car – like some people, perhaps – probably looks good from underneath, too. So at least the last thing he saw was a beautiful thing. No, that's not really consolation is it, for death? Sorry, for the partridge, for enjoying driving, for everything.Jaguar F-Type V6 S coupePriceFrom £60,235Top speed171mphAcceleration0-60 mph in 4.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption32.1mpgCO2 emissions213g/kmEco rating3/10Cool rating9/10
The Vienna regional court has given Facebook four weeks to respond to a 25,000 plaintiff class-action lawsuit over privacy.The lawsuit, called “Facebook v Europe”, is being led by privacy campaigner Max Schrem, whosaw overwhelming support for his casefrom people wanting to back his suit. It was approved by the regional court in Vienna on Thursday.The courtruledthat Facebook must respond to the suit within four weeks or the judge can rule without it. Facebook can apply for an extension.“The first step in the legal procedure is hereby taken,” the class-action group said in a statement. “If Facebook Ireland refuses to submit a counterstatement the court would be able to make a judgment in absence based on the lawsuit.”“So far more than 25,000 Facebook users from outside of the US and Canada have assigned their claims to join the class action, in what has become the largest privacy class action in Europe overnight,” continued the group adding that an additional 35,000 users had registered through its class-action claim site despite the lawsuit being capped at 25,000 plaintiffs.Fighting in IrelandSchrems is claiming damages of €500 (£397) per plaintiff for alleged data protection violations by Facebook, including its alleged participation in the US Prism spy programme. The action is targeted at Facebook’s Irish subsidiary, where the social network’s European operations are based.The Irish Data Protection Commission already has 20 active complaints from Schrems over alleged data breaches including reuse of data without a users’ effective consent and unauthorised transmission of data to third-party applications.Facebook is facing a similar landmark battle in Ireland, which was referred to the European court of justice by a judge in Dublin last month, to find out what Facebook tells US spy chiefs.Facebook has more than 1.3 billion users. Its shares are trading on the Nasdaq at around $72, making it worth in the region of $200bn (£118 billion).Facebook declined to comment on an ongoing legal case.•Hundreds of police staff investigated over use of Facebook and Twitter•Facebook satire tag aims to stop you getting fooled by the Onion
If an animal steals your camera and takes a photo that subsequently becomes world-famous, there’s bad news: the US Copyright Office has ruled that the picture can’t be copyrighted - so anyone can use it for free.That means that a row between the British photographer David Slater and Techdirt, a blog that focusses on copyright issues, over who - if anyone - owns the copyright to a “monkey selfie” is settled for now: it’s not Slater.In new guidance the USCO has ruled that only works created by a human can be copyrighted under US law, which excludes photographs and artwork created by animals or by machines without human intervention.The statement comes after Slater complained after first Techdirt and then Wikipedia refused to remove a photograph of a macaque which Slater said was taken by the monkey.‘Will not register works produced by nature, animals, or plants’“Because copyright law is limited to ‘original intellectual conceptions of the author,’ the Office will refuse to register a claim if it determines that a human being did not create the work,” said the US Copyright Office in its latest compendium of practicespublished Tuesday. “The Office will not register works produced by nature, animals, or plants.”The compendium specifically highlights “a photograph taken by a monkey” as an example of something that cannot be copyrighted. Don’t hope for divine intervention either: “Likewise, the office cannot register a work purportedly created by divine or supernatural beings, although the office may register a work where the application or the deposit copy states that the work was inspired by a divine spirit.”While there is some homogenisation and understandingunder the Berne Conventionin copyright law between countries, not all copyright law is the same across countries. In the UK, the law around animals producing copyrightable works is similar to the US.‘Animals cannot own copyright’“The IPO indicates that under UK law animals cannot own copyright,” Bianca D’Orsi, spokeswoman for Intellectual Property Office told the Guardian. “However the question as to whether the photographer owns copyright is more complex. It depends on whether the photographer has made a creative contribution to the work and this is a decision which must be made by the courts,” she said.Slater has argued that he owns the copyright to the photo because although the female macaque in the picture stole the camera and took the selfie, he set up a camera on a tripod in the Indonesian forest with the correct lighting before letting the monkeys press the buttons on it after three days with them.Iain Connor a partner in the intellectual property department of Pinsent Masons, said: “Based on first principles, if you give a monkey a camera, and you don’t exercise any control over the monkey, if it then presses the button the monkey is the author.”However, the law in the UK is not quite as straightforward, as the author doesn’t necessarily own the copyright.For instance, in the film industry the cameraman filming the actors on screen, despite being the “author” of the recording, does not own the copyright of the film. It comes down to who provided the creative effort or significant arrangements. In the case of movies it would be the director or the producer, although often it is ultimately the people who put the money into the project.It is the amount of effort, arrangement or creative input that is made, which determines copyright.‘It’s not every day you put a Rolls Royce in a swimming pool’Oasis Album Cover - Be Here Now. Oasis/Creation recordsUsing the iconic album cover for Oasis’s Be Here Now as an example, which depicted a Rolls Royce in a swimming pool along with various clocks and a gramophone, Connor explained: “If you’re setting up a photo that’s so wacky and crazy – it’s not every day you put a Rolls Royce in a swimming pool – then you as the author of the artistic work are the owner of all the pictures taken of that setup, because you’ve made the arrangements.”But in the case of the monkey taking the camera and snapping a picture of itself, it’s harder for the photographer to argue copyright ownership.“If you have a monkey taking a selfie and the monkey’s face fills the frame it’s much harder to prove,” said Connor. “You could say you put the camera in the hands of the monkey so you have taken some creative steps and therefore own the copyright. The photographer will have to argue in some way that it was his creative effort that is so imbued in that selfie that invests the copyright in the photographer.”Monkey businessAs the law stands in the UK and US, if Slater had set a timer or a trip switch or something else that actively triggered the camera on purpose, he would own the copyright of the photo as it would be the product of his conscious mind.Ownership could also be altered by performing significant modifications to the photo, but the level of work required and the proof of that work goes far beyond simple touch-ups like the removal of red eye or colour balancing an image.“My view as to what a sensible approach to this would be if you own the camera, you’ve effectively made the arrangements for that picture,” said Connor. “If it’s an animal that presses the button it should be the owner of the camera that owns the copyright to that photo.”•Wikipedia edits made by government sought to minimise high-profile killings
Google’s prototype self-driving car was unveiled to much fanfare with just two buttons – stop and go – for its test-track existence. But the introduction ofnew rulesfrom the California department of motor vehicles (DMV) means the company will have reintroduce that near-obsolete technology known as a “steering wheel” and a “brake pedal”.The regulations, which come into effect in mid-September, set out the safety procedures companies must adopt before they can test autonomous vehicles in the state. The new rules include procedures for reporting accidents, licensing requirements for the cars themselves, a $5m insurance bond against accidents, and a number of limitations on who is allowed to test the cars.Crucually, they require that the human drivers of the cars sit in a driver’s seat and be able to take “immediate manual control” of the vehicle if the autonomous driving system disengages or misbehaves.The California DMV confirmed that in order to comply with the requirement, the prototype self-driving cars – whose physical controls currently consist just of two buttons and a touch screen – will have to be retrofitted with a steering wheel and pedals.“With these additions, our safety drivers can test the self-driving features, while having the ability to take control of the vehicle if necessary,” a Google spokeswomantold the Wall Street Journal.Alongside the requirement for manual controls, California’s regulations also require companies testing manual cars to submit an annual report to the DMV, and pay a $150 fee for a permit allowing them to test up to 10 vehicles with 20 licensed drivers. And bikers will have to wait a bit longer: the rules ban autonomous motorbikes.What’s more, the prospect of driving an autonomous vehicle without a license remains distant.The new rules actually require test drivers to be more qualified than they would be to drive a normal car: they must have “been licensed to drive a motor vehicle for the three years immediately preceding application to the department”, have no more than one point on their license, never have been behind the wheel when injuring someone, and not have been convicted for drunk driving in the last decade.Google has posted a number of videos showing people in its self-driving cars - includinga man with limited vision, sitting in the driving seat of an adapted car travelling over a “carefully planned route”.As on-the-road testing of Google’s cars comes nearer, more and more specifics are being made public as to how the cars will operate.Although the prototype cars will have a top speed of 25mph, the lead software engineer of the projecttold Reutersthat the another version of the car, built around a Lexus SUV, can be programmed to exceed the speed limit by up to 10mph if doing so leads to a safer drive.Since sticking to the speed limit can be dangerous if surrounding traffic is exceeding it, Dmitri Dolgov says that the cars are programmed to go up to 10mph above the limit if traffic conditions warrant.While that might be safer, it remains to be seen if Google could persist with that attitude legally. In Britain, a department for transport spokesmantold the BBCthat “There are no plans to change speed limits, which will still apply to driverless cars”.•Self-driving cars face a long and winding road to success
Developers wrestling with the multiplicity of screen sizes, operating system versions and core hardware in Android devices have a new thing to worry about: sensor fragmentation.Thethird annual “Android fragmentation” reportfrom the British company OpenSignal finds that the number of different Android devices using its app has grown by 58%, from 11,868 in 2013 to 18,796 in 2014.Android device fragmentation in 2013, according to Opensignal. The Galaxy S3 (2012) and Galaxy S2 (2011) occupy the top left positions; the Galaxy S4 (2013) is in the purple box to the right. Photograph: /PR/OpensignalAndroid device fragmentation in 2014, according to Opensignal. The Samsung Galaxy S3 (2012) is still the most used device, with the Galaxy S4 (2013) next largest. Photograph: /PR/OpensignalThe study finds that the number of different versions of Android in use is greater than ever, with 15 slightly different versions of the mobile OS in widespread use among OpenSignal’s Android users, and none having a share of more than 30%.More diverse, and biggerIt means that diversity in Android hardware and software is greater than ever - reflecting the smartphone platform’s success in reaching a huge range of price points across the globe. Google says there are 1bn “official” devices running Android versions with its Google Mobile Services apps. China, meanwhile, is expected to have 850 million smartphone users by the end of 2014, of whom at least 600 million will have Android handsets without Google services and which don’t count in Google’s activations figure.Google has taken steps over recent years to minimise the effect of OS fragmentation, moving a growing number of the programming hooks, or APIs, used by developers into its Google Play application, which is automatically updated. At the Google I/O conference in June, Google’s head of Android and Chrome OS Sundar Pichai said that 97% of Android devices are using the latest version of Google Play.But that does not of itself simplify development over the wide range of hardware employed by Android device makers. Aseparate study in May 2014 by Testdroid, which provides Android testing, studied 288 different Android devices.It found wide variation in the stability of devices when running apps - with different devices from Samsung scoring both highest and lowest in its test - and huge variations in RAM, which varied between just 156MB to 3GB in the devices tested. Almost half of the 288 tested had less than 768MB of RAM - a cutoff that makes devices twice as likely to have problems with apps in testing.Screen testBoth Testdroid and OpenSignal found huge numbers of variations in screens. “The smaller the screen resolution the device contains, the more likely it fails with apps or games,” noted Testdroid. It also found that dual-core devices were more stable than quad-core - even though the latter are often touted for the extra speed they might deliver.Samsung has not been consistent in its use of sensors in its Galaxy S range, notes Opensignal. Photograph: /PR/OpensignalOpenSignal discovered that the rapid multiplication of devices is creating a new problem of “sensor fragmentation”, where developers may not be able to rely on a device having particular hardware sensors - and no consistency in their retention.As an example it cited Samsung’s Galaxy S series, where the latest Galaxy S5 phone doesn’t include two physical sensors - environmental temperature and relative humidity - that were present in 2013’s Galaxy S4.“One of the most exciting trends in mobile has been the rise of devices that are able to collect data about the world them, such as our crowd-sourced mobile weather network WeatherSignal,” the authors note. But when companies abandon sensors, that leaves developers in the lurch: “WeatherSignal makes use of the humidity and temperature sensors, among others) that then get discontinued – an additional hazard of fragmentation for developers.”Samsung: unsteady stateThe study finds that Samsung still dominates the Android space, although its share of devices in use has fallen from 47.5% last year to 43% now. That reflects broader trends in the smartphone market, where Samsung’s share of smartphone sales dropped in the second quarter of the year as Chinese rivals particularly stole lower-end share.Surprisingly, the most-used Samsung device is still the Galaxy S3, released in 2012, followed by the Galaxy S4, from 2013. This may reflect heavier use of OpenSignal in non-European countries: the Nokia X phone, which uses the open-source version of Android but with Microsoft cloud services replacing Google’s, makes a prominent appearance in the statistics despite only having gone on sale in Asia.Another result emerges from a comparison of fragmentation by country: the larger the per-capita GDP (output per person), the greater the OS fragmentation among devices. That could be explained by low per-capita GDP countries having fewer users able to buy newer and higher-end devices.Android fragmentation plotted against per-capita GDP, showing the trend line and the UK’s position. Countries with lower per-capita GDPs tend to have a smaller range of devices in use. Photograph: /PR/Opensignal“Building an app for an economically developed market is a lot easier, with many more devices on the most recent Android versions, with around 35% of devices in more economically developed countries on Android Kitkat, compared to around 12% for less economically developed countries,” OpenSignal notes.Swing Copters clones crash out of Google Play store
The Fifa titles want to be like televised sport – that much is certain. EA Sports has its deal with the Premier League, sharing stats and even goal-line technology. Nowadays, the build up to a simulated game on your PlayStation is almost identical to the build up on Sky TV. Commentators mull over team sheets, bullet point facts shoot across the screen, the camera zooms in over the packed stadium.Fifa 15 does more than ever to simulate this sense of emotional authenticity, bringing it into the matches as well as the build-up. Throughout the 90 minutes then, players continually interact with each other, creating moments bordering on actual humanity. Rivalries start to get physical after two or three enthusiastic tackles, opponents push each other and exchange shouted insults. After one crazed scything tackle, the recipient, Nemanja Matic, gets up and shouts something that would have Mark Lawrenson giggling into this commentary mic.According to producer Nick Channon, the game’s crowd animations track the narrative of the match too. “We’ve done a lot of work on the context of the matches, on players and teams knowing what’s at stake,” he says. “United v Liverpool is a big game, one of the biggest in the season, so that atmosphere will feel different, much more intense – the intelligent crowd know that. If it’s not going to well, they react.”There are quieter moments too. While I’m playing as Liverpool, Mignolet makes a dramatic save and Skrtel comes over to give him an encouraging slap on the shoulder. Later, during a Man City vs Chelsea encounter, Aguero misses a penalty and his team mates sprint up to offer support. It’s a really small thing, and something Fifa titles have moved towards for years; but the animation and variety is there now, to draw you in to the personal sub-plots playing out on the pitch.The framing of the gameThe presentation accentuates this sense of drama. Before each match the commentators now go through the teams, mentioning any debuts, or players returning from injury – according to Channon this ties in with the game’sMatch Day Live functionality, so the comments reflect the real-life season. And at the end, the highlights package now picks up on moments of drama – good challenges, scuffles between players, amazing saves – as well as the usual goals and near-misses.And it has to be said, on PS4 and Xbox One, Fifa 15 is beautiful to look at. A new lighting engine, designed around the Battlefield 4 system, uses global illumination to light each stadium from a single “sun” source. On fine evenings, an authentic golden hue descends over the pitch, while rainy nights get the shroud of mist and blurred floodlights.There are other nice little touches too. The pitch remembers every foot print and will start to show wear in busy areas, as well as the familiar brown streaks of a sliding tackle. Kits too get muddy as the match progresses.So with the visual additions, and the physics enhancements we looked at in our previous hands-on, Fifa 15 feels like a significant move on. There’s a better more comfortable and convincing feel to the play, and the graphical touches are coming together to produce something that looks almost as epic as a Sky Sports HD broadcast.It will be interesting to see how an apparently resurgent Pro Evolution Soccer matches up. The word from Gamescom is that Konami’s series is heading toward a new zenith, not just for the faithful acolytes but for footie simulation fans in general. We’ll preview that game soon. For now, Fifa 15 is doing what Electronic Arts has always wanted to do – it is looking like the football we watch on our televisions and in pubs, and it is playing in a way that makes us feel like we belong on the pitch and not in the stands or on the sofa.Fifa 15 is released on 23 September in North America and 25-26 September throughout Europe on most current platforms. Keith Stuart attended GamesCom on a press trip with accommodation and travel paid for by Electronic Arts. For information on paid-for trips, please see the Guardianeditorial codeorthis article on transparency and trust.Fifa 15 – it’s all about emotionCould EA Access be the Netflix for Fifa fans?
Google has removed hundreds of Android clones of Swing Copters, the follow up from the creator of smash-hit game Flappy Bird, from the Play Store.Swing Copters from .Gears, the studio operated by Vietnam-based Dong Nguyen, appeared on Thursday but was beaten to the Google Play Store byhundreds of clones of the game, which were based on a short video showing how it would work that was posted to YouTube on Monday.The clones forced the official version of Swing Copters down into 63rd in a search for “Swing Copters” on the Google Play Store, with reviews of some clones citing bugs and few showing any realisation that what they were playing were clones and not the genuine article.Failed to enter the top 300Now Google has removed all the clones, including those that purported to be developed by Dong Nguyen, propelling the official game to the top of the search rankings for “Swing Copters”. The game has now been downloaded between 10,000 and 50,000 times according to the store’s download count.The game was released for Apple’s iPhone on the same day and reached number 45 in the top games rankings for iOS in the UK within seven hours, according to data from app market analyst App Annie.Swing Copters is sitting in seventh place in the top free apps chart for the iPhone in the UK. But hasn’t made it into the top 300 free apps or games on Google Play in the UK, which is likely because of the numerous clones being downloaded before the official game.“We remove applications that violate ourpolicies, such as apps that are illegal or that promote hate speech,” said a Google spokesman in a statement sent to the Guardian. “We don’t comment on individual applications.”•Flappy Bird: brilliant mechanics made it fly•Flappy Bird creator Dong Nguyen returns with Swing Copters
For the usually self-assured video games industry, it was a startling admission. Inan interview with Eurogamer last week, the head of Sony Worldwide Studios, Shuhei Yoshida – in effect the face of the PlayStation empire – confessed that he had no explanation for the success of PlayStation 4.Since the launch of the console last November, it has sold 10m units worldwide. The PS3 had sold half that number by this point in its lifecycle, while the PlayStation 2 (the most successful console ever launched) took over a year to hit the 10m mark. And this is supposed to be an era in which smartphones and tablets have eaten into the core gaming market.“It’s just beyond our imagination. We are so happy,” said Yoshida-san. “But I for one am a bit nervous because we do not completely understand what’s happening. You need to understand why your products are selling well so you can plan for the future, right?“Are we exhausting all the core gamers? If we sell this number of units, there are no more consumers we can sell to. That’s a really terrifying prospect. So we want to understand who are these consumers who we do not necessarily consider core gamers, who are purchasing PS4 and why they are doing it?”To help Yoshida-san out, we asked a variety of developers and industry insiders for their theories. Here’s what they came back with.Theory one: it’s all about the launch and distributionIn previous console generations, major machines have tended to launch in one territory – usually Japan – months before rolling out across the world. For example, the PlayStation 2 launched in Japan in March 2000 and didn’t hit shop shelves in Europe until November. Meanwhile, the PS3 suffered various production difficulties due to its early implementation of a Blu-ray drive, which meant supply was strangled for several months.PlayStation 4, however, launched in most of the major territories on its opening day, so more consumers had the opportunity to buy (or at least pre-order) the machine while the hype was at its most intense. And they’d waited a long time for the opportunity. “The last generation went on for a very, very long time,” says Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV. “The pent-up demand for new hardware was at an all-time high. The last generation of consoles was really slowing down at the end, we were getting and endless stream of sequels… the market was, frankly, a bit dull. So when new hardware arrived, everyone upgraded incredibly quickly.”Furthermore, the PS4 architecture is much more straightforward than the PS3, which means Sony has largely been able to keep pace with demand. It could be argued that PS4 is not actually more popular than its predecessors, it’s just that it’s been more readily available.Theory two: it’s all about the failed launch of the Xbox OneMicrosoft’s launch of the Xbox One is widely considered a disaster. The unveiling event last May concentrated on the console’s live TV capabilities, as well as revealing that the Kinect camera was mandatory and would need to be switched on continuously. It also looked as though the console would require almost permanent broadband internet access, and that the sale of pre-owned games would be heavily controlled. Consumers weren’t impressed. It’s possible many gamers bought PlayStation 4 consoles as an act of consumer defiance.“I think the proposed restrictions on pre-owned frightened off consumers,” says Simon Byron, head of games at Premier Communications. “Months after the idea was canned, I still came across people from outside the industry bemoaning their lack of consumer freedom, with many saying they’d switch to PlayStation. Had the Xbox One been backwards compatible, it would have been a much harder decision to defect.”Veteran developer Ste Pickford of Zee-3 agrees. “Microsoft pitched the Xbox One as a sort of out-of-date expensive TIVO for American sports, with an unwanted spy box on the top, so the gamers went for the PS4 which was, ‘more of the same, but with better graphics’ – a more familiar and more welcome message.”And even though Microsoft quickly u-turned on its more controversial plans, the damage was done. “PS4 had already hit a critical social mass,” says Pat Garratt, editor of VG247. “People buy the consoles their friends own - especially now online play is so standard - and if you get a quick launch with little competition your growth can be exponential.“There’s nothing particularly wrong with Xbox One, but I think the Microsoft team has been victim to a very unfortunate set of circumstances, some of it self-made and some not. PS4’s a great console, but it’s kind of difficult to screw up when there’s so much going against your main competitor.”Theory three: it’s all about the failed launch of the Nintendo Wii UFor get Xbox One, for a moment. Wii dominated the previous generation shifting over 100m units and bringing a whole new audience into gaming. But the Wii U, with its difficult-to-explain GamePad has been a flop.“PS2 was a fast seller and an astronomical success because it appealed to all audiences, hardcore gamers and more mainstream consumers alike,” says Dring. “However, during the life of Xbox 360 and PS3, those ‘mainstream’ consumers bought Wiis. This time around it looks like quite a few have returned to the PlayStation family.”Theory four: it’s all about priceIn most console generations, it’s the cheaper machine that prospers, rather than the most advanced or feature-rich. PlayStation 4 was cheaper than Xbox One. Game over.“For the first time, both consoles launched at roughly the same time with – in consumers’ eyes – very similar features,” says Byron. “The battle was probably won thanks to the two most immediate differences: an in-box camera and the price – essentially the same thing. With pockets being squeezed ever tighter, the £80 price difference was magnified.“I think it’s really telling that the PlayStation 4 camera was out of stock at launch – consumers like choice, rather than being forced into buying something they’re not certain they’ll need.”Game designer Adam Saltsman agrees. “Bundled with Kinect, the Xbox was super expensive – PS4 launched with whatseemedlike a lot of games, indie or otherwise, and most AAA games are non-exclusive now anyway. I think anybody sitting around wanting some kind of sexy ‘next-gen’ hardware – are we still allowed to say that? – would have to stomach spending an extra few hundred bucks on a console with less games. I just think that’s a hard leap for people to make.”Theory five: it’s all about gamesFrom the start, Sony went out and sold PlayStation 4 as a games machine, which, if you really wanted it to, could do other stuff. The company realised that consumers are overloaded with gadgets – phones, tablets, set-top boxes, cable subscriptions, satellite services, smart TVs – that promise a wealth of multimedia features. Only PlayStation gives you LittleBigPlanet, Uncharted and the rest. The clarity of that message was appealing to consumers who just want to play.“The variety on PS4 has also been very good,” says Dring. “Although there’s been quite a lack of content so far, there have been quite a few new IPs and quirky titles. And the quantity of original software appears to be having the same effect on hardware sales that a ‘triple AAA’ launch would.”Games designer and coder Byron Atkinson-Jones puts it all very simply. “I got a PS4 because I wanted to play games, pure and simple – and the message to me from Sony was that the PS4 is a games machine.“Can it do anything else? I don’t know. But I do know it can play games. The message wasn’t confused or mixed in with a bunch of other superfluous other stuff. Even the name, PlayStation 4, was a clear message: it has got to be better than PS3 because it’s the next number up. There’s nothing confusing about Playstation, it’s a brand with a clear progression. It’s not trying to reinvent itself each time, it’s remaining consistent – and in a world where there are thousands of new things trying to grab my attention and my cash, consistency can be a good thing - a bedrock, an anchor point.”Theory six: it’s all about being coolCool is unquantifiable - there are whole creative agencies filled with bearded, skinny jeans-wearing brand gurus who can’t define exactly what it is. But maybe PS4 has it. Somehow. And that’s all there is to it.“I don’t think any of these things are things that people are thinking about consciously – except maybe the price thing,” says Saltsman. “It seems more like a kind of... general overall sense, like the PS4 just has this weird aura of goodwill around it.”Artist Dick Hogg, co-creator of experimental PlayStation game, Hohokum, has noticed a similar mood. “I have noticed that a lot of people I know who are not massive gamers seem to be very keen to have a PS4. I’m talking about the kind of people who perhaps have a PS3 but only play Fifa and perhaps a driving game. I have seen guys like this visibly disappointed when I tell them that Hohokum is out on the PS3 too because they were looking for an excuse to buy a PS4.“I have no idea why but I think it is partly because the PS4 is kind of a sexy object. Literally it is a beautiful, classy looking console. If you think that is a silly reason for selling 10 million electronic devices look at what Jonathan Ive does for a living.”Perhaps what it comes down to is a certain simplicity and style. Perhaps PlayStation is gaming’s little black dress. Sleek, pure, and we all know what it means and what it’s for.“The PS4 looks like I imagine a games machine should look like,” says Atkinson-Jones. “If you were to walk into my living room and ask somebody to find the games machine they are going to point to the PS4 and say ‘that’s it!’ even though there’s an Xbox 360, Xbox One and Wii also there. We like to think we aren’t shallow and that looks don’t really matter but when it comes down to it they really do, and the PS4 has it where it counts - it looks like it’s a games machine.”--Of course, the fight is far from over. Xbox One is selling well, too, compared to its predecessors, and we’re still only eight months into what is likely to be a ten-year lifecycle. Sales of Microsoft’s machine have surged after the arrival of cheaper Kinect-free bundles, and exclusives like Sunset Overdrive and Halo 5 will help.The other, darker possibility is that the new consoles have already reached their ceiling – that all the people who were going to buy them have done it now. “The one worry for the industry is, will this sharp increase in hardware sales result in a steep decline in a few years time?” asks Dring. “That will depend heavily on Microsoft and Sony’s ability to broaden out and actually increase the number of console gamers.”Yoshida-san then, is right to be concerned because the games industry is in uncharted territory. It’s in rude health at the moment, but the pace of change in the tech economy is breathtaking. Look at Blackberry, look at MySpace – the slightest hint of a dip and things go south pretty fast these days. There are no second acts in digital lives.
“I couldn’t believe it, my website had been hacked again,” says Marianna Kolokotroni. “I was just staring at a black screen and couldn’t get past it.”The owner of Oliveology, which sells products sourced from Greek artisan farmers, had just returned from holiday, and logged on to her website to tell customers that their orders would be shipped the next day, and to remind them that she would be at her stall in London’s Borough Market later that week.Kolokotroni got stuck, because her website had been hacked. “It was so stressful. Not a lot of business comes from my website, maybe 20 or 30%, but I think it’s unprofessional if a customer were to try to access it and they couldn’t,” she says. “It basically ruined my holiday.”According to the latest statistics from the Department for Business Innovation and Skills (BIS), 60% of small businesses had a cyber security breach in 2013, slightly down from 64% in 2012.Malicious software (malware) is increasingly the method being used for these attacks, accounting for 45% of the breaches. However, the cost of the worst breaches for small businesses in the UK doubled in 2013, with average costs between £65k and £115k.“All of my transactions are done through PayPal, which is why I don’t understand why my website would be targeted. I spent so much money starting my businesses that I haven’t had a lot of money to spend on updating the website,” says Kolokotroni.“I was planning on spending money on it in the coming year, but I’m going to have to do it sooner than I planned.” In the meantime, she has had to disable features on the site, including her blog, to make it secure and get it up and running again.Kolokotroni, and millions of small business owners like her, are having to get to grips with a world where they may be as appealing to hackers as richer, bigger companies.“Small businesses need to understand that they’re in business because they have a good idea, and that’s valuable. A small business could also be used as a stepping stone to another organisation or person you have contact with,” says David Emm, Senior Security Researcher at Kaspersky Lab.For example, as a small business grows, so too does its customer base, and the amount of information that is stored on the website, such as user names and passwords. This is valuable because according to Ofcom, 55% of adults admit to using the same password for most, if not all, websites they register with.“So if someone breaks into your company’s computer, they could steal the information from people using the same credentials for Amazon, eBay or their bank, and all of those things make you an attractive target,” says Emm.His advice is for all small business owners to think about what they have that might be valuable to somebody else. For example, it could be the web server, email or customer details.They then need to think about cyber security in the same way that they think about the security of buildings: find your weak spots, then ways to block them – which may be where anti-malware, anti-spam and firewall software come in.If an attack unfortunately still happens, the key is to ascertain exactly what happened, and find out if someone has accessed customer or corporate information. Emm advises businesses that they should reach out to their customers and recommend them to change their passwords as a security measure, then speak with the police who may have information on the criminals and can advise on next steps.To help small business owners understand more about cyber security, BIS launched Cyber Essentials in July 2014. Now businesses can apply for a scheme to guide them on how to protect their business from a cyber attack. Once completed a cyber essentials badge can be placed on your website to show customers you take cyber security seriously.“We already spend more online than any other major country in the world, and this is in no small part because Britain is already a world leader in cyber security. Developing this new scheme will give consumers further confidence that business and government have defences in place to protect against the most common cyber threats,” said Universities and Science Minister David Willetts at the time.Even so, embarrassment is still something that small businesses struggle with when dealing with the aftermath of a cyber attack. David Dexter, owner of estate-planning firm Lincoln Wills, logged on to his website one day to find a black screen with the words ‘Your website has been hacked’ in multi-coloured text.“I felt pretty sick,” says Dexter, although he tried to make light of the situation on his Twitter account at the time, suggesting that someone desperately wanted a will. Still, he admits that if a customer had tried to visit the website before it was fixed, it would have been damaging to his reputation.Janet Harris, director of the Monmouthshire Business Awards in south Wales, agrees. Her event’s website was also hacked.“It could have been the end of the awards, and I’m not exaggerating. If businesses couldn’t put their application in, we couldn’t have a ceremony,” she says. “We had to extend the deadline, but now we’re running on a very tight timeline because of it.”The key is admitting that a security breach may have happened, says Emm, who notes that when businesses don’t admit there has been a problem, it can have a knock-on effect for customers and other organisations connected to the business alike.“A good analogy is a shop. If you take something back because it’s faulty, the shop could say it has nothing to do with them or they could say, ‘Okay, there’s been a problem and we’re going to help you handle it’. You look like a good company to do business with then.”Unfortunate though it may be, telling customers about a cyber attack and dealing with its consequences are “just part of the world we live in now”.•10 talking points about cybersecurity and your business
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUtter failure of Kreyos smartwatch with $1.5m in backing shows the continued perils of hardware crowdfunding &gt;&gt; Android PoliceTwo of the project's backers, Andrew Wright and Kenneth Larsen, have penned something of a manifesto calling out Kreyos' many (and trust me, there are lots of them) failings, and the company's increasingly hostile stance toward the people who made its product possible. Allegations range from retroactively changing the terms and conditions of purchase to preclude refunds for IGG backers to daily purges of negative comments on the company's Facebook page (though there seem to be plenty of them at the moment).Most complaints are from backers who have yet to receive their devices, and it appears that, so far, Kreyos hasn't even managed to ship to its first 5,000 customers. The other complaints are from people who have received the watch, and those complaints are arguably far more damning.Still, the guy in charge has a Ferrari. What's the problem?Samsung to pay US $2.3m to settle False Claims Act charges &gt;&gt; The Washington PostUnder government contracting rules, federal agencies are required to purchase products made in the United States or in countries that America has a trade agreement with.Federal agencies purchased products from Samsung resellers, believing they were manufactured in South Korea or Mexico, which are covered by the trade agreement. The products were actually manufactured in China, which is not part of the agreement.Samsung provided the resellers "inaccurate information" about the country of origin of the goods, the Justice Department claimed.Brought to light by Robert Simmons, a former Samsung employee, who blew the whistle. The allegations cover the period from January 2005 to August 2013. Samsung has not admitted liability.HP SlateBook 14 review: Android? On a laptop? &gt;&gt; EngadgetDana Wollman:Here's the sales pitch, and bear with me if this doesn't make sense: The SlateBook 14, according to HP, is for students and teens who already use Android on their mobile devices. In other words, they already own a Galaxy S5 or what have you, and they should have an Android laptop to match. The idea is that they might choose this over a Chromebook because it has more apps, and because it's more familiar. Ditto for Windows laptops - except, you know, Windows actually has lots of apps too. Setting aside HP's flawed logic (they never said Windows users should stick to Windows Phone): Why would you pay $430 for a laptop running an OS that was primarily meant to be used with the fingers?Why fathoming Facebook's feed is a rigged game &gt;&gt; WordyardScott Rosenberg:it seems likely that a vast number of users don't even understand that their feeds are shaped to begin with. So there's one beneficial side-effect of these various experiments in fooling Facebook's machine: they help make people aware of the machine's presence.But the biggest problem with the reverse-engineering project is that we are not studying some natural phenomenon or physical product. The newsfeed algorithm is malleable software that's mutating all the time. The harder we game it, the faster its operators will change it.SSL Vulnerabilities: who listens when Android applications talk? &gt;&gt; FireEye BlogThe Android ecosystem is all about communicating, and right now it's screaming for help. That's because SSL vulnerabilities and the Man-In-The-Middle (MITM) attacks they enable are wreaking havoc on data security. The scariest part? SSL vulnerabilities are evident in many of today's most popular applications as we recently uncovered.The FireEye Mobile Security Team analyzed Google Play's most downloaded Android applications and found that a significant portion of them are susceptible to MITM attacks. These popular apps allow an attacker to intercept data exchanged between the Android device and a remote server. We notified the developers, who acknowledged the reported vulnerabilities and addressed them in subsequent versions of their applications.They say that of the thousand most-downloaded free apps in the Google Play store in July, 68% have at least one of three SSL vulnerabilities they studied.Apple can't hide from a 20-year-old reporter &gt;&gt; Columbia Journalism ReviewMichael Rosenwald:The best-sourced reporter covering Apple Inc., one of the world's most secretive companies, is a 20-year-old junior at the University of Michigan. His name is Mark Gurman. He makes more than six figures a year as senior editor and scoop master at 9to5Mac.com, a news outlet most people have never heard of. In the interest of truth, which Gurman is known to pursue with almost religious zeal, it should be noted that he sometimes types stories in class.Gurman's scoops, beginning in high school, have included stories about Apple's foray into tablets, new phone designs, the arrival of Siri, the dropping of Google maps, how Apple stores operate, how new operating systems work and look, and, most recently, how the company plans to integrate health and fitness tracking into its devices.Aged 20? Reminiscent ofNick Ciarelli, who was at Harvard and ran the long-gone Think Secret, which was sued by Apple.Death of the car: The tech behind Helsinki's ambitious plan to kill off private vehicles &gt;&gt; ZDNetEeva Haaramo:Helsinki has an ambitious plan for its future. By 2025, the Finnish capital intends to revamp its public transport system to such an extent that private car ownership becomes pointless. The bold initiative is not just about providing more buses, trains, or taxis, but about creating a new transport infrastructure based on cutting-edge technology and a single, affordable payment system.The theory goes like this: imagine a family that has opted not to own a car. When they want to drop the kids off at school, they simply arrange an on-demand bus service instead. They use ridesharing and buses to get to work, and in the holidays they rent a car to travel to their summer house. When they need to get around Helsinki, they use city bikes, renting a locker to store any heavy bags. If the weather changes while they're out cycling, a journey planner will alert them and suggest another way of reaching their destination without getting soaked.Researchers build transparent screen to solar power your phone &gt;&gt; CITEworldCaleb Garling:Researchers at Michigan State University developed a transparent plastic they believe could double as both the screen for your devices and a solar power center.Richard Lunt lead the team and says the material is intended for any surface where you want to maintain the underlying aesthetic -- be it an app on a glass screen, or a sunset out the window."It could be integrated [into] the touchscreen of a tablet or an e-reader," he told CITEworld. "We've designed it so you can retrofit it to your surface, like one of the protective films to prevent scratching."The material is still being perfected - right now, it has an energy conversion rate of less than 1%. So while it won't power Windows devices yet, the research team's central focus was using windows - the glass kind - as devices of power.Neat idea, though a long way to go.X to Close &gt;&gt; MediumLauren Archer:Clicking on [x] to close a feature has become an instinctual part of using a computer and a standard in web and software design. Although it may seem like the ubiquitous [x] has always been a part of Graphical User Interfaces (GUI), a quick jaunt through the history of GUIs reveals that this actually isn't the case.So where and when did the [x] first enter into the UI lexicon?Microsoft's sourcing of [x] shows that it pays to keep looking.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Google has built a "Matrix-style" digital simulation of the entire Californian road system in which it is testing its self-driving cars – and is lobbying the state's regulators to certify them based on virtual rather than real driving.The extensive simulation – reminiscent of the virtual cities created for human captives in sci-fi blockbuster The Matrix – exists entirely inside computers at the company's Mountain View location, and the cars have so far virtually "driven" more than 4 million miles inside it, facing challenges just like those in the real world, such as lane-weaving motorists, wobbly cyclists and unpredictable pedestrians.The ambition of the simulation illustrates how serious the tech company is at developing self-driving cars, an innovation that has been independently estimated as worth billions of pounds if widely implemented.California's regulations stipulate autonomous vehicles must be tested under "controlled conditions" that mimic real-world driving as closely as possible. Usually, that has meant a private test track or temporarily closed public road.But Ron Medford, Google's safety director for the self-driving car programme, has been arguing that the computer simulation should be accepted instead. In a letter in early 2014 to California state officials, which the Guardian has obtained under freedom of information legislation, Medford wrote: "Computer simulations are actually more valuable, as they allow manufacturers to test their software under far more conditions and stresses than could possibly be achieved on a test track."He added: "Google wants to ensure that [the regulation] is interpreted to allow manufacturers to satisfy this requirement through computer-generated simulations."Keanu Reeves in The Matrix. Photograph: PRThe company has also lobbied officials to change the wording of the rule to explicitly allow digital models. That, however, has been turned down. "The driving simulator is a relatively new tool – we didn't have anything like it a few years ago," Google spokeswoman Katelin Jabbari told the Guardian. "It's now a critical part of how we test and refine our software."Google's real self-driving cars use a combination of onboard computers, stored maps, laser guidance and object recognition to determine appropriate speeds and actions to take. They operate over a limited area of about 2,000 miles of road that Google has mapped in minute detail in California – a fraction of the total of172,000 miles of public roads in the state. But they have driven over that range many times: the cars have notched up a total of 700,000 miles over those 2,000 miles.Using that data, Google has encoded how various situations unfold and how other road users are likely to behave."We've developed models of what a car approaching a four-way stop at high speed is likely to do, and what the various probabilities are that it will stop normally, screech to a stop or run the stop sign," said Jabbari.This allows Google engineers to assess new software for its robot cars in realistic virtual environments, testing how tweaks to their behaviour might play out in reality. For example, a new emergency braking system was driven 10,000 miles in the simulator to check how often it kicked in and how it performed. And 50 virtual self-driving cars were dropped into a digital version of Google's hometown of Mountain View to see how they interacted with each other, computer-generated pedestrians and simulated drivers."In a few hours, we can test thousands upon thousands of scenarios which in terms of driving all over again might take decades." A key improvement from the digital simulator is helping the computer running the car figure out situations that human drivers typically navigate with social signals, like lane changes, merges and four-way stops. "It's not just about the physics of avoiding a crash," says Jabbari. "It's also about the emotional expectation of passengers and other drivers."If a truck cuts off a Google car, say, the software delivers sharper braking than is absolutely necessary, because it feels safer to passengers."Google is trying to leap several steps ahead and start from fully autonomous vehicles," says Chris Schwarz, a senior research engineer at the US National Advanced Driving Simulator (NADS) in Iowa. "They have to deal with not only the built environment but also dynamic objects in the scene. Many other manufacturers are taking a more incremental approach."The NADS, home to the world's most advanced ground vehicle simulator, focuses on human drivers using semi-autonomous technologies like lane assist and crash avoidance, and has simulated 3.5m miles of driving. "Google is trying to solve a much bigger problem. It takes Google to do it on the scale that Google is trying to do it," says Schwartz.Because much of Google's virtual testing focused on rare and potentially hazardous scenarios, the company argues that the test equates to many lifetimes of human driving. "These are not straight and empty roads but four million interesting miles that actually teach us something and challenge the car," said Jabbari.However, even Google's record-breaking simulation has its limitations. Running real-world incidents over and over again in digital code helps Google fine-tune its responses, but "if you change your behaviour, there's always the possibility that the cars in the intersection might change in reaction to you," Schwarz pointed out. "You can't get that from just doing replays."The other problem is that Google's motoring "Matrix" is based mainly on the infrastructure and inhabitants of California. Rain is infrequent in much of the drought-stricken state, and snow or ice are virtually unheard of in the southern part of the state, where the 2,000 miles of physically mapped roads lie. Driving culture and norms also vary considerably in America, and even more so around the world. "Google will need to collect a lot more infrastructure and digital data about other parts of the country and internationally," says Schwarz.Even in California itself, officials are sceptical. However, California's Department of Motor Vehicles has so far refused to modify its rules, confirming that physical testing on private tracks was required before autonomous vehicles could take to public roads.Google says that its intent was not to skirt safety but to add an additional layer. "It's safer to test in simulation to make sure you haven't broken anything before you go out on a real road. We think that simulation and the track and real road driving should be used for self-driving car testing in the future," says Jabbari.Meanwhile, Google continues to improve and scale up its simulation efforts. And perhaps the next state to embrace autonomous vehicles will be happier doing its test driving inside the Matrix.• The subheading on this article was amended on 26 August 2014 to better reflect the article.
BlackBerry’s UK user base will fall below that of Windows Phone this year, ending its position as a stronghold for the brand in Europe, according to new data from research group eMarketer.From a position at the end of 2013 where BlackBerry had 3.6m UK users, against 1.9m for Windows Phone and legacy Windows Mobile users, by the end of this year Blackberry will have 2.4m users - against 2.7m for Microsoft’s platform, eMarketer says.By contrast Android phone use will have gone from 16.5m to 19.3m in the same time, and Apple’s iPhone from 9.6m to 11.1m, eMarketer says. Between them, Android phones and iPhones will have 53% and 30.5% of the smartphone market by the end of 2015, eMarketer says - and forecasts that will grow to 54% and 31.5% respectively by the end of 2015.By then BlackBerry’s installed base is forecast to have fallen to just 1.4m consumers, eMarketer says.The decline is a blow for BlackBerry, for which the UK was once a key market. It depends for the majority of its revenues on handset sales - which have crashed from a quarterly high of nearly 15m at the end of 2010 to only 1.6m in its most recent financial quarter.But the news is encouraging for Microsoft, which has been trying to catch up with the growth of Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android since launching Windows Phone in 2010.“The demise of BlackBerry has long been documented, but these numbers highlight just how far it has fallen from grace,” said Bill Fisher, UK analyst at eMarketer. “Android and iOS are clearly dominant, but while Microsoft is making significant effort to grow its presence by buying Nokia’s mobile phone unit and recently partnering with HTC to offer a Windows-based version of the flagship HTC One M8, BlackBerry appears to have been treading water.”eMarketer estimates for UK smartphone installed base by platform 2013-2015. Photograph: /eMarketerAmid thumping losses and buyer indifference to its new BB10 handsets, BlackBerry ousted its previous chief executive Thorsten Heins in September 2013, and replaced him with outsider John Chen, who was given a mission to turn the loss-making smartphone company around.Chen has cut jobs and focussed the company on its “core competency” of secure messaging for businesses and governments - leading to the claim today by David Cameron that herelies on his BlackBerry to run the country remotely.But it seems that will not reverse BlackBerry’s slide among consumers, even as usage of smartphones grows.Windows Phone will have a 7.5% share of the UK installed base by the end of 2014, and 9% - or 3.5m users - by the end of 2015, the company says.That still leaves Windows Phone some distance behind the iPhone, forecasts to have 12.4m users then, and Android phones overall, expected to have 21.3m users.Following a dramatic rise in smartphone penetration during 2013 to reach 64.3% of all mobile phone users, and 51.6% of all the population, eMarketer says that by the end of 2014 smartphone ownership will hit 69.5% of mobile phone users, and 56.1% of the population.But it forecasts a slowdown by the end of 2018, with user numbers growing that year by only 3.4% to around 46.4m, by which time 84.8% of mobile phone users will have one.Nokia’s discontinued Symbian still has faithful users, according to the study, which reckons there were 1m users at the end of 2014 and will still be 0.5m at the end of this year. The last Symbian phone was released in 2012, but data from Kantar, another research company, shows that Symbian ownership in the UK peaked in September 2010 at around 7m users, or 37% of smartphone owners at the time.
I’m going to University in October for a six-year degree, and I’m looking for a laptop which will last me. The main use will be for writing essays using Microsoft Word. I’m not planning on carrying it around, so it is more important to have a 15in screen which is more comfortable to type on for long periods, rather than a more portable laptop to take to lectures etc. A Currys store recommended the HP Pavilion 15-N298sa (£329.99) along with three years’ insurance (£150) and a Cloud, McAfee and Microsoft package (£79). Do you think this is a good deal? I’m unsure on the software package because, as a student, I think I can get Microsoft cheaper. I would be reluctant to spend over £400 on the actual laptop.LukeWhen choosing a laptop for university, it’s important to find out if you will need to run any course-specific software, and then buy something that runs it. After that, the big decision is whether you want something that you can carry around all day and, nowadays, whether you would benefit from a hybrid Windows PC that also works as a tablet. You appear to have made those decisions so the question is relatively simple.There are dozens of Windows laptops with 15.6in screens at prices from about £250 to £400, and these make up the bulk of the mass market. The competition is fierce and driven by price rather than the quality of the screen and keyboard, or even the speed, and this encourages manufacturers to cut corners. Under the circumstances, it’s a good idea to get hands-on experience of a laptop, to see if the screen is bright and sharp, and to check whether it feels solid enough.Six years is quite a long time in the laptop business, but a machine that is kept on a desk and not thrown around should survive well enough. The golden rule with cheap laptops is never to pick them up by the screen but to get two hands underneath. In my experience, the hinges are the weakest link.I usually stress the importance of testing the keyboard. Type a couple of characters of “WordPad” into the Windows 8 Start screen (no need to open a search box) and select that when it comes up. It’s a small word processing program that will give you an idea of what it will be like using Microsoft Word. In your case, it’s not vital. You should definitely not spend long hours typing on a laptop:it’s bad for your posture and therefore your long-term health. Instead, put it on a riser (or a pile of books) to lift the screen, and plug in a full-sized keyboard. Even cheap USB keyboards are much better than the ones fitted to most laptops, but an ergonomic version would be best.Which laptop?TheHP Pavilion 15-N298sashould do what you want. However, it’s always better to have a faster processor and more memory, if you can afford the extra cost. In this case, you could buy the very similarHP Pavilion 15-P077sa(or 76 or 78) for £399.99, reduced from £499.99. This has a faster fourth generation Intel Core i3-4030U processor, instead of a third-gen i3-3217U, twice as much memory (8GB) and twice as much hard drive space (1TB instead of 500GB). I think the better specs are worth the extra £70. As both models are sold by Currys/PC World, you may be able to see them side-by-side.I went to the large PC World store on the Tottenham Court Road to have a look at your suggested laptop and the alternatives, and theToshiba Satellite L50-B-137also caught my eye. It has an Intel Core i5-4200U processor, which is a step up from the i3-4030U, a 1TB drive, and 4GB of memory that can be expanded up to 16GB. It looks a good buy at £379.97, reduced from £529.99. Of course, you don’t need a Core i5 to run Microsoft Word – it will run perfectly well on a Pentium or Celeron. However, it’s always nice to have the extra speed, and you may want to use it for other purposes before 2020.Either way, resist the temptation to buy a laptop with a cheaper AMD A-4 processor: the A4-5000M is closer to Intel Atom level, albeit with faster graphics. There are HP Pavilions with A8-6410 and A10-5745M processors which offer respectable performance – better than the old Core i3-3217U but not up to the i3-4030U – but they cost more at £449.99.If you want to shop around a bit more, there are some decent Sony laptops going at fairly silly prices, because Sony is withdrawing from the PC business, and various offers at discounters such asLaptop Outlet,Laptops DirectandSave on Laptops. (Laptop Outlet also has a shop on the Tottenham Court Road.) You might have to find an alternative means of support, but there are plenty of third-party services, including Geek Squad (backed by Carphone Warehouse, which has now joined up with Dixons/Currys/PC World) andFixITLocal. Given that you can now insist on a two-year hardware warranty, I’m not sure £150 is good value for three years support.If you are serious about support, then consider aDell Inspiron 15 3000 Series. Dell offers three years of next-day in-home support for £114, and since there are no Dell shops, there should be fewer arguments about a repairman turning out. Accidental damage support -- which covers dropping the laptop or knocking a drink over it -- costs an extra £50 for three years. AnInspiron 15 3542with an Intel Core i3-4030U, 4GB and a 500GB hard drive currently costs £299 including delivery. This is less than the HP Pavilion 15-N298sa, but it has the same processor as the £399.99 HP Pavilion 15-P077sa. Dell also offers anInspiron 15 with a Core i5-4210U, 8GB and 1TB HD for £429, busting your budget.Software mattersYou should, of course, have anti-virus protection, and McAfee is a good product, though not the one I’d pick myself.Avast 2014is good enough, and free. See my recent answer:How can I protect my Windows PC against malware?When it comes to Microsoft Word,Microsoft Office 365 Universityis by far the best deal. It includes all the main Office programs for Windows for two computers for four years for £59.99, or 4p a day. That gets you Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, Outlook, Access, and Publisher, plus a terabyte of online storage at OneDrive -- enough to back up your whole hard drive. You can also use your Office apps online from PCs, tablets and smartphones.You’re allowed a maximum of two Office 365 University purchases, so you can buy it again after four years. Validation is required: you must be able to log in to a qualifying university email account to activate the software. There’s a free helpline on 0800 026 0329 for students who have bought Office 365 University and need help to get up and running.A terabyte of storage costs £80 a month on Dropbox or $10 a month on Google Drive, so Office 365 University is cheap at £1.25 a month, even if you don’t use Office.
Hundreds of clones of Swing Copters, the new game from the creator of smash-hit game Flappy Bird, have appeared on the Google Play Store, beating even the official game to its launch on Thursday.Swing Coptersfrom .Gears, the studio operated by Vietnam-based Dong Nguyen, only appeared on Thursday after a short video showing how it would work appeared on YouTube on Monday.But just as Flappy Bird inspired hundreds of clones, so now Flappy Copters has hundreds of games on the Play Store copying not only its idea – a helicopter trying to navigate past hammers to get through openings – but also the artwork.Some brazen cloners have even released copies of the game using Nguyen’s name, making it confusing to shoppers looking for the real thing.There are so many clones that theofficial Swing Copters gameonly appears 63rd in a search on Google’s official Play store for “Swing Copters”.The game has also been released on Apple’s App Store - where there are so far no “clones”.The official Swing Copters app has been pushed down to 63rd in the search rankings by the hundreds of clones. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs‘2 in Swing Copters = 200 in Flappy bird’Swing Copters takes the same basic idea of flying through small gaps, but turns it on its head so players have to guide a character up through gates guarded by swinging hammers rather than horizontally through pipes.So far the official version has received broadly positive reviews, with players primarily concerned with just how incredibly hard it is to navigate past each gate, each of which scores a point. In Flappy Bird, released in May 2013, the player had to guide a bird up or down through a horizontal gate to score a point.“A 2 in Swing Copters = 200 in Flappy bird ... Just sayin,” said Greg Wong in a review.Another, Daniel Morial said, “if you think Flappy Bird is the most frustrating game for you, try this out and prepare your warranty.”Reviews for the clones aren’t quite so positive, complaining of bugs and disruptive ads, and with very few even realising that they aren’t the real deal.“What the heck? Flappy Bird is great and I still play it. This game is utter crap,” Justin Ramsey said definitivelyin one reviewof a clone that appears high up the search rankings.•Flappy Bird creator Dong Nguyen returns with Swing Copters game•Here are 95 Flappy Bird-inspired iOS games... released in the last 24 hours•Flappy Bird is dead - but brilliant mechanics made it fly
Afterthe clampdown by Twitter and YouTube on Islamic State (Isis) propaganda, the social media war has spread to open-source social network Diaspora – where the content is impossible to remove.Isisaccounts are posting propaganda images, video and text via Diaspora sites, and the site’s developers who oncepromised, in a now-deleted blogpost, that it offered “a brighter future for all of us”are powerless to stop them. But they are concerned at legal implications for other users who are connected to the network.“Diaspora started off with the purpose to be decentralised, which has both good and bad aspects,” explained Dr Bernie Hogan, who researches social media and identify at the Oxford Internet Institute. “The good part is that you don’t get state interference and the bad is that you don’t get state interference.”Launched in 2010, Diaspora is unlike Twitter, Facebook and most other social networks which rely on a central database. Instead it has an open, decentralised platform, with anestimated 1 million users. Anyone can download use theDiasporasoftware to set up their own “pod”, which is hosted on a private server but connects to the rest of the Diaspora network to share posts, messages and media. As on Facebook or Twitter, users have to choose who they follow in order to see their posts.Diaspora was originally marketed as a user-owned social networking alternative to Facebook, that respects user privacy and data, to “be whoever you want to be” and “interact with whomever you choose in whatever way you want”. In the now-deleted blogpost from September 2011, its American founders said that “... our distributed design means no big corporation will ever control Diaspora. Diaspora will never sell your social life to advertisers, and you won’t have to conform to someone’s arbitrary rules or look over your shoulder before you speak.”Open networkBut the arrival of activists supporting Isis on the network has raised concerns for the administrators, who say there could be legal risks to pod administrators as content - including Isis propaganda - is copied onto it from the network.The Diaspora Foundation, which controls the development of the software said in an unsignedstatement on its website: “There is no central server, and there is therefore no way for the project’s core team to manipulate or remove contents from a particular node in the network (which we call a “pod”). This may be one of the reasons which attracted Isis activists to our network.”People who own and run the individual pods, called “podmins”, can intervene if they desire or are compelled to do so, as happens on Twitter and other commercial social networks.“Because this is such a crucial issue, we have accumulated a list of accounts related to Isis fighters, which are spread over a large number of pods, and we are in the process of talking to the podmins of those pods,” the foundation said. “So far, all of the larger pods have removed the Isis-related accounts and posts. This includes a high-volume account on JoinDiaspora.com which was apparently used as a main distribution channel.”The foundation went to great lengths to point out that despite creating and maintaining the software, it has no direct control over how it is used, but would do anything it could to notify individual pod owners to the risks of hosting Isis material.‘End up being a game of a whack-a-mole’“I don’t think third-party censorship is going to be very successful - it’s just going to end up being a game of whack-a-mole,” said Hogan. “Instead we need to be impervious to this content and let it sadly wash over us.”Hogan explained that the only way to combat this kind of propaganda was to not share it, not report it and not give those posting it a platform.“It’s a collective, social responsibility to ensure that violent, potentially contagious content that could reinforce messages that we find problematic does not spread,” said Hogan.Isis accounts have popped up on various social networks beyond the mainstream like Twitter and Facebook. Diaspora is the latest, but Isis has used Friendica and Quitter; both promptly shut down Isis accounts.“Isis is certainly running out of platforms, especially those curated by third parties like Twitter,” said Hogan. “They could find their way to the dark web, but it obviously wouldn’t be particular useful for recruitment.”•James Foley: How social media is fighting back against Isis propaganda
Twitter has got itself into a tangle. The social network's decision to remove all links to the horrific footage showing the apparent beheading of the photojournalist James Foley is one that most of its users, reasonably, support.The social network went still further, suspending or banning users who shared the footage or certain stills, followingpublic tweets from the company's CEO, Dick Costolo, that it would take action against such users.It is hard tothink of anyone having a good reason to view or sharesuch barbaric footage, but Twitter's proactive approach reverses a long record of non-intervention.Twitter has promoted its free speech credentials aggressively since the network's inception. The company's former general counsel once characterised the company as "the free speech wing of the free speech party", an approach characterised by removing content only in extreme situations – when made to by governments in accordance with local law, or through various channels designed to report harassment.The social network's response to the Foley footage and images is clearly a break from that response: not only did the network respond to reports complaining about posts using the material, they also seem to have proactively sought it out in other instances.And yet there is not a universal consensus on the use of the images, as was reflected by the New York Post and New York Daily News' decision to use graphic stills from the footage as their front-page splashes. Here begin the problems for Twitter: the network decided not to ban or suspend either outlet for sharing the images – despite banning other users for doing the same.Twitter has not been nearly as eager to enter the content policing game in other situations. Like many other major companies, Twitter has long insisted it is not a publisher but a platform.The distinction is an important one: publishers, such as the Guardian, bear a far greater degree of responsibility for what appears on their sites. By remaining a platform, Twitter is absolved of legal responsibility for most of the content of tweets. But by making what is in essence an editorial decision not to host a certain type of content, Twitter is rapidly blurring that line.The network has not been as quick to involve itself when its users are sharing content far beyond what is even remotely acceptable – even when the profile of the incidents is high.In the UK,huge attention was drawn to a campaign of malicious abuse and rape threatsagainst Caroline Criado-Perez, a journalist and feminist activist who successfully campaigned for Jane Austen to become the new face of the £10 banknote. The threats – so severe that two people were jailed for their involvement in the abuse – came in so fast and from so many sources that Criado-Perez was unable to keep pace through Twitter's convoluted harassment reporting procedures. Other women who rallied to support Criado-Perez were subjected to similar mass abuse. And this was just one incident among many.Twitter's strongest, perhaps only, justification for its sluggish and minimal response was that it could only act through its harassment channels, and could not become a curator or editor of content on its site.With its actions on Tuesday and Wednesday, that facade is eroding: is Twitter saying sharing stills of a murder requires urgent intervention while threatening to rape and mutilate someone does not? What are the criteria for Twitter taking direct action? Why can some users share an image, while others will be banned for doing the same?Twitter, Facebook and Google have an astonishing, alarming degree of control over what information we can see or share, whether we're a media outlet or a regular user. We have handed them a huge degree of trust, which must be earned and re-earned on a regular basis.If Twitter has decided to make editorial decisions, even on a limited basis, it is vital that its criteria are clearly and openly stated in advance, and that they are consistently and evenly applied.Whether you are an ardent First Amendment advocate or a passionate believer that networks must do more to police their backyards, the worst of all possible worlds for the flow of information is one in which we shift from the rule of democratic law to one governed by the arbitrary, inconsistent and perhaps kneejerk rulings of a tiny group of large companies.Yesterday Twitter was the free speech wing of the free speech party. Today it's a company willing to take action against one particular piece of vile content. What will it be tomorrow?•How social media is fighting back against Isis propaganda
Thelucrative success of mobile game Clash of Clansis spawning a wave of similar “base-building” games, including a new title based on Star Wars.Star Wars: Commanderwas released today for iPhone and iPad, with other devices to follow at a later date. It’s a joint effort between Disney – the new owner of the Star Wars brand – and Lucasfilm.The game follows the Clash of Clans formula of players constructing bases, then attacking those of other players while defending their own. The game is free to play, but funded by in-app purchases of virtual currency to speed up progress.The twist here is that the bases are initially on the familiar arid landscape of Tatooine; the military units include TIE Fighters, Stormtroopers and AT-ATs; and characters from Han Solo and Chewbacca through to Darth Vader pop up to lend a hand.“For the team, this has been an opportunity of a lifetime to work with the Lucasfilm team and build a game set in the Star Wars universe,” Disney Interactive’s executive producer and vice president of operations, Nathan Etter, told The Guardian ahead of the game’s release.“We thought about what the core tenets of Star Wars are: the really cool things that we want to bring to life and let players experience. And here, that’s experiencing what it’s like to be a battlefield commander on either the Empire or Rebel side.”That’s another key selling point of the game, which is set within the Galactic Civil War of episodes IV, V and VI of the Star Wars films – the original three movies. Players start the game as independent, but early on get to choose which side to throw their lot in with.“Playing for the Empire, you have this mechanised might and amazing ground forces, but on the other side, you’re scrappier, but there are also these iconic characters like Chewie and Princess Leia that can team up with you to go after the Empire,” said Etter.For a Star Wars fan, there is plenty of detail to geek out over, with more to come. Etter said that while the game has a clearly-defined place in the Star Wars history, players will be able to unlock units and technologies from past eras: “Some vehicles that the rebels may have put together harking back to the Clone Wars days,” as he put it.Star Wars: Commander can be compared to another recent mobile game based on a big film brand –The Hobbit: Kingdoms of Middle-Earth– which did a good job of using key moments from the film (and book, of course) that it was based on to anchor its narrative, which was thenfleshed out with new plotlines and characters.Star Wars: Commander is taking a similar approach: it’s a new story that regularly intersects with some of the familiar events from the films.“We’re not attempting to retell the story of the movies, but to tell some side-stories of things that were going on in this period, bringing some new things to light about what was happening in the Star Wars universe, on Tatooine, and eventually on other planets,” said Etter.“When the well-known characters intersect with these stories, it does bring authenticity, but we know fans also want to experience something new and fresh,” added Matt Fillbrandt, executive producer at Lucasfilm. “It’s a great opportunity for us to tell some new stories in the Star Wars universe.”Famous Star Wars characters pop up regularly during the game.What about the elephant in the room: Clash of Clans? Sceptics may take one look at the screenshots for Star Wars: Commander and label it a clone, just as they may the upcomingCall of Duty: Heroes, which also resembles Supercell’s mobile hit.“Base-building and combat-style games have been around for decades, even on PC with RTS [real-time strategy] games, and have evolved over time,” said Etter, fielding the Clash of Clans question with good grace.“We felt that it was a style of gameplay that suited Star Wars very well: you see throughout the films these ground-assault battles. And when people think about Star Wars, they think about those armies of Stormtroopers, so it fits very naturally.”What does this new game add to the genre beyond its brand and some admittedly-iconic characters? Etter points to the narrative again – new storylines within the universe of Star Wars – while also talking up the work that has gone in to the player-v-player (PvP) element of Star Wars: Commander, with its squads (not clans), chat and battle-matching features.How about the free-to-play aspect? Freemium games remain a heated topic for traditional gamers, if not necessarily within the wider community of people actually playing these games and buying their in-app purchases.For all the appeal of Star Wars: Commander to fans, if it get the freemium formula wrong – too aggressive with its requirements for players to pay and/or too annoying with progression timers that make free players wait – it could be huge turn-off for precisely those people.“All of the content is accessible to anyone who wants to install and play through the game: you can get to all the [solo] campaign content, and you can play PvP. You are able to buy crystals to accelerate timers if you’re in a rush and want to progress faster, but all the content can be unlocked by anybody,” said Etter.“We’re also very cognisant that this is a competitive game, with that player-v-player component. It’s important to us that there isn’t a pay-to-win strategy, so we make it a level playing field for everyone who’s playing the game.”Star Wars: Commander sells in-game gems to speed up progression.The science of free-to-play is still in its early days, and it’s easy to get wrong. The powerful incentive for Disney and Lucasfilm to get it right is the stink that would ensue if fans felt Star Wars: Commander was a joyless money-milker. Time will tell if the companies have avoided that fate.The game is exclusive to iOS for now – a status that usually precludes developers from announcing dates for other platforms like Android. No change here: “It’s exclusive first on iOS, but it will eventually be coming to other platforms. I can’t say when, but it will eventually,” said Fillbrandt.Star Wars is on a good run of warmly-received mobile games at the moment, from remakes like Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, and new spin-offs with mobile developer partners like the twoAngry Birds Star Warsgames (with Rovio) andStar Wars: Tiny Death Star(with NimbleBit).“Sometimes with games like Angry Birds and Tiny Death Star, we can bring a little more whimsy to Star Wars and have fun with it in ways that the fans appreciate,” said Fillbrandt.“They know the IP and the characters, with so many iconic elements about this cultural phenomenon, that there are times we can take a little bit of a left turn with our other products. But with games like Commander, we can also come back to our roots.”•40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 (so far)
David Cameron has confessed his reliance on his BlackBerry smartphone, despite the possibility that the company will cease making phones.The prime minister said that he could run government remotely from his smartphone, despite being on holiday.“Wherever I am in the world I am always within a few feet of a BlackBerry and an ability to manage things should they need to be managed,” he said onMonday. “And indeed as I have done on I think almost every holiday that I have enjoyed over the last few years.”Cameron is along-time BlackBerry userbecause of the perceived security of the smartphone, which passes all data and through secure servers and has on-device encryption.However, BlackBerry’s chief executive, John Chen,warned in Aprilthat the company may exit the handset business to concentrate on its enterprise server business, if he is not able to turn around the phone business’s profits.iPads bannedCameron tested a real-time economic data app on iPads in 2012, which gave him instant access to GDP, bank lending, jobs and property prices plus polling data and Twitter feeds. The app, hosted by the Government Digital Services inside the Cabinet Office was described as the “No 10 Dashboard.”Apple’s iPad waslater banned from Cabinet meetingsover fears that foreign intelligence agencies could bug the tablet, smartphones and other connected devices.Secure communicationsBlackBerry bought the German security firm Secusmart in July to bolster its security credentials and head the company in the direction of highly secure mobile communications.“The acquisition of Secusmart underscores our focus on addressing growing security costs and threats ranging from individual privacy to national security,” Chensaid at the time.BlackBerry had partnered with Secusmart before, providing encrypted data and voice calls to the German Federal Office for Information Security, with Chancellor Angela Merkel said to be a user of a modified BlackBerry Z10.•Which phones do world leaders use?
When electronic music artist Aphex Twin announced the details of his new album on a site only accessible through the anonymous browser Tor, the page accumulated 133,000 views in little over a day.That’s comfortably within the realm of what the service, which works to keep users anonymous by bouncing encrypted requests for content through a series of relays, before releasing them back onto the open web through an “exit node”, can handle. According to Tor’s executive director, Andrew Lewman, it has around 2.5 million users at any one time, and the software itself has been downloaded 150m times.But Aphex Twin is probably the biggest artist Tor could handle today. “If tomorrow, Taylor Swift said ‘to all my hundreds of millions of fans, go to this [Tor] address’, it would not work well,” Lewman told the Guardian. “We’re into the millions now, and we have a few companies saying ‘we want to put Tor as a privacy mode in our premiere products, can you handle the scale of 75-100m devices of users’, and right now the answer is no, we can’t. Not daily.”The question might seem silly, but it hides a real concern for Tor. By default, the service lets users hide where they’re browsing, but doesn’t hide the fact that they are browsing using Tor. That can end up putting a target on their backs if they live in an area where simply using an anonymous browser is seen as a sign of someone up to no good.That’s seemingly the attitude that the NSA and GCHQ take towards the service. As the Guardian reported in October, the two agencieshave been working to de-anonymise users of Torby attacking the network itself, as well as the version of Mozilla’s Firefox browser which ships with the software.“It’s been co-opted by GCHQ and the NSA that if you’re using Tor, you must be a criminal,” says Lewman. “I know the NSA and GCHQ want you to believe that Tor users are already suspect, because, you know, god forbid who would want their privacy online, they must be terrorists.”Lewman argues that the majority of people using Tor are not only not doing anything that ought to place them on GCHQ’s radar, they are merely being responsible internet users. That’s part of what he’ll be talking about in his keynote speech at this year’sBroadband World Forum.“Tor is a technology that’s used by millions if not hundreds of millions of normal, average everyday people who just want to protect their privacy online,” he says. “Of course criminals will use it, and as the Snowden disclosures have made clear, GCHQ and NSA and probably others are spying on the internet as a whole, down to every bit and byte you send, who you talk to, how often you talk to them.“All this stuff is being recorded, stored in some big data store somewhere, and this rightly freaks out a lot of people, even though before Snowden people used to say ‘I have nothing to hide, who cares?’. Since Snowden, you can ask the average person on the street, and they will tell you, they’ll have an opinion on privacy and they will be able to talk about what they do and do not like that their governments are doing.”Which brings us back to the Taylor Swift issue. If Tor wants to stop putting targets on its users’ backs, it needs to convince intelligence agencies that normal people use the service too – and it needs to convince normal people to do so.Aphex Twin did some of the hard work for it. “It’s sort of the normalisation of Tor. You have artists and musicians who for the most part are told ‘fear the dark web, because people can steal your content’ and now they’re saying ‘hey, here’s a really cool way to get some attention’. And if you look at Twitter and Facebook and all this other stuff, people who’ve never heard of Aphex Twin or don’t know what his music is are fascinated.”But as mainstream popularity grows, and publicity stunts attract hundreds of thousands more people on the network, Tor will inevitably become strained. The foundation, a not-for-profit organisation which oversees the open-source standard, can only stave off that moment for a certain length of time; eventually, it will have to hand responsibility for building out the infrastructure to a bigger company.Lewman compares Tor’s position now to “the people who wrote TCP/IP, the basic IP stacks you rely on to get on the internet.” They came up with the idea, but it was “the networking companies [who] figured it out” and managed to come up with the internet as we know it. Tor exists “to do research and development of online privacy.“And if Google or Facebook or Twitter or [Russian social network] VKontakte or [Chinese social network] QQ or one of these massive internet companies said “hey let’s look at Tor, what could we do to deploy Tor on our own networks, integrated into our own products”, they’ve got a lot of really smart people. They’ll figure it out.”•What is Tor? A beginner’s guide to the privacy tool
With 175 million monthly listeners, SoundCloud is the second biggest streaming music service in the world behind YouTube. Yet it hasn’t paid royalties to the creators and rightsholders of that music for their plays on its site and apps.Artists and labels that have uploaded songs to SoundCloud have by and large accepted that they’re getting something else out of it: a way to build an audience of fans, and get data on how and where their tracks are being listened to.But as SoundCloud has grown and raised more funding – its$60m round in January 2014 valued the company at $700m– the company has faced more pointed questions about when it plans to start paying royalties, including from major labels and publishers.Today, SoundCloud is taking its first step along that road, albeit in a carefully-controlled way with a select group of invited partners in the US for its new“On SoundCloud”initiative.Those creators will have advertising shown or played alongside their music (or other audio content), and will get “the majority” of the money paid to SoundCloud by that advertiser – it’s a share of revenues rather than a set per-stream payment.Carefully-controlled? The ads will only be seen and heard in the US for now, on SoundCloud’s own website and mobile apps – not in tracks embedded elsewhere on the web and/or listened to elsewhere in the world.“We see the program as something for all creators. We’re launching with a small set, but ultimately we want to get all creators, whether music or audio, big or small, all over the world to be able to make use of it,” SoundCloud chief executive Alexander Ljung told The Guardian.“It’s almost the third chapter for SoundCloud. We started off building great tools for creators to be able to make use of the web, then our second chapter was making it much more accessible for listeners, so those creators could build a much larger audience. This third chapter is about allowing people to start monetising that audience.”Ljung was keen to stress that the control that creators have under the new program, once they’re part of it: including the ability to turn on advertising for certain tracks, rather than having to have ads on everything they upload.What will the ads be? A mixture of radio-style audio ads, display advertising on mobile, “native advertising” including promotion of SoundCloud tracks and profiles, and sponsorships and contests where brands work with individual creators. Launch advertisers will include Red Bull, Jaguar and Comedy Central.“We wanted to avoid this being a bunch of unthought-through ads in your face. You won’t open the site up and see a bunch of banner ads plastered everywhere. It’s elegant,” said Ljung. “Our set of launch advertisers have done a really great job: the experience around the ads feels good.”Note, introducing advertising will be followed in the nearish future by the introduction of a subscription option for SoundCloud listeners, who’ll be able to pay an (as yet undisclosed) monthly fee not to encounter the ads.Alexander Ljung of SoundCloud Photograph: Stuart Isett/Fortune Brainstorm/Creative Commons/FlickrWhat hasn’t been announced today are any licensing deals with major labels, despite reports in July that Universal Music, Sony Music and Warner Music were allin talks with SoundCloud to take stakes of between 3% and 5% in the companyand start getting royalties from streams of their catalogues.Those talks, it seems, are still ongoing. “We are in a lot of other conversations with both big and small creators, and there will be a lot more that will join On SoundCloud over the next weeks and months,” was Ljung’s comment today.The challenge for SoundCloud and its music industry partners alike is finding the right balance. On the one hand, there’s the positive and important step of musicians and songwriters getting paid for streams of their work.On the other, the prospect of the major labels squeezing the company until its pips squeak by taking equity stakes, large “advance” payments and per-stream payouts on top that SoundCloud’s advertising income may not be able to keep pace with.The latter prospect is clouded further by a growing debate about how (or even whether) advance payments to labels and any profits they make from their equity stakes when these digital services go public or get bought are passed on to artists and songwriters.According to Ljung, SoundCloud wants to be paying all levels of the music industry, from individual artists uploading their own music through to the largest majors – two publishers, Sony/ATV and BMG, are already partners for On SoundCloud.“I think this is a huge moment for the industry, and a huge opportunity for the industry to not just reach more people, but to monetise it and make that a core part of the overall business,” he said.“We’re starting it today with a select group of partners, but it’s clear to everybody that the ambition is to get everyone on there. That would be a huge deal for the industry and for creators.”•SoundCloud revamps iPhone app as majority listen on mobiles
Why are we still listening to over-compressed music through low-quality headphones when advances in bandwidth, storage capacity and speakers (not to mention headphones) means we could be listening to high-quality uncompressed audio all the time?Neil Young’s Pono player has spurred a renewed interest in high resolution audio – music that promises to bring the high-fidelity experience of vinyl to the digital age.The premise is simple: high-resolution music sounds better than the highly compressed MP3 and even the CD, which preceded it as the most favoured form of digital audio for the best part of 30 years. The failures of higher-quality music formats such as Super Audio CD (SACD) and DVD-Audio, and the continued absence of “24-bit audio” - which should give far higher resolution to sound than the 16-bit audio used on a CD - suggests that high-resolution music faces many challenges.Briefly: CD audio is digitally sampled at 44kHz, which sampling theory says can capture any frequency up to 22kHz - the upper limit of human hearing. The volume levels are then quantised into 16-bit quantities, which can represent 65,536 discrete values for the loudness. 24-bit audio is often sampled at 96kHz or 192kHz; those 24 bits can represent 16.7m discrete loudness values. By contrast MP3s are compressed by an algorithm that throws away parts of the sound that long laborious testing determined could not actually be heard. (Pub quiz fact: the song used as the comparator for each attempt at the algorithm was Suzanne Vega’s Tom’s Diner.)But the key question for hi-res audio is: can listenerscan actually hear the difference?To attempt to answer that question, the Guardian recruitedLinn Records, purveyors of high-resolution music since 2007 and a recording label with access to the original files recorded by artists, bands and orchestras.What is hi-res?The term “hi-res” will be bandied around more and more in the coming months as electronics manufacturers build branded support for higher quality music into smartphones, tablets and headphones.There is evendebate what actually constitutes hi-res. As Linn’s managing director Gilad Tiefenbrun explains, “there’s confusion over what is and isn’t hi-res music. Is CD hi-res? Perhaps a high-quality MP3? Or does it have to be 24-bit music? For us, hi-res music is the 24-bit studio master - the original recording the artist made, from which all other files and formats are made.”The studio master is something Young and his Pono player and music service has embraced and is likely to become the true mark of what is and isn’t hi-res music.Can you really tell the difference?With that debate out the way, do hi-res studio master tracks actually sound any different or better than MP3s or CDs?Tim Jonze, the Guardian’s music editor, Jason Phipps, the Guardian’s head of audio, and I sat down inGraham’s Hi-Fi in London’s Islingtonto listen to a variety of tracks, each in four formats: 128kbps and 320kbps MP3; CD; and 24-bit studio master. All were played through the same high-quality system and speakers.Nick Drake’s music was part of the ‘hi-res’ listening test. Photograph: PRJonze found that how much you noticed was down to how hard you concentrate on the music.The first question is ‘could I tell the difference?’. And yes, I could, although perhaps not in the transformative way I was expecting.The higher quality recordings become ever crisper and clearer, with each instrumental part emerging from a murky swamp of sound. But for me, appreciating the difference was reliant on a degree of concentration.Have them on in the background and I might not notice any change between the studio masters and the nastiest compressed MP3. Listen attentively to, say, the bassline in The Who’s Pinball Wizard, and it’s undoubtedly easier to hear where the notes roam rather than just getting the general impression.The difference between MP3 and CD was most striking – I struggled to differentiate much from CD to studio master.Ultimately the difference is there but it’s subtle and I really think it depends on how you listen to music.My favourite method of listening to music is with headphones while walking – it’s while doing this that I fully lose myself in the music, but it’s never the precise sound I’m interested in, more the way it transports me emotionally to another daydream universe.It takes me away, rather than draws me in. And the truth is, I find the impressionistic sound of an MP3 just as effective at providing this emotional hit as the photographic realism of a studio master recording.Phipps was in two minds as to whether studio masters were better.Could I tell the difference? It depended on the recording. On listening to Nick Drake’s One of These Things First and listening a very high-quality set of Linn speakers, going from low quality MP3, to high-quality MP3 and finally the high resolution studio master, I personally found it difficult to discern a sharp and noticeable difference other than to the quality of the lower frequency sounds, the bass line and the bass strings on the guitar. The difference was subtle to my ears.But listening to different tracks the quality gap became more pronounced. Moving again from low-res to a studio master recording of Overture from West Side Story, a myriad of instruments improved in clarity and depth of tone. It was the same with The Who’s Pinball Wizard.The more layers and instrumentation the starker the difference when we moved from low- to high-res digital files.In some cases, however, the clarity of the high-res file had the overall effect of what I describe as a ‘chilling effect’ on the music; the clarity created for too much space in the music and diminished its warmth and cohesion for me.My impression at the end of our listening session was that yes, there’s a distinct quality difference between the kind of compressed, middling MP3 commonly downloaded from the major platforms and the 24-bit high-res studio master. But mostly I found the CD-quality track on Linn’s superb hi-fi equipment to be the overall best listen for my particular ears.Italian tenor Luciano Pavarotti in song: studio masters can reveal his separation from the orchestra in recording. Photograph: WALTER PONTES/AFP/Getty ImagesIn my view, there was a real discernible difference between the MP3 or CD and the studio master tracks. But it wasn’t always a good thing.The difference in quality wasn’t analogous to the marked difference between standard-definition and high-definition video, being much more suitable in most cases.Overall the studio masters sounded fuller, more spacious and less flat. Some tracks sounded very close to CD. Others, like The Who’s Pinball Wizard, were strikingly different, sounding more real, less produced and more raw or natural, as it would be listening live.But that difference wasn’t always a good thing. It was disappointing to hear a recording of Pavarotti’s Nessun Dorma sound worse in studio master, as it exposed the fact that the orchestra and the tenor’s tracks were recorded separately in different environments. They sounded disconnected – something that is masked in the CD version.What was very apparent is just how bad a poor-quality MP3 sounded, how good a 320kbps MP3 and CD sounded, and how cutting out the middle man in the audio production chain with a studio master could have unexpected results.Hi-res music is currently available from Linn and others through their music store, but it costs more than a standard MP3 file at around £18 for an album which takes up around 2 and 5GB of storage space. MP3 typically take up around 5MB per track.More devices will support hi-res music in the near future with Samsung, Sony and LG already selling music players and smartphones capable of playing 24-bit music. Wether Young’s Pono service will be enough to propel hi-res studio masters into the mainstream remains to be seen, but Tiefenbrun thinksit’s inevitable that other companiesincluding Apple, Amazon and Spotify will offer a similar hi-res service.•Is the MP3 about to die?•Neil Young surpasses Kickstarter goal within one day
“Microsoft virus phone call” scammers are tricking people into paying bogus support fees by setting up fake websites offering antivirus downloads designed to fail on installation.Fake tech support scam makes it look as though software has failed on installation. Photograph: /MalwarebytesThe failed installation tells the user to call a phone number – which connects them to the scammers, who then talk the customer through a process that makes it seem like their PC has a virus infection. The scammers “install” software and charge annual fees, part of an ongoing process that has cost victims millions around the world.The new version of the scam was discovered by the security company Malwarebytes, which documents it in a new blog post. It has reported a number of websites and is telling LogMeIn, a legitimate remote support tool that is favoured by the scammers, of codes they use so they can be blocked.“The online tech support industry is facing a big problem right now,” Jérome Segura of Malwarebytes told the Guardian. “There are too many fraudulent companies being overly aggressive in reaching out to people, whether it is with cold calls, online adverts or fake pop-ups.“And then in between you have companies that perhaps started an honest business but over time have gone shady because they realised how easy it was to make an enormous amount of money using deceptive practices. That is bad news for consumers who are walking a minefield when looking for support.”The modus operandi of the tech support scammers, almost all of whom operate out of Kolkata in India, is to use phone directories and cold-call people telling them they are “from Microsoft” or “from Microsoft Windows” and that their PC has been reported as transmitting viruses. They then tell people to open a program on their machine which appears, to the uninitiated user, to be warning of errors on their system - but is in fact indicative of normal operation. The scammers then tell alarmed customers they can “fix” the problem for a price which can range to hundreds of pounds. They use LogMeIn or another remote support company to gain remote access to the system, and “fix” the nonexistent problem.The Guardianexposed in July 2010how the “support scams” were being run from call centres in India. Subsequently the Guardian obtained details of three individuals, two based in India and one in Canada, who were believed to be the ringleaders of one of the scams, using an online payment company to route their payments from victims. The details were passed to police.In October 2012 the US Federal Trade Commissionfroze the US bank accounts and assets of a number of “tech support” companies in India, alleging that tens of thousands of Americans have been tricked into paying for unneeded “support”. Among those who had accounts frozen was a company called Pecon Support, now inactive.However, that has not stopped gangs in India from making cold calls and scamming victims – often older people who do not realise that Microsoft does not make such calls.“We know that there are multiple organisations in India as well as the US but getting an exact picture of how they relate to each other is not easy,” Segura told the Guardian. “This is in part due to the fact that these groups use multiple identities, websites and hundreds of different phone numbers. This particular antivirus ripoff scam was located in India, but unlike so many others the technicians showed a better command of the English language, in fact sounding quite British. These are the kind of little details that we, as investigators, pick upon because they can help us to identify various accents and put individuals on a map, because we know accents vary per region in India.”He said that one technician told him that they were receiving an average of 3,000 calls a day. “If we keep in mind the price for support services typically ranges between two to four hundred dollars, we are talking about a multimillion dollar industry that crooks are exploiting every single day,” Segura said.
For the past 15 years, Finnish developer Remedy Entertainment has done its utmost to make video games feel like cinema. The Max Payne series mixed cop thriller grit with every action movie cliché known to man and overlaid its shooter mechanic with super-cool bullet time. Alan Wake shared not just the plot ingredients, but the very structure of a high-end television series complete with chapters that began with the refrain “Previously, on Alan Wake”.Now the studio’s attempt to make players feel like they’re the star of their own TV show or movie has gone widescreen with Quantum Break. The game, which bears all the filmic hallmarks of the developer’s earlier work – including jump cuts, camera swirls and slow-motion action sequence – will even ship with its own tie-in TV show. In it, players will see the schemes and politicking behind the scenes at Monarch, the shadowy corporation that’s trying to capture the game’s hero, Jack Joyce. The narrative, Remedy says, will dovetail in and out of the game’s plot. What happens as people play the game, will somehow have an impact on the television plotline.How is it going to work? Microsoft remains elusive on the subject. “The linear content producers have always been part of the Quantum Break team and have been working on that with our directors and talent,” says Microsoft corporate vice president, Phil Harrison. “Obviously the TV aspect has some significant story elements that we want to be careful not to reveal too early. But I think when you see the two working together, it will make it very clear that the player has significant influence and control over the way the story arc works. I think people are going to find that very exciting. More to come on that in due course”It’s a pretty bold move and not just because tying the TV and gaming mediums together has met with limited success in the past – anyone remember Defiance? Also, since gaming is an interactive medium, one has to wonder how much of a draw a game-based TV series is. Still, if Quantum Break’s Gamescom demo was anything to go by, players will have plenty to keep them entertained when it’s released next year.Time stands stillThe plot pitch involves a time-travel experiment at a research facility that – wouldn’t you know it – goes horribly wrong. Shortly afterwards, Joyce discovers he has the ability to manipulate time in his immediate vicinity. Most people would revel in this demigod-like power, but Joyce soon learns that time itself is splintering and breaking and will eventually end if he doesn’t find a way to reverse the experiment’s affects. It’s not clear how he’ll be able to do this, but Joyce soon learns that operatives from Monarch Solutions are on his trail and their plans don’t seem to require him having a pulse.At its core, Quantum Break is very similar to both Alan Wake and the Max Payne games in that it essentially plays like a pop-and-cover third-person shooter with some mechanics that allow players to bend reality somewhat. Joyce’s abilities to manipulate time come in quite handy when faced with a corridor filled with bad guys; he can slow time in his vicinity and thus move in a blur to flank his enemies, or he can stop the bullets from their guns in mid-air and then release them in a spray.Since this a Remedy game, the combat has style to burn. As Joyce flits between targets the camera whirls and cuts, making every action set piece look achingly cool. When a hot tracer round hits a gas canister and it explodes sending Monarch goons flying, the camera lovingly slows the action down and the sound effects become muffled. When Jack executes a melee attack, his movements slow to the point of impact, at which stage the action speeds up and makes every blow look eye-wateringly painful.A stuttering storyAway from the combat, Joyce has to navigate his way through Stutters – pockets of space in which time has frozen still. Since the time in Stutters can stop and start at random, Joyce has to use his ability to freeze flying debris in mid-air to create pathways or clear a way forward. In the demo, one particularly spectacular set piece has a bridge being rammed by an oil tanker, forcing Joyce to assemble a series of platforms in order to save himself from a terminal fall into the bay.It’s all pretty eye-popping stuff, but one can’t help but wonder if Quantum Break has the juice to keep players interested over the eight-plus hours they’d expect to get out of a Triple A title. It all looks extremely familiar – the disaster movie setting, the crop-haired male protagonist, the cool motion effects, the cover shooting, the set-pieces, to shadowy corporation.... That said, Remedy has only shown a snippet of its brand new IP, and the mechanics seem fun. All it needs is a little depth – but that’s something a few cool bullet effects and a tie-in TV show won’t necessarily buy.Quantum Break is released on Xbox One in spring 2015Xbox Entertainment Studio shuts, but Halo and Quantum Break are safe
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Apple took over the only segment of the PC market that still matters &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:I estimate that Apple sold roughly 6.4m MacBook Airs in its 2013 fiscal year, compared to about 6m MacBook Pros. (I based that calculation on two variables: First, I estimated that portables made up 76% of all Mac sales in 2013. Second, I estimated an average selling price of $1,050 for MacBook Airs and $1,500 for MacBook Pros.)If 6.4m MacBook Airs sounds unimpressive for a full year's sales, put it in perspective: Gartner estimates that only 22m premium ultramobiles were sold in all of 2013. That gives Apple nearly 30% of this fast-growing market, which Gartner forecasts to grow by roughly 50% this year and more than 70% in 2015.It's also a profitable segment, with average selling prices of $1000 or more.That growth is why you see Windows PC makers falling over themselves to deliver products in this category, with Microsoft's Surface Pro line and Lenovo's Yoga series the best examples.Blue Bottle Coffee proves developers aren't the only ones who love Slack &gt;&gt; CITEworldSlack first arrived at Blue Bottle in April of 2014 -- the company had acquired coffee delivery startup Tonx, including co-founder Nik Bauman, who now serves as Blue Bottle's director of digital products. Bauman and his small team were among Slack's earliest users, and they loved the platform so much that they insisted on implementing it within Blue Bottle.That turned out to be a good thing, Bauman says, because Slack's real strength is in bringing people who work remotely all together on one platform. Blue Bottle hadn't noticed yet, he says, but the company's email foundation was already starting to show its cracks. Nobody had any clue what other people were working on or who was responsible for what in any other office.Samsung focusing on budget Tizen phones, no release plans for Samsung Z (SM-Z910F) &gt;&gt; Tizen ExpertsWe were all disappointed when Samsung did not release the Samsung Z (SM-Z910F) as expected last month. The Tizen smartphone has certainly had a rough journey, with repeated cancellations of all expected release dates over the last 18 months.Now it appears that Samsung are cancelling ANY release plans for the Samsung Z, and are concentrating their efforts on budget low to medium end smartphone's such as the Tizen based Samsung SM-Z130H and SM-130E, this is according to several sources familiar with the situation. Samsung hope that this new strategy will help fend off challenges from Chinese manufacturers like Xiaomi, who are one of china's largest electronics companies that sells mobile phones and who has shifted over 26m handsets in the first half of this year alone, not bad for a company that was founded a mere four years ago.Why John McAfee is paranoid about mobile &gt;&gt; Dark ReadingIn this talk, McAfee took square aim at mobile. He discussed a recent consulting engagement with an unnamed defense contractor. Apparently, out of nowhere and for no apparent reason, the contractor began losing contracts it would normally win. Eventually, it was discovered that a man-in-the-middle attack had successfully infiltrated the mobile devices belonging to the sales team. Anything they saw wound up in the hands of the competition.As he explained, thanks to mobile devices, each employee has become a potential weak link in the enterprise security chain. Corporate data shared on mobile devices and tablets has become highly valuable to competitors. Meanwhile, forced permissions within mobile applications are granting access to sensitive data stored on phones.Somuch more detail required there, Mr McAfee.It feels like just yesterday my wife, two kids and I packed all our belongings,… &gt;&gt; Google+Amit Singhal, Google's head of search:the heart of Google is still search. And in the decade since our IPO, Google has made big bets on a range of hugely important areas in search that make today's Google so much better than the 2004 version (see our homepage from back then below). Larry has described the perfect search engine as understanding exactly what you mean and giving you back exactly what you want. We've made a lot of progress on delivering you the right answers, faster. But we know that we have a long way to go -- it's just the beginning.I thought it might be fun to share the 10 biggest Google search milestones since 2004 that really stand out in my mind:A couple of these don't feel like "search" - Google Actions ("OK Google send an email to Jason..") and his tenth, which sounds like Google Now under another name.Also of note: 890 changes to search in the past year.The state of Android updates: who's fast, who's slow, and why &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRon Amadeo:This article is something of a sequel to a previous article, where, almost two years ago, our Culture Editor Casey Johnston took ahard look at Android updatesup to that point. The numbers aren't directly comparable, since we're only covering KitKat updates, but the overall impression we get from looking at both reports is that things are improving.The most impressive is Motorola, for which back in 2012, Casey discovered an 8.4-month update average over all its phones. Today, the company took around 2.7 months to update its devices (from 2012 and up) to KitKat.In the same time period, HTC moved from a 4.7-month update average to 3.9 months today. Samsung was averaging a 6.9 month lag between updates in 2012, while from 2012 to today the company averages around 5.8 months for KitKat.LG averaged a pathetic 11.9 months for an update in our previous article, and today its average in 2013 is 5.2 months. The company didn't update anything from 2012 to KitKat, though, and we didn't factor abandoned devices into these averages.New Big Brother Watch team announced &gt;&gt; Big Brother WatchJust months before Big Brother Watch's fifth anniversary, we can today announce the new leadership team, following the departure of Nick Pickles, who left the campaign in May to join Twitter as UK Public Policy Manager.Emma Carr is to take up the role of Director, whilst Renate Samson is to become Chief Executive.Deserved promotion for Carr.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
What keeps Apple's stock going up? In the case of the most recent spike, which has taken it toa new closing record of $100.53, there seem to be two causes: a comment by corporate raider Carl Icahn that actually he hasn't sold any of the stock he holds in the company; and a report from stockbrokers Bernstein Research suggesting that an "iWatch" – a wearable Apple computer of some sort – isbeing prepared for launch.Which of those two helped push the stock to its new record is debatable, but let's just say that Bernstein is far from the first estimate built around the (still unacknowledged and unannounced) iWatch. Viewed over the long term, Apple's stock has been on a ramp for years. Shockingly, its value has risen faster than Google's since the latter's IPO just under 10 years ago: Google's stock has risen by 1001%, while Apple's has risen by 4,469%.Of course, since then Apple has introduced the iPhone and the iPad. Google has added its Android software, which dominates on mobile handsets, but no other significant revenue generator. To the question "is Apple really worth that much?" – on the basis that its market capitalisation is around $602bn (£361bn) – some retort "is it worth so little?" Its price-earnings ratio is still below 17, trailing rivals such as Google at 30 and Amazon at 522 and almost identical to Microsoft, portrayed as a mature giant whose best days are behind it.Certainly, Apple's profits rely heavily on the iPhone. A new, larger version is expected in early September, with many eager buyers expecting to upgrade. The number of smartphone owners worldwide exceeds 2 billion, and while well over a billion use Google's free Android platform, Apple has about 400 million willing to pay top dollar for its phones. And as the worldwide user base continues to grow, so does Apple's potential market. Putting aside the iWatch excitement, the iPhone is Apple's profit motor. And there's no sign of that misfiring yet.
Vine, Twitter’s video-sharing service, will start allowing users to upload video clips created elsewhere, alongside a series of changes to the app designed to make it easier to shoot the six-second videos the service shares.While a number of unsupported tricks have let users upload videos created elsewhere to Vine, Wednesday’s change is the first time the app has officially supported the feature.“Every day, millions of people open Vine to share memories in the moment,” the company says in a blogpost. “Today, Vine has unlocked a new camera that gives you the freedom to create a Vine in any way you want.”The changes will help Vine build out its membership by letting new users skip a stage which has sometimes been a stumbling block: signing up when they have nothing to film.While many first-time users may not be in the position to film something right away, they are likely to have at least one video on their phone which they do feel they can share. With the ability to upload that video to the service, they become an active user that much quicker, hopefully avoiding the longstanding difficulty parent firm Twitter has in encouraging new members to become active users.That the new feature will also increase the general quality of the videos is another bonus for Vine, even if it does come with the risk of damaging the idiosyncratic visual language that has built up around the service.Following in the footsteps of its parent company, Vine is also attempting to change the narrative around how to measure its success. The company hasn’t released user numbers for a year,since it confirmed it had 40 million registered users in August 2013, but in this latest update, it gives another figure: “Every month more than 100 million people watch Vines across the web and there are more than 1 billion loops every day.”The focus on viewers, who may not be actively posting or even signed-up for the site, mirrors that of Twitter, which isalso expectedto reveal a new set of metrics for how to measure its own success.As well as the ability to upload videos, Vine has introduced a few new tools to the built-in camera: users can now access a spirit level and flashlight while filming, and the focus-lock option will work within the app“New camera tools offer more powerful ways to edit your videos, and you can now import existing videos from your phone and turn them into Vines. With this release, you have more control over what goes into your Vines and more freedom to manipulate your content – right within the app,” it says.The new iOS version of Vine is out on Wednesday, and an Android update will follow.Vine’s co-founder Colin Kroll: ‘Six seconds just feels right’
On Tuesday, militants fromIslamic State(Isis) released a propaganda video depicting the beheading of a kneeling man dressed in an orange jumpsuit, believed to be James Wright Foley, an American photojournalist.Foley has been missing since 2012 while reporting on thestruggle to overthrowBashar al-Assadin Syria. The final shot of the video showed a man, thought to be another American journalist, Steven Sotloff, being threatened with the same fate.How does a man’s murder become another social media trend?The video, entitled A Message to America and directly addressing US President Barack Obama, was initially uploaded to YouTube and has been widely circulated over social media; spreading across Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and other platforms. Screenshots from the video have also circulated. Trending terms on Twitter were #Isis, #James Foley and #Islamic State.The widespread distribution of the five-minute clip has sparked much debate about the ethics of sharing a man’s death at the hands of a terrorist organisation, with many users making vocal their objections to widening the audience of Isis’ message and the upset caused to Foley’s and Sotloff’s families.Blackout on group that murdered James Foley. Don&#39;t share video. Give them nothing.#RespectJamesFoley&mdash; mia farrow (@MiaFarrow)August 20, 2014Out of respect for James Foley and his family, don&#39;t share the video. Let&#39;s not give this demonic group any more power#ISIS#condemnIsis&mdash; Maureen (@maureen_ahmed)August 20, 2014Don&#39;t share the video. Don&#39;t share the pictures. Don&#39;t work for ISIS. Share images of James Foley&#39;s life instead.#ISIS&mdash; Tom Doran (@portraitinflesh)August 19, 2014Hend Amry, a Syrian activist and commentator, instigated the hashtag #ISISmediaBlackout, to encourage people to stifle the distribution of the video, starving Isis of coverage. The hashtag quickly gained traction and support.you know what I think? And I know how crazy this sounds,but we need an#ISISmediaBlackout. Amputate their reach. Pour water on their flame.&mdash; Hend (@LibyaLiberty)August 19, 2014From here on out, I won&#39;t share any photo or video of violence intentionally recorded &amp; released by ISIS for propaganda.#ISISmediaBlackout&mdash; Hend (@LibyaLiberty)August 19, 2014Amry told the Guardian why she started the hashtag. After watching the video, she felt: “I was a voyeur, sharing a moment not intended for anyone but James, and his loved ones. Feeling angry, enraged, horrified, and helpless, I wanted to do something. Even an insignificant something.“So I tweeted that we needed to start a media blackout of the propaganda this group was using as weapons of fear. I wanted to break the circle…I wanted to remove the audience, at least me as an audience. I guess other people felt the same.”In a since deleted tweet, Foley’s sister Kelly Foley, commented:Please honor James Foley and respect my family’s privacy. Don’t watch the video. Don’t share it. That’s not how life should be.Foley’s mother, Diane, released a statement on theFree James FoleyFacebook page.The statement from James Foley’s mother posted on Facebook. Photograph: Free James Foley/FacebookHow social media giants have fought backTwitter has responded to the swell of opinion, and begun to remove all tweets embedding Isis’s video or screenshots taken from it. In a seemingly unprecedented step, Twitter CEO Dick Costolo, tweeted the following:We have been and are actively suspending accounts as we discover them related to this graphic imagery. Thank youhttps://t.co/jaYQBKVbBF&mdash; dick costolo (@dickc)August 20, 2014Twitter has also pointed media and users to its policies onoffensive contentandimages of deceased individuals.In order to respect the wishes of loved ones, Twitter will remove imagery of deceased individuals in certain circumstances. Immediate family members and other authorised individuals may request the removal of images or video of deceased individuals, from when critical injury occurs to the moments before or after death.When reviewing such media removal requests, Twitter considers public interest factors such as the newsworthiness of the content and may not be able to honor every request.It is clear that the tweets showing explicit content relating to Foley’s death would contravene both of these policies.YouTube, which removed the video swiftly after its initial upload, told the Guardian that it doesn’t allow members of foreign terrorist organisations to have YouTube accounts, or people affiliated with terrorist organisations.If a video was uploaded, the video would be removed and the account would be terminated.However, if a news organisation uploaded a video without showing – in this case, the beheading – but part of the video in order to provide a news context, YouTube might allow the video to remain.It would not be allowed to remain, even if the content was not explicit, if it was used for propaganda purposes, we were told.Facebook and Instagram are yet to respond to the Guardian.Why is the reaction to James Foley’s death different?The responses of both Twitter and YouTube seem to contrast with a general lack of action regarding graphic content shared of the deaths of civilians during the current Israeli-Palestine conflict in Gaza, which alsosolicited much debatearound the ethical implications.A bit sick of people constantly sharing gruesome pictures of dead babies in Gaza. I know it&#39;s going on, I oppose it, I don&#39;t like it.&mdash; Oliver James (@OliverJamesUK)August 1, 2014You can pray for Gaza without sharing gory pictures. Thank you.&mdash; Syed Azman (@AzmanV2)July 9, 2014Instagram is a popular social platform among members of the Israel Defence Force, and footage uploaded has shown rockets being launched, and soldiers joking at base camps; as well as propaganda from Hamas-affiliated organisations and supporters.There is currently an account loyal to Kurdish Peshmerga forces, depicting the deaths of captured Isis militants in brutal detail, none of which have been suspended or removed. As well as Iraqi forces videos of fighting.Of course, graphic images of violent terrorism or warfare is not a new phenomenon. In 2004, the “hoax” images of abuse at Abu Ghraib prison were splashed on the front page of the Mirror andled to Piers Morgan’s sacking; the rolling news coverage of people jumping from the Twin Towers during theSeptember 11 attacksis seared into public consciousness.Hijacked United Airlines Flight 175 flies towards the Twin Towers. Photograph: STR/REUTERSIn 2006, the video of the hanging ofSuddam Husseinwas uploaded and shared extensively. Similarly, thebeheading of Ken Bigleyin 2004 was circulated around the media.Social media, however, has transformed this content into a rapid feed, almost stripping us of the option of deciding whether or not we want to see such graphic content. It’s pouring into our feeds and it’s unavoidable.Whathaschanged is the recent movement of social media companies cracking down on this content being available to view. What hasn’t changed is the apparent demand from some users to consume such gruesome content.Isis respondTwitter has deactivated numerous accounts run by Isis members and supporters in the last few weeks, including the @mujahid4life account which originally uploaded the video of Foley’s death, but it is well known that Isis has an extremely efficient social media operation.The Guardian writersPatrick KingsleyandCarmen Fishwickhave previously reported on their adept use ofJustpaste.itand other hosting platforms. They even have avocal press officer, Abu Mosa.A Kurdish fighter pulls down a flag belonging to Islamic State militants. Photograph: STRINGER/IRAQ/REUTERSAs outrage spreads around the globe, Isis continue to adopt social media to further their cause of establishing an Islamic caliphate. The video of Foley’s execution came just a day after a video in which the group promised to “drown Americans in blood.”Politicians and government agencies have used Twitter to keep the public up to date on their thoughts and actions.So, what does this mean?What seemingly has changed in the wake of Foley’s death is that usersandsocial media companies have openly condemned the content being shared; people do not want to see this imagery, and media platforms are responding.It seems social media companies are beginning to take an editorial approach to the content they are hosting, and assuming an element of responsibility, shifting to a publishing role rather than merely providing a place for content.
Leaked images of front and back casings purport to show the final design of the iPhone 6, which appears to be reminiscent of the first iPhone.The unverified images were posted by luxury phone brand Feld and Volk onits Instagram account, withApple blog MacRumors, claiming to show a leaked photos of the iPhone 6’s body from pre-production front and rear parts put together.Leaked photos cannot be verified, but purportedly show a back and front iPhone 6 shell assembled.The photos resemble the design of theoriginal iPhone launched in 2007, which had curved metal edges and a metal back.The veracity of the photos could not be confirmed and they could easily be aclone of the iPhoneor leaks to spread mis-information.iPhone 6 will likely have more screen spaceApple’s developer software for its upcoming iOS 8 iPhone software has also revealed that the iPhone 6 will have a higher resolution screen than the current iPhone 5S and 5C, according toApple blog 9to5Mac. The screen resolution will provide more screen real estate to display more content, text and images on the screen at any one time compared to the current iPhones, rather than simply see icons and other elements enlarged on a bigger screen.The iPhone 6 is expected to have a larger 4.7in screen (compared with the current iPhone’s 4in screen), while commentators have speculated that Apple may also unveil a larger 5.5in iPhone to compete with phablets from its Korean, Japanese and Chinese rivals.Apple is expected to unveil the iPhone 6 on 9 September, when it could also announce an “iWatch” smartwatch, although recent rumours indicate Apple’s smart wearable device could be delayed until 2015.Curved screensA patent filed in 2010 by Apple,granted yesterday by the US Patent Office, shows that Apple has been working on convex touch screens. It is the secondpatent to be awarded to Applein a year that deals with the manufacture and workings of a curved screen.The patents indicate that Apple’s expected smartwatch could come equipped with a curved display, form-fitting to the wrist. Samsung’sGear Fit smartwatch, launched at CES in January, has a curved OLED touchscreen that fits to the wrist.None of Google’s current crop of Android Wear smartwatches have a curved screen, but that could change in September as more models are expected from other manufacturers, including Sony and Motorola.Apple has a history of making curved touch-enabled surfaces. Apple’s touch-sensitiveMagic Mouse, first released in 2009, has a curved plastic top which fits to the contour of the hand, but enables touch-based gestures.•iPhone 6 could come with a reversible USB cable•iPhone 6 screen could be home-grown sapphire-glass blend, says expert who talked to Apple
Twitter has officially changed its definition of the’ “timeline” of tweets that users see to include content from accounts that users don’t follow and which haven’t been “retweeted” by those they do follow.But the move is proving increasingly unpopular with experienced users, who complain that it is pushing inappropriate or unwanted content into their timelines.In anupdate to its support page about “what’s a Twitter timeline?”, the company has added a paragraph saying that “when we identify a Tweet, an account to follow, or other content that’s popular or relevant, we may add it to your timeline. This means you will sometimes see Tweets from accounts you don’t follow. We select each Tweet using a variety of signals, including how popular it is and how people in your network are interacting with it. Our goal is to make your home timeline even more relevant and interesting.”Compared with anarchived version of the same page, the paragraph shows that Twitter is dramatically expanding the number and range of tweets that people may see.The aim seems to be to increase the chance that more users may see content that they might find interesting. Twitter has been struggling to increase user engagement and signups as itfaces pressure to justify its stock market valuationand encourage growth in user numbers and engagement. A report last year found that 36% of people who had joined Twitter did not use it – compared with 7% of Facebook signups.Some users are finding the changes annoying - and in some cases distressing. Matt Sayward of Manchester pointed out that Twitter had pushed a tweet to him from Peter Timms - his stepfather, who died last June.@gruber@monkbentHere&#39;s where extras in my timeline actually hurts. Peter Timms is my step-dad. He died last June.pic.twitter.com/vAHqqbUZpM&mdash; Matt Sayward (@themattrace)August 20, 2014However, third-party apps such as Tweetbot or Echofon are not so far affected by the changes, which have only been implemented in Twitter’s own apps and on its web interface. Future changes to Twitter’s API, the connection to its database which feeds tweets to those apps, could however mean that they also show tweets that those being followed haven’t actively tweeted.“Favouriting” other users’ tweets has been used by many users since it was introduced as a method of “saving” tweets for later reference without actively sharing them to others. The latter function is normally fulfilled by a “retweet”, in which a user chooses to share another user’s tweet with their followers.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe discuss the survival of the MP3, a legacy format created for the first generation of hard disc portable music players such as the iPod. Do people now want to hear music at higher resolutions?Gilad Tiefenbrundiscusses his companyLinn Musicwith tech reporterSamuel Gibbsand argues that Linn's high-res music-download store and Neil Young's planned Pono player are a sign of things to come for the digital download.Also Aleks is joined by technology editorCharles Arthurand tech reporterAlex Hernto discuss Julian Assange's possible exit from the Ecuadorian embassy. What is the role of Assange and Wikileaks in a post-Edward Snowden world?They also discuss Google's purchase of the clever travel-guide app Jetpac, and the return of Flappy Bird creator Doug Nguyen with the equally addictive Swing Copters.• Tech Weekly will be back in mid-September.• Follow updates on the next season of podcasts byfollowing us on Twitter
The ball drops deep into the Liverpool half. There’s a brief scramble, a moment of panic, and then a defender belts it toward the touchline; it hits the shoulder of Manchester City’s Samir Nasri and spins out of play. Later in the match, the ball goes out again after a tackle between Lovren and Kolarov – the City player thinks that the throw is about to be given to Liverpool and wheels around the complain to the ref – but the decision goes his way, and he immediately backs off.These are small moments of drama, the sorts of things we’re going to see every weekend of the forthcoming season. But for the Fifa series, they represent brand new elements of the simulation. Every year, the team at EA Sports in Vancouver tells us about major overhauls, and every year we have to squint to see them.However, in the several matches I played at Gamescom, some of the big boasts are clear: the ball physics has been reworked (again!) and the depiction of emotion in player models has been accentuated. Modern football is as much a theatrical performance as it is a sport. The Fifa team knows this. And it’s pretty compulsive stuff.The feel of footballBut forget the drama for a moment, and feel the sim. Fifa 15 is pretty delightful to play: zippy passing, tight handling without the regimented “close control” feature-set of Fifa 14, and a much greater sense that you can freely disperse the ball around the pitch at any angle. The action feels faster, looser, more expressive. The ball rebounds, spins and curls off at convincing angles.“There are three things that have changed the feel of the game,” says producer Nick Channon as we kick off our Manchester City versus Liverpool match. “We’ve completely re-written dribbling so you’ve got more control, more fidelity of movement. There are a lot of contextual tricks, but we want everyone to feel capable, that they’re doing cool things just using the left stick.“Last year we put in step-based locomotion which was a big change, it made everything look nice, but at times people felt it was a little bit sluggish, a little unresponsive, so we’ve done a lot of work around quicker more agile turns. Defenders will now stick with the attacking player more naturally whereas before you’d have to press A to contain - we don’t particularly want that all the time.“The final thing is, we’ve reworked all the ball physics on the ground, so every single touch is different. It sounds small, but it’s had a profound effect: previously if you touched the ball as it came in, we’d zero the spin, whereas now you’re imparting spin on it – so however you kick it, wherever you touch, it becomes part of the calculations. It sounds geeky, but it’s much more realistic and in passing it creates a better feeling of fluidity. We had fans in relatively early to test the system and they were saying it feels much more responsive. It’s changed the game.”The new ball physics means that player kicks now add to the spin, rather than stop it dead, making for more realistic interactionsThe physical nature of the action has also evolved. Fifas 13 and 14 were experimenting with the jostle between players, now Fifa 15 lets you hold down B to use your body instead of tackling. At first, you’ll bump against your rival, but if that’s unsuccessful, it will gradually evolve to shirt tugging. Maybe that’s the deal with Fifa 15 – everything is much more seamless and fluid; you don’t get those staccato changes in tempo that come with rigidly defined controls.There are other nice additions. The team formation screen has been updated, allowing you to quickly assign specific tactics to each position. You can click on the photo image of your left-sided attacker, for example, and order him to make support runs, keep wide, stay central get in behind his fellow forward or drop short and defend. “You can set up your team to be a lot more tactical, to get them to play a specific style for you,” says Channon. And within the match, the d-pad can be used to plan set-pieces (a feature taken from the World Cup game) as well as to change player mentality on the fly.Other changes sound just like the stuff we’ve been told in previous iterations. “Teams are now analysing situations in more depth,” says Channon. “If we’re playing and you’re 1-0 up with ten minutes to go, the AI will start to recognise the situation. My players will go into all-out attack; they’ll push more men forward - you’ll start to see more variety in play, it won’t feel as repetitive. We want the AI to feel like playing a human – they’re even time waste now, they’ll take the ball to the corner. We’ve got more intelligence in the wide areas too, players will more actively try to beat you to the ball.”And while all this is going on, the game’s player and crowd animations track the narrative of the match too. “We’ve done a lot of work on the context of the matches, on players and teams knowing what’s at stake,” says Channon. “City v Liverpool is a big game, one of the biggest in the season, so that atmosphere will feel different, much more intense – the intelligent crowd know that. If it’s not going to well, they react.”And it’s not going well for Liverpool. I start the scoring with a beautiful chipped goal from the 18-yard line, courtesy of Toure. Immediately he’s besieged by blue shirts, thanks to the new ten-man goal celebrations. The home crowd is deathly silent. I go on to claim a penalty and two more quick goals. I think Channon is distracted, or letting me win.Whatever, its easy to get caught up in the atmosphere. The Fifa team recorded ambient sound at 20 Premier League matches last season, using multiple microphones, picking up on chants and jeers. And sure enough, from the far end, the sound of Blue Moon can be heard echoing through Anfield.Fifa 15 is released on 23 September in North America and 25-26 September throughout Europe on most current platforms. Keith Stuart attended GamesCom on a press trip with accommodation and travel paid for by Electronic Arts. For information on paid-for trips, please see the Guardianeditorial codeorthis article on transparency and trust.Fifa 15 – it’s all about emotionCould EA Access be the Netflix for Fifa fans?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team19-year-old lost $46,000 in Google Adsense rules ban &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJim Edwards:until the beginning of this year MesTextos.com was doing very well indeed.[Its creator Idris] Sami was running Google's AdSense advertising system on his site. It allows web site publishers to display search ads powered by Google and take a cut of the revenues.By December 2013 so many people were clicking on MesTextos' ads that Sami's Google account hit $46,000.But then he learned that if you're an AdSense partner and you don't run ads on your site exactly the way Google wants, the search giant will punish you.The worst part is the Kafkaesque twist – it won't tell you why it's punishing you; the guilty need not be told their crimes.Choose Firefox now, or later you won't get a choice &gt;&gt; Well, I'm BackRobert O'Callahan has been working on Mozilla since 1999, and is now full-time:Google is bent on establishing platform domination unlike anything we've ever seen, even from late-1990s Microsoft. Google controls Android, which is winning; Chrome, which is winning; and key Web properties in Search, Youtube, Gmail and Docs, which are all winning. The potential for lock-in is vast and they're already exploiting it, for example by restricting certain Google Docs features (e.g. offline support) to Chrome users, and by writing contracts with Android OEMs forcing them to make Chrome the default browser. Other bad things are happening that I can't even talk about. Individual people and groups want to do the right thing but the corporation routes around them. (E.g. PNaCl and Chromecast avoided Blink's Web standards commitments by declaring themselves not part of Blink.)His advice: "stop using Chrome now." Will he lobby Mozilla not to take funding from Google to make its search Firefox's default too? That provided about 85% of Mozilla's total funding.HTC One with Windows Phone: another great phone you won't buy &gt;&gt; WSJJoanna Stern:A carbon copy of the Android model I've loved since its debut in March, the One's bright and crisp 5in 1080p screen is enclosed in a solid piece of aluminum, giving it a weight that suggests higher quality than the plastic wares from LG, Samsung and Nokia. And despite its thinner dimensions, it can last all day long on a charge, even with the screen brightness cranked up.Like on the Android model, my biggest complaint is about its ultrapixel camera — along with a second camera that strictly captures depth information to allow you to refocus photos after you take them. Despite the gimmicks, the photos just don't turn out as sharp and well balanced as the ones you'd take with the priciest Nokia Lumia Windows Phones.That said, it does capture photos faster than any smartphone I've tested and if you're vying to be a better selfie-snapper than Kim Kardashian herself, the 5-megapixel front-facing camera is what you need.So if all things are now equal in hardware, software must be Windows Phone's big problem, right? That used to be the case for the late-to-the-party platform, but it certainly isn't anymore.Windows Phone is now as good an operating system as the others. I find it easier to navigate than Android, yet more customisable than iOS.Essentially, the answer to "why doesn't Windows Phone sell more?" seems to be "because people don't buy it".Data carpentry &gt;&gt; David MimnoMimno takes issue with a New York Times article suggesting that there are lots of "data janitors" who "wrangle" or "munge" datasets before they can be usefully applied:Data carpentry probably has something to do with wishing I could make things likeCarrie Roy, but I should start by saying what I don't like about the "data cleaning" or "janitor work" terms. To me these imply that there is some kind of pure or clean data buried in a thin layer of non-clean data, and that one need only hose the dataset off to reveal the hard porcelain underneath the muck. In reality, the process is more like deciding how to cut into a piece of material, or how much to plane down a surface. It's not that there's any real distinction between good and bad, it's more that some parts are softer or knottier than others. Judgement is critical.The scale of data work is more like woodworking, as well. Sometimes you may have a whole tree in front of you, and only need a single board. There's nothing wrong with the rest of it, you just don't need it right now.'Stone Age' wearables market to explode as shipments set to grow over 1000%  | Press Wire | NewsShipments of smart wearables are expected to grow from 9.7m in 2013 to 135m in 2018, according to new forecasts.Analyst firm CCS Insight said that the growth – some 1,291% – would be led by wrist-worn devices, which will account for 87% of wearables to be shipped in 2018.Such devices will comprise 68m smartwatches and 50m smart bands with no screen or with a minimal, one-line display.Stand-alone cellular wearables are also a growing segment, with "a number of high-profile devices with their own SIM cards" expected to be announced in the coming months, CCS said.Over 5m wearables were sold in North America in 2013, and over 40% of all wearable devices currently in use are there.Compare the computing power of a smartphone from 2010 with one from the present; that's the sort of difference that a wearable in 2018 should have over those being released now.The Windows Store is a cesspool of scams — why doesn't Microsoft care? &gt;&gt; Howto GeekChris Hoffman:Microsoft hasn't been encouraging quality apps. Instead, they just want quantity. In March, 2013, Microsoft ran a promotion where they paid developers $100 for each app they submitted to the Windows Store or Windows Phone Store. They paid up to $2000 to each developer.Here's the page from Archive.orgdescribing the "Keep The Cash" promotion. Microsoft has scrubbed the official pages about this from their MSDN website.So, if you're a developer who spent months creating an amazing app, you only got $100. if you're a developer who could pump out twenty terrible apps in a few weeks, you'd get $2000. Microsoft's promotion encouraged developers to do the minimum amount of possible work and create a bunch of bad apps.(Thanks @pxr4t2 for the link.)If driverless cars save lives, where will we get organs? &gt;&gt; FortuneErin Griffith:Technological advances often come with unintended consequences, though, which is why these predictions support [Bree] Pettis's [of Makerbot] case that organ donations would be adversely impacted by safer driving. Motor vehicle accidents are the largest contributor to organ donations after natural-cause deaths. Since 1994, 16% of all organ donations came from motor vehicle accidents, according to the U.S. Department of Health &amp; Human Services.The inventory pressure from increasing adoption of self-driving cars will add to an already shrinking pool of organ donors. Traffic deaths have been in decline since 1969, when they peaked at 55,043. The drop occurred for a number of reasons: drunk driving deaths have fallen, seat belt use has increased, air bags are more effective, and we drive less.…More than 123,000 people in the U.S. are currently in need of an organ, and 18 people die each day waiting, according to the Department of Health &amp; Human Services.Unintended consequences?Linux-on-the-desktop pioneer Munich now considering a switch back to Windows &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaPeter Bright:The world is still waiting for the year of Linux on the desktop, but in 2003 it looked as if that goal was within reach. Back then, the city of Munich announced plans to switch from Microsoft technology to Linux on 14,000 PCs belonging to the city's municipal government. While the scheme suffered delays, it was completed in December 2013. There's only been one small problem: users aren't happy with the software, and the government isn't happy with the price.The switch was motivated by a desire to reduce licensing costs and end the city's dependence on a single company. City of Munich PCs were running Windows NT 4, and the end of support for that operating system meant that it was going to incur significant licensing costs to upgrade. In response, the plan was to migrate to OpenOffice and Debian Linux. Later, the plan was updated to use LibreOffice and Ubuntu.German media is reporting that the city is now considering a switch back to Microsoft in response to these complaints. The city is putting together an independent expert group to look at the problem, and if that group recommends using Microsoft software, Deputy Mayor Josef Schmid of the CSU party says that a switch back isn't impossible.Key problems: file compatibility (Munich-generated files were problematic for others) and price - because of the custom programming required, and lack of simple integration with smartphones via mail servers.Techrepublic quotes Munich's spokesperson sayingit's a review for future use, but confirms problems over file compatibility.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
When the government passed thesame-sex marriage act last year, the law had one curious wrinkle: while it would allow gay couples finally to marry, couples already in a civil partnership would have to wait if they wanted to "upgrade" to wedded status.One reason for the strange delay in a policy that passed with the approval of all three party leaders was both mundane and common in Whitehall: the computer said no. The various government IT systems supposedly couldn't cope with the changed status yet, and so plans to convert civil partnerships to marriage would just have to wait (and are still waiting to this day).The story – although contested in Whitehall – has become symbolic of the power the government's IT systems now have over its policies. One impact assessment for the same-sex marriage act noted the law change would require updates to computer systems at HM Revenue &amp; Customs, the Department for Work and Pensions, Home Office, Ministry of Justice and Office for National Statistics.No wonder, then, that it's often IT projects that are among the most high-profile failures in government contracting collapses, as has proved the case this week with the failed e-borders system, which has landed the taxpayer with a£224m bill for costs and damages to Raytheon, the company contracted to deliver the scheme before it was unceremoniously axed by Theresa May in the early years of the coalition.The e-borders farrago joins many other public sector cautionary tales, including £100m squandered by the BBC on a video archives system that never materialised, a £56m Ministry of Justice back-office project cancelled after the department realised the Cabinet Office had a system doing the same thing, and more than£10bn sunk into the NHS's national programme for ITbefore it too was shelved. The list of reasons for failure quickly becomes familiar to those who follow these things, such as Tom Gash, the director of research at theInstitute for Government."There are some patterns here we've seen in a lot of other failed projects," he says. "The one that stands out is doing a 'big bang', announcing it all at once."Rather than announce these high-profile technical fixes, he continues, governments should leave themselves some flexibility: break out the different things a new system should do (known as the requirements), and commission them one by one, to build something up over time – and pick up early if it isn't working. Similarly, taking direct control over subcontracting, rather than parcelling everything out to one or two big players, lets departments see what is going wrong earlier, he says. By doing this, and hiring more civil servants with business experience, Gash believes, the public sector is slowly getting better at handling such projects – despite often being legally outgunned.Still, across IT and other major contracting projects, there may be trouble ahead. TheMajor Projects Authorityis a central body set up to monitor large-scale and risky government enterprises. It is tracking almost 200 schemes with a total value of almost £400bn. Of those, just 17 projects – with a value of less than 4% of the total monitored – have been given "green" status (defined as having "the lowest risks to success") by the authority.A particular threat to many longterm projects is a change of government: when the coalition came into power, it cancelled swaths of contracting deals. Bodies such as the MPA are one solution to handling and running such projects through changes of government, though Gash notes "such bodies often [themselves] get canned or restructured" during changes of administration. Another factor is to build cross-party consensus for projects which will take more than one parliament to complete.All of which cannot help but draw attention to theelephantine IT project in the room: universal credit. Universal credit is a proposal to combine complex and myriad benefits into one payment and is Iain Duncan Smith's flagship proposal. It requires joining up data from numerous departments and subdomains to work effectively and relies on a small number of major contractors.It is mired in difficulties and has already led to some of the largest write-offs of IT spending of all government projects. A report published by the Commons public accounts committee in November last year found that much of the £425m spent on the proposals to date were likely to be written off, including at least £140m for IT systems [see footnote].Pilots for the project were dramatically scaled back. Even those sympathetic to the scheme have wondered if the benefits will justify the costs: the benefits system is not solely complex due to the number of benefits, but people's lives – if people have children, leave their partners, get ill (or recover), or find work, their eligibility will still change in future. It's not clear how much even the perfect IT system could save. Such an unpromising recipe is enough to make even those like Gash, working hard to be diplomatic and reserve judgment, venture a sceptical conclusion or two. "Universal credit … has a lot of the ingredients of projects that have failed in the past," he says.• This footnote was appended on 5 September 2014. The article says the Commons public accounts committee found in November last year that "much of the £425m spent on proposals for Universal Credit would need to be written off, including at least £140m for IT systems." To clarify, the committee found that write-offs were likely to amount to £140m. The Department for Work and Pensions has already written off £41.1m in IT related to Universal Credit, according to its accounts for 2012/13, and a further £91m has been spent on IT assets that will support service for the first five years only.
