This paper has been a devotee of TED.com for some years. TED is an organisation dedicated to "ideas worth spreading". It does this in many ways. It hosts two annual four-day events in the US and the UK, the TED conferences, packed with a remarkably diverse range of speakers and performers whose talks never exceed 18 minutes. These are then available to view – free – on its website, TED.com.There are now more than 1,000 talks on TED.com. Although TED stands for Technology, Education, Design, the ideas discussed travel some distance beyond these disciplines. A quick trawl through the site and you stumble on topics as diverse as "Can Astronomers Help Doctors", "How Games Make Kids Smarter", "How to Spot A Liar", and "Building A Park in the Sky". The range of speakers is similarly eclectic – philosophers, activists, scientists, politicians, doctors, teachers, environmentalists, software developers – anyone who has a story to tell, and an idea to share.TED is where these disparate ideas can come together, bump into others and perhaps spawn new ideas. Matt Ridley's talk at the 2010 TED conference in the UK was aptly entitled "When Ideas Have Sex". He argued that innovation and human development was accelerating because in a new, interconnected, crowd-sourced world, ideas can more readily meet and mate like never before. TED is one of the organisations that  facilitates the ideas exchange.And then there are the TEDx events. Which is where theObservercomes in.TEDx events are independent, locally organised events operated under licence from TED. Last year, we decided to host the first TEDxObserver in London and simulcast it to six venues across the UK. For us, the association of TED with theObserverwas a natural one – two organisations committed to debating, interrogating and challenging ideas. Two organisations with an interest in education, technology and design – and much more besides.TEDx events are a way of creating TED-like events for a larger number of people than can attend the two main conferences. But TED never imagined how successful or popular they would become. As Bruno Giussani, European director of TED told theObserver: "When we started the TEDx programme, two and a half years ago, we expected a few dozen events. We've been surprised by the committed and creative embrace of the model by the TED community, which has produced 3,100 TEDx events in over 120 countries. They have taken place in theatres, schools, town halls, squares, clubs, but also on a floating hotel in the middle of the Amazon, in a hut in the shantytown of Kibera, or under a tent at Everest Base Camp. At the core there is the same passion for sharing ideas, the same hunger for knowledge, the same longing for a more hopeful view of the future. I've attended maybe 50 TEDx events, from Tunis to Budapest to last year's TEDxObserver, and everywhere I have seen the same engagement by the speakers and enthusiasm in the audience generating great conversations and inspiring action."TEDxObserver, held last March, was a day-long event and featured talks from, among others, Sarah Brown, Goldie, Vivienne Westwood, Cory Doctorow, Rene Redzepi and 7/7 survivor Martine Wright. Our opening speaker was Dr Izzeldin Abuelaish, a Palestinian doctor who lost three daughters in an Israeli attack on Gaza and has since written the bookI Shall Not Hate. After the event Dr Abuelaish sent us this note: "The speakers were remarkable and brought beauty and made a difference. The people I met were so receptive to the message and willing to do and act." Another attendee wrote: "We were all fascinated, enthused, exhilarated, moved and amused in turns by the wonderful breadth of presentations and the quality of the whole event."We were moved too. Moved by the atmosphere during the event, and the reaction afterwards. Moved by people's thirst for discovering new ideas. And moved by the stories we heard. Moved too, to organise TEDxObserver 2012.This year's event will take place at London's Sadler's Wells and will again be simulcast to venues across the UK – to seven cities in total (see details right). We will again have a host of speakers addressing a range of topics. But at the heart of TEDxObserver 2012 will be a reflection on youth and creativity, and how best to connect with a younger generation who last year – in different cities and for myriad different reasons – took to the streets. In Cairo and Tripoli, in Santiago and Bogota, London and New York, young people walked and talked in unprecedented numbers.But in the spirit of TED there will be many other themes addressed. Among the talks this year will be ones on: the nature of optimism; whether love is rational; making food not war in the Lebanon; and why the Pirate Party is the fastest growing European political movement.But TEDx events are principally about those who come – to listen, to mingle, and to share thoughts and ideas during the breaks or at the drinks party afterwards. TEDx is a community, and a TEDx event is only as strong as the people and the passion it can summon. If you're free on 10 March, let's have ideas sex.For more information on TEDxObserver and to book your ticket visitobserver.co.uk/tedx
1.Apple is still the sun around which many products revolveApple didn't exhibit here (though there were 250 of its staff on the visitor list) but the space devoted to companies making add-ons for the iPhone and iPad (the iPod is almost forgotten) doubled, taking half of one of the three halls. Everywhere you went, people were showing off iPad or iPhone docks or wielding Apple computers. From hi-fi to phone cases to in-car audio to security, Apple was the real company making consumer electronics happy. Cobra's iRadar radar detection system, below, uses Bluetooth to let users know of potential police radars and be warned of the presence of speed and red light cameras.2.Microsoft is no longer the centre of the consumer electronics worldThe company announced in December that this would be the last time it would be hiring a stand at the show, so Steve Ballmer, its chief executive, would give the opening keynote speech, then pass on the baton.But while Ballmer was able to show off forthcoming tablets running the next version of Windows – due in October – he couldn't generate buzz with a compelling new idea. "What's your message?" he was asked by Ryan Seacrest, the TV host. "Windows, Windows, Windows!" replied Ballmer. It's big, but it's hardly new.3. 3D TV is being pushed – but it's still not compelling enough to be convincingYou can either have versions that need special glasses (in which case visiting friends are likely to be out of luck) or, if glasses-free, require you to be sitting in precisely the correct place to get the effect (so, ditto). And even when you have the glasses or the perfect position, 3D still looks like a series of planes arrayed in front of the camera rather than having the rounded depth of a physical object.4. If you're buying a laptop this year, you might consider an "ultrabook"These are a marketing scheme by Intel, but none the less a good idea: super-thin and lightweight, they have screens of 13in diagonally or more and, usually, superfast hard drives. They cost a little more than the average laptop but they're stylish, quick and won't weigh you down. Paul Otellini, Intel chief executive, shared the stage with Will.i.am of the Black Eyed Peas, who insisted the ultrabook was the new ghetto-blaster – something you can carry around to make music. Only lighter.5.3D printing could arrive in the living room in the next few years3D printing lets you design and produce three-dimensional objects using extruded plastics. Three companies were showing off their own systems: Makerbot, which sells a kit costing about $1,999 and supplies plastic; 3D Systems, whose product cost $1,200; and Sculpteo, a French company which keeps the printer, and you use an app (inevitably) to send your design to its printer. It's a subtle change - for example, if you needed a plastic part for something, rather than ordering it online you'd just find the 3D shape file and print it out.With these systems, "personal 3D printing becomes a reality for everyone", said Rajeev Kulkarni, general manager of 3D Systems.6.Apple is king, except when it comes to TVs – which are getting smarterThe likes of Samsung, Sony, LG and Panasonic are battling it out over "smart TVs" able to connect to the internet and even download apps. Some models can be controlled by hand motions or voice. The frustrating thing is that many of them have the "smart" element built in; only a few companies, such as RCA in the US, are offering a separate set-top box that will make your existing TV smart. It's like the smartphone or PC wars all over again.7.'Smart' is also being shoehorned into your washing machine and dryerSamsung is offering a machine which is Wi-Fi enabled and can be controlled from inside or outside your home. Though it looks like a pointless addition, it could become part of the "internet of things" - when all devices can be linked to the internet (or at least your home network).8.Nobody knows who should do the keynote speech... now that Ballmer has hung up his lanyard. Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman? But Google doesn't exhibit here. Ditto for Apple's chief Tim Cook or marketing chief Phil Schiller (an able keynoter). How about Intel's Paul Otellini, whose products drive computers (and, if he gets his way, smartphones)? He gave a keynote with interesting content, but was a boring performer. Truth is the tech industry doesn't have anyone both important and riveting; with Steve Jobs gone, nobody's taken his mantle.9.Most tablets are going nowhere, but look out for smart TVSmart TV might give tablets a future. Trying to navigate the web with a remote control is a nightmare (ever tried to type a web address by clicking on an onscreen keyboard via a pointer? It's awful), but doing it on a TV screen that you're controlling from a tablet is much simpler. Even little tablets measuring just 7in diagonally will do the job nicely.10.Just about everyone who's anyone has an appWalk around the halls and you'd be encouraged to download apps (for health, cars, you name it). The iPhone was announced five years ago, though the word "app" hadn't begun to be used. Now they're everywhere - the consumer electronics industry can change rapidly, but not always in the direction we might expect. Fancy learning guitar? The Ion Audio Guitar Apprentice lets  users put  iPads into the $99 unit, which then lights up "frets" on the guitar to show finger placement.
After the pre-Chrimbo blitz, things tail off dramatically in the new year, with lamentably sparse release schedules until month's end. As an example, key releases for the next fortnight include a fishing simulator and yet another bloody Sims 3 add-on. So thank the stars for the calendar-ignorant world of mobile gaming, which goes from strength to strength with downloadable gems popping up almost constantly. Here's the pick of the new batch …Dizzy: Prince of the Yolkfolk, Android &amp; iOSApart from Dizzy's swanky HD makeover, this has two important differences from its near-identical forebear: infinite lives and a generous hint system when puzzles get too obtuse. On-screen controls are clunky, mind.Codemasters, Android, iPhone &amp; iPod Touch: £1.49, iPad: £2.49Pullblox, Nintendo 3DSDrag blocks to make a path to the top of each puzzle to rescue a squalling baby. What starts as simplicity itself soon brings all sorts of complications and diversions in a brilliantly conceived, highly polished and very reasonably priced game.Nintendo, £5.40 (eShop)The aMAZEing Labyrinth HD, iPadGreat board game for iPad: insert new sections into a grid-like maze to block opponents and clear your path to the treasure. Play solo, versus other players, or in puzzle mode.Ravensburger, £3.99Fusion: Sentient, Windows Phone 7An interesting and relatively complex turn-based strategy game. Clumsy mobile owners beware, however: one careless brush of the home button and you'll be starting from scratch.Microsoft Studios, £2.29Mighty Switch Force!Nintendo 3DSAs well as standard platform game jumping and shooting, MSF!'s heroine can also shift blocks between background and foreground to climb structures and launch herself into the air in pursuit of errant pin-up girls. Demented goodness.Nintendo, £5.40 (eShop)Breeze, Windows Phone 7Waft your daisy through cheerful levels to collect sunshine orbs and avoid spikes and spinning blades. It's a little bit dull and, as with most Windows Phone games, it doesn't so much drain your battery as devour it like a pack of starving hyenas.Microsoft Studios, freeGesundheit, iOSWhen a game's central mechanics revolve around projectile snot, everything else needs to be very charming indeed. That said, Gesundheit's sweetness masks a rapidly escalating and demanding set of thoughtfully crafted challenges.Konami, iPhone &amp; iPod Touch: £1.49, iPad: £1.99Wordament, Windows Phone 7Play real-time wordsearches by dragging your finger over letters on its 4x4 grid and releasing to select words against a nagging two-minute timer. Upsides: it's free, beautifully simple and horribly addictive. Downside: American dictionary only.You Vs The Internet, freeArea 51 Defense, iOSYet more tower defence, this time of the intricate HD variety, with your tactically positioned structures causing enemies to disintegrate in perfect hi-res explosions. Lots of levels, a steady learning curve and – mercifully – no insistence on paid upgrades.Advanced Marketing Technologies, £1.49Stargazer, Windows Phone 7A modest game of Asteroids-meets-Galaxians with bosses, featuring tilt control that's never quite accurate enough. In spite of this and faltering yet insistently bleepy music it remains compelling; easy-to-beat global leaderboards help a lot.Tigerfish, free
I can't remember how – or even if – I celebrated my 35th birthday. I probably didn't tell anyone, drank a&nbsp;bottle of red, got a bit melancholy and wondered where it had all gone so very wrong.The Golf GTI has a more positive outlook on life. For its 35th, it has been to the gym and come out fitter and looking more muscular. Hello, laydeez. This is a special birthday edition, with a sportier body kit and a few extra horses under the bonnet. To be honest, only a car nerd would probably notice the tweaks, the extra power and the slightly throatier engine note. Edition 35, they're calling it. Edition Midlife Crisis, I'm calling it.Can it really be 35 years ago that the first GTI arrived? WhenJim Callaghanwas PM,Showaddywaddywere top of the pops, and 99% of&nbsp;current premiership footballers hadn't even been born? This sophisticated beast bears scant resemblance tothat original little box of fun, though when you look at&nbsp;all the incarnations lined up, arranged generationally, you can see&nbsp;the line of DNA running through, automotive evolution.This is clearly a much better car than the first, though 35 years ago might have been a better time for a&nbsp;GTI. The roads were emptier, there were fewerGatso cameras, attitudes were different, and speed and power less&nbsp;socially unacceptable.We decide to test it out on a trip to&nbsp;Devon. Which involves sitting in a&nbsp;stationary queue of traffic on the North Circular in London, then in&nbsp;slow-moving queues on the M4 and M5. We could be sitting in any Golf – it really wouldn't make any difference. In&nbsp;fact, the eco diesel model would be much better, because the needle on the fuel guage would be moving left less rapidly. We're paying extra simply for a more pleasing engine note.Eventually, after hours and hours of going almost nowhere, we leave the motorway. And suddenly, on carving West Country A roads, this car makes perfect sense. It sucks them in, like spaghetti, effortlessly. Refined, like a bigger car, but still small enough to feel like a hot hatch. And then, on narrower Devon lanes, steep and high-sided, more noodles than spaghetti, it's a rally car – roaring now, beams of xenon double-piercing the night, mud flying.Apologies to the VW press fleet people for the mess. And apologies to everyone else, too, because this kind of behaviour is almost certainly no longer allowed. Driving mustn't be enjoyable any more (luckily, it very rarely can be).It was a moment of midwinter madness. I was taken back, if not 35&nbsp;years, then to when I was 35. No&nbsp;excuses – well, apart from the obvious one: midlife crisis.Volkswagen Golf GTI Edition 35Price£27,525Top speed153mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.6 secondsCombined fuel economy34.9CO2 emissions189g/kmGreen rating4Cool rating7
A judge ruled on Friday that a 23-year-old student can be extradited to the United States for running a website posting links to pirated TV shows and films, despite significant doubts over whether such sites break any UK laws.The ruling threw Britain's contentious extradition treaty with the US, which critics allege is greatly biased against UK nationals fighting their removal to America, under further scrutiny. It came just hours after a businessman from Kent lost an appeal against the decision that he should be sent for trial in Texas for allegedly plotting to send missile components to Iran.Richard O'Dwyer, a computing student at Sheffield Hallam University, faces a potential 10-year term in a US jail despite never having been to America or using web servers based in the country. When still a teenager O'Dwyer set up a website, TVShack, which posted links to pirated material. It did not directly host any files, which meant, according to the student's lawyers, that it acted as little more than a Google-type search engine and did not breach copyright.The defence team pointed out that the only UK prosecution of a similar site, TV-Links, ended last year with the case being thrown out.But the district judge, Quentin Purdy, ruled that O'Dwyer should nonetheless face trial in the US. "There are said to be direct consequences of criminal activity by Richard O'Dwyer in the USA, albeit by him never leaving the north of England," Purdy said. "Such a state of affairs does not demand a trial here if the competent UK authorities decline to act, and does, in my judgment, permit one in the USA."O'Dwyer said he planned to appeal. His mother, Julia, broke down in tears outside the courtroom, saying the extradition treaty was fundamentally unfair. Describing herself as "disgusted" by the verdict, she said: "Look at how many people we send over there, and how few come here. If they can come for Richard, they can come for anyone."She added: "David Cameron and Nick Clegg came into office saying they would fix this law," she said. "They need to pull their fingers out."While O'Dwyer's defence portrayed him as the vulnerable, introspective young man whose promising career would be derailed by extradition, prosecutors contend he is a skilled businessman who made large sums of money from a website he knew was profiting from pirated material.At its peak, TVShack was among the 1,800 most visited websites in the world, the court heard, bringing O'Dwyer advertising revenue of £15,000 per month. When US customs agents seized the site in 2010 it was replaced immediately with a slightly different domain name – and the addition on the front page of a rap video called Fuck Tha Police. O'Dwyer, who was bailed, said outside court: "I am obviously disappointed with the judge's decision today. I think I have got faith in the high court for making the right decision."He said the website had "helped me no end with my studies" and said when he first set it up he "didn't even think it would get that popular, to be honest".The second case concerns Christopher Tappin, a 64-year-old golf club president from Orpington. He admits arranging the shipment of batteries that can be used in Hawk air defence missiles, but insists he had no idea about their eventual destination.His extradition was ordered last February, even though Tappin's lawyers claim he was the victim of a sting by US agents, who told him they would arrange the necessary export licenses.Tappin, who said he made around £300 from the deal, appealed against the decision. Two high court judges dismissed this on Friday. "Entrapment, as far as I can see, is simply unsustainable on the facts as alleged in the request," their ruling said.The best known case thrown up by the extradition treaty concerns Gary McKinnon, the computer hacker who has spent years fighting his removal to the US.Opponents of the current arrangements, including many MPs, say the fact US prosecutors do not need to present prima facie evidence to gain extradition makes it too easy for British nationals to be sent over, where they often spend long periods in jail before trial.The US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency has faced criticism for perceived overreach in targeting websites, like TVShack, with no direct US link.In July the agency's assistant deputy director told the Guardian that ICE would now actively pursue websites similar to TVShack even if their only connection to the US was a website address ending in .com or .net.Such suffixes are routed through Verisign, an internet infrastructure company based in Virginia, which the agency believes is sufficient to seek a US prosecution.
Google has confessed that a number of people working for it "improperly" accessed the customer database of a rival company in Kenya to boost its own business.The US search giant said it was "mortified" to learn that staff illicitly entered the business directory of a Kenyan listings firm, calledMocality, in an attempt to sell a competing product to the rival's customers.The allegations were first made public ina blogposton Friday by the chief executive of Mocality, Stefan Magdalinski, who accused Google of "telling untruths" and a "human-powered, systematic, months-long, fraudulent ... attempt to undermine our business".Magdalinski claimed to have unearthed the alleged malpractice almost immediately after Google launched a rival initiative in the country, dubbed "Getting Kenyan Businesses Online".Google said it immediately began investigating the accusations, which it described as "very serious". In a statement published late on Friday, the search giant confessed that some of its employees had been acting improperly."We were mortified to learn that a team of people working on a Google project improperly used Mocality's data and misrepresented our relationship with Mocality to encourage customers to create new websites," said Nelson Mattos, vice-president for product and engineering in Europe and emerging markets, in a statement."We've already unreservedly apologised to Mocality. We're still investigating exactly how this happened, and as soon as we have all the facts, we'll be taking the appropriate action with the people involved."It is not yet known whether the people involved are Google employees or contractors working on the company's behalf.Google's new service offered to help Kenyan businesses build a website. In contrast, Mocality only offers to list about 170,000 Kenyan businesses.According to Magdalinski, suspicions were raised after Mocality started receiving calls from businesses on its directory asking how they shoud go about setting up a website – which Mocality has never offered.Mocality then set up what it described as a "sting" operation, changing some of the telephone numbers on its business directory to the contact details of its own call centre."When we listened to the calls, we were beyond astonished," said Magdalinski.Mocality secretly recorded Google employees offering to build a website for the businesses and, in one case, falsely claiming that Mocality would charge to list its business."Since October, Google appears to have been systematically accessing Mocality's database and attempting to sell their competing product to our business owners," Magdalinski wrote in the blogpost. "They have been telling untruths about their relationship with us, and about our business practices, in order to do so."I did not expect to find a human-powered, systematic, months-long, fraudulent (falsely claiming to be collaborating with us, and worse) attempt to undermine our business, being perpetrated from call centres on two continents."
Documents posted online by hackers that claim to reveal that Apple, Nokia and BlackBerry maker RIM gave the Indian government a "back door" to their systems appear to have been faked.Sources within the three companies and with the online security company Symantec have also pointed to inconsistencies and incorrect information in the documents, posted online, that suggests that they did not originate, as was claimed, from India's directorate general of military intelligence.Furthermore, the letterhead on the memo comes from a military intelligence unit not involved in surveillance.The document also shows poor grammar and spelling, which is surprising for a civil service document. It also appears to suggest that Indian military intelligence staff were sent to the People's Republic of China "to undertake … USCC monitoring".A hacking group calling themselves "The Lords of Dharmaraja" said they discovered the letter when they hacked into the Indian embassy network in Paris last November. The Indian government confirmed that the attack took place, but not what materials were gathered.The group also claimed to have discovered human-readable source code for antivirus software from Symantec as part of the same breach. While Symantec confirmed last Saturday that the group had apparently accessed some of its code, it is not clear where they did so."We are still investigating exactly where or how Anonymous accessed the code, but to date we have found no evidence that we shared any information with the Indian government," Symantec said in a statement."If the Indian government was indeed in possession of the code – as Anonymous claims and which has not yet been verified – we have no indication that it came from Symantec or as a result of our software assurance processes."More focus was given to a letter that the group posted online, dated 6 October 2011 and which says that "military intelligence and the CBI" – theIndian central bureau of investigation, equivalent to MI6 in the UK – have independently been conducting surveillance on mobile and internet communications in India since April 2011.In particular it suggests that "decision [sic] was made earlier this year to sign an agreement with mobile manufacturers in exchange for the Indian market presence."The letter refers to the online security company Symantec and the Indian mobile carrier Micromax as "providing government of India with the SUR [surveillance] platform".It says that a separate attachment contains a technical agreement between Micromax and the Indian ministry of defence over mobile surveillance "in consideration of the necessity to provide a general framework allowing the stay of mobile device manufacturers: RIM, NOKIA, APPLE etc (RINOA) and the efficient execution of the CYCADA data intercept control."It also says that "CAD have confirmed the feasibility of organizing next SYMANTEC transfer of SRCs for mobile platforms (refer MOD first agreement… dated 4 May 2005 for NORTON AVP)." That implies that Symantec had signed an agreement in 2005 for surveillance-related components for mobile platforms. But Symantec did not have any software that could be used on mobile platforms in 2005.Apple has formally denied giving any such access to the India government. A spokesperson for Apple said: "I am going to decline to comment on the memo/document, but I can deny that backdoor access was provided."RIM told the Guardian that it has stuck to its core principles. "RIM maintains a consistent global standard for lawful access requirements that does not include special deals for specific countries," a spokesman said, adding that it makes no changes to the security architecture for BlackBerry Enterprise Server customers."Contrary to any rumours, the security architecture is the same around the world and RIM truly has no ability to provide its customers' encryption keys. Also driving RIM's position is the fact that strong encryption is a fundamental commercial requirement for any country to attract and maintain international business anyway and similarly strong encryption is currently used pervasively in traditional VPNs on both wired and wireless networks in order to protect corporate and government communications."A statement from Nokia said: ""While we cannot comment on the authenticity of the reports cited, Nokia takes the privacy of customers and their data seriously and we are committed to comply with all applicable data protection and privacy laws."The 6 October letter also includes what are claimed to be a number of extracts from emails sent and received by members of the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission (USCC), a broadly anti-China grouping inside the US legislature.The names mentioned in the extracts each belong to members of the USCC, though as those are public it would be feasible to produce fake versions.Military and cybersecurity experts in India told the Reuters news agency that the hackers may have created the purported military intelligence memo simply to draw attention to their work, or to taint relations between India and the US, which are close allies. Hackers in various countries have been known to fake documents for shock value when "leaked"."There is some malicious intent, but to try and work out who has done it, given the current nature of the internet, is an exercise in futility," said Cherian Samuel, a specialist on cybersecurity and Indo-US relations at India's defence ministry-funded institute for defence studies and analyses.Speculation has focused on India's neighbours, arch-rival Pakistan and China, both of which are active in cyber-operations."It's also possible that Pakistan's hackers have done it, or China's hackers," said Mukesh Saini, an expert on cybersecurity who served on the secretariat of India's national security council, an intelligence agency, until 2006.But if that were the case, he said, the attackers could be acting without state sponsorship."Pro-Indian and pro-Pakistan individuals and small hacker groups have been attacking each other's government and non-government websites, with or without the consent of their government, for a very long time," he said.The purported memo suggests that the Indian mobile carrier Micromax has been complicit in the monitoring. The company has not yet responded to a Guardian request for comment.But the idea that data communications could be monitored would be at odds with the policies pursued by the handset companies, and in particular RIM, which fought a long and public battle with the Indian government over its right to retain encryption on its communications between handsets and its servers, located outside India.The Indian government had argued following the Mumbai attacks in 2008 that the killers had used BlackBerrys to communicate with each other across multiple locations. But the encryption applied by RIM meant the content of their messages could not be tapped and so the Indian government had no forewarning and no way to listen to the ongoing planning during the attacks, in which 174 people died.Two Washington sources close to the US China Commission told Reuters that while they were positive the commission was a target for Chinese intelligence, they found it hard to believe its activities were of any interest to Indian intelligence.They said it was possible that Chinese operatives forged the document to embarrass both the commission and the Indians.Other Washington officials, however, said it was equally possible, if not more plausible, that the alleged emails were genuine and that the Indians were spying on the commission out of their own interest in learning about Washington's attitudes to China.
If you're planning to buy a TV set this year, then whether you realise it or not, it's almost certain to come with the ability to hook up to the internet – to browse sites such as Facebook, YouTube or Wikipedia, and quite possibly download apps such as Angry Birds.The rise of the "smart TV", capable of connecting to internet services such as the BBC's iPlayer catch-up service or the Netflix movie-streaming system, which launched last week in the UK, has been one of the most prominent trends this year at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, the annual gadget and technology shindig.The smartness is more than internet-deep: Samsung, LG and a number of others showed off voice and motion-controlled interfaces – which in the latter case could give you a way to control games, as well as changing channels and surfing the net, rather than wrestling with a remote.Samsung, which sold 57m sets worldwide last year and has been the world's biggest TV maker for the past six years, also reckons the TV will become like a giant computer screen in the corner of your lounge – so we will share photos from our phones on to it and use them to make video calls.Internet-enabled TVs will be coming to a house near you soon, according to Richard Lindsay-Davies, chief executive of the UK's Digital TV Group. He said that between half and three-quarter of the 9.5m TV sets expected to sell this year to the UK's 24.5m TV-owning households will have internet connectivity. "With the Olympics coming up, it could even be more," he added.That means that in as little as five years, a majority of UK sets could have the capability – though, as Lindsay-Davies also pointed out, there's wide variation in how many people actually connect up existing smart sets. "Some manufacturers tell us it's 10% to 15%, others that it's between 45% and 50%."In the US, research firm Parks Associates said the percentage of broadband-enabled homes with smart TVs connected to the net rose from 8% in 2010 to 10% in 2011. Sir Howard Stringer of Sony reckons there are already 100m worldwide.The biggest use is likely to be for watching catch-up services and online films. And despite efforts by Google to get its Google TV service installed on as many companies' sets as possible, many – including Samsung, which leads TV sales in the US – are not using it, or as with Sony, hedging their bets by offering both their own version and Google's in different sets.The wild card in this is Apple, which did not exhibit anything at CES – though 250 of its staff were registered to attend as visitors – but is strongly rumoured to be preparing its own smart TV offering for introduction later this year.But the iPhone company's arrival may amplify a catch in the TV offerings: there are so many different versions of "smart TV", with their own special tweaks and foibles, that if in future you end up replacing one brand with another (due to age, burglary or breakage), any investment in apps, games or photo storage services could be lost.Lindsay-Davies agreed that could be a problem – but said as long as every set has the same baseline set of capabilities, which his group is trying to get agreed by manufacturers, then the problems will be minimal. "It's the same as if you buy a smartphone that runs one set of software, and then you get one with another – basic things like email and the web still work, but some apps won't carry over."While smart TV is expected to drive use of catch-up services such as BBC's iPlayer, ITV's ITV Player and Channel 4's 4oD services, and of services such as the newly launched Netflix, the effect on Sky will probably be minimal: it has enough exclusive content in movies and sports to hold on to subscribers, said Lindsay-Davies.
With The Elder Scrolls: Skyrim proving one of our collective games highlights of 2011, and the likes of Witcher 2 and The Old Republic snapping at its heels, a rejuvenated RPG market is suddenly brimming with quality.Yet debut developer 38 Studios has bold plans with Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning – not least by breaking a few of the genres oldest rules.Founded by former professional baseball pitcher Curt Schilling, 38 Studios established instant kudos in 2009 when it took over Rise of Nations developer Big Huge Games from THQ.It meant that this first game from the Rhode Island-based studio became a collaborative effort involving two teams, a combined staff of almost 300 and nearly five years of development.Ahead of the game's February launch, I caught up with two of the game's key creative forces – "creator of worlds" R.A. Salvatore, and art director Todd McFarlane."Curt [Schilling] and his friends had a basic idea of what they wanted" says Salvatore. "I was responsible for fleshing out a broad history of the world, but there were so many people involved on both teams."Even my old D&amp;D group worked for me as research assistants. I was really excited by the potential of coming up with a whole philosophy for how Amalur worked – everything had to make sense. You can't just stick a pile of rocks in a forest and call them ruins, you have to know their history and it has to be consistent with everything else."Though better known in the US, Salvatore's skills at weaving deep, compelling and, above all, plausible sci-fi mythologies underpin Reckoning's epic ambitions. Certainly, the world of Amalur has been carved out in painstaking historical detail.Key to the look and feel of the world was the guiding influence of renowned comic-book illustrator and entrepreneur McFarlane. Though enthusiastic about the concept, he was in no doubt about the scale of creating a new franchise in today's RPG-savvy market."The hardest task of making an RPG is that if you set down 10 people, you'll get 10 different reasons why they like them," he says. "That's very different to a car racing or even an FPS. Some people want to see the map, others to level up, others to quest. It's all important to each one, so we decided not to treat any of those areas with less significance."As a result, Amalur is not just epic in scale (five massive areas – including Forest, Coastal and Desert regions – and more than 150 hand-crafted dungeons) but ambition too. It begins in a conventional way, choosing your character from four playable races – the Human (Almain) Elvish (Dark Dokkalfar and Light Ljosalfar) and the nomadic Varani.Your hero can then be customised for appearance, before embarking into the game's mammoth single-player challenge, which Salvatore estimates will last more than 40 hours, excluding the hundreds of optional side quests. Reckoning helpfully puts main quest conversations first, so you can see at a glance which NPCs are most worth interacting with.Which brings us neatly to combat – by no means the game's most distinctive feature, but probably the one that gamers will debate the most.Reckoning uses a hybrid system of simple hack and slash (controller buttons mapped to main weapons such as swords, bows or magic staffs) and quicktime events (for boss battles and some finishing moves). The result is a combat system that veers more towards the more cinematic style of God of War than the more realistic Witcher 2.This  may not please hardcore fans of either game, but it's a system capable of impressive combos, including the eye-catching "Reckoning Mode" where time slows down and moves can be chained together.McFarlane is pleased with the balance of fluidity and finesse that Reckoning's combat system has achieved."We wanted to make sure the action was big and huge in an RPG context but at the same time avoiding have to hit six buttons," he says. "We kept the sequences simplistic to avoid it being a 'combat game' – yet doing those exact same sequences with a different character will achieve a completely different effect. It's cool as hell, but not frustrating."However, although much of your game time will undoubtedly be spent in combat and questing,  Reckoning's most innovative feature is the concept of Fates &amp; Destinies. Originating from the game's mythology, it's an element that will have a potentially  profound effect on the gameplay, depending on how you approach it.Most RPGs and MMOs treat character progression as something written in stone; indeed, the only way to succeed is to pick an upgrade path and concentrate on maxing out those abilities. Effectively, if you choose to be a warrior, that's what you are from start to finish.Reckoning takes a different approach. You start the game as a blank slate, able to buy three main paths – Might, Finesse and Sorcery, with each path containing around 20 upgradeable Abilities. However, at any leveling-up point you can choose to specialise in other areas, creating hybrid characters that may combine Abilities from all three paths.As you level up you also unlock one of eight Destinies, which help shape define not only your combat style but also your profession. For instance, Rangers are perfect stealthy assassins but if you want to add magic to the mix, you can simply accumulate enough points to switch Destiny to Archanist.It remains to be seen whether such a dynamic form of character development will either empower or baffle the player, but Salvatore believes it enforces a kind of open world realism and flexibility so far unseen in RPGs."Your hero is the first person to come through the well of souls and be reborn," he says. "But these powers have consequences that affects every aspect of the game:  what does that mean to the world? What does it mean to religious institutions who rely on the power of an afterlife or to the parents of the last person who died at the well of souls?"This flexibility also extends to other areas of the gameplay. Looting and Crafting, for instance, has been designed to cater for fans of both expediency and depth. You don't need to access the Inventory to select, equip or discard items if you just want their value in credits; but if you want to delve deeper, you can head for a town and start experimenting with the game's three distinct crafting systems - Alchemy, Blacksmithing and Sagecraft.Use Sagecraft, for instance, and you can start socketing weapons with magical gems; if not, you can still gain bonus points (and a cool onscreen appearance) from collecting complete sets of armour items.There are also nine non-combat skills – some which have unexpected affects on the gameplay. Improving Stealth, for instance, not only introduces some fantastic stealth kills, but opens up corrupt career paths like pick-pocketing. Neither are you all alone in your quest. There are six joinable faction, including Nomads, Travelers, Scholars and Warrior Priests.So, given it's a game that thwarts easy summaries, how pleased is Salvatore with the way Reckoning has translated his original vision into a living, breathing, role-playing experience?"I don't want to say it will raise the bar," he says. "But it does bring something a little bit different. With Reckoning, I wanted a world that had beauty and horror – something really frightening that was worth fighting against and then giving you all the tools to do it. I think fans are going to like what we've achieved."And if they do like it, there's clearly a big future already planned for Amular.  Reckoning only features a small part of a persistent world that will be fully revealed in a forthcoming MMO codenamed "Copernicus", which both development teams – including Salvatore and McFarlane – are already hard at work on.Although neither would be drawn on an ETA, having made a fortune from multimedia franchises such as Spawn, McFarlane in particular understands the potential value of an original IP. However, it's also clear that Amalur means more to him than just a string of lucrative sequels."I appreciate all the 2s, 3s and 4s attached to successful RPGs - you don't have to spend as much time reminding people what it is," he says. "But even Hollywood can't survive on just sequels, so is there's room for new ideas? That's a question people have been asking us from day one … now it's up to the consumers."Reckoning sounds like just the kind of start to 2012 RPG fans were hoping for.• Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning will be released for PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 on 10 February
The evolution of books into interactive, digital products is far from over, according to Henry Volans, head of digital publishing at Faber &amp; Faber.Speaking at theIndependent Publishers Guild's Digital Quarterly meeting in London, Volans said there is plenty more scope for innovation in book-apps and ebooks."The phrase which keeps coming up in my mind about ebooks is evolution," he said. "I have absolute certainty that we have not reached anything close to the evolutionary ideal of the ebook… I find it absolutely inconceivable that the book can't evolve and change and grow."In his role at Faber, Volans commissioned the iPad edition of The Waste Land, working with partner company Touch Press on the tablet version of T.S. Eliot's poem.Volans picked out Thames &amp; Hudson'sCyclepediaiPad app as another good example of book-app innovation during his speech at the event. "It seems a good example of an e-book that does justice to an art book," he said."It's visually stunning, it's also practical – the best visual glossary explaining the components of a bike that I've seen, by some distance. But it's a work of passion too, and it's exciting to see things like that coming along. That's not an app, it's an ebook. A digital edition of an art book."Also speaking at the event was Dan Franklin, digital publisher at Random House. He warned the publishing industry not to treat digital as a silo."Digital publishing now is publishing. This should now be in everyone's heads as a completely integral part of what we do. Even though, yes, at the moment it's 10% of the market. But by the end of this year it should be 20%," he said.While Random House has released several apps, Franklin has also commissioned a series of "shorts" – ebooks between 10,000 and 15,000 words in length.This includes an initiative calledStorycuts, which unbundles more than 250 short stories from backlist collections by authors including Julian Barnes, Irvine Welsh, Rose Tremain and Ruth Rendell, and sells them individually on e-book stores from Amazon, Apple and others for low prices."This is following the iTunes models in selling stories in exactly the same model that they sell singles," said Franklin. "I think there's an opportunity to do something with short stories – to look at them as digital pop music, if the novel is a symphony."He also suggested that short stories could help publishers compete with the wave of ultra-cheap fiction being sold at rock-bottom prices on the main ebook stores."Testing the shortform area and pricing appropriately is one of the best ways of countering the notion that something should be 99p if it's 100,000 words long," he said. "It's a crucial thing that we should be worrying about."This concern about cheap, low-quality competition is also felt by book-app publishers. London publisher Nosy Crow releases both physical books and original book-apps aimed at children, and its digital project and marketing manager Tom Bonnick said the need for quality apps was what spurred the company to start making them."If we didn't, and other people didn't make apps like ours – people who cared about reading and literacy and those important developmental skills – other people would make apps who didn't care about those, and they wouldn't be very good."Bonnick admitted that making apps like Nosy Crow'sCinderellaandBizzy Bear on the Farmis an expensive business, and while he did not have any sales figures to share, said the company sees a payoff on its decision not to cut corners."We didn't shy away from the fact that the apps would cost money. You see a return on quality: they're well-made and people respect that. And we can sell them at a good price."The IPG event also saw talks from new startups hoping to shake up the way e-books are distributed and consumed across a range of devices.Bilbarywas founded by Tim Coates, former managing director of Waterstones. The company is touting its cloud-based ebooks service that runs across smartphones, tablets and even games consoles.Publishers can choose to sell and/or rent their ebooks, taking 80% of the income. They can also run their own virtual "shop windows" on the Bilbary site promoting their titles."We've cast it as Bilbary Town Library, and the site is about readers: helping readers to find what they want to read: lots of recommendations where you'll be able to see who's making the recommendations," said Coates.Meanwhile,Majoobi's service helps book publishers create their own HTML5-based web stores for people to browse, buy and read their ebooks. The stores can be bookmarked on the homescreens of smartphones and tablets for easy access.Chief executive Ayman Mackouly pitched the technology as a way for publishers to go direct to consumers, cutting out retail middlemen."If you have 50 books, you will have your own store. You don't have to rely on Apple, you don't have to rely on Amazon," he said, suggesting that the Financial Times' popular HTML5 app, which has more than 1m registered users, should serve as inspiration for book publishers.The IPG event also saw a presentation by Oxfam Publishing's Helen Moreno, outlining the charity's effort to digitise its archive of publications. The company distributes them through its ownPolicy &amp; Practice website, as well as through online documents service Scribd.Oxfam also launchedits first ebookon Amazon and Apple's stores in October 2011 as a free download. "Since the launch it's done about 10,000 units, which is pretty good for us in terms of reaching a whole other audience in a digital format," said Moreno."It is mission-driven publishing, we're much more interested in the messages than in making money. In fact, we're desperate to give it away!"
We haven't done a Friday question for a while, so let's remedy that right now. This year is going to be a big one for games hardware. There's the launch of the PS Vita next month and the arrival of the Nintendo Wii U at some point later on. Plus, everyone is expecting Microsoft to announce its successor to the Xbox 360 at the E3 event in June.It's exciting – and it's an excitement that tends to get lost behind the pervading notion that smart phones are going to kill dedicated gaming machines. I now have a PlayStation Vita for review and it's a beautiful piece of consumer electronics engineering – stylish, highly specced, wonderfully ergonomic – it is all about the fetishistic qualities of good games hardware.But what single console, arcade machine or handheld device wouldyoulike to own from the annals of interactive entertainment history, and why? I don't mean just for the games it runs, I mean for the aesthetic appeal of the object – just the look and feel of the thing; I mean something you could almost display as an object d'art. If you're into that kind of thing.I've provided three of my own choices below. Let's have some of yours in the comments section!The Vectrex, 1982This marvel of early eighties consumer electronics is utterly unique, with its vector-based graphics technology and its series of plastic overlays, which added colour to the otherwise monochrome visuals. I love the arcade-style portrait display, and the formative joypad, with its four-button layout. It looks like it belongs in a seventies sci-fi movie.Star Wars, 1983Yet more Vector graphics! But the beauty of this machine is the intricate cabinet design, with its gorgeous illustrations and the authentic instrument panel design inside. The sound is incredible for the era too, with a lively rendering of the soundtrack and clear digitised speech. Despite a cacophony of competing machines, I could always hear the Star Wars attract mode as soon as I wandered into any of the old coin-op arcades along Blackpool's golden mile... Anyway, check out the video above, I like the way the guy sort of stalks the machine, like he's about to murder it.The blue debug PlayStation, 1994These were littered around the offices of Future publishing when I first joined Edge back in 1995 and they seemed impossibly arcane and glamorous. This is where I would have played the likes of Ridge Racer and Resident Evil for the first time. I also like the chunkier, squarer design of the original PlayStation, before the slim re-model. I liked the array of obscure ports and connection features on the back as well. I'm not sure I like them quite as much as the chap in this YouTube video, though...
United Nations – Score the GoalsThe UN has released a comic book-app featuring 10 of its footballing Goodwill Ambassadors. The aim: to teach 8-14 year-olds about poverty and development issues, as the stars tackle Millennium Development Goals.iPhone / iPadTab ProUltimate Guitar has released a very slick guitar tablature app for Android, offering a database of 100,000 songs for guitarists to play along with. Chords are displayed on-screen as you play, with audio mixing options to mute or solo specific sections.AndroidGarden Plan ProIf you're maintaining a garden or allotment, Garden Plan Pro could be just the thing to help your planning. It's a garden design app for laying out virtual beds and seeing how best to fit your veg and plants into them. It also draws on local weather data to recommend the best times to plant and harvest.iPadAngry BoysChris Lilley's Angry Boys TV show has been turned into an iPhone app starring its key characters. That means making beats with rapper S.Mouse, sneaking Nathan's nuts into iPhone photos, and fake turboing your real-world car. One for fans.iPhoneFreddi Fish and the Stolen ShellAtari's latest iOS game stars cartoon fish Freddi, in an interactive mystery aimed at younger users. Musical features add to the fun.iPhone / iPadCupidtinoThis was inevitable: a dating network for Apple fans. "It is a beautiful and simple way to meet other fanboys and fangirls," notes the App Store listing. The app is free, but a monthly fee of £2.99 gets more features. We're assuming an Android version isn't in the works.iPhone
Angry customers and organised gangs of touts threw eggs at Apple's store in Beijing after disturbances broke out when they were told that the shop would not open as planned for the first sales of the iPhone 4S.Apple later said  it was suspending all retail sales of the new phone in China for the time being although it would still be available to buy online.Scuffles broke out before dawn on Friday between security staff and shoppers, many of whom had waited in line overnight in temperatures below freezing, after an announcer with a megaphone told the crowd that the phones would not go on sale as planned and  they should go home.Police dragged some customers away while others threw eggs at the windows of the store in Beijing's fashionable Sanlitun district.Many of the customers were working for touts who try to buy up popular products en masse and sell them on at a profit."I got in line around 11pm, and beyond the line the plaza was chock full with people," said Huang Xiantong, 26, outside the store. "Around 5am the crowds in the plaza broke through and the line disappeared entirely. Everyone was fighting, several people were hurt," said Huang, who wanted to buy a new iPhone for his girlfriend. "The police just started hitting people. They were just brawling."Apple's other store in Beijing sold out of its stock of 2,000 iPhones by 9am, one shopper at the store was told.China is Apple's fastest growing market, accounting for one-sixth of the company's global sales. However, despite being manufactured in China, the latest version of the iPhone was only launched there on Friday."The demand for the iPhone 4S has been incredible and our stores in China have already sold out," Apple said in a statement. "Unfortunately we were unable to open our store at Sanlitun due to the large crowd and to ensure the safety of our customers and employees the iPhone will not be available in our retail stores in Beijing and Shanghai for the time being," Apple said.Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, said earlier this month that "customer response to our products in China has been off the charts. With the launch in China … the iPhone 4S will be available in over 90 countries, making this our fastest iPhone rollout ever".Last May, the Sanlitun store was closed for several hours after a scuffle between an employee and a customer during the release of the iPhone 4, the previous model in the series.Customers began gathering on Thursday afternoon outside the Sanlitun store. People in the crowd said the number grew to as many as 2,000 overnight but many left before dawn after word spread that the store opening would be cancelled. There were about 350 people left when the protest erupted after 7am."On the one hand there is poor organisation and on the other there were just too many people," said a man outside the store, who would give only his surname, Miao. "I don't think they prepared well enough."Another man who refused to give his name said he was a migrant labourer who was paid 100 yuan (£10) to wait in line overnight.Others in the crowd said touts had organised groups of 20 to 30 migrant workers to buy phones or hold places in the line. Organisers held coloured balloons aloft to identify themselves to their workers. Others said they were waiting to buy the phone for themselves."I just like the 4S," said Zhu Xiaodong, a Beijing resident. He said he was upgrading from the previous iPhone 4 model.
A quick burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFebruary 2010: Google boss says 'nobody was harmed' by Buzz debacle &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukWorth reading in the light of the present fuss in the US over Google's "Search+". Recall the outcome: Google was obliged to submit to privacy checks by the FTC for 25 years as a result of Buzz's privacy failings.iPhone 4S Sales Cancelled at Beijing and Shanghai Apple Stores - John Paczkowski - News - AllThingsDRemarkable: "Would-be customers, many of whom had waited over night in the freezing cold to be among the first to purchase the latest iPhone, became so unruly when the store failed to open its doors on-time that Apple was forced to cancel first-day sales there. And rather than risk a repeat of the incident, the company has decided not to sell the 4S at any of its retail stores in Beijing and Shanghai. Instead, it will sell the device through its Web site and carrier partners."Ways in which people mistype 'Britney Spears' &gt;&gt; GoogleAll the way down to those which have only occurred twice. Just as well she wasn't Brian Ferry's daughter.Google: sorry, Twitter, we don't index the @ symbol &gt;&gt; MashableThis one will run and run: "Now Google has confirmed to Mashable that it has never indexed the "@" symbol. In other words, the search engine has never recognized a Twitter handle when it was formatted that way. "So while a search for "WWE Twitter" still returns the organization's Twitter feed before its Google+ page, "@WWE" returns the same results as "WWE" -- in this case, with Google+ results first. Somehow a search for "+WWE" succeeds in returning a Google+ profile. "But really, Google? The company with a car that drives itself? In more than five years of people searching for Twitter handles, you never got around to adding the @ symbol to your index? "Even without the @ sign being indexed, however, the concern over the results for "@WWE" are valid: about 24,900 people have +1ed or added WWE to their circles on Google+ -- but 792,642 people follow WWE on Twitter."Is too much Plus a minus for Google? &gt;&gt; StevenLevy.comSteven Levy was pretty much embedded with Google to write his book In The Plex, so he has a special view of its changes to search in the US: "there is a risk to proceeding on this path. The company has spent its entire corporate life protecting the integrity of its search product. When writing In the Plex, I learned that the secret behind Google's somewhat bland design was that if Google looked like it was designed by a machine, users would implicitly understand that Google search itself was unpolluted by strong opinions. Google meticulously positioned its flagship product as a neutral judge of what was relevant to the user. "Search, in short, should appear to be like Caesar's wife, above reproach. When using its algorithmic wizardry to deeply integrate social information into its search experience, it behooves Google to avoid even a whiff of bias. With SPYW, though, the odor is unmistakable. No matter how you cut it, the search engine now increases the value of participating in Google+. It may be Google's right to do this. But it also may turn off a lot of users. And it also provides ammo for Google's detractors, including those in Washington."BBC News - 'Booth babes' stir controversy at 2012 CESSome women at this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas have expressed their frustration at the scantily-clad "booth babes" hired by some companies to promote their stalls. The BBC's Matt Danzico investigates whether this practice is an effective marketing strategy, or merely a reflection on gender relations in technology.Sony SmartWatch hands-on (video) -- EngadgetIt's connected to Bluetooth through your phone -- acting as a notifier and music play as well as the capability to answer calls and check-up on social networks like Facebook and Twitter.Hope To See The Next iPad At CES? You Might, Without Knowing It | iLounge BackstageYesterday, one day ahead of the 2012 CES, I saw what's supposedly the next-generation iPad. I'd show you a picture, but there's honestly nothing to be seen.Samsung WiFi Washer and Dryer hands-on (video) -- EngadgetThe WF457 washer and dryer set houses an 8-inch touchscreen, is WiFi-enabled and can be controlled from inside or outside of the home via a mobile app. With your smartphone or tablet, you can choose the cycle, duration and set-up notifications on your mobile device once the job is done.Clover Trail Tablet Reference Design with 32nm Chipset [Video] | Netbooknews - Netbooks, Netbook Reviews, Smartbooks and moreIntel is showing off a reference design of their upcoming Clover Trail platform in a 10 inch tablet form factor.  Clover Trail should be released in the second half of 2012 and they appear to be on track to launch right along side Windows 8.Behringer's iNuke Boom is the essence of Vegas | The VergeThe front of the booth is not an enticement to gadgets within, it is the gadget.Microsoft Bets Big on Kinect for Windows, But Splits Its Community | Epicenter | Wired.comBallmer never thought he'd be in this position -- not only porting a gaming peripheral to his beloved Windows machines, or even opening it up for commercial development by other software companies, but owning it, taking control of it, and positioning it as a key component in the future of the company. Considering that a little over a year ago, Microsoft was threatening to sue and/or prosecute anyone who wanted to develop for Kinect on a PC, it's a remarkable turnaround.WikiPad:3D Specs, Reviews, &amp; Latest News | Wikipad | The VergeWikiPad has made a splash at CES with its WikiPad:3D -- a glasses-free 3D 8-inch tablet running Android 4.0.3.Is MySpace really dead? It still gets more traffic than Tumblr &amp; Google+ &gt;&gt; hypebotShows Google+ to be about half the size of Twitter in the US in terms of unique visitors, and with people spending one-fifth of the time. When compared to Facebook, it gets one-tenth the visitors and they spend 1% as much time there. But Google+ sits right next to Google's crawler, so obviously it's more relevant for search results than the public networks that people actually use.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Oooh, Friday 13th! Does anyone rememberthe terrible Spectrum game, based on the movie? Be careful out there!
An influential privacy watchdog has asked the US government to investigate Google+, the search giant's social network, claiming it may violate people's privacy and raises anti-trust concerns.In aletter to the Federal Trade Commission,the Electronic Privacy Information Center (Epic) says it is concerned about the changes Google has made to its service since the launch of Google+.Google has been fighting to catch up with Facebook in the social media space in recent years. But Epic is concerned by a new feature, called "Search Plus Your World", that blends information such as comments and photos posted on its Google+ social network into users' search results.The service will also display Google+ business pages and notable Google+ users alongside the search results. The service aims to give users search results that are customized to their interests and connections. But Epic is concerned that it may make people's private information searchable without their knowledge and that the changes potentially favour Google's own services over those of rivals."Incorporating results from Google+ into ordinary search results allows Google to promote its own social network by leveraging its dominance in the search engine market," Epic writes in the letter.The move has already been criticised by rivals, including Twitter, and by independent analysts.In a statement released to the Guardian, a Google spokesperson wrote:Our goal with search has always been to provide the most relevant results possible. That's why for years we've been working on social search features to help you find the most relevant information from your social connections no matter what site it's on. Search plus Your World doesn't change who has access to content, it simply helps people rediscover information they already have access to. We've taken special care with our new features to provide robust security protections, transparency and control for our users.But Benjamin Edelman, professor at Harvard Business School, found more than a dozen Google services receiving favored placement in Google search results. "Some have developed into solid products with loyal users. Others are far weaker. But each enjoys a level of favored placement in Google search results that other services can only dream of," he wrotein a blog post."Google's tying tactics should not be permitted. Google's dominant position in search requires that the company hold itself to a higher level of conduct, including avoiding tying its other products to its dominant search service. Google has repeatedly crossed the line, and antitrust enforcement action is required to put a stop to these practices," wrote Edelman."The starting point for this is just an acknowledgement of what a valuable service Google search is. It is the dominant search engine in the world," said Marc Rotenberg, Epic's executive director. "Significant changes are likely to be looked at closely."Rotenberg said he expects that regulators in Europe and Asia are also likely to take a close look at the changes. The European Commission is currently investigating Google for potential antitrust violations.Last year Epic successfully appealed to the Federal Trade Commission over Google Buzz, the search giants last ill-fated venture into social media. The launch of Buzz was marred by controversy after users private details were published online.Last March Google settled the investigation and pledged, among other things, to have independent privacy audits every two years for the next 20 years."The interesting thing is we thought we had that settlement here. We did push to have a comprehensive privacy programme for Google after the fiasco that was Buzz," said Rotenberg. "Google agreed and tried to say that this wouldn;'t happen again. We are asking the question at this point, has this happened again?"
Think you could invent a gadget that would be able to diagnose diseases as easily, quickly and accurately as the tricorder in Star Trek? Then you could be in line for a $10m prize on offer from an American foundation.When Dr McCoy or Mr Spock waved their tricorder over ill humans in the original Star Trek series, they'd get an instant readout telling them just what was wrong – which they could relay via their clamshell "communicators".But 45 years after the TV show first aired, while we do have "communicators" – in the form of mobile phones – we are still a long way from having tricorders that can diagnose what's wrong with us.Now the X-Prize Foundation has launched a prize at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, which will be awarded to the best system for diagnosing 15 common conditions – from a sore throat to sleep apnoea to colon cancer – in the most consumer-friendly form."We're trying to put health care in the palm of your hand," said Jessica Ching, spokesperson for the life sciences division of the X-Prize Foundation. "If you walk around the whole of this show, you won't see a single medical application that's designed for the consumer. It's either for the medical profession to use, or it's some health and fitness thing."But the rise of smartphones and the increase in the processing power of cheap processors means there is a growing potential for self-administered diagnosis. The X-Prize Foundation is not specifying how the diagnosis – which will have to be done on 15 different conditions across 30 people in three days – should be carried out. "But if you imagine there's one contender which diagnoses colon cancer through a self-administered blood test, and one which does it without any needles, it's pretty obvious which is the more consumer-friendly," said Ching."Health care today certainly falls far short of the vision portrayed in Star Trek," said Paul Jacobs, chief executive of Qualcomm, which is co-funding the work.One obstacle to self-diagnosis is that medical devices in the US need approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which can take years. But the FDA is partnering with the X Prize, so that in effect the winning device – or devices – will get fast-track testing and certification.A selection of teams will be chosen in two years' time from the competitors, and the final winner announced in just over three years. At that point you might finally be able to set your phasers to heal.
Superfast mobile broadband will be rolled out from Britain's cities to the most remote villages, with at least 98% of the population receiving a signal indoors, thanks to the biggest auction of the UK's airwaves, but the sell-off could lead to higher prices for customers by reducing the number of national networks from four to three.Bidding is scheduled to start by the end of the year, according to plans for the auction of 4G spectrum published by telecoms watchdog Ofcom. About 5% of the population has no mobile- phone coverage but one of the licences to be auctioned will come with an obligation to ensure 4G broadband reaches almost all homes by 2017. Ofcom had proposed 95% coverage but this has increased to 98%."This announcement will help rural communities become better connected and provide a major boost for the rural economy," said Skipton and Ripon MP Julian Smith, who has lobbied for better coverage. A pot of £150m previously earmarked by the government for mobile black spots could be tapped by the network, which undertakes to ensure near universal coverage, Ofcom said.More spectrum is urgently needed to cope with the explosion in smartphone ownership, which has resulted in more than half of subscribers being able to access the web from their mobiles. UK networks are creaking at the seams, with Three saying it could start to run out of capacity this summer. The 4G technology would make mobile internet at least as fast as standard Wi-Fi connections are today.The sell-off could raise as much as £3bn for the Treasury and millions more in annual licence fees but it has been repeatedly delayed by intervention from the government and Europe, and threats of legal action from mobile phone networks. Ministers have warned they will take control of the sale if operators fail to sign up to Ofcom's latest proposals.But the new terms have already attracted criticism from the UK's largest network, Everything Everywhere (EE), which has described them as "disappointing" and a "missed opportunity". There were also warnings of higher prices for consumers because the terms of the auction could topple the UK's smallest network operator, Three, leaving subscribers at the mercy of a troika of multinational mobile giants.Ofcom has scrapped a previous guarantee that Three and EE would emerge from the bidding with a chunk of the valuable 800MHz band. Accounting for just 10% of UK subscribers, Three has always argued it must secure 800MHz band to compete with its much larger rivals.This band is better at penetrating walls to provide an indoor signal and travels longer distances, requiring fewer masts and costing less to build a network around. It is used to broadcast the five analogue television channels, but will be freed up at the end of this year when all the nation's TV sets are finally switched to digital."We think the consultation will marginalise Three and leave most of the best spectrum in the hands of the three largest operators," said financial analyst Robin Bienenstock at Bernstein Research. "UK consumers pay low prices, but the quality of networks is relatively poor versus their continental peers. Three has very little infrastructure and is a subscale player, so I cannot see the point of keeping it alive."Unlike Vodafone and O2, which both have licences in the 900MHz band, neither Three nor EE have any under 1,000MHz."Everything Everywhere is very disappointed that Ofcom has again reversed its proposal to ensure all mobile operators hold a minimum amount of sub 1GHz spectrum," a spokesman said. "Ofcom is missing a huge opportunity for the UK to address the imbalance, which has damaged consumer interests for 20 years."Ofcom insists it still wants four mobile network operators to compete in the UK, and that at a later date it could reintroduce protection for Three, or another new entrant, but not for EE."Consumers would be likely to benefit from better services at lower prices if there were at least four national wholesalers of mobile services, as at present," the new Ofcom proposal states. "We therefore think it is appropriate, and so propose to, in effect, reserve some of the available spectrum for a fourth national wholesaler."Whether Ofcom decides to reserve spectrum for Three will depend on who buys a large chunk of the spectrum EE has been ordered to sell as a condition of its merger. A quarter of its 1,800MHz spectrum must be sold, and Royal Bank of Scotland has been appointed to organise the process in advance of the Ofcom auction.Three's chief executive, David Dyson, described Ofcom's proposals as "pragmatic". However, there are concerns that if a surprise new entrant were to buy EE's spectrum, Three could still face bidding against much larger networks without the guarantee of any 800MHz.A Vodafone spokesman welcomed the new terms, saying they "bring the UK closer to a fair and open auction that will benefit the wider economy".Demand for mobile broadband in western Europe is forecast to increase by 500% over the next five years, according to Analysis Mason, thanks to the explosion in smartphone ownership. This year's airwaves auction will be equivalent to three-quarters of the mobile spectrum in use today.Interested parties have been given 10 weeks to comment on Ofcom's revised proposals. The final auction design will be published this summer, with the starting gun fired in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In a laboratory on a leafy campus in the Indian desert city of Jodhpur, Professor Prem Kalra believes he is overseeing a revolution. It takes the form of a computer "tablet" – a basic form of device similar to the Apple iPad – which can be made and sold for under £35.Already 100,000 of the devices, called Aakash, which means "sky" or "ether" in the local Hindi language, are to be manufactured for testing.Within weeks a new version, which will allow hundreds of millions of Indians in remote rural areas to connect to the internet via local mobile phone networks, will be launched."We expect that within five or 10 years everyone will have one – and every year there will be greater capacity. There will be children learning, farmers checking on irrigation or crop prices, pregnant women getting medical assistance, all through the Aakash. It is empowerment on a global scale," Kalra, who heads a team at the Rajasthan Indian Institute of Technology, said.But the new tablet, originally developed by a small tech company called Datawind, is only a small, if crucial, part of a radical change which may, some believe, see Indians become the biggest single internet user population in the world within less than a decade.According to the most recent estimate, 112 million Indians currently have internet access, a distant third behind China with 485 million and the US with 245 million.The level reflects India's low relative levels of education, parlous infrastructure and persistent poverty.But the number is set to reach 230 million within three or four years, according to industry estimates. The government claims there will be 600 million Indians using the internet by 2016."Now we've crossed the 100 million milestone, the 600 million is possible. Perhaps not as fast as the government say but we can get there if the investment is there too," Subho Ray, of the Internet and Mobile Association of India, said. "Whatever happens, the internet will be a major force to reckon with."A key factor in India, where many of those lucky enough to have a job earn no more than £2 per day, is cost. Kalra and his team said the specific goal was building a functioning computer that a daily wage labourer could buy if he saved one day's earnings a month. This gave a £35 ($50) target.Students receive a significant government subsidy. Enough to mean, Kalra points out, that a family with two children could effectively buy one of the tablets and get a second almost free. The government hopes to use the Aakash tablets to overcome chronic shortages in educational resources through distance learning packages. India has a shortage of a million teachers and many schools lack books or basic facilities.Experts say infrastructure – though far behind that in regional rival China – is improving. But the main driver is likely not to be public investment but the private sector, said Prashant Agarwal, a Mumbai-based analyst."The major portion of the expansion is big commercial players like Facebook, Google," said Agarwal.Internet shopping is another major factor in the explosive growth.Though it faces a lack of consumer confidence, slow download speeds and the same infrastructure problems that  any company trying to run distribution networks in India has to cope with – bad roads, insufficient freight capacity on railways, corruption and red tape – the sector is growing rapidly.The online travel market is now thought to be worth £6.6bn.FlipKart, an Indian home delivery site launched four years ago offering books alone, has gone from $10m to $100m (£66m) in a year. It now sells everything from kettles to computer games, allowing nervous customers to pay cash on delivery."There are some specific difficulties here but we don't see the economic downturn affecting us too much. We aim to hit a turnover of a billion dollars by 2015 and may get there a bit earlier," Ravi Vohra, Flipkart's vice president, said.However, many believe the government predictions of growth in internet use are too optimistic."It will grow but at a much slower pace," Agarwal the analyst said.One challenge is literacy. Around a quarter of Indians are unable to read or write and at least another quarter are very limited. Another is maintenance. Previous attempts to distribute cheap laptops to villagers ran into problems as access to servicing was very difficult.A third problem is skills. One state government in south India is handing out tens of thousands of computers to schoolchildren. But there are not enough trained teachers to demonstrate how to use the free equipment.A final issue is power. Many villagers don't have electricity with which to charge any device.There are solutions for all these issues, Kalra believes.His team say they can develop a system of icons to overcome the problem of users being unable to use a keyboard with letters.They are also developing a solar charger for the Aakash tablets because, he says, "one thing we are not short of in India is sun".
A few minutes ago, I pointed my mobile phone at a soda bottle and scanned the product's bar code. A few seconds later, the screen displayed this message: "Item OK! This is not a Sopa-supporting product."The mobile app was an experiment, created by two Canadian college students who want to help derail Sopa, the notoriousStop Online Piracy Act internet censorship billnow making its way through Congress. Since the app was launched last week, more than 17,000 people have downloaded it.Butthe app, called "Boycott Sopa", is more than just a clever idea. It suggests deep implications about the future of commerce and politics – and how our individual choices, based on better and better information, will influence both.The app, available in the Android marketplace, is in an early incarnation. It checks a product against a database to see if it's "either created by or intimately related to Sopa-supporting companies", and lets you know either way.Christopher Thompson and Chris Duranti are the creators of Boycott Sopa, which had been used to scan more than 11,000 items when I spoke with them on Wednesday. They are third-year computer-science students at the University of British Columbia. They've gotten a lot of attention for this app, and they should.They aren't onto something absolutely new, of course. About a decade ago,Marc Smith, then a Microsoft researcher, did an early version of this idea when he and colleagues equipped a handheld computer with a wireless internet connection and a bar-code scanner, and then scanned products in stores,connecting the brand and product to databases (pdf). As I wrote in my 2004 book,We the Media, this meant that information about the product and its maker would exist in a broader information ecosystem:"Was a shirt made by slave labor? Did the can of processed food come from a company with a record of poisoning streams in its factories' backyards? Did the company have a reputation for being good to employees and the environment?"Since Smith did his tests, the information ecosystem has evolved in powerful ways. With smarter phones and networks, coupled with easy ways to connect data, the possibilities are nearly limitless now. Duranti and Thompson are following a number of people who've experimented with this notion in recent years. Their anti-Sopa idea has struck a chord and could well be the catalyst that sparks not just further development of their own app but lots of direct competition.I'd been contemplating something similar, actually. Charles and David Koch, the billionaire brothers who control privately-held Koch Industries, support a number of causes that would revert the American political system into an undemocratic and unrepublican (small "d" and "r") version of the Gilded Age's worst excesses. Koch Industries sells all kinds of consumer products, so I'd prefer not to buy any, thereby giving them slightly fewer dollars with which to poison society. So I was planning an app that would create a "Koch test" similar to the Sopa app that's actually available."Actually available" is what matters, of course. Ideas are easy. Getting things done is the hard part. Thompson and Duranti have done what a lot of us have only talked about – including a message thread on Reddit where they saw the idea and only built the app when no one else did – and I'm glad to see it.The fact that they could just do it highlights what's now possible with digital media: a good idea can become a working service in a hurry, and for little or no money. It took the two students about 20 hours, they told me, from when they decided to do the project to when they launched their initial app. And if it gets big, they'll be able to grow their user base fast with a relatively minimal investment in web-based services.Thompson and Duranti say they've been asked to make their app more open to suggestions – that is, to create a more generic platform on which the rest of us could add our own causes and preferences. They're working on a new version, about which they didn't say too much, that apparently will go in that direction. That's good to hear, too.I'm not certain if they have commercial possibilities (I made a donation ontheir website). But as I told them, they'll probably have investors making unsolicited calls once they develop the project a bit more. That said, I'd personally be happiest to see this as an an open-source, community-driven platform, and if such a thing is not already under way, I'm positive it will be soon. The idea is sufficiently compelling that competition is a given, and this strikes me as an ideally initiative for widely cooperative development and extension – especially among people who don't agree with each other politically.That's because the ultimate goal should be to turn shopping into an exercise that lets customers make choices based on their beliefs. Some people may think child labor under harsh conditions is a valuable form of economic development; others, including me, will avoid goods made that way if we can. I don't want to buy products made by tech companies that sell surveillance systems to dictators. And so on. The point is that customers – singly and in communities of their own choosing – should make our own decisions about what kinds of practices we consider ethical. Boycott Sopa would be an excellent tool also for someone who favors internet censorship on behalf of copyright holders.In my own contemplation of how this shoppers' aid would work, a thumbs-up or -down mobile app is just the beginning. Some feature thoughts:• Make the platform as extensible and flexible as possible. That is, as suggested above, give users a way to make use of their own data sets and preferences, and then to combine them for nuanced views of individual companies under a broad array of practices and policies. I might want to boycott company X for its support of Sopa, but maybe it's doing enough honorable work in other arenas to give me second thoughts. (Probably not in this case; Sopa is such a dangerous bill that I'll avoid its supporters wherever possible.)• Create a companion plug-in for web browsers, to make this service work in the physical and virtual worlds. The mobile scanner is for stores, but I'd like the same capabilities when I'm shopping online.• Whatever my buying choice, have the app or browser send a message to the company saying, "I didn't buy your product because you are supporting internet censorship" or "I chose your product because you oppose internet censorship."• Work extremely hard to have "clean data" – information that is accurate, so that people are making their decisions based on reality and not mistakes. I'd guess that an open-source approach would be useful here, because large communities may be inherently better-equipped to flag and fix these kinds of mistakes.• Give companies a way to join a larger conversation. In particular, if a company changes a position based on customers' ethically driven decisions, it should have a way to let people know that the position changed.This is just the beginning. Computer-based visual recognition of objects and people is moving swiftly into reality. The augmented reality folks, who give us visual overlays over everyday places, are all over this idea. We won't need bar codes much longer to identify much of anything, a prospect that is at once enthralling and terrifying (the latter from a privacy standpoint). Politicians have necessarily public faces. Maybe Duranti and Thompson, or some other smart folks, could add a popup to web videos showing politicians, telling me whether they support Sopa – and then, at my request, a) sending a campaign contribution to an opponent who opposes the legislation; and b) telling both of them what I just did, and why.
I'm considering an ADSL home broadband service for the first time. The required router could be a single band as supplied by Plusnet for £40 or a unit of my choice. Would a dual band make sense at twice the price, and would it be compatible with my laptop, an Acer TimelineX 5820T?ThomasA dual band router is one that works at both 2.4GHz and 5GHz. Originally, the IEEE 802.11a wireless standard operated at 5GHz while 802.11b operated at 2.4GHz. When 802.11 equipment was tested for interoperability and branded with the Wi-Fi logo, sales of 802.11b devices took off because they were cheap, had more range than 802.11a, and the 2.4GHz waveband was usually unlicensed.In fact, Wi-Fi had to share 2.4GHz with Bluetooth, microwave ovens, remote controlled toys and many other products. In 2002, Toshiba brought out the Satellite Pro 6100 laptop that supported both 11a and 11b, so you could use either, but almost nobody cared. The emerging standard was 802.11g and that only worked at 2.4GHz.But life moves on. Today's 802.11n-2009 standard supports both bands, and the latest chips can operate at both 2.4GHz and 5GHz at the same time. (It's a multi-antenna/multi-channel standard.) This makes dual band operation more attractive because you can run your PC on the 5GHz network, where there is more bandwidth and less interference, while operating a 2.4GHz network for older a/b/g devices, including printers and digital picture frames. Further, if you can run "wide" (ie, at 40MHz instead of 20MHz) in n-only mode, that should double the throughput.If you want to try this, it's best to buy a hub that combines an ADSL modem with an 11n router, not just a Wi-Fi router. That is to say, buy a dual band wireless-N Draft 2.0 ADSL 2+ router that can operate two networks concurrently.The spec sheet for the Acer TimelineX 5820T says it has an Intel 5100 Wi-Fi card, but run Computer Management or a system info utility to check this. According to Intel'sproduct brief, this is dual band, quad mode, and 802.11a/b/g/ and Draft-N 2.0 compliant. As far as I can see, without having tried it, it should work, but check with the ADSL router supplier and be explicit about what you want it to do.Whether it's worth it is another matter. Although the theoretical maximum speed of 802.11n is 300Mbps, a quick web search suggests that real-life results are more like 60-90Mbps at 2.4GHz and 80-140Mbps at 5GHz.Even with a fibre connection to the street cabinet (FTTC), you're unlikely to get an internet connection at more than 40Mbps, and real-life file download speeds will usually be much lower than that: often from 2Mbps to 10Mbps. In other words, you probably won't need dual band for internet access. Where it might come in useful is for backing up files to a wireless server, or streaming high definition video.It might also be worth trying 5GHz if your 2.4GHz network suffers from interference from, say, a microwave, or there are lots of nearby Wi-Fi networks competing for the limited number of channels. You can check your neighbours' networks with freeinSSIDersoftware, as suggested herepreviouslyby reader muhasib.Otherwise, anyone who has found dual band networking really useful (or not) with a typical Windows PC like an Acer Timeline is very welcome to share their experience in the comments below.Registry cleaner wantedCan you recommend a free piece of software that will clean up my registry, as my PC keeps freezing.MarkI don't recommend any registry cleaners, but you could tryCCleaner, which includes this function. It's unlikely that a registry entry is causing your PC to freeze.You could try using Windows' Event Viewer or downloadProcess Explorer v15.11to see if a particular program is creating problems, or run through a previous answer,10 steps to speed up a slow Windows PC, to see if that helps. Alternatively,Fixingmycomputer.com/has flowcharts and links to take you through a comprehensive diagnostic procedure, including both hardware and software tests.Rogue anti-virus softwareMy laptop running 64-bit Windows 7 has picked up some malware called Win 7 Home Security 2012. It is blocking me from opening any browsers and almost all other applications.EtienneRogue anti-virus softwareis very common, and often uses deceptive methods (known as "social engineering") to lure users into allowing it to be installed. Some programs copy standard Windows screens.TheBleeping Computerwebsite has full instructions for removing this and many other bits of malware. In this case, you may need to download a very small program,FixNCR.reg, to a clean computer first, then run it from a USB memory stick.Zip drive neededLikeMargaret Brewster, I also have some files I need to copy some files from a Zip drive. I was wondering if you could also post a message for me, asking if someone can let me have use of their drive. Thank you kindly.Steve SidhuThere are still lots of Iomega Zip drives available on eBay, and the internal ones are cheap – sometimes less than the cost of postage. If you can find someone who lives nearby, it would make sense to meet up and use their drive. If someone lives a long way away, you could post them a disk. However, it might still be cheaper to buy a drive on eBay then resell it afterwards. Either way, I'll forward any emails sent toAsk.Jack@guardian.co.uk
There have been a lot of imaginative book-apps released in the last three years, withThe Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmorebeing one of the most creative.Released in May 2011, it was based on an existing short film by Louisiana firmMoonbot Studios, claiming to take inspiration from Hurricane Katrina, Buster Keaton and The Wizard of Oz among other influences. It marked Moonbot out as a developer to watch, as did the company'sinteractive music video appfor US band Polyphonic Spree later that year.Now the company has released its third app,Numberlys. It returns the focus to storytelling – the origins of the alphabet – with an equally diverse palette of influences: King Kong, Metropolis, Flash Gordon, the Marx Brothers and the 1939 New York World's Fair.Moonbot was founded by two people with a background in animation and filmmaking – Brandon Oldenburg and Lampton Enochs – together with author and illustrator William Joyce."We were halfway through production on a short film when the iPad was announced, and we were fascinated," says Oldenburg. "It was a way to deliver these mediums in one place in such an approachable way, we knew we had to be part of it out of the gate. This feels like the invention of radio, television or the movie cinema. A new thing with the grand potential that those had."Thus was born the Morris Lessmore app, which became a critical and commercial hit on the App Store. Oldenburg and Enochs remain awestruck by the way it spread globally, which is unsurprising given their previous experience in industries where worldwide distribution involved considerably more friction and middlemen."For a long time, it has only been the privileged few who had access to the distribution means or the right gear, but now it's all around us and in the palms of our hands," says Oldenburg."It really comes down to the creative now. We all grew up among really talented people in small towns, who all had something they should definitely share with the rest of the world, but there was a wall due to technology or publishing and distribution. That's changed now."The success of the Morris Lessmore app put a certain degree of pressure on Moonbot's team – creative rather than commercial – to come up with something even better next time round. Several months later, Numberlys is out.Those influences are interesting, at a time when it can be easy for app developers to get sucked into the mindset of just being influenced by other apps. Enochs says that a visit to see the latest restored version of Fritz Lang's Metropolis film was a key touchpoint."The entire company went to see it, and after watching it we knew there was something about it that was so beautiful, we wanted to tap into that vine," he says."We had a rough sketch of an idea that Bill [Joyce] had done about a group of little creatures that create the alphabet. So we threw a bunch of other themes that we loved into the pot and hoped it would make for a palatable broth."Numberlys is aimed at children, although not exclusively so. What's heartening is that Moonbot didn't try to dumb down its creative influences because of its young audience."It's Fritz Lang for kids!" laughs Oldenburg, before Enochs talks about the company's determination not to patronise its audience. "Bill never condescends to children," he says."It's an adult approach that treats kids with respect. You can look at Numberlys as an alphabet book, but it's so much more than that. We're not going with simple words like 'D is for dog'. We're using larger sophisticated words throughout the experience of this story, which match our sense of whimsy."Numberlys is also one of a number of book-apps – others include ustwo'sPapercut, Faber'sThe Waste Land, 955 Dreams'Woodstock and jazz timeline appsand the entire catalogue ofTouch Press– that are going beyond the idea of virtual pages that have to be turned."It feels a little more like a film with interactivity," says Enochs, describing Numberlys' navigation system. "We've thrown page-turning completely out of the window. You navigate between chapters with a series of gears."Oldenburg talks about the way every new medium initially copies what went before it, most notably early TV broadcasts with a person reading out a radio-style news bulletin, or films with one fixed camera shooting actors on a stage."Then they realised that they could edit, cut, do close ups and move the camera," he says. "We're at that moment right now with app creation. We don't have to approach this like a book at all."With Numberlys out, what next? Moonbot is fielding plenty of offers of work-for-hire app projects, but the company is keen to continue creating new stories with its own characters too. Oldenburg also stresses that Moonbot is not just about one medium: apps."Story comes first. We're storytellers, and while the app thing is going great at the moment, in a few years it may be something else," he says. "Our focus on storytelling will never go away."
A selection of 12 apps for you today:NumberlysMoonbot Studios was responsible for the beautiful book-app The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore. Now it's released a follow-up, Numberlys, that claims to be influenced by King Kong, Metropolis, Flash Gordon and the Marx Brothers. Storytelling, games and education rolled into one intriguing blend.iPhone / iPadShazam PlayerShazam's main app is used to identify music that's playing, and TV too in the US. Now the company has spun off a separate music player app for iPhone, which pulls in lyrics, videos and reviews for every song that's played. Social features are included, and it'll fire up the main Shazam app for identification needs.iPhoneCloudMagicWeb service CloudMagic helps people search across Gmail, Twitter, Google Docs, Calendar and Contacts. It's now gone mobile with an iOS and Android app, promising "blazing fast search".Android / iPhoneUrban CrimeWhat if Grand Theft Auto went freemium? That's the idea behind Gameloft's Urban Crime, with its focus on gang warfare, free-roaming action and a free-to-play model. The spending appears to happen on cars in-app.iPhone / iPadBurns NightAn app to get you in the mood for Burns Night? Perfect timing. This app is the work of independent books publisher Saraband, and includes poems and songs from the Scottish bard, performances from musicians and actors, and information on how best to spend the evening. Haggis recipes included.Android / iPhoneChalk'n'TalkGamevil's Pictionary-esque drawing game Chalk'n'Talk comes to Android, getting people to play sketch-based mobile charades against other players around the world.AndroidBug VillageGlu Mobile's fun freemium game makes the leap from iOS and Android to Windows Phone, reflecting a trend that may gather steam in 2012. The game involves building, yes, a village populated by bugs, with sales of in-game currency providing Glu's revenues.Windows PhoneAFP Photo Book : Eye on a New CenturyAgence France-Presse has released an iPad app gathering captioned photos representing each year of the last decade. The shots were all taken by the agency's journalists, with the app being the first of a series of single-theme apps due to be released this year.iPadApplorerThe latest startup looking to help Android owners discover new games is Stream Media Private, which has launched an app called Applorer. Launched in beta, it focuses on free Android games, providing daily recommendations.AndroidSplashtop Remote Desktop HDSplashtop's remote desktop software comes to RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook, providing on-the-go access to the owner's PC or Mac, including the ability to stream video and audio to the tablet from the computer.BlackBerry PlayBookPaper Glider vs. GnomesUK studio Neon Play's popular Paper Glider franchise gets a new game with more, ahem, gnomeage. It involves flicking paper planes at nefarious gnomes, coming across like a blend of Angry Birds and Worms. With pointy hats.iPhone / iPadWoody WoodpeckerForget Angry Birds, though: how about Cheerful Birds With Incredibly Annoying Laughs? Okay, the title needs work. How about Woody Woodpecker then: Chillingo's iOS revival of the famous cartoon character in a side-scrolling racing game.iPhone / Android
The biggest auction of space on the British airwaves is to be held at the end of 2012, when telecoms companies will bid to acquire the spectrum they need to enable an explosion in the use of bandwidth-hungry smartphones and tablets.At least 98% of the UK population would have access to mobile broadband, up from at earlier proposal of 95%, according to the rules and timetable for the long delayed auction of 4G spectrumpublished by telecoms regulator Ofcom on Thursday.The sale of airwaves, which could fetch a one-off windfall of £3bn for the Treasury and millions more in annual licence fees, have been delayed by intervention from government and threats of legal action from rival mobile phone networks.The updated rules remove previous guarantees that two of four UK mobile phone networks – Three and Everything Everywhere – would be reserved a certain amount of valuable spectrum in the 800MHz band, which is currently being used to broadcast television channels. This will be freed when the analogue signal is switched off and all TV sets become digital by the end of 2012.Three is the smallest network by customer numbers, with just under 10% of subscribers, while Everything Everywhere is the largest, having been formed by the merger of Orange and T-Mobile.Both had argued they should have space reserved in the 800MHz spectrum because, unlike Vodafone and O2, none of their current spectrum is in a band below 1000MHz.The lower spectrum bands can send radio waves over longer distances, meaning they require less masts and are cheaper to build networks around.Ofcom has said that it could at a later date introduce protection for Three, or a new entrant, but not Everything Everywhere.Its consultation document states: "UK consumers would be likely to benefit from better services at lower prices in future if there were at least four national wholesalers of mobile services, as at present. We therefore think it is appropriate, and so propose to, in effect, reserve some of the available spectrum for a fourth national wholesaler."Whether Ofcom decides to reserve spectrum for Three or a new entrant will depend on who buys a large chunk of spectrum Everything Everywhere has been ordered to sell as a condition of its merger.Everything Everywhere must sell a quarter of its 1800MHz spectrum, and has appointed Royal Bank of Scotland to organise the sale in advance of the Ofcom auction."If Everything Everywhere, enters into a trade in advance of the auction, those portfolios containing 1800MHz spectrum would fall away. This may however also remove the need for any spectrum reservation, depending on who acquires the spectrum and the view we finally take on the spectrum needed to be a credible national wholesaler."Demand for mobile broadband in Western Europe is forecast to increase by 500% over the next five years, according to Analysis Mason, thanks to the explosion in smartphone ownership. This year's airwaves auction will be equivalent to three quarters of the mobile spectrum in use today.Ofcom has decided to improve coverage for remote rural areas by increasing the coverage obligation – which will be attached to one of the lots of spectrum to be auctioned – from its previous proposal of 95% to 98%. The move was in response to a call from MPs on the Culture, Media and Sport select committee.It has also proposed that the network which takes on this obligation will likely have access to the £150m earmarked last year to ensure better rural super-fast broadband coverage.The obligation would mean ensuring 4G coverage equal to the combined 2G voice coverage currently provided by all national networks, and extending the signal into the UK's "not spot" areas where there is no mobile signal.Ofcom has also responded to calls from operators to revise the way it would increase the 2G licence fees paid by O2, Everything Everywhere and Vodafone.The previous proposal was to pin the fees on the price paid for spectrum in this year's auction. Ofcom has now proposed adding other measures, such as the price paid at auction in other countries for similar spectrum.Interested parties have been given 10 weeks to comment on Ofcom's revised proposals. The auction design will be published this summer.The auction itself will follow a few months later, starting in the fourth quarter of this year.
A quick burst of 4 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Phone 7, Windows 8: How Microsoft can reclaim its throne in 2012 - Slate MagazineFarjad Manjoo:"I'll say it: I'm bullish on Microsoft in 2012. This could be the year that it shakes its malaise and takes its place alongside Apple, Google, and Amazon as a dominant innovator of the mobile age."It's always risky to bet against Microsoft, of course.Why You Can Ignore CES: The Great Tablet Hype of 2011 &gt;&gt; The AtlanticLook, it's not that there's a theme to how we're feeling today... Anyhow, here's a breakdown of tablets promised and (sometimes) shipped. Note that the article frequently mixes up "shipped" and "sold". So in terms of sales, it's even fewer. We'd forgotten about the Lenovo one, though. Like Lenovo, it seems.Fever Dream of a Guilt-Ridden Gadget Reporter &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"I try to remember all the products I've talked about that I won't even bother to cover--and that nobody's going to buy. There were some Bluetooth speakers. Or maybe they were WiFi. But there was definitely a helmet cam. And a waterproof phone. And a tablet and an ultrabook and an OLED TV. There was ennui upon ennui upon ennui set in this amazing temple to technology."Oh, so true. So utterly, utterly true.Sharing a search story &gt;&gt; Matt CuttsMatt Cutts of Google uses his personal blog to defend the usefulness of Google's decision to push Google+ rankings miles above where they would otherwise appear (if based on, say, number of external links). But the commenters, who are polite and reasoned, simply don't seem to agree with him. At all. Even Danny Sullivan, the search engine expert who is usually a great supporter of Google, is unhappy (his comment is in there).You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Microsoft has warned that revenues and profits in its Windows division will be lower than expected, as new figures showed that sales of PCs shrank by about 1% worldwide in the fourth quarter of 2011 and barely grew over the calendar year.Tami Reller, chief financial officer of the Windows unit, said on Tuesday that analysts' expectations that the PC market had shrunk by 1% were likely too optimistic, a view echoed at a meeting the same day with brokers JP Morgan &amp; Chase by Microsoft's general manager of investor relations Bill Koefoed.Analysts warned that the slowdown in PC sales –which hit 92.7m, according to researchers Gartner, and92.2m in rival IDC's calculations– is likely to carry on into 2012 as manufacturers struggle with the results of hard drive shortages, caused by devastating floods in Thailand last autumn.The floodskilled hundreds and seriously disrupted key manufacturing facilities there. World hard drive production fell by roughly a third in the fourth quarter, pushing up prices and constraining some PC maker's production.Chipmaker Intel warned in Decemberthat revenues for the quarter would drop by $1bn (£652m) to about $13.7bn as a result.The choking of hard drive supply could also take the shine off the launch of new high-end laptops called "ultrabooks", part of a new marketing drive by chip giant Intel."The bigger concern for PCs vendor is the weak demand and whether ultrabooks and Windows 8 can create the compelling product to take on tablets and smartphones," Ranjit Atwal, PC analyst for Gartner, told the Guardian.Apple has previously told analysts to expect bumper revenues from the fourth quarter, driven by strong sales of its iPhone and iPad over Christmas. Retail data seems to have supported that.Apple reports its quarterly results on 24 January, while Microsoft reports its on 19 January.The PC sales slowdown, the second quarter in which sales shrank during 2011, shows Microsoft's weakness due to its lack of tablets to compete with Apple's iPad or devices running Google's Android software.IDC reckons that about 23.6m tablets of all sorts – equal to a quarter of PC sales – will have been sold in the fourth quarter, principally in the markets such as North America and Europe where PC sales are shrinking and consumers are deciding not to replace their PC but instead getting a tablet, which costs less.But Microsoft will not have a response there until it releases Windows 8, the newest version of Windows, later this year, which will be available on tablets as well as standard PCs.Atwal said that the slowdown in sales principally came as consumers held off purchases. "Professional sales have been steady if not spectacular," he said.But he is unsure that Windows 8 will give a strong boost to sales because many corporations are still evaluating the existing version – Windows 7, which was released in 2009 – before upgrading. Windows 8 presents a very different interface in its new configuration.Microsoft's revenues and profits are closely tied to sales of PCs because it gets licensing revenues from copies of Windows included on them.Profits in the Windows division have fallen for the past four quarters, and are likely to drop again with the fall in PC sales over the Christmas period, which traditionally sees a strong uplift.The figures will have been made worse for Microsoft because Apple, which uses its own operating system, made strong gains in the PC market, where it has now grown its sales faster than Windows-based machines for 23 quarters in a row.In the US, its shipments grew by 20%, said Gartner, while the market for Windows machines shrank in the US by 8.6%.The effect of the Thailand floods could carry on in 2012."We expect the first quarter of this year to see even more impact from hard drive shortages," Atwal noted. "The impact on PC shipments will mainly in one quarter, but will have a lingering impact through out 2012."PC sales in the US and Europe kept shrinking, while the Asia/Pacific region and Latin America remain the areas of growth – though even those saw rises in 2011 of less than 10%, compared to double-digit growth in 2010.Total sales for the year were 353.52m according to Gartner, while IDC put the figure at 347.0m. That gave growth of less than 1% on 2010 according to both companies.
Thursday! How is your gaming week progressing?
A revamp of the web begins on Thursday to allow companies, organisations and individuals who can come up with $185,000 to buy specific words that will replace .com, .net and the other usual suffixes on their website addresses.The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) will start accepting applications for "top-level domains" such as .Pepsi or .London rather than just the traditional .com and .net .Organisations that can afford it are expected to apply so they can secure their own generic top-level domain (gTLD) but law enforcement agencies are wary that the proliferation of a whole new level of addresses will further complicate policing of the web.Many corporations view the proliferation of top-level domains as a giant problem. Companies already hire lawyers to defend their trademarks online and most were forced to spend money recently to ensure trademarks were not on the sexually oriented .xxx domain when it was introduced.Verisign, which runs the registry for .com addresses, has estimated there will be up to 1,500 applications for gTLDs.Icann has said the new system will offer many ways for website owners to protect their trademarks.Following complaints from the US Federal Trade Commission and others that registries of website owners were sometimes poorly maintained, making it difficult to shut down scams, Icann chief executive Rod Beckstrom pledged that the top executives of all new registrars would undergo criminal background checks.Beckstrom said that in early May ICANN would publish who had applied for what top level domain, and would hear protests.Trademark violators would be shut down quickly, he said.Sixty-one domain registrars have been stripped of their registrations or not renewed since 2003 because of violations such as failing to maintain proper documentation of who ran websites, failure to pay fees, or other problems, says Stacy Burnette, director for contractual compliance at Icann.Beckstrom argued the expansion would create a more international internet by allowing top level domains in Chinese, Hindi and other languages that do not use the Latin alphabet.Theo Hnarakis, the chief executive of Melbourne IT Group, which has 3,500 corporate clients, said about 100 of his clients were registering top level domains, some to prevent cybersquatting and others as a branding opportunity. "We are seeing some companies with a sense that this is a wonderful marketing opportunity," he said. "[The company] Overstock applied for O.CO [following the last round of expansions]. Why? Because ... the shorter the name, the more memorable it is."If customers did not use search engines to find businesses, but memorable URLs instead, companies could save millions on paid-click advertising, Hnarakis said.Warren Adelman, chief executive of Go Daddy, which sells website names, said he had supported the go-slow approach urged by law enforcement on new top-level domains and some members of the US congress. "We strongly recommended that there be a small pilot program and then expand that as sort of a measured way," he said.
Remember Dell? While other companies have leapt into the tablet and smartphone space, the company which once dominated the PC space - only to be overtaken by HP and, latterly, Lenovo – is now thinking about getting into tablets in a big way.Speaking at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Dell's chief commercial officer Steve Felice said the company will launch its first consumer tablet later this year – but declined to say whether it will run Microsoft's Windows 8 or Google's Android operating system.An earlier attempt with the 5in "Streak" mini-tablet, which ran Android and was aimed at enterprises, has been discontinued.Dell, he said, had learned from the hastiness of some of its peers and understands better now how consumers value the "ecosystem" of apps around a tablet as much as the hardware, Felice said.The Houston-based company has slipped steadily in global PC sales rankings, while its revenues and profits have stayed flat. Its consumer division remains the smallest and least profitable (behind its enterprise, public, and "small and medium business" divisions), and it has struggled to make an impact in the rapidly-growing smartphone and tablet markets.Dell purposely kept a low profile while others such as BlackBerry-maker RIM tangled with Apple's iPad in the tablet market, Felice said. "We have been taking our time. The general failure of everyone that's tried to introduce a tablet outside of Apple suggested Dell made a prudent choice", he said. "You will see us enter this market in a bigger way toward the end of the year. So we are not really deemphasising it, we are really being very careful how we enter it."When you are talking about PC, people are more focused on the hardware itself. When you are talking about the tablet or the smartphone, people are interested in the overall environment its operating in. As we have matured in this, we are spending a lot more time in the overall ecosystem."While Felice wouldn't say which of the available operating systems – Windows 8 or Android – Dell would use, Felice did say he liked the feel of Microsoft's touch-enabled operating system, which would be well-timed when it emerges later this year in light of recent high-profile product failures, from HP's now-defunct TouchPad to RIM's poorly-selling PlayBook."There hasn't been a lot of advancement and it's given Microsoft a good window to come into the market with Windows 8. I like the touch Windows 8 feature," said Felice, who previously headed Dell's large enterprise division. "We like Windows 8 but we continue to develop with Android as well. We are still going to be more choice-driven, based on the feedback we get from customers."Dell's maiden foray into consumer tablets comes as the iPad and other well-received gadgets such as Samsung's Galaxy sell in numbers that look significant compared to PC sales. Some industry executives maintain that tablets do not cannibalise to the extent imagined, though.On Monday, Michael Dell said at an event in the southern Indian city of Bangalore that tablets were an "additional device."Others warn that clunky laptops are coming increasingly under threat as tablets grow more powerful and take on a plethora of tasks from web surfing to sophisticated graphics and video manipulation."When we introduce the products, they will be consumer products, but we are going to make sure that they are very compatible with the business marketplace, which we don't think Apple has addressed," Felice said. "There's lot of use in the commercial sector that requires security and more compatibility, and I think we will be able to address that in a better way."
US social TV startupGetGluehas raised $12m in new financing from new and existing investors. The company's apps and website enable its users to check in to TV shows and other entertainment, while chatting to other people and getting recommendations.Rho Ventures led the new investment, which follows a $6m funding round in November 2010. Previous investors Time Warner, RRE Ventures and Union Square Ventures all participated in the new round too.GetGlue has 2m registered users, generated 100m check-ins during 2011, and says that it now has a database of more than 350m check-ins, ratings and reviews."The social TV space is very exciting, with a lot of innovation and new companies," says chief executive Alex Iskold. "We are delighted to have this funding to continue to compete and play a market-defining role as social television goes into the mainstream in 2012 and through 2013."He's right about the competition. BSkyB hastaken a 10% stakein British startup Zeebox, and is planning to integrate its technology into its own suite of mobile apps. Yahoo acquired social TV startup IntoNow in April 2011, while another US startup – Miso – raised $4m of new funding in November.Mobile discovery service Shazam has diversified beyond its core music features into TV in the US, while an increasing number of broadcasters are launching their own apps for channels or individual shows that include second-screen features."We think we are stickier than a lot of other services out there," says Iskold, although he does not give a figure for GetGlue's active users. "We have seen lots of repeat usage, and even nine months to a year after they sign up, a very significant percentage of people are still using the service."GetGlue has also been striking deals with broadcasters to promote their shows through its service, with 75 networks including ABC, Fox, NBC, CNN, Discovery, HBO, MTV and Showtime in the US. In 2011, it also expanded into the UK, working with the BBC and Channel 4."One of the most fantastic things about this social TV market is that the television networks are really facilitating it," says Iskold. "They're super excited and working with companies like GetGlue, although not necessarily exclusively. They're also building their own second-screen experiences, which is a really good idea."GetGlue is helping them by providing its check-in platform to be embedded in their own apps and websites, with more than 30 taking advantage so far. Its most high-profile deal of this nature is with US pay-TV network DirecTV, which uses GetGlue for its big-screen social TV guide, not just for second-screen apps.An interesting debate happening at the moment is what social TV apps are actually for. Is it to filter the conversation around shows on Twitter and Facebook, and help people join in?Is it to use people's check-ins as a base for recommendations of other shows they might like, much as Foursquare is trying to do for locations? Is it to offer rich media and web content while people are watching shows, or to sell DVDs and merchandise? Or all of the above?"I think the successful service will be a blend of these," says Iskold. "You can't be too bare: if you're just one simple thing, there is nothing else to hold the attention of your audience. The challenge is to keep it simple on the surface, but make it engaging enough for people to use every day."Iskold says that the new funding round will be used to beef up GetGlue's rich media content – important given the competition from Shazam and Zeebox on this score – as well as more personalisation features to help its users decide what to watch based on their friends and wider trends.GetGlue isn't just about TV, though. Its users can also check-in to music, books, games, magazines, food and drink and even individual celebrities. The risk is that this may leave GetGlue looking less focused than its pure TV rivals, although if those rivals decide they need to expand into these other entertainment areas in the future, GetGlue will have stolen a march on them."TV is our strongest vertical, which is why we're focusing on it first, but people really enjoy checking in to movies, music, books and games," says Iskold. "It's just that the velocity and consumption of TV is the biggest."He also explains that GetGlue can't treat all these different entertainment forms in the same way: the features and content that may be appealing for someone checking in to a TV show may not be so useful for someone checking in to an album or film.What about those competitors, too: is there room for all these social TV startups to build successful businesses, especially if – as seems to be happening – they start to become more similar to one another over time?"This space is certainly big enough for a bunch of launch plays," says Iskold, who goes on to say that GetGlue believes that making check-ins its starting point is one strength for the company, as is its strong focus on conversations around the entertainment, and its investment in technology to filter that chat.Aren't check-ins on the way out though? You'd be forgiven for thinking so based on the chatter coming out of the location-based startups that first touted the concept."People talk about going beyond the check-in, but that's often because they couldn't get it to work," says Iskold. "300m check-ins on GetGlue tells me that they have always worked for us."He goes on to make a good point, though. Forcing people to check in to something manually may be a strength, not a weakness. Look at the concerns many internet users have about Facebook's espousal of "frictionless" sharing on services using its Open Graph, and the way Spotify had to quickly add a Private Session mode in response to user unrest about automated sharing."We're strongly in the camp of manual sharing," says Iskold. "There are all sorts of problems with automated sharing, from privacy and sheer overload. Not every piece of music that you listen to or TV show that you watch should be shared. If everything is shared, how do you know what's important?"
Well, is anyone on the planet really surprised? Industry trade body UKIE has revealed the top 10 best-selling games in the UK for 2011, and at the top of the heap is Activision's latestCall of Dutybehemoth,Modern Warfare 3.The title grossed £83m in its first week on sale in the UK – and, of course, went on to make more than $1bn worldwide.The complete all-format top 10 for the year is as follows:1. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 32. Fifa 123. Battlefield 34. Zumba Fitness5. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim6. Just Dance 37. Assassin's Creed: Revelations8. LA Noire9. Saints Row: The Third10. Batman: Arkham CityIt was a decent year for EA, then, with its profitableFifaandBattlefieldtitles in second and third place. The surprise entry perhaps isZumba Fitness, the critically mauled keep fit game that camped out at the top of the software charts through much of the summer.Other than that, it's been a good year for big action adventures, withBatman,Saint's RowandAssassin's Creedall doing well. Despite its idiosyncratic format and some mixed reviews Rockstar's fifties detective drama,LA Noire, did well to sneak in at number eight.But really, this is all about the Call of Duty brand, which has now held the No 1 slot for three years running – claiming it withBlack Opsin 2010 andModern Warfare 2in 2009. Can whatever comes next from the series hold on in 2012 – especially withGrand Theft Auto Va possibility?Until then, completists may like a look at the format-specific sales charts for 2011:Nintendo Wii1. Zumba Fitness2. Just Dance 33. Just Dance 24. Mario Kart Wii5. Wii Sports ResortSony PlayStation 31. Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 32. Fifa 123. Battlefield 34. Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception5. Assassins Creed: RevelationsXBox 3601. Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 32. Fifa 123. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim4. Battlefield 35. Gears of War 3Nintendo DS1. Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call2. Pokemon White Version3. Pokemon Black Version4. Art Academy5. Moshi Monsters: Moshling ZooSony PSP1. Fifa 122. Fifa 113. Motorstorm: Arctic Edge4. Gran Turismo5. Assassin's Creed: BloodlinesNintendo 3DS1. Super Mario 3D Land2. Mario Kart 73. The Legend of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time 3D4. Nintendogs + Cats: Golden Retriever5. Rayman 3DPC1. Football Manager 20122. Football Manager 20113. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim4. The Sims 35. Battlefield 3
There is more than one way to listen to Spotify on Apple's iPhone. Having launched itslibspotify mobile APIin August 2011, the streaming music service now provides the core for two interesting new apps:SpotON RadioandSoundrop.fm.SpotON Radio is a Pandora-style personal radio app that prompts people to type in an artist name, then generates a streaming station of similar tracks.That music comes from Spotify, with The Echo Nest's recommendation APIs used for the track selection. Individual songs and whole stations can be saved to Spotify playlists from within SpotON Radio, for later playback in Spotify's apps on various devices.Soundrop.fm is more like Turntable.fm, one of the most hyped digital music services of 2011. It lacks the latter's avatars, but mirrors its concept of virtual rooms, within which people can DJ tracks to one another while chatting.Both apps require users to have a Spotify Premium account, since that's where the music is being streamed from. Both apps are free, too: one of the conditions of the libspotify API when it launched.The release of these apps – as well as an earlier app calledMetafythat matches highly-rated albums on the Metacritic website with Spotify's catalogue – are not the only way developers are building on top of the streaming service. Its apps platform,unveiled in November 2011, is spawning similar efforts within the company's desktop application.Spotify is by no means the only music company opening up its innards for external developers, either. US streaming service Rdio launched its ownmobile playback APIfor Android and iOS in May 2011, for example.The release of SpotON Radio and Soundrop.fm also comes as US radio giant Clear Channel launchesan API for its iHeartRadio service, which includes live streams of traditional radio stations, as well as interactive personal radio features. The iHeartRadio API can be used by web and mobile developers alike.Last.fm, SoundCloud, Songkick, 7digital… The list of digital music companies touting APIs is a long one. The Echo Nest has worked with a number of these companies, but also struck partnerships withrecord label EMIandTwitterwith the aim of spurring more innovative music apps.This trend is epitomised by the Music Hack Day events, which take place around the world. The next one isat the Midem music conferencein Cannes in late January.Developers blend a host of APIs with their own ideas, and while some of the resulting hacks are fun novelties, other efforts – particularly those exploring social aspects – have acted as a springboard for the features being added to commercial music services in 2011 and 2012.For the streaming music companies, APIs represent an attempt to become ubiquitous: the driving force behind dozens or hundreds of music apps, rather than just a single standalone service. While the focus is on apps and websites, expect hardware to enter the mix this year, particularly automotive firms and consumer electronics manufacturers.There may be some thorny questions ahead for Spotify and its rivals, too, similar to those faced by Twitter and its developer community in 2011. When you allow developers to make apps based on your platform, they may well cry foul if you subsequently add some of those features to your core service.So, SpotON Radio has turned Spotify into a personal radio app for iPhone before Spotify has brought its own recently-revamped radio feature to its mobile apps, while Soundrop.fm's social listening rooms could well be a future feature for Spotify itself too, if the idea is popular.The point of turning a service into a platform is to enable external developers to come up with features that the company itself wouldn't have thought of. "More than anything we really look forward to being surprised by developers," said Spotify's chief executive Daniel Ek at the launch of the Spotify Apps platform in November.Capitalising on those surprises while avoiding too many nasty shocks for developers if they are subsequently replicated in the main service is perhaps the most important line-treading challenge for any platform owner.Ek and his colleagues will certainly be aware of previous mis-steps made by other technology companies in this regard. The key is to avoid repeating them, to ensure there are many more interesting apps to follow SpotON Radio and Soundrop.fm.
There are few things a movie studio likes more than celebrating a cinematic anniversary with a ridiculously lavish (and scrumptiously profitable) box set. Hence, Wednesday's announcement that MGM and Fox are to release a gigantic Bond 50 collection, featuring all 22 'official' James Bond movies on Blu-ray discs, as well as more than 130 hours of bonus features.There will, of course, be no celebratory box set for the tie-in games, though. This isn't just because a whole cavalcade of developers and publishers have been involved in tie-ins and conversions since the side-scrolling shooter James Bond 007 first arrived on the Atari 2600 back in 1983 (watchthis– if only for the theme tune rendition at the start); no, it's also because most of the games have been terrible.Yes, yes, we all know that Goldeneye on the N64 was amazing – a huge, towering landmark for the whole concept of first-person shooters on home consoles. We also know that EA did a fair job with some of its attempts at later movies: The World is Not Enough on N64 was okay; Everything or Nothing was ... a game. And Eurocom's recent re-imagining of Goldeneye actually worked rather well.But what of the many Bond movies that haven't yet been plucked for game treatment? What would work in the modern era? Here are five possibilities. Feel free to argue, or make your own suggestions in the comments section. You can even make a case for the Bond movies outside of the Eon Productions series – that's if youreallywant to see a game based around the 1967 version of Casino Royale...ThunderballIt's incredible, really, that one of the most financially successful Bond movies has never made it into interactive form – especially as it has jet packs, an Aston Martin DB5, a glamorous setting (the Bahamas), a glamorous yet tough love interest (Domino) and a villain with an inexplicable eye patch (Largo). The movie would be awesome as an Uncharted-style action adventure with plenty of hand-to-hand combat, fast vehicles and memorable characters; plus, the underwater shoot-out sequence would be interesting in a team deathmatch multiplayer mode.Possible developer:It has to be Naughty Dog.On Her Majesty's Secret ServiceIt's notjustabout that skiing sequence in the Swiss Alps. The sixth Bond movie also has a gang of brainwashed women known as the angels of death, a great baddie sidekick in the unlikely shape of veteran German actress Ilse Steppat and ultimate supervillain Blofeld as portrayed by Telly Savalas! The plot, involving Blofeld's threat to unleash biogical warfare on the planet, is timely too.Possible developer:With its eccentric casting, interesting locations and "angel of death" gang, we could just go all-out and give it to Suda 51 and Grasshopper Manufacture.Live and Let DieOkay this is a slight cheat as a game based on Roger Moore's first Bond movie was actually released on the Commodore 64 in 1988 – although it was just aboat racing simcynically re-branded as a 007 title, so doesn't count. A modern day tie-in could make the most of the thrilling bayou boat chase, the voodoo sacrifice sequence and the cool train fight with Tee Hee at the end. And Paul McCartney's title track would be amazing, naturally.Possible developer:With its spooky black magic overtones, maybe F.E.A.R and Condemned developer, Monolith Productions?MoonrakerNot a great film, we all know that. However, the space station shootout is always going to work in a game, plus there's Jaws, the ultimate boss character. On the way, we get the chase though Venice and the fight in the cable car on Rio de Janeiro's Sugarloaf mountain. And in a game we can cut out all the really awful jokes and the bit at the end where Jaws turns good.Possible developer:Nonsensical plot? Globe-spanning action? Specious space sequence? Over-long climactic battle? Someone call Infinity Ward!Casino RoyaleDaniel Craig's blistering opener didn't get its own video game adaptation, mostly due to its timing between EA giving up the Bond rights and Activision taking them over. A new adaptation could address that, bringing the latest in procedural animation to that whole parkour chase and lots of cool physics to the sinking building finale. In between we'd get Aston Martin chases, airport showdowns and, who knows, maybe Kinect-compatible motion detecting seduction scenes between Bond and Vesper. Oh okay, that probably wouldn't happen in a real game, would it?Possible developer:The movie is gritty, tough and sexy, so maybe Rockstar Studios could do the trick.
In the past couple of years, a bizarre trend has started to creep into "stealth" franchises, which seems aimed at making them as unstealthy as possible.Two years ago, Splinter Cell: Conviction repackaged Sam Fisher as a cross between an Olympic gymnast and Jack Bauer, whose speed at shimmying up drainpipes and along ledges belied his 53 years of age.Now Metal Gear Solid: Revengeance seems set to toss the franchise's stealth aspect into a rubbish skip altogether, in favour of a combat system that puts a premium on slicing and dicing.The latest stealth franchise to adopt this new, more action-oriented direction is IO's Hitman.In the games preceding the developer's 2012 release, Hitman Absolution, the series' protagonist – the bald, bar-coded contract killer, Agent 47 – was a mortal figure.It only took a few bullets and couple of wrong turns to necessitate a mission restart. He may have been proficient in death-dealing, but Agent 47 was a fragile soul.The new Agent 47 of Hitman Absolution is more like a human wrecking ball.In the play-through I witnessed this week, I watched as he took out three goons with a fire-axe, juggled automatic weapons in a gunfight, and then cleared an entire room with two firearms in slow motion.He didn't use cover to conceal his activities from his opponents, but rather as a shield against the wall of bullets they fired at him. The action throughout had all the high-octane impact of the best third-person-shooters – and it was absolutely nothing like the Hitman games of old.So has IO abandoned the open-ended stealth-driven gameplay that made Agent 47 such a (cough) hit with gamers? Not quite.The developers are keen to point out that the run-and-gun style of play shown to journalists in this week's demo is only one way in which players can tackle the missions in Hitman Absolution.It's what they call "Non-Pro Play". Fans of the series shouldn't feel too anxious, however, because Absolution also allows for the classic Hitman experience, in which avoiding antagonists, silently taking downs goons and concealing unconscious (or dead) bodies are all key to successfully completing a mission.Impressively, these two contrasting styles of play sit very comfortably side by side, and are almost certainly guaranteed to increase Absolution's potential audience numbers.If you're a long-time fan of the series, preferring to keep to the shadows and glide unnoticed through missions while dropping the odd foe, this is absolutely possible. If you've never cared much for sneaking about in the dark and favour a more direct approach, that option is open to you as well.Both styles of play are informed by the new Instinct Mechanic, which allows the player to access a couple of new abilities in the game.During stealthy sections, Agent 47 can spend Instinct to see through walls (in a fashion similar to Batman's Detective Vision in Arkham City) and note the positions of any enemies in his environment.He can also see the routes used by patrolling guards (which appear as a trail of fire), and mimic the movements of any enemies whose outfits he's stolen, so as to avoid detection.Instinct can also be used to clear entire rooms with precision gun work, as it powers a mechanic IO have named "Point-Shoot". This functions in a similar way to the "Dead-Eye" mechanic in Red Dead Redemption, giving the player has a brief window in which they can tag both opponents and exploding items in their environment.Once this is done, the action plays out on screen as though it's been shot by Guy Ritchie; the camera whirls about the environment tracking each shot in slow motion, furnishing the player with the gruesome results of their handiwork in the most cinematic way possible.It should be noted at this point that Instinct isn't always available to the player;  it needs to be earned. By performing takedowns, hiding from danger and hiding the bodies of downed opponents, players fill Agent 47's Instinct meter, which appears in the right hand side of the game's HUD.This is presumably to prevent the player from being too overpowered and also to steer them towards using the game's stealth mechanics for at least some of the time.The level in which IO demonstrated Agent 47's rather sexy new abilities, we were told, takes place early on in the game.After despatching his former handler, Diana Burnwood, Agent 47 agrees to fulfil her dying wish, which is that he protect a young woman named Victoria who resides at the Rosewood Orphanage in Chicago.Once he arrives there, it soon becomes apparent that Burnwood wasn't the only person interested in Victoria, as the orphanage is swarming with armed thugs who have massacred most of the nuns who worked there.The environment was suitably atmospheric; most of the rooms looked dank and darkly-lit, with the odd, sweetly coloured playroom contrasting nicely with the action on screen.Aside from the death of Burnwood, IO was tight-lipped about any plot details, although the developers did say their intention with the plot was to reveal more about their stoic killer to player than in previous games.The fact that they were prepared to reveal Burnwood's death as a plot point seems to indicate IO wants players to view Hitman Absolution as something of a break with the past, but at the same time, they haven't forgotten their IP's roots.More than any other stealth franchise that has previously made a bid to capture the shooter crowd, Hitman Absolution feels like a natural evolution of the series.It may boast some shiny new aspects but crucially, it's kept what made the series special to begin with. Agent 47, it seems, isn't about to trade stealth for action entirely, but he's easily more deadly than ever before.• Hitman Absolution will be released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 later this year
Neil Hunt is the interviewee on this edition of Tech Weekly. He's the chief product officer at Netflix, the online streaming service from the US that delivers movies and TV online to more than 20 million subscribers.The company has launched in the UK this week, and Neil discusses itss plans, answers some of your questions and explains how Netflix intends to use recommendation and social viewing to tempt you away from services such as iPlayer and LoveFilm.There's also a quick look at the headlines, including news of what Samsung and Intel have launched at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, details of an upgrade for Virgin Media broadband customers and Google's latest update to search.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Email the producertechweekly@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 7 JanuaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (40)Wii (5)3DS (3)152 (3)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (36)PC (5)113 (2)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (34)PC (9)Wii (5)94 (4)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (80)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (2)135 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (39)PC (8)96 (19)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (81)Xbox 360 (16)PS3 (3)417 (7)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (31)Wii (5)3DS (2)88 (6)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (35)PC (9)89 (12)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (36)810 (5)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (48)PC (1)811 (10)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1212 (–)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)213 (9)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)614 (11)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)815 (14)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)816 (–)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (98)PSP (2)517 (15)Sonic Generations(7+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (35)3DS (22)PC (2)518 (16)Kinect Sports: Season Two(3+)Xbox 360 (100)519 (18)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (31)Wii (25)320 (–)EA Sports Active 2(3+)Wii (68)PS3 (28)Xbox 360 (5)7UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow many clouds is too many? AcerCloud announced in Las Vegas &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson: "One of the features, which failed in the CES demo, is that a PC which is in hibernation can be woken up through wi-fi to deliver your content on demand: "As long as the main PC is in sleep (standby/hibernation) mode, Acer Always Connect technology can wake it up through Wi-Fi® so media can be retrieved via a mobile device. "This whole thing would work better if the cloud, rather than the home PC, were the central repository of data. A PC or notebook sitting at home is unreliable. It has a frail hard drive. It might be a laptop on battery power, and the battery might expire. The home broadband connection might fail - and most home connections are much slower uploading to the internet than downloading from it. "Another question: if you one of the professionals Acer refers to, will you want to put your faith in AcerCloud for showing documents at your business meeting?"The Next Big Thing: Android in the home, and in the fridge &gt;&gt; CNET Blogs"The smartphone will become the portal to other devices and appliances in the home, which will all work together seamlessly and allow access to whatever type of information you want anywhere in the house. It's already happening, with Wi-Fi being used now to control lights in houses. "Google's strategy is to move the focus from mobile devices to a more encompassing utilitarian function that shares information and intelligence much like peer-to-peer devices do. 'You want to be able to walk into your house and have all the appliances adjust, know it's you,' Schmidt said. 'A text message goes to the TV because that's your preference' and it all syncs together." So will we have to choose to live in Android or Apple or Microsoft houses too?Apple CEO Tim Cook didn't really make $378 million in 2011 &gt;&gt; Fortune TechCook's basic salary was an agreeable $900,000 last year. He was awarded $376m in restricted stock units which, according to Fortune, depend on Cook's continued employment at Apple over the next 10 years.Twitter orchestrates music partnerships with Gracenote and The Echo Nest &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk"This partnership means Verified Twitter Accounts can be distributed into a wide range of products and brands - from smart TVs and automotive infotainment systems to cloud music services and smartphones," says Gracenote president Stephen White. Got that? Verified accounts only.Google's Results Get More Personal With "Search Plus Your World" &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandGoogle is going to have a painstaking time explaining this one.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Google has angered Twitter and faces accusations of "warping" its search results and breaking antitrust rules by boosting posts from its Google+ social network in its standard search results.The changes, which are presently only being implemented in the US viagoogle.com, mean that when people search for information, particularly about individuals, while logged in to Google+, results from the social network will be prominently displayed on the first page of results along with other results from the wider web.That is likely to have the effect of making existing Google+ users more likely to use the network, because they will see fewer results from outside it when they search for information; the first page of search results leads to about 90% of clickthroughs on PCs.Twitter's lead lawyer,Alex Macgillivray, called it a "bad day for the internet", and suggested – as a former Google employee – that there would have been dissent internally "at search being warped this way".Bad day for the Internet.bit.ly/Am5bqzHaving been there, I can imagine the dissension @Googleto search being warped this way.&mdash; Alex Macgillivray (@amac)January 10, 2012The company later followed it up with a statement, saying: "For years, people have relied on Google to deliver the most relevant results any time they wanted to find something on the internet."As we've seen time and time again, news breaks first on Twitter, as a result, Twitter accounts and tweets are often the most relevant results. We're concerned that as a result of Google's changes, finding this information will be much harder for everyone. We think that's bad for people, publishers, news organisations and Twitter users."However, Amit Singhai of Google, introducing the changes in a blogpost, said: "We're transforming Google into a search engine that understands not only content, but also people and relationships." He pointed out that Google is introducing a "toggle" that will let people see the results with and without personalisation.Google is keen to break into the social networking space, having tried before with its Orkut and Buzz products, but seen both fall behind Facebook and Twitter. Its importance is seen as so great internally that Larry Page, the co-founder who took over as chief executive a year ago, has made staff bonuses dependent on the success of Google+.The Guardian's own tests on google.com when not signed in to any Google account found that links to people in Google+ appeared prominently in suggested searches, and in most cases also in results, when searching for names including the blogger Robert Scoble, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and search expert John Battelle.The alteration is not yet being extended to mobile phones using Google's Android operating system, which has more than 50% of smartphone sales worldwide.Having a Google account is almost essential when using an Android phone, because many of the Google services built into the phone require it. A Google spokesperson gave no indication of when or whether the search changes would be extended to Android phones.The change has come in for criticism from a number of search experts. "Search engines are supposed to send you away to the best information, even if they don't have their own in stock,"noted Danny Sullivan, who added that Google has previously been excellent at providing links to the most suitable information. "Today's change is one of the few times where I'm thinking 'What the hell are you doing, Google?' "He thinks that Google's move, which clearly promotes its own nascent service – which was only launched last year, but which Google said had 40m users last October – could attract antitrust scrutiny, because it is only listing information from Google+ posts, and because it is offering suggestions of users to follow on Google+.In the US, it is illegal for a company which is dominant in one field to use that dominance to gain competitive advantage in another.Microsoft fell foul of the Sherman Antitrust act in the late 1990s after it used the PC dominance of Windows to force out Netscape's web browser in favour of its own Internet Explorer, and was found guilty of "tying" the two after being prosecuted by the US Department of Justice.Google's decision to favour Google+ posts which would not rank highly by its normal criteria – generally, the number of "authoritative" pages on the web linking to it – could suggest that it is favouring its own product in order to grow it more quickly. That in turn could breach antitrust laws.Twitter and Facebook content does not generally appear in Google search results because neither site provides Google with unlimited access to their content.Twitter formerly had an agreement which in which Google paid for access to index its database directly, but Twitter chose not to renew the agreement,according to a statement placed on Google+ by an official Google account, which said it was "a bit surprised by Twitter's comments" because "they chose not to renew their agreement with us last summer".Battelle commentedthat the integration "is clearly 'tying' in the sense of what Microsoft got slapped for in its DOJ antitrust case, but the context is different – Google doesn't have a clear monopoly in search, just a pretty darn big one".Google's share of search in the US is about 65%, whereas in Europe it is far more dominant, with more than 90% of share – comparable with Microsoft's in PC operating systems.Shivaun Raff, the co-founder of the shopping comparison site Foundem – which has filed a complaint in Europe alleging that Google favours its own products in shopping and travel and downplays rivals when serving results – told the Guardian: "In my opinion, this is the second time that Google has found a way to leverage its dominance of search to give Google+ an advantage."First, Google announced that Google +1 recommendations were a ranking factor, which immediately placed sites under pressure to add +1 buttons, giving Google+ a kick-start independent of its popularity or merits."Where making +1 links a ranking factor encouraged sites to add +1 buttons, starting to feature Google+ content in search results will inevitably encourage people and businesses to start using Google+ and creating content. Is this more fuel for an antitrust investigation? Any new technique Google introduces to leverage its dominance of horizontal search to unnatural advantage in adjacent markets or industry sectors is likely to be of interest to antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic."If Google extends the promotion of Google+ results to European countries where it has a greater share of search, and also if it extends it to results on Android phones, then it may face more urgent calls for antitrust investigation.In Europe, the antitrust commissioner Joaquin Almunia is already considering whether to outline a "statement of objections" to the search giant's business practices relating to content produced by sites such as Foundem and Ciao, and newspaper publishers and advertisers.
Wednesday already – we're really powering through this week!
Intel has made its first move into the smartphone market dominated by chips using designs from ARM of Cambridge, announcing alliances with Lenovo and Motorola Mobility.Speaking at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, the Intel chief executive, Paul Otellini, showed off the K800, a new device from the Chinese PC maker Lenovo.Running Google's Android, the Lenovo phone will use a "Medfield" generation of Intel's low-power Atom processors – used previously in netbook computers – that Intel said will give high-quality graphics and processing performance while allowing long battery life.The K800 will launch with the China Unicom carrier in the US later this year.Sanjay Jha, the chief executive of Motorola Mobility, said the company would work with Intel on a "multi-year, multi-device" collaboration whose first fruits would be provided to mobile carriers this summer. Lenovo is also showing off a 10in tablet at its stand at CES.The agreements with the US and Chinese consumer electronics companies help shore up Intel's boldest foray into the mobile arena. The company is hoping the new chip will be light enough in power demands to compete with rival smartphones using ARM Holdings' more energy-efficient architecture.While growth in traditional PC sales has slowed, sales of smartphones and tablets have rocketed. PC sales in 2011 barely grew year-on-year, while those of smartphones were expected to have risen by about 50%. And smartphone sales are expected to grow 32% in 2012, according to analysts IHS Suppli, while PC microprocessor growth is still expected to be only a few percentage points.So far Intel has been unable to compete in the smartphone field because its processor designs have been too power-hungry. But last year it acquired a company focused specifically on low-power technology, and has been working on developing chips to rival those designed by ARM and built by companies such as Texas Instruments, Qualcomm and NVidia.Now the work with Motorola – expected to soon win regulatory approval for acquisition by Google – and Lenovo will give Intel a foothold in this fast-growing market."It is a multi-year, multi-product strategy that will bring both phones and tablets to the (US) marketplace starting with a phone in the second half of 2012," Dave Whalen, a vice-president in the Intel Architecture Group, said of the agreement with Motorola."You're going to see us working very closely with them on technologies," Whalen told Reuters.The world's largest chip-maker is also making a concerted push for the likes of Hewlett Packard and Dell to go big on super-slim, Apple Macbook Air-like laptops called "ultrabooks", which it hopes will preserve its dominance of the PC market as tablets like the iPad draw consumers away.Intel says Medfield ranks well in benchmark tests against competing chips on the market.An ongoing relationship to build smartphones with Motorola could position Intel well in the fast-growing market, even if Motorola continues to make phones using other companies' processors."We're going to work very closely with Motorola and Google and figure out what kind of things we can do that are unique and different," Whalen said, citing camera and video technology as examples.The Lenovo agreement builds on an existing partnership between the two companies focused on personal computers. Lenovo, the world's No 2 PC-maker, has focused its strategy on its home market but on Tuesday it said it would sell a smartphone for US consumers in time.Many on Wall Street deem Intel at a crossroads, where it either has to carve out a share of the mobile market or risk becoming irrelevant in the long run as PC sales slow worldwide and smartphones become pervasive.Many investors have since taken a "wait and see" attitude toward Intel's efforts in mobile. With the tablet and smartphone market booming – partly at the expense of personal computers – investors worry that the chipmaker's setback in mobile could leave it badly positioned for future waves of mobile devices.But if Intel can seriously challenge ARM on its own turf, then it could be the British company that will face challenges. It has succeeded by licensing its designs to companies which then make the chips, and taking a royalty on each. That has fostered a strong eco-system and a number of competing chip-makers who vie for business. Intel, by contrast, is a monolithic provider – but also extremely well funded.
(Note: this was written as live, but posted subsequently.)Keynote time again: this time it's Paul Otellini, president chief executive of Intel. The problem for him here is, can he persuade people that Intel does anything more than provide the processors to power the PC - which is a mature, slowing market in the west, and growing very much less quickly than the smartphone and tablet market in the rest of the world?16:30It's Gary Shapiro again. This guy gets everywhere. You'd think he owned the show or something. "From the world's fastest supercomputers to the world's PCs, Intel is there… today the ultrabook is reinventing the PC. They're irresistible!" We'll see about that. Are you lining up for a Windows ultrabook, now or in the near future?16:34Video. "Let's face it, we're always on the move. And our computers should be too." Shows people using tablets and smartphones. Hmm. Those don't have Intel chips in, do they? Ooh, it's a future video, where you choose your clothes in shops by scrolling through a screen, rather than scrolling through a rack. "That's why we built an Intelligent Architecture for the experiences of tomorrow." You can hear the Capitals.16:36And here's Otellini. Recaps his time at CES. He's seen Pong, the DVD… "Today computing isn't just about computers or smartphones or navigational devices… the devices are less relevant, it's about whether we're creating a better experience. At Intel we design the engines of those experiences. We ask what consumers won't compromise on, and what they shouldn't compromise on.. we want our devices to think as fast as we do." Apparently we want our computing experiences to be engaging, consistent, aware and secure. "I'm not just talking about malware here, there's increased risk to our privacy and our personal data." (This is the McAfee acquisition from last year being justified.)It's a bit blah already. He's very clearly reading it off his autocue, which is forgivable, but he isn't putting a lot of life into it. 32 nanometre technology! Incredible! He makes it sound like he bought a load of bread. "We have line of sight to 14 nanometre technology… 200m of these transistors could fit on the head of a pin." (No slide to accompany it.) "It's the same sort of spirit that put a man on the moon." Eh? "Today your smartphone has more computing than existed in all of Nasa in 1969." Then again, my phone can't get to the moon."Intel telephony devices have shipped in 400m devices this year.. and are a key part of your mobile experience." Ah, there are Intel chips in some phones for processing."I'm thrilled to announce that the best of Intel's computing is coming to smartphones." Intriguing. "It's coming first to China, with 100m users, and growing rapidly."16:44Lenovo svo Liu Jun, president mobile internet and digital home group: "Lenovo believes all these smart devices will be connected to the cloud. We are transforming Lenovo from a leading personal computer company to a leading personal computing device company." Holds up a phone. "Great outcome of our partnership. World's first Intel architecture-based smartphone. The K800.""Can you tell us a little more about the phone?" Otellini asks."Powered by an Atom processor for an amazing experience. Looks to be running Android, though heavily customised. 4.5in screen, Intel display technology inside."What about the performance of this phone?" "Incredible multitasking performance." Phew. "Very confident that users will be very satisfied. Will run under China Unicom's network, second quarter of this year." Yup, it's Android. They've also got a 10in tablet powered by an Atom processor.16:49So if Intel has got the Atom onto a smartphone, then we will want to know what the battery life is like. Claiming 4G talk time of 8 hours, standby time of 14 days - which is a lot. This will be what the project to get Android running on the x86 platform was all about, then.16:50Here's Mike Bell of Intel's mobile team. Shows off what it can do. Browser is quick, though there's a bit of a jerk. Shows a game. But after the other day, can we be sure that he's really playing a game, or is it a video?Security: has McAfee's mobile suite (of course) - though you can see that having that sort of security built into an Android phone could have benefits. Shows time-lapsed video indicating that it lasts rather longer on video playback than another Android phone - an HTC, by the looks of it.Sounds like they have also put in some sort of virtualisation or instruction set translation system so that apps written for ARM will run directly on the Intel chips. Demos Angry Birds.A dancer comes on and he takes 10 pictures - effectively still video. Impressive.16:57Reference design is more energy efficient on graphics, and does faster browsing and Javascript, says Otellini. That's the gauntlet thrown at ARM all right.16:58And now Sanjay Jha, chief executive of Motorola Mobility, the very clever guy who has got rich from getting Google to up its bid to buy his company last year. "We're excited to combine the best of Intel technology in our award-winning products." They're still all reading off autocues so obviously that it's painful."Especially proud to announce that Motorola and Intel have entered into a multi-year partnership around smartphones." When? "We will have devices in carrier validation this summer." Wonder how that works if the Google absorption goes ahead? Google's phone company building on a different platform, Intel, to the one that most of its partners use, ARM? Is that going to be a source of discord, or will it drive some companies to build on Intel? Does Android get compiled and optimised first for Intel and then ARM, because that's what Google's phone company is using, or for ARM because that's what most phones are using.17:02Chris Aubrey of Adidas. He's in marketing. Otellini is looking to the autocue to see when he's next going to speak, rather than at Aubrey. The Adidas thing is a virtual shoe rack which you scroll through without ever touching a shoe. And you can play videos on it! And it's integrated into social networks so you can see what people are saying about that particular model of shoe on Twitter! (That sounds like it could be a double-edge sword.) You choose one on the wall, and an assistant gets an alert and looks on their tablet and you can swipe their credit card details on the tablet and there you are.Wait, doesn't buying shoes usually involve trying them on for fit? Then again Aubrey says he's seen five times more sales as a result. Perhaps people will buy shoes through virtual racks without every putting them anywhere near their feet. Scary.17:07Shows off a tablet running Windows 8 for all of, oh, 10 seconds. Emphasises that applications will just run on Windows 8. There seems to be a hint that they will use Atom processors.And on to the PC. "For years Intel technologies have raised the bar for the best experience… and now there's the ultrabook. In the few short months that they've been on the market they have created quite a bit of excitement, even here in Las Vegas." Yes, but has anyone bought one? Video of people in the street being shown them. Nobody mentions or is asked about the price. At least, not in the video. Someone said to me earlier today that the ultrabook is "just this year's netbook", but I don't think so: the netbook was attractive because it was cheap. The ultrabook is higher-end, especially if you include SSD storage. Also, if Intel is giving the ultrabook makers something of the order of $100 to push them, what happens when that budget runs out?17:11Jeff Clarke of Dell. "Here to announce the next generation XPS13 from Dell, it's defining what this category is all about." It looks very nice; does Jonathan Ive at Apple look at these and grind his teeth, or raise his eyebrows, or just sigh? Carbon fibre base, so lighter weight. (That's different.) Weighs less than 3lb. Has a 13in screen, but in the footprint more typical of an 11-inch notebook (presumably a full-size notebook).Gorilla glass, claims 8 hour battery life. Plenty of enterprise system support. When's it available? Announce today, orders in February.17:16Back with Otellini. Shows off the Dell deckchair, which is the laptop it showed off last year which can be a laptop or a tablet if you fold the screen back in. Demo of Modern Warfare 3, showing the graphics detail. (Looks like the real thing.) Ultrabook demo where the screen is touch-sensitive, so you can play games such as Fruit Ninja. Or use an Intel phone as a game controller.17:21Showing off Ivy Bridge processing power. Now showing file transfer using Thunderbolt, Intel's superfast technology. It's all "awesome". And we move on to the Intel AppUp centre, where you can - hurrah! - download Angry Birds. Good grief, So now Intel is doing an app store. The world is becoming overrun with app stores, all very slightly different, but all offering Angry Birds.Demo of buying online using NFC plus Intel smartphone plus Mastercard with NFC: taps his smartphone (with NFC) on the screen and it transfers his details. Neat. If fiddly. Still, at leastthisfeels like living in the future. We've already seen about 10 things that felt far more futuristic than anything that was in Steve Ballmer's keynote last night: smartphones on Intel chips, NFC to buy things on tablets, ultrabooks - hell, maybe this should have been the keynote instead of Ballmer.17:29And Otellini is back. He's blown away apparently by all the innovation. Oh, which segues to Will.I.Am who is Intel's director of creative innovation. That's a job title? He's been sent off on a plane to go and write songs all over the place. Oh, but here he is. Biggest cheer of the week for him. Heading around the world with an ultrabook to raise money for inner cities. "And we're all creating on notebooks." Otellini: "how's technology changing the music business?"Will,I.Am: (incredulous): "the musicbusiness?"Otellini, quickly: "Music."Will.I.Am burbles away in a fabulously incoherent way about how he makes songs. This definitely isn't on the autocue. "If you imagine what it was like when Michael Jackson was making music, we made music in the studio and listen to it on the radio. Now we make it on a computer and listen to it on a computer. It's amazing."Otellini: "That's pretty." Is it? Sounds pretty bleak really. Next stop for Will.I.Am: Mexico City. He talks about it and peters out."When can your millions of fans hear the song?""Go to AppUp.. only 10,000 downloads and then it will be taken down and then the fans are going to take it and spread it somewhere else." BIG laugh for that. Everyone knows what he means: it'll go all over the file-sharing networks. They play a short snatch of the song, which sounds remarkably like "Greatest Dancer" but without the violin twirls and with a heavier beat."Today the ultrabook is the new ghetto blaster," Will.I.Am suggests. He departs."Wow," Otellini croaks. "How do you follow that?" It sounds like he isn't going to try, but just does some blurb about transistors and the future of computing. And we're done.17:38So to wrap up: Lenovo smartphones using Intel Atom chips, Will.I.Am on a big world tour, plenty of push for ultrabooks, and 14nm chips in sight. Well, it was a lot more future-y than anything we've had previously.
Nicolas Steno, the Danish anatomist widely regarded as the father of geology, has been commemorated in a Google doodle marking his 374th birth anniversary on 11 January.The doodle illustrated the search engine's six letters in a geological style, with fossils in various bottom layers, with a green surface on top.Steno's work on the formation of rock layers and the fossils they contain was pivotal to the development of modern geology while his catholic piety has also been evaluated in recent decades with a view to his possible canonisation.Born as Niels Stensen, he left his native of Copenhagen in 1660 to study medicine in the Netherlands, eventually finding his way to Italy where he became part of a body of researchers following in the footsteps of Galileo's mathematical approach to science.His work on the teeth of a shark that was caught by fishermen near the town of Livorno led him to the question of how solid objects could come to be found in other solid objects, such as rocks or layers of rock.In what is now referred to as Steno's law of superposition, he reasoned that layers of rock are arranged in a time sequence, with the oldest on the bottom and the youngest on the top, unless later processes disturb this arrangement.Originally a Lutheran, he converted to Catholicism and was beatified in 1987 by Pope John Paul II, completing the first step towards being declared a saint.
'Bear in mind this is where you live as well as work," says Andy Hartwell, a truck driver from Bury St Edmunds, describing the cab of a lorry – though he adds this is no excuse for a lot of the behaviour he has seen on the road. "I saw one trucker come past me and he was watching a film on a laptop. I've seen drivers [reading] a book resting on the steering wheel."At the weekend, French officials, worried about the increasing number of lorry drivers being caught watching DVDs behind the wheel,increased the finefrom €135 to €1,500 (£111 to £1,237). One driver has even been found practising the drums.In 2010, 324 drivers were caught watching a film in France, but according to British drivers it is increasingly happening in the UK too. "I saw it a couple of weeks ago, I think I was on the M25," says Simon Matthews, from Taunton, who has been driving trucks for 12 years. "I was in the first lane and a driver came past me in the second lane. I could see straight into his cab. He had his hands on the wheel, but the laptop was in front of his steering wheel and it wasn't small either – it must have been a 16in screen. I haven't seen that when it's directly in front of the driver before, but I've seen many where they've got a screen on the dashboard angled towards the driver." He thinks it is becoming more common. Why?"Technology," he says. Laptops and portable DVD players are cheap. He has also seen drivers heating up food on small portable stoves by their seats "and then eating out the saucepan as they're driving along".Michael Stopps, a driver from Milton Keynes, says he has seen other truckers driving up the M1 while watching a DVD – "they're all over the road a lot of the time" – and has heard of people cooking or getting changed behind the wheel. "I went past one driver at 7am and he's taking half of the hard shoulder up, half in the slow lane and he's pouring a bowl of cornflakes and getting the milk out." He gives a bewildered laugh. "You have to wonder what these drivers are thinking."
Apple's late founder Steve Jobs created the world's most valuable company and was paid just $5 in the last years of his life – but his successor Tim Cook, unknown outside Silicon Valley until his elevation to the top job last summer, has been awarded a $378m (£244m) pay jackpot.In the clearest sign yet that the wage bills for America's leading executives are ramping back to eye-watering pre-credit crunch levels, Cook's 2011 rewards, disclosed yesterday, put him in pole position to become the year's highest boardroom earner.Cook took home $900,017 in salary during 2011 and a further $900,000 in cash from an incentive scheme. But the bulk of his earnings will come from a windfall award of 1m Apple shares that tie him to the company for the next decade. On 24 August last year, to mark his promotion when Jobs retired, Cook was given stock then worth $376m, half of which will be handed over in 2016 and half in 2021.But by the time Cook takes delivery of the shares they might be worth substantially more. Every time Apple's share price gains a dollar, its chief executive's paper fortune will increase by more than $1m. Previous awards of shares mean a total of 1.376m shares are now owned by Cook or held in his name. Because Apple's price has risen steadily since last August Cook's shares are already worth $550m.The shares have no performance criteria attached. To claim his winnings Cook, who joined Apple in 1998 from Compaq Computer Corporation, must simply remain with the company until 2021.The details of Cook's vast pay package come as the UK government has pledged to bring in new legislation to tackle excessive executive pay. David Cameron said: "The market for top people is not working. It needs to be sorted out."Average pay for the chief executive of a FTSE-100 company climbed 33% last year and now stands at £5.1m – but it remains a fraction of boardroom rewards in the US."It's another planet," said Sarah Wilson, chief executive of Manifest, which advises shareholders on corporate governance. "The awards are eye-watering in the US and you really do have this cult of the chief executive as superstar. There is a lot of fear and uncertainty among board members that if they don't pay these large sums they will not get the people they want."Jobs was granted 5.5m shares during his lifetime, worth $2.3bn to his heirs, but between 2007 and his death last year he received no further awards. Instead, he collected a nominal annual salary of just $1 during the period that produced the first iPhone, the first iPad, and during which Apple's stock market value doubled.Cook's payout is still dwarfed by the $646.6m Jobs received in 2006, when his last swath of stock options vested, taking his total compensation for the preceding five years to $650.17m.Apple overtook oil giant Exxon Mobil as the world's biggest company last summer, and is now valued at $394bn on the stock market. But Cook's earnings are well ahead of those of Exxon's chairman and chief executive, Rex Tillerson.In 2010, the most recent year for which figures have been disclosed, Tillerson earned $29m in cash and shares, of which $5.6m comprised his salary and bonus for the year.
Twitter has become a key way for the likes of Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber and Kanye West to communicate directly with their huge online fanbases. Now those artists' tweets could be popping up in more streaming music services and discovery apps.Twitter has announced a pair of deals with music technology companies:The Echo NestandGracenote. Both will be able to pull down tweets from artists with Verified accounts on Twitter, and make them available for use by their customers: app developers in The Echo Nest's case, and music services in Gracenote's.Both already have one partner to show what the deal might mean. Gracenote says streaming service Rara.com – launched in December by British music firm Omnifone – will be showing artist tweets as its subscribers listen to their tracks.Gracenote explains that besides viewing recent tweets, a listener might be able to follow artists and tweet their own thoughts from within a service like Rara, rather than having to separately log in to Twitter."This partnership means Verified Twitter Accounts can be distributed into a wide range of products and brands – from smart TVs and automotive infotainment systems to cloud music services and smartphones," says Gracenote president Stephen White in a statement.The Echo Nest is more focused on individual app developers, and isstartingwith Australian startup Filter Squad, which makes the popular Discovr Music app.The app has been updated to add artists' Twitter feeds to their profiles in the app, sitting alongside biographies, song samples, videos, reviews and blog posts about them and iTunes links.It's easy for an app based on a single artist to integrate their tweets, and it's become a standard feature for the services like Mobile Roadie which help artists and labels make official apps. For discovery apps that include thousands of artists, it has been a different story."Twitter is arguably the most important and immediate artist-to-fan communication medium in the world. Until now, there was no simple way for developers to integrate musicians' tweets directly into their applications," says The Echo Nest's chief executive Jim Lucchese.In both cases, these deals with Twitter could be a first step towards richer features in apps and music services, digging into the conversations going on around artists and their music on Twitter, rather than simply their own tweets.
Microsoft has announced that it will be releasing a Windows PC version of its Kinect motion control device in February. The camera and microphone peripheral was launched on Xbox 360 at the close of last year and has so far sold 18 million units. The PC version is set to retail at $249 (£160), over $100 more expensive than the console version, which Microsoft says has been effectively subsidised by the range of dedicated games available, as well as by Xbox Live subscriptions.Of course, many programmers have been using the Xbox version of the Kinect device with their PCs since the console launch of the product. The source code for the hardware is freely available, encouraging hundreds of research students, hackers and gadget fans to tinker with the hardware and come up with fascinating projects. Notable examples includea navigational device for the visually impairedanda system for providing surgeons with sensory feedbackduring remote operations.However, the new Kinect for Windows hardware has been optimised for the PC environment, while changes have been made to the software development kit to allow for a wider range of uses. One vital upgrade is the new 'Near Mode' which allows the Kinect sensor to pick up and track smaller movements much closer to the camera than the Xbox hardware. According toa blog post on the Kinect for Windows site, the revised version's depth camera can pick up objects as close as 50cm, which will allow the sort of fine, detailed movement tracking that medical and scientific uses of the technology will require.Microsoft says it is seeking to encourage implementation and innovation by making the business model hardware-only: there is no charge for the SDK or runtime, and no licensing costs. However, after the launch of the product, Microsoft is removing PC compatibility from newly manufactured units of the Xbox Kinect. It alsoseems thatthe PC version won't be compatible with Xbox and that the new features such as Near Mode will not be coming to the console via a firmware update. Although the Kinect hardware itself is unchanged, it's possible that the increased processing power required to process near images in detail will put the feature out of the Xbox console's range.With a price point of $249, and with an emphasis on business and academic users (seeCNET's list of possible uses), it seems Kinect for Windows is not really being aimed at a mass consumer audience. Yet. It's possible, however, that this new, more advanced implementation may be a stepping stone toward a fresh iteration of Kinect for the next Xbox machine. We could see it built into the console itself, or embedded in compatible TVs – and with the increased processing power and memory of a next generation architecture, we'll see games and applications that can use the extra fidelity.For now though, Kinect for Windows will be available in apparently limited quantities from 1 February.
Many are speculating that this could finally be the year that augmented reality makes a genuine impact on gaming. Of course, the tech been around since phone manufacturers started putting cameras in their handsets – you may well have seen the Mosquito game that thrilled Symbian phone owners back in 2004. And of course, with consoles like the 3DS and Vita, we're seeing AR games and applications right from the start. But its often about gimmicks more than solid, immersive content.At CES, however, the maker of virtual reality browserAurasmahas announced a new 3D engine, which will allow developers to create three-dimensional animations to slot into augmented reality applications. One of the company's demo videos shows a pterodactyl flying around Big Ben, another has aprehistoric monster invading Paris. Cleverly, the software knows when the dinosaur is occluded by the clock tower, and, as it's a 3D animation, the viewer can move around and view the giant dino-bird from different positions.As well as supporting developers, Aurasma is also set to make a library of hundreds of 3D characters and animations available to the users of its app, which is available iniOSandAndroidflavours (although 3D functionality is currently confined to the iOS version, with Android implementation to follow). This will mean that anybody can point their phone at an object – be it a building, an article of clothing, a picture in a magazine or a friend, and then assign a 3D animation to it (the range includes everything from wild animals to representations of the Tardis and Lady Gaga...), effectively tagging the subject. So, when another Aurasma subscribed to your 'Aura' channel happens upon the same thing and points their phone at it, the app downloads the relevant file for them, and they get to see the AR performance. It's a bit like an AR version of a QR code reader – except the app doesn't need a QR icon, it can recognise real-world shapes and features.The Aurasma technology has been used in hundreds of adverts and marketing promotions since the original app was launched back in June 2011. For example, parent company Autonomy is the shirt sponsor for Tottenham Hotspur and during the match against Arsenal back in September, tagged the club's badge, allowing fans to scan their own replica shirts to retrieve videos of match highlights and goals. That's fun, obviously, but the possibilities of the tech were limited by the fact that it could only show 2D animations and videos. 3D could well provide a much more immersive experience."Smartphones are doubling in processing power every eight months," says the company's chief technology officer, James Loxam in its CES press release. "As their power increases, so does Aurasma's ability to merge the physical and virtual worlds together. Our 3D engine already supports very complex models and they will become even more interactive and realistic as our phones increase in processing power. Very soon people will find it difficult to tell where the physical world ends and the virtual one begins."To test the interactive possibilities of the tech, Aurasma is also showing off a view games that use the app in more interactive scenarios. One of the demos – viewable in the video at the top of this story – is a simple goal-keeping sim, which allows players to use their own finger as the goalie. It's basic stuff, but it hints at a future in which AR games fully understand the environment you're in and begin to utilise it in a gaming sense. Current AR experiences – like the apps that come free with the DS – don't really know what they're 'seeing' through your camera – they don't know that a door is a door or a window is a window.Current AR technologies such as Aurasma,Layar VisionandSony's SmartARare all now beginning to understand the world as presented through your camera, using pattern recognition to identify objects. This is where AR gaming gets really interesting. Imagine playing a survival horror game through your iPhone or Android camera – you're walking down your hall at home, and the software identifies that you're about to pass a door; suddenly, the version of the door on your screen bursts open and a 3D zombie lurches out at you.Stick this technology into a pair of AR glasses rather than a phone, and you have a seamless augmented reality experience, in which your surroundings become the game. Hello future.
