Police in Florida are investigating the death of an American teenager after he appeared to take an overdose and die while broadcasting on video website Justin.tv.The 19-year-old left a message on another website in which he described his mental anguish and was encouraged to end his life by a number of other web users.More than 180 people were watching online as the teenager swallowed pills before collapsing on his bed and appearing to fall unconscious. Only after he stopped moving did some viewers act on what they were seeing by calling the local police to inform them of what was taking place.The video stream continued to run until police and emergency services arrived at the man's house, with footage showing them entering his bedroom and inspecting the scene before filming stopped abruptly.In a message posted on bodybuilding.com, the man had described how he felt and explained why he intended to end his life. In response, some other users of the site egged him on."You want to kill yourself?" said one. "Do it, do the world a favour and stop wasting our time with your mindless self-pity."The messageboard on bodybuilding.com where he left the note appears to have been deleted, but many of the comments left in response to it were unsympathetic. Reports also suggest that commenters on the video website itself encouraged him to end his own life.In response to the news, Justin.tv – a web broadcasting service that allows anybody to create their own live internet television channel – said that it had removed the footage after being alerted to the situation.In a statement on the company's website, chief executive Michael Siebel made little further comment, merely saying that a "tragedy ... occurred within our community today" and that "we respect the privacy of the broadcaster and his family during this challenging time."Suicide on the internet is a rare, if not entirely new phenomenon.Last year a British man killed himself on webcam, and Japanese police have tracked a number ofonline suicide pactsin recent years.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My Xbox 360 – it's gorgeous.How has it improved your life?It hasn't. I don't know that it's improved anything, it eats up time. It's destroyed my social circle and pretty much eaten up my concentration span. Still, at the same time I suppose that when you're on the road, it saves you going out wasting money — it keeps you indoors in your hotel and you can't get in any trouble there.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last night , to play Grand Theft Auto IV. It's so addictive – it's such a living, breathing city that I'll go from committing a heist to stopping and kicking a bin. You just run around being a complete loser.What additional features would you add if you could?Probably email and a cup-holder, so then you really don't have to get up and leave the TV.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Something else will come along, probably. Microsoft are so massive that they will get on top of it. They'll get into the Wii technology, and keep up with the times for sure.What one tip would you give to non-Xbox 360 users?What's the PlayStation 3 like?Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I don't know, I don't think I fall into either category – I consider myself probably the world's busiest waster.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my Xbox 360. I also have an iPod Touch, which is another sexy piece of technology.Mac or PC?Mac. Just because they're more fun. Not only that, I'm something of a technotard and so the Mac is easier for editing – I'm writing a book right now. They're just a sexier piece of kit.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?It would have to be either Cracklin Rosie, by Neil Diamond, or Take a Look Around, from Mission Impossible – I use that to work out to, because it starts slow and builds up.Will robots rule the world?Yes – they already do. Look behind you!What piece of technology would you most like to own?Probably the Red digital cameras, the ones that you can shoot movies on.Brendon Burnswon the if.comedy award at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in 2007. His new live, stand-up DVD — So I Suppose THIS is Offensive Now? — is available now
Last week, French mobile games giant Gameloft lent me an iPhone stuffed with its first titles for the Apple platform. The likes of Asphalt GT 4, Real Football 2009 andGuitar Rock Tour(currently pick of the week on App Store) really stood out for their imaginative and confident use of the accelerometer and touchscreen features. Asphalt is something of a revelation, an urban racer controlled by tilting the phone itself.At first, it feels uncomfortable and over sensitive, then you realise the slightest twitch is enough to take most corners and it quickly becomes an enjoyable and intuitive driving experience - a million times more fun than using a crappy keypad to jab out the racing line.Anyway, earlier this week I talked to Gonzague de Vallois, Gameloft's SVP of Worldwide Publishing about the company's thoughts on iPhone so far. He immediately downplayed the launch titles, developed extremely quickly thanks to the tardy arrival of the SDK in March, barely four months before the launch of the 3G iPhone model.He's pretty complimentary about the hardware. "In terms of the games we're working on now, I'd say the iPhone is comparable to the PSP or DS," he said. This seems to be inline with what other developers are finding, and with whatApple pitched at its SDK rollout, where a version of Quake was shown running on the identical iPod touch hardware. Tech pundits analysing iPhone's ARM CPU reckon it has twice the clockspeed of PSP, though without the specialist graphics co-processor, of course. And the file sizes are smaller. According to de Vallois, iPhone downloads are around 60-80MB, which compares well with Java downloads (around 1MB), but is dwarfed by the storage capacity of the DS cart and PSP UMD.In terms of development times, it seems iPhone is much more similar to the handheld consoles - Gameloft's teams will spend between nine months and a year on each title. "The main difference from other mobile platforms is that we're spending most of that time on the creation of the game," said de Vallois. "We do one SKU and it works on all iPhones worldwide. With regular mobile games we had to adapt the title to - I would say worldwide for us - 1200 mobile phones. We were spending 80% of our money and energy just adapting. On iPhone we're spending 100% of our time creating the game."Longer development arcs also mean more time to explore the iPhone featureset. "Each of the new games we launch, we're thinking okay how can we use the accelerometer, how can we use the touch," explained de Vallois. "I was talking to one of our lead designers who's working on a new racing game, and he said we'd already managed to optimise the touch interface for steering". The game, by the way, is Ferrari GT Evolution, due out later this year.Gameloft also has two titles - Uno andTV Show King- which support Wi-Fi multiplayer. I asked about proper online gaming, "latency is always a problem, even on 3G phones, but our teams are working on it," he said.For now, the company is announcing two more titles, due before the end of the year. Brothers in Arms: Hour of Heroes is a new take on the console shooter series. The 3D third-person perspective WWII actioner features jeep and tank driving as well as onfoot blasting with a range of authentic weapons. Like Real Football 2009, the game uses a virtual D-Pad for movement, and automates elements such as ducking for cover or jumping over obstacles.Then there's Hero of Sparta, a God of War-style third-person mythological hack-n-slasher. Again it features an onscreen D-Pad as well as contextual options like hit, defend, change weapons, etc. During combat, stringing together a range of moves results in an icon appearing onscreen - if this is repeatedly tapped quickly enough, you get a special finishing move.de Vallois wouldn't name any of the company's 2009 iPhone projects, but said the company would be bringing more casual games to the market. I also asked him about other decent game phones, and he talked about the latest range of handsets using native code (he mentioned Windows Mobile, but I'm sure he was also thinking of Google Android), specifically naming the SamsungOmnia("in terms of gaming experience it's competing with iPhone"). Apple's handset may be leading this new charge to bring mobile gaming up tp spec with handheld platforms, but it is far from alone.
An image from the casual MMO Strawberry DivaThis week's pitch is from the team behindStrawberry Diva, an indie MMO with a casual bent aimed, as founder Paul Carey describes it, "firmly at women". The interaction is based purely on "social navigation": every action must invoke trust or disdain, affection or enmity. So no smacking rodents and orcs with handbags. Damn.Read on to find out more about the game, and the most rational argument I've ever read for the rise and rise and rise of indie games.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words."Strawberry Diva" places you, along with thousands of other players, in a contemporary city. You host parties, bitch about your enemies - winning points if your friends think you're acerbic enough, grovel by offering gifts and seek introductions to powerful players. Your relationships with your friends and enemies lie at the heart of the game, you rate all your relationships and your own ability to succeed depends on how others rate you. Success in Strawberry Diva is all about being smart, having guile, second guessing your friends and opponents.How do players control the game?Our user interface is that of a fairly conventional web app. Point, click, type - very straightforward.What is your background?I chose to study computer science because I wanted to make games. But graduating at the height of the dot com bust meant jobs for newbies were thin on the ground. I've spent the last few years working as a software developer in a variety of different companies. I've always been tinkering with different projects on the side and eight months ago decided I wanted to commit fully to developing Strawberry Diva.Name your competitors.I don't know of anyone trying to do exactly what we're doing. But I'm increasingly aware of games aimed at girls and women that focus on social navigation.Web Boyfriend,Coolest Girl in Schooland the Second Life tie-in for "Gossip Girl" all offer their own take on social success.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?Our playtesting was limited to a few handfuls of users - trying to playtest an MMO on a limited budget is hard! We hope to have a few hundred players signed up when we launch in December. If just a fifth of those play, that should give us the critical mass we need to keep growing. I'd be very happy if we had about 50k active players by this time next year.What's your biggest challenge?The list of things we need to do and that we'd like to do is overwhelmingly long. And it only gets longer. Maintaining focus and just pushing for the next goal is a continual challenge.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?The realisation, just now, that weird, interesting and unusual things seem to have stopped happening to me. I can say this with some degree of certainty as I keep a log of what I've been working on. It's annotated with stories from my actual life... there are very few! This may be what happens when you spend too long in front of a screen.What's your distribution/publishing plan?Being able to play directly in a browser is a big win, the only impediment to playing is the signup form. We already have gameplay elements that encourage players to invite their friends and intend on adding more as the game evolves. Exercising your social muscle is at the heart of Strawberry Diva and so we expect it to have a viral personality. We're planning on releasing a Facebook app and iPhone app early next year.Are indie games the latest killer app?The advances in the underlying technology on which games can be built and disributed - XNA, Flash, Facebook Platform - offer, to many indie developers, true killer apps. The barriers to publishing your own game - so low in the eighties, so high in the nineties and for much of this decade - are low again and look to stay that way. While only very few indie games may achieve real success, many deliver on experimental ideas that studios wouldn't risk. That innovation benefits us all.Are you the next big thing?There's a strong element of right place, right time to being the next big thing. I believe we're creating a truly compelling game. In my less lucid moments, I like to think that we're pushing the boundaries of an emerging genre. Strawberry Diva, and the games I mentioned as our competitors, are all doing something very interesting. Sooner or later someone's going to create a brilliant social strategy game set in a contemporary world, and it's going to be huge!
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
It's been coming for a while, butGoogle has launched its search listing recommendation system, SearchWiki.Right now users who are logged in can push results up, or ban them from future listings (but only for themselves)... or they can leave comments attached to listings (which anyone else can see).Here's a grab from a Guardian search I ran earlier - note the up arrow and cross icons.Have you used it yet? What do you think? Useful? Pointless?I'm very undecided - largely because, at the moment it's a very limited implementation. While I suppose it's not bad, for now the benefit is just limited to you... which seems to be a waste of the effort people will be putting in.Why wouldn't Google expand it so that your recommendations helped inform the company's famous ranking algorithm? A number of reasons spring to mind: gaming the system and spamming are just two. But perhaps there's also a philosophical problem here - after all, on many occasions before we've heard about the company's blind faith in the machines, in the religion of automation.But wouldn't improving search through human interaction undermine belief in the system? Shouldn't Google, with all its power and technical prowess, simply be able to build a better algorithm?Of course, I might be getting a little over the top. Perhaps it's simply testing how people use the system before using it to harness the wisdom of crowds. But it'll certainly be interesting to see where this one goes - especially since, as we saw just yesterday,not every new idea from Mountain View makes it out alive.
Google today launched a major update to its search engine by allowing users to customise the results they get from running a query on the web.The new system - which it is calling SearchWiki – allows users to personalise the answers they get from running a web search by moving particular results up or down the listings.Users who sign in to the new system will be given the option to let the search engine remember which answers they value most - pushing answers around the rankings, or deleting them from their own search results entirely.Alterations are made by clicking on a small icon next to the result – and will also allow users to automatically move a specific result so that it comes back as the top answer the next time that specific search term is used.They can also make notes on particular results, which can be shared with other users who are signed into Google."We've always said that the best search engine is one that understands what the individual user wants," said Juergen Galler, Google's director of product management. "SearchWiki really puts that in action – this is an even deeper level of customisation that we've offered before."The company has beentrialling customisable search pages for some time, but the new system is now being rolled out to all users beginning today.The company says around 40% of all queries are repeats of previous searches, meaning that user annotation could prove extremely useful to those who use it.However, although user-driven data could help improve Google's main search engine listings, which are often the target of manipulation by spammers and unscrupulous search engine optimisers, the decisions made using SearchWiki will not influence the company's general search algorithms - for now, at least."Your re-rankings and deletions presently will affect only your own search results, not anyone else's," a Google spokeswoman told the Guardian. "We have no immediate plans to change organic search rankings based on SearchWiki data."Neither do votes made this way affect the advertising displayed alongside search results – which is based on the terms entered into Google, and forms the foundation of the company's income.However, Google believes that the system will allow it to stay on top in the battle to keep ahead of spammers and rival internet companies.Second-placed search engine Yahoo is under extreme pressure to make inroads in the lucrative search market, particularly after the news that chiefJerry Yang would be stepping downand the decision by senior search executiveSean Suchter to defect to Microsoft.Microsoft – which launched a takeover bid for Yahoo earlier this year, but was eventually rebuffed – has made no bones about its desire to catch up on Google's dominant market share.Search was one of the major drivers behind the proposal, and although Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer indicated yesterday that "we are done with all acquisition discussions",he told shareholdersthat the company was still open to a "search collaboration" with Yahoo.
It's called The Lost and the Damned, it'll be released via Xbox Live on February 17th and it's a whole new story drawn from the GTA IV universe. Yep, it's the first of two downloadable Grand Theft Auto episodes for the Xbox version of the latest in Rockstar's series.The self-contained story follows biker Johnny Klebitz, a member of Liberty City biker gang The Lost, which appears once in a while during the main GTA IV narrative. From the press release:The Lost and Damned features a new main character and plot that intersects with the storyline of Grand Theft Auto IV; new missions that offer an entirely fresh way to explore Liberty City with new multiplayer modes, weapons and vehicles; and a diverse soundtrack with additional music - all with the incredible production values that are the trademarks of Grand Theft Auto."Johnny is a very different character than Niko, with a very different background," Dan Houser, vice president of creative development for Rockstar Gamestold USA Today. "I can't go into too much detail on the story, because we try not to give away too much plot before the game is released. But I can say that the story will show you a different side of Liberty City."So, are you excited about joining a biker gang and cruising around Liberty City in leathers? Of course you are.There's a chance biker gangs could become a theme of 2009? I know that UK developer Eutechnyx is working onRide to Hell, an open-world bike-'em-up set in California during the late-sixties. Maybe the floodgates will now open.Are there any other games you'd like to see biker spin-offs of?
You probably won't be surprised butWrath of the Lich King, the new expansion for World of Warcraft, has become the fastest selling PC game of all time. It shifted more than 2.8 million copies in its first 24 hours of release compared to the 2.4 million copies sold in the same timeframe by the previous World of Warcraft expansion, The Burning Crusade.Impressive figures then – and with over 11 million active subscribers you can expect sales to continue – but let's face it, we fully expected it right? Anything less than Burning Crusade would have been an embarassment and developers Blizzard have such a rabid fanbase they could probably release a 2D platformer for the C64 next week and sell a million copies.  But Lich King deserves the success, with the new landmass ofNorthrendfrankly far too pretty for its own good.  A week since release then, what do you think of Lich King so far?
Way back in May, I postedYahoo tries Glue in India, which said: "Most big search companies are experimenting with the idea of comprehensive search pages that show lots of different results -- text, images, video etc -- instead of just text. Google calls it Universal Search. Yahoo's is Glue, and a beta version has just been launched inIndia."I'm sure that you have been on the edge of your seat, brimming with anticipation, ever since.Well, you may not have too long to wait. Glue is now available athttp://glue.yahoo.com/andTechCrunchsays it's "rolling out to the US market this evening." TechCrunch says:It's also a little different than the Indian version, and includes a number of resources beyond what India's version of Glue offers. On a typical query, content from Wikipedia, Yahoo Shopping, Yahoo Answers, blog search results (from Google) and YouTube videos are shown.It has also been reduced to two columns.However, the system is doomed as it stands. Type in a word for which there is no Glue page and it just says: "There is no Glue Page for this topic." D'oh. If Yahoo can't build Glue pages on the fly, why bother?
A teenage girl hanged herself after being taunted by messages on her MySpace account, an American court has heard, in a case that could have wide-reaching ramifications for social networking websites.Prosecutors say Megan Meier, 13, from Missouri, killed herself after receiving nasty messages that she believed had come from a teenage boy but had actually been written by Lori Drew, 49.The trial is being billed as America's first cyber-bullying prosecution and a potential precedent for punishing online harassment.In his opening statement to jurors in Los Angeles, the prosecutor, Thomas O'Brien, said Drew, her daughter and an employee of Drew's "hatched a plot to prey on the psyche" of a girl she knew was "vulnerable, suicidal and boy-crazy".The court heard that Drew posed as a teenage boy named Josh Evans on MySpace and exchanged messages with Megan."Her purpose was to tease Megan Meier, to tease her, to humiliate her and to hurt her," O'Brien said. "One of her plans was to print out the conversations and take it to Megan's school and let people make fun of this depressed 13-year-old girl."Megan's mother, Tina Meier, told the court that late in 2006 she found her daughter "sitting at the computer crying" after getting into an online dispute with "Josh Evans" and a couple of girls."She said, 'They're saying mean, horrible things about me,'" Tina Meier testified. "I told her to get off (MySpace)."Less than an hour later she found her daughter hanged in the closet. Megan had struggled for years with depression and school bullying.O'Brien told the court that after Megan received a message saying the world would be better off without her, she sent a response saying: "You are the kind of boy a girl would kill herself over."Drew's defence lawyer, Dean Steward, told jurors his client did not violate the Computer Use and Fraud Act, used in the past to address computer hacking,  and reminded them Drew was not facing charges dealing with the suicide."This is not a homicide case," he said.Drew has pleaded not guilty to one count of conspiracy and three counts of accessing computers without authorisation. Each count carries a potential sentence of five years in prison.
We've been getting lots of traffic for Richard Wray'sHands on with the BlackBerry Storm, published on October 8, but there's a flood of new hands-on reviews with the Storm going on sale in the US tomorrow.The Wall Street Journal's Walt Mossberg has a review+video (BlackBerry's Storm Presses Into the Touch-Phone Fray) that refers to the iPhone and Google/HTC G1. Wired News gives the Storm 6 out of 10 inRIM's First Touchscreen Device Almost Eclipses the iPhone. ZD Net offersHands On: The BlackBerry Storm, and is undecided. PC World isn't all that impressed, and goes forBlackBerry's Storm: Awkward and Disappointing. PC Magazine has a handy list ofYour Top 20 Questions, Answered.It might also be handy to have summaries written from the two main points of view: (1) People who actually use a BlackBerry for business and might be tempted to upgrade/downgrade from a keyboard/keypad to a touch screen; (2) ordinary consumers who have a choice between the Storm, iPhone, G1, HTC Touch and various other devices.Well, there's also a (3) for people who think you should be able to use a phone with one hand, think it should actually be optimised for voice calls, and wonder why anybody would pay three times the price of a Nokia for a fashionable bit of tat. But they're probably not interested in reading Storm reviews anyway.
European legislators should consider new laws to prevent the theft of virtual goods, according to a report published today.The position paper, produced by a group representing industry, government and the academic world, puts forward a number of suggestions to help the European Union deal with the rapid growth of virtual worlds such asSecond LifeandWorld of Warcraft.With more than 1 billion registered accounts in online worlds — many of which make money through the sale of virtual goods and property — the threat of fraud and theft is growing, the report suggests. It says that while 30% of all users have lost something of value, often as a result of criminal activity, only 25% subsequently recovered the items — with laws and procedures for dealing with such situations often fuzzy."While annual real-money sales of virtual goods is estimated at nearly €1.5bn (£1.2bn) worldwide, users can do very little if their virtual property is stolen," said Giles Hogben, editor of the report. "They are a very soft target for cybercriminals."According to the report, the mismatch requires governments and financial institutions to collaborate over better procedures and regulations — similar to the changes made when e-commerce became popular in the late 1990s.It also identifies a number of other risks that it believes could become increasing problems for the creators and users of virtual worlds – including the danger to privacy and computer security, as well as online harassment and the need for child protection.Without consideration of the legal situation inside virtual environments, such growth could have serious impact, it says. In Asia, where massively multiplayer online games have had a huge following for years, a number of high-profile court cases have arisen following in-game disputes.In 2005, 41-year-old Chinese gamer Qiu Chengweiwas sentenced to deathfor the murder of Zhu Caoyuan, 26 – after alleging that the younger man had stolen an item from him in the game Legend of Mir III. Last month,a Japanese woman was chargedafter destroying data belonging to her online "husband" in the popular game Maple Story. She faces up to five years in jail or a fine of more than £3,000 for manipulating electronic data."This is a serious issue," says the report. "The failure to recognise the importance of protecting the real-money value locked up in this grey zone of the economy is leading to an exponential increase in attacks targeting online MMOs and virtual worlds."The study was produced by the European Network and Information Security Agency (Enisa), an EU organisation focused on improving the security of the continent's information and communications networks.Contributors included leading academicRichard Bartle, creator of the first virtual world and a professor at the University of Essex, and Ren Reynolds, founder of the Virtual Policy Network.The panel also included representatives from Pegi, the pan-European game ratings system, and the creators of popular Finnish virtual world Habbo.
It's only a few months sinceGoogle announced Lively, an avatar-based system and one of those 20% projects from Google Labs. Well, it looked more likea knock-off of IMVU, and IMVU's boss Cary Rosenzweig said Google had tried to buy the company then hired away one of its co-founders. Whatever the background, Google Lively flopped, and The Official Google Blog now saysLively no more:despite all the virtual high fives and creative rooms everyone has enjoyed in the last four and a half months, we've decided to shut Lively down at the end of the year. It has been a tough decision, but we want to ensure that we prioritize our resources and focus more on our core search, ads and apps business. Lively.com will be discontinued at the end of December, and everyone who has worked on the project will then move on to other teams.These are tough times and it's no surprise to see Google cutting a failed project. But it inevitably raises the question: What else could go? The awful Knol must be top of most people's lists. Google Video looks surplus to requirements. Orkut could perhaps do with a mercy killing. Google Sites? Google Base? Notebook? Does anybody actually use those?
With the release of the new Banjo Kazooie game and their involvement in the avatars on the 360's dashboard update these are busy times for veteran UK developer Rare. I had a chat with studio head Mark Betteridge.Why did you move away from the platform gameplay that characterised the original two Banjo games?The game actually started life very similar to the previous games, as that is what we had been familiar with and had enjoyed success with in the past. But it's been 10 years since the last major Banjo game and we felt that we needed to take a bigger step forward in what has become a somewhat neglected genre and create a game that uses the Xbox 360 in a way that players had not been seen before.How did you approach the design of the Nuts and Bolts? Did you see it is a new game or an existing franchise?In previous platform games, all players have the same abilities and solve tasks in a very similar way. So we asked ourselves, why couldn't the players choose their abilities and then tackle the tasks using their own unique method? This 'choice of abilities' idea became the vehicle parts and the ball started rolling from there. I think players will discover the game strikes a balance between being a new game and part of an existing franchise. It's got many of the traditional elements expected of a Banjo game, it's just that we've shaken them up and evolved them a little.The Banjo Kazooie brand is very much associated with the N64, how do you bring it into the High Def 360 era?We wanted to do much more than simply create a Banjo game that takes advantage of a more powerful console to provide better graphics and so on, so once the game's design was in place we focused on providing players with a tool that would empower them to create any sort of vehicle they could imagine for tackling the various challenges in the game as well as the incredible level of graphical detail you see upon entering the game's different worlds.  At the heart of the game though, the ability to embrace latest trends in user generated content in gaming via the ability to imagine and build any type of vehicle is something that would not have been possible on the N64.What was the thinking behind producing the original 2 games for Live Arcade?Simple! It allows the existing fans the opportunity to relive their memories in the highest graphical fidelity possible today with a gameplay experience where characters a more life-like moving more fluidly throughout the game world. Equally importantly, it gives players not familiar with the Banjo universe a chance to catch up on the central character's past before they play Nuts &amp; Bolts. Many people have said they are surprised how well the original games still play, which is great.What do think is good/bad about gaming in 2008?What's good is the unprecedented amount of world class titles. The bad is that the cost of this level of quality makes publishers and developers more risk averse to try new things like we have by creating a game mechanic that empowers players to dream, build and ultimately play with their vehicle creations in the sandbox that is Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts &amp; Bolts.Do you think you are "out of step" with the rest of the 360 offerings?I wouldn't say 'out of step', no. Our titles certainly offer something different and more original than the majority of titles, but that's the aim: to deliver game experiences that excite both current Xbox 360 players as well as those who the console has not appealed to previously.Do they get fed up with people asking for remakes?No  - it's always nice that people remember our previous work as fondly as they do. It's understandable that sequels get asked for, as it's what's familiar to people and experiences they are interested in reliving and sharing with their children.What was the deal with the rumoured GoldenEye 007 appearing on the Live Arcade?There are no plans for GoldenEye 007 to appear on Xbox LIVE Arcade. But a game with such a tremendous history and reputation in the market will always be rumoured and requested.Do you have games in the pipeline that are going to make use of the NXE avatars in the same way as Miis appear in Wii Sports/Play etc? Will there be achievements to unlock clothes for avatars?We very much see the NXE as the start of Avatars and not the end. Personalisation of devices and gaming has really come into its own over the last few years and we believe Avatars have a tremendous opportunity going forward, so watch this space!
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Version 2 adds a roof and engineOn first viewing, this is the pinnacle of satire: a human-powered treadmill that can be used outdoors, because it's got wheels. Except we're assured it's real. So is it the General Motors rescue plan?Wimbledon of the future? NoAn amazing blast from the past, and arguably the second-ever videogame: "tennis", played on an oscilloscope, written at the Brookhaven National Laboratory in 1958. New bits, please!Welcome, human underlings!"Jules", from the Bristol Robotics Lab, has 34 motors, rubber skin and is scarily real. Philip K Dick, where are you?Got a technology or games video we should know about? Tell us in the comments!
Last week, you mentioned"setting your PC to hibernate"to save power. Sorry, but my very limited knowledge of technology jargon doesn't include hibernation.Edward JohnsonAs with hedgehogs, hibernation implies a long sleep with a reduction in the use of resources. You can set a PC either to go into standby mode (sleep) or to hibernate when you are not using it. Standby uses very little power, but all your programs are still in memory, and a trickle of power is needed to keep them there. If you set the PC to hibernate, then it writes whatever is in its memory to a big file (hiberfil.sys) on your hard drive. That way, you won't lose anything if there is a power cut.You can tell your PC what to do by going to the Control Panel and running the applet called Power Options. Click the Hibernate tab to enable hibernation (in effect, to reserve the disk space required). The Power Schemes tab offers a number of pre-set options including Portable/Laptop and Always On. If you are using the Home/Office Desk power scheme, you can tell your PC how long to wait before turning off the monitor and hard disks, from one minute to never. You can also set a time before your PC automatically goes into standby mode or hibernates.An alternative is to click the Start button and select Turn Off Computer. This will usually let you choose between three options: Stand By, Turn Off, and Restart. Pressing the shift key will change Stand By into Hibernate. You can pick the one you want. (In Windows Vista, Stand By has become Sleep.)Some people wrote in to say that when a PC hibernates, it uses no power at all. This is not necessarily true. Many PCs now have a "wake on LAN" function so that they can be woken up remotely for software updates, and this uses some power during hibernation. Also, sound cards and USB hubs may prevent a PC from powering down completely. To get a true "off" can involve going into the PC's BIOS chip and changing the advanced power settings. It's really not worth the effort. However, if you must save the last trickle, pulling the plug always works.Backchat: CB Legge suggests using a PowerDown plug. This "automatically switches off your [desktop] computer and peripherals with just one click. It also provides whole surge protection. Plugs cost £15 from E.On, but can be obtained free from some sites. Very Green. Highly recommended." (https://www.eonshop.co.uk/)
For several years now, Hossein Derakhshan has been at the forefront of Iran's burgeoning blogging scene. Better known asHoderhe's been writing about the country and its politics online since - and, from time to time, he's alsocontributed to the Guardian.After living in Canada for some time, he recently headed back to Iran - where now, it seems, he's been arrested and accused of being an Israeli spy. Details remain unclear; the only report  appears to be fromJahan News, but a summaryheregives the flavour of that report:According to Jahan News, which is close to Iran's Intelligence community, Hoessein Derakhshan, the Iranian blogger who visited Israel in 2007 from Canada, has been arrested in Tehran.According to what the article says are "credible sources", Hossein has admitted to spying for Israel. His confessions are said to include some "intricate" points.We know that Iran has been clamping down on internet use again recently,blocking millions of websitesin its attempt to keep dissenting voices out of circulation.Brian Whitaker's alreadyover on Comment is Free, while the issue is also being picked up byGlobal Voices Onlineand on a dedicatedFacebook group.Let's hope for the best.
In the past two months I've often returned to find that my computer screen says "Waiting to Hibernate". My PC is a Dell from 2002, and it is working fine.Paul KnutsonManufacturers have put a lot of effort into making laptops hibernate and wake up reasonably well, but haven't bothered much about desktops, where a daily reboot could be considered therapeutic. Some older PCs don't support hibernation at all, and hibernation can be blocked by various hardware and software components, applications, peripherals, old device drivers, and BIOS settings. Microsoft has a step-by-step guide, How to troubleshoot hibernation and standby issues in Windows XP (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/907477), that covers the main approaches.
There's been some discussion about whether Microsoft still wants to buy Yahoo's search business, but it may not have to. Maybe it can just hire it away.Microsoft has already picked up Qu Li, Yahoo's top search scientist, and a memo leaked to Valleywag saysit has hired Sean Suchter as well. Valleywag's tipster says:Today is the end for Yahoo Search. Sean Suchter just left for Microsoft. Everyone in the office is shocked. I've been on the Yahoo Search team for a while and he is the one key executive that it all depends on. If Microsoft has convinced him to leave and join them, they won't need to buy Yahoo Search. We will just all join Microsoft anyway. I am definitely going to send him my resume.Suchter (German for "searcher")used to work for Inktomi, which Yahoo bought in 2003 in order to get into the search business. He probably doesn't bleed as purple as Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang, and he obviously doesn't have Yang's 1990s anti-Microsoft hang-ups.The memo to the Yahoo Search Team from Tuoc Luong says: "Unfortunately, I have to give some bad news to you. Sean Suchter has resigned," and describes him as "a Gibraltar rock." Basically it's a plea to the rest of the team to stay. It says:I came here to take on Google because I believe Yahoo above all is best positioned to take the battle to Google. I think we're on the right path to changing the tide and would love to see everyone make the journey but I respect Sean's personal decision. I'm committed to continue the battle against Google as long as Yahoo positions Search to be competitive (and I believe we are). I hope each and all of you feel the same way and stand with me to battle Google.But Yang's eagerness to do a deal with Google could be taken as a sign that he was willing to compromise on Yahoo Search to deal with the New Evil Empire. By contrast, Microsoft looks as though it has the will and the money to continue the fight, as hopeless as it looks.One thing's for sure: it would be a lot cheaper for Microsoft to hire Yahoo's search talent than to buy its market share. But whether Yahoo's search talent is capable of turning around Microsoft's failing Live Search is another matter entirely. It doesn't look like a good bet to me.
Often when I switch on my computer, I get a message that the Windows Firewall is not turned on. As I never turn it off, I do not know how this happens.Bill RossThe two things most likely to turn off the Windows Firewall are (a) security suites from other companies; and (b) malware. Reboot your PC and runPanda's Anti Rootkit. Next, download and run theKaspersky Virus Removal Tool. You should also check that you have all Windows Updates installed, and that third-party software is patched.Secunia offers a scanning toolfor this, and I recommend running the desktop version, Personal Software Inspector. This type of inspection has become more important now that many web-based malware attacks target programs such as Apple QuickTime and RealPlayer.
Call of Duty sitting atop the charts is a Christmas tradition, so how does the latest instalment stack up?It's a mixed bag of old and new: a different developer but a tweaked COD4 engine, a return to a second world war setting but featuring a broad mix of heroes and storylines.It's also a more adult game, with occasionally brutal cutscenes and sadistic new weapons like the flamethrower. It's still hugely challenging to play, and online players should enjoy the plethora of new modes to try.COD: World at War may not be the best of the series, but it's a vast and occasionally outstanding shoot-em-up.
Microsoft started with the democratising idea of "one man, one PC" when businesses used centralised minicomputers and mainframes. But it has never been against using PCs to access host-based or online services. It has been offering both since 1995.Indeed, Microsoft loves services because they are usually based on subscriptions. They bring in a predictable income, where selling software is unpredictable.Services can also be more profitable. If someone buys a pre-installed copy of Windows XP, for example, Microsoft pockets $48 (&pound;32) or so. If they use it for six years, that's only 67&cent; a month. If Microsoft could sign buyers up for a "Windows service" at $2 a month instead, that would bring in $144. Another advantage is that you can upgrade online users whenever you like. No more outdated software! No more writing security patches for obsolete software! What's not to like?Microsoft had its first go at this market in June 2000 when it started to offer hosted software - including an online version of Microsoft Office - via "application service providers" or ASPs. These partners would be local to their customers, thus reducing communications delays and costs. Online applications can become horrendously expensive if you include the time spent waiting for remote services to respond, the outages, and the extra bandwidth costs.The ASP strategy didn't work, but times have changed. Communications have become faster and cheaper, server virtualisation has made hosting cheaper, and Google has helped popularise the idea of cloud computing. So Microsoft returned to the fray this week with BPOS, its Business Productivity Online Suite, which is "Software as a Service" (SaaS).BPOS is based on building huge data centres based on containerised servers, where everything is plumbed into shipping containers. You just stack up as many as you can afford. It's also based on Azure, Microsoft's emerging cloud computing platform, which in turn is based on Windows Server 2008.The initial offerings are Microsoft Exchange Online and Microsoft SharePoint Online. Exchange is email, and SharePoint is a sort of sharing/blogging/wiki-style server that mainly provides a back end to Microsoft Office. Services cost from $3 to $15 a month, with discounts for volume, or for being a Software Assurance customer. (SA is Microsoft's subscription software service.)European services will start early next year. Before that, Microsoft UK's incubation team (sic) will offer a beta service run from US servers, for those who want to try it. Microsoft UK's Gill Le Fevre says: "Customers can choose what mix of online or on-premise software they want, whether 50-50 or whatever. We're looking to let customers have the best of both worlds."In other words, Microsoft hopes to keep customers buying software as they do today, as well as paying for software "in the cloud". If it can do that, the revenue from online services is mostly a bonus. Customers replacing their software with a cheaper online service would be less attractive. However, over the long term, renting almost always costs more than buying.BPOS is a business service with service level agreements, not a consumer service like Windows Live. It's not intended to compete with Google or Amazon, yet, except insofar as it might discourage some existing customers from defecting. But I expect it will be offered to IBM Lotus Notes users - as a form of pain relief.
In the heyday of rock music, no stadium gig was complete without a slow number that prompted the crowd to hold aloft their cigarette lighters to create hundreds of flickering points of light. Now the same effect is created by hundreds of people holding up their mobile phones as the audience takes photo after photo to prove they were there.This is most likely to occur in the UK as the British use their mobile phone as a camera more than anyone else. They are also among the world's fastest adopters of social networking sites such as Facebook and Bebo, posting the subsequent photos or at least updating their status to relate how great the gig was, as a way of keeping in touch with an ever-expanding and ephemeral collection of "friends".The British love of camera phones, social networking and even digital video recorders and digital televisions - there are more per capita in the UK than anywhere else, even the US - is revealed in research by the communications regulator Ofcom published today. It paints a picture of an increasingly tech-literate nation, with a strong desire to keep in touch, that is now spending almost twice as long on the internet as it did in 2004.Prof Simeon Yates, director of the Culture, Communication and Computing Research Institute (C3RI) at Sheffield Hallam University believes that British consumers - especially younger ones - have wrapped the mobile phone into their lives in a way that is less pronounced in other countries."One of the things that is becoming clear is that for a lot of reasons British people, especially those under the age of say 40, have got used to using their mobile phones for communication, whereas in the US they are used to using their computer and in Japan they still use their phone in a different way."The Japanese, for instance, are hindered by their language which makes composing a text message a rather cumbersome process. Many Americans, meanwhile, grew up with free broadband access, as it came bundled with cable television.In the UK, the ubiquity of mobile phones has accompanied the explosion in social networking. Despite their reputation as being reserved, the British seem more and more willing to share everything online. Ofcom's latest International Communications Market report shows that 50% of British internet users access social networking sites, up 11 percentage points on last year and second only to Canada.Increasingly, Britons use mobile phones to tell friends what they are up to. "For an awful lot of people, the mobile phone is core to maintaining their relationships with people," says Yates. "They are trying to maintain very large but slightly ephemeral social networks, which are bigger than the networks we used to try and maintain, and one way to do that is to send little moments of contact: 'here's a picture of me at a concert', for instance, and it does not require any conversation to follow."The sheer size of the US market means it tops the global league for doing this - with 4 million Americans regularly accessing social networking sites on their phones - but the UK is in second place.The Ofcom report shows there were 121 mobile phones for every 100 people in the UK last year, the second highest market penetration among the world's seven top economies - excluding China - after Italy at 154%. Italians regularly have one pre-pay phone for work and one for personal use while 40% of households in Italy have no fixed line at all, compared with about one in 10 in the UK.Britons used those phones to make a total of 99bn minutes of calls last year, compared with 52bn in 2002, and send an average of 972 texts each, up from 708. American mobile phone users topped the calling league with 2.1 trillion minutes last year, but Irish mobile phone users sent the most texts, composing 1,848 each, or 154 a month, up from 118 a month in 2002.Asked whether they use their mobile phone as a camera, 59% of Britons surveyed by Ofcom said they do, compared with 58% in Italy and 52% in Japan.The dramatic growth in mobile phone use helped the global communications market grow 6.1% last year, to &pound;876bn.The report also shows that British internet users are spending more and more time online, currently 839 minutes a week, up from 385 minutes in 2004. British internet users are only outpaced by their American counterparts who now spend 913 minutes a week glued to their screens.
Hibernation revisitedLast week, you mentioned "setting your PC to hibernate" to save power. My limited knowledge of technology jargon doesn't include hibernation.Edward JohnsonJS:Hibernation implies a long sleep with a reduction in the use of resources. You can set a PC either to go into standby mode (sleep) or to hibernate when you are not using it. If you set the PC to hibernate it writes whatever is in its memory to a big file (hiberfil.sys) on your hard drive. That way, you won't lose anything if there is a power cut. Go to the Control Panel and run Power Options. Click the Hibernate tab to enable hibernation (in effect, to reserve the disk space required). The Power Schemes tab offers a number of pre-set options including Portable/Laptop and Always On. If you are using the Home/Office Desk power scheme, you can tell your PC how long to wait before turning off the monitor and hard disks, from one minute to never. You can also set a time before your PC automatically goes into standby mode or hibernates.An alternative is to click the Start button and select Turn Off Computer. This will usually let you choose between three options: Stand By, Turn Off, and Restart. Pressing the shift key will change Stand By into Hibernate. You can pick the one you want. (In Windows Vista, Stand By has become Sleep.) Some people wrote in to say that when a PC hibernates, it uses no power at all. This is not necessarily true. Many PCs now have a "wake on LAN" function so that they can be woken up remotely for software updates, and this uses some power in hibernation. Also, sound cards and USB hubs may prevent a PC from powering down completely. To get a true "off" can involve going into the PC's Bios chip and changing the advanced power settings. It's not worth the effort. However, if you must save the last trickle, pulling the plug works.Not hibernatingIn the past two months I've often returned to find that my computer screen says "Waiting to Hibernate".My PC is a Dell from 2002, and it is working fine.Paul KnutsonJS:Manufacturers have put a lot of effort into making laptops hibernate and wake up reasonably well, but haven't bothered much about desktops, where a daily reboot could be considered therapeutic. Some older PCs don't support hibernation at all, and hibernation can be blocked by various hardware and software components. Microsoft hasa step-by-step guide, How to troubleshoot hibernation and standby issues in Windows XP, which covers the main approaches.Firewall offOften when I switch on my computer, I get a message that the Windows Firewall is not turned on. As I never turn it off, I do not know how this happens.Bill RossJS:The two things most likely to turn off the Windows Firewall are (a) security suites from other companies; and (b) malware. Reboot your PC and runPanda's Anti Rootkit. Next, download and run theKaspersky Virus Removal Tool. You should also check that you have all Windows Updates installed, and that third-party software is patched. Secunia offersa scanning tool for this, and I recommend running the desktop version, Personal Software Inspector. This type of inspection has become more important now that many web-based malware attacks target programs such as Apple QuickTime and RealPlayer.BackchatVeronica Piekosz had problems with her four-year-old PowerBook G4. In my answer, I mentioned that in the US, Apple had extended the warranty for models with a known memory slot fault. Piekosz found out that her machine's serial number was in the range affected, and her Trading Standards office said she seemed to have a good case to take to the small claims court.She says: "I called Apple again, and this time they agreed to pay for the new logic board."• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.ukguardian.co.uk/askjack
Ancient Rome rebornGoogle Earth now has a 3D virtual version of Rome in 320AD that you can fly around.Against pants presentsThe Charities Aid Foundation is setting up a website to encourage people to ask for donations to charity instead of "pants presents".Beem me the money!Mobile Sense has launched Beem, a free service that allows people to send money via SMS text messages.Dell well (RED)Dell has launched (RED) versions of its Studio notebooks, with $20 per sale going to help eliminate Aids in Africa.Pure MioPure is launching the Mio portable DAB/FM radio, which has a rechargeable battery, for &pound;149.99.Core that's fasterPC manufacturers have started shipping machines based on Intel's speedy Core i7 quad-core chip, codenamed Nehalem.PC EquiptMicrosoft UK has launched Equipt, a subscription service that combines Microsoft Office, OneCare and Windows Live for around &pound;60 a year.Universal challengeCosmologists want to know more about dark matter, and the Gravitational Lensing Accuracy Testing Challenge wants data analysis experts to crunch 170GB of data.
Wii Music arrives with high hopes attached - and the stamp of Shigeru Miyamoto, resident development genius at Nintendo and all-round legend. But for the first time, Miyamoto-san has crafted an absolute dog. Wii Music lets you play a bewildering number of instruments in any musical style. It does this by grouping them into categories, so anything that has to be strummed, for example, you play by holding the Nunchuk in your left hand and wielding the Wiimote like a plectrum in your right. At first, you can jam along with computer-controlled bands - though you have little enough impact to leave you wondering what the point is. When you open the advanced music lessons, it at least makes more sense - now you can lay down individual parts for tracks and learn, for example, how jazz drum patterns differ from rock ones. However, at no point does Wii Music become anything more than a chore to play. And the music it contains is beyond awful. Buy Guitar Hero World Tour instead.
In August 2007, Adobe unleashed version 3 of its Creative Suite (CS) collection of design applications; now CS4 has just shipped. If you shelled out more than &pound;2,000 for the full Master Suite 15 months ago, you won't be impressed at its being superseded so quickly.More galling, this isn't just an incremental upgrade from CS3: Adobe has crammed a lot of new features into the various applications. There are six suites to choose from; the comprehensive Master Collection includes the stalwart Photoshop, plus InDesign, Illustrator, Acrobat, Dreamweaver, Flash, Fireworks, After Effects, Premiere, Soundbooth, OnLocation and Encore, as well as Bridge and Device Central. That lot will set you back &pound;2,313.58 via the Adobe Store; or &pound;934.12 as an upgrade.Photoshop introduces some neat new tricks, including content-aware scaling. This allows you to crunch a background while preserving elements of the image that can't be squeezed, such as faces. You could, for example, turn a landscape shot of frolicking children into a portrait shape. Purists may think it too much of a cheat, but it's a breathtakingly clever trick. Photoshop can now also easily drape a 2D object over a 3D frame.The desktop publishing program InDesign has new functions too, one of the niftiest being the ability to export a document to a Shockwave Flash file to be played by Flash player or opened in Flash to create interactive documents. Soundbooth can turn sound files into text, a useful (though by no means perfect) tool if you're looking for a keyword or if you've got a long sound file to transcribe, while Flash has made creating animations a much smoother process.This is just a tiny handful of the upgrades; you could spend months digging into each application unearthing what's new. Interface-wise, everything is a smart, cool grey; while one of the most important upgrades is that Windows versions of the suites come in 64-bit. This means that the applications can address more than 4GB of Ram - important when dealing with the resource-hungry documents that these applications produce. (The Mac versions remain at 32-bit because they're not written in OSX's native Cocoa.)Butinstallation is still dire- it took two hours on my Vista box, while Mac users complain that Adobe's installers refuse to conform to the usual seamless approach.Maybe that's a small price to pay for such extraordinarily comprehensive and powerful applications. But installation should be a lot better than it is. The suite itself is a delight to use; getting there shouldn't be so hard.Pros:Significant new functionality; comprehensive and usable toolsCons:Awful installers; the priceadobe.com
Version 2 adds a roof and engineOn first viewing, this is the pinnacle of satire: a human-powered treadmill that can be used outdoors, because it's got wheels. Except we're assured it's real.So is it the General Motors rescue plan?Wimbledon of the future? NoAn amazing blast from the past, and arguably the second ever videogame: "tennis", played on an oscilloscope, written at the Brookhaven National Laboratory in 1958. New bits, please!Welcome, human underlings!"Jules", from the Bristol Robotics Lab, has 34 motors, rubber skin and is scarily real. Philip K Dick, where are you?• Send links to tech@guardian.co.uk
This week, Valve Corporation and Turtle Rock Studios will release Left 4 Dead. A cooperative online survival horror game, Left 4 Dead casts four players as the sole resistance against a zombie apocalypse.What's most interesting about the game is that it's built on Valve's Source engine technology - the same technology that powered Half-Life 2 (four years ago), Counter-Strike: Source and Portal. Source's versatility is demonstrated with the regular stream of inventive titles powered by it - Left 4 Dead being the latest example - but it's perhaps most evident in the vast number of mods (modifications to a game, often built by fans) created for Source games. A search onmoddb.comreveals that there are more than 1,000 mods either released or in development for Half-Life 2 alone.The modding crowdFor copyright reasons, mods are free to download and play. It's a form of bedroom game development that's rarely acknowledged outside specialist media, but mods and mod teams have been crucial since the early 1990s: id Software, for example, agrees that part of the huge success of its titles Wolfenstein 3D (1992) and Doom (1993) was largely due to word of mouth. And a significant selling point for those games - to hardcore gamers, at least - was the opportunity to rework them. This was a painstaking process with Wolfenstein, so id, realising the potential of the mod scene, made Doom more mod-friendly. The result was an extensive Doom modding community; one of its members, Tim Willits, was recruited by id in 1995, and is now the company's lead designer.Valve's ties to the mod scene are even stronger. Not only is a significant portion of the creative team comprised of former modders, but it's also been involved in the commercialisation of mod projects since the early days. Counter-Strike, the most played online game in the world, began as a mod of Half-Life, which was released in November 1998.Counter-Strike was an immediate hit, and in 2000, Valve recruited the team behind it and a commercial version of the game was released.Since 2000, Valve has positioned itself as a white knight for mod scene: it has orchestrated the commercialisation of Gunman Chronicles, Day of Defeat and Garry's Mod - a sandbox game/virtual playground. Last month Valve began hosting outstanding mods on Steam, its digital distribution/online gaming platform.However, things are changing. "They're not just doing it for fun any more," says Doug Lombardi, Valve's marketing director. "It's not just so they can brag to a bunch of people on a forum. They're serious. They want to quit their day jobs and do this thing for real. So they're forming companies. I was around in the Half-Life days, and if you'd told me in early 1998 that people in the mod community would be forming articles of corporation, I would have laughed at you. But we see it now."While some in the community say this commercial approach destroys the spirit of modding, Lombardi says: "I think you just end up with more polished works."Jason Holtman, Valve's financial director, concurs: "The mod scene is maturing. We see more mod teams organising, getting incorporated, firing people who aren't producing. We see a lot of these guys going to school and coming out of universities. There's a couple of universities coming out in London that are looking like DigiPen [a college in Washington State] - and, obviously, there's DigiPen, which is growing tremendously. So we're seeing a more formalised, more sophisticated version of the mod world."Making it bigEven so, with entry-level game development tools becoming cheaper or even free, some teams are cutting out the middleman. Consider Narbacular Drop, a project from Nuclear Monkey Software, a team of students from DigiPen. Rather than modding an existing game, Nuclear Monkey built its own product, an innovative exploration into the use of portals in puzzles. That caught the attention of Valve, which promptly acquired Nuclear Monkey and put the team to work on creating last year's critical and commercial hit, Portal."The Portal team was like the current-day version of the mod scene," Holtman says. "Instead of being distributed across the states and meeting on a chatroom, or whatever, they met in a classroom at a university for computer game design and programming. But that's because folks know that's a legitimate path now. People are being very sharp and very intentional about their stuff. They've seen theCounter-Strike model. They're saying, 'I can do that, too. That's my ticket into the industry. I don't want to be a tester on Football 2009; I want to go get a job at Valve.'"Valve has realised that the future of innovation lies with the players; those who have been playing games since childhood and want to do it themselves. "It's that garage-band ethos," says Lombardi. "They know they can go out and do it now, and make it big." And the launch of Left 4 Dead on Steam will be yet another example of just how far a small team can now go.
Nothing was out of bounds for developers at the Guardian's inaugural Hack Day last week. Evenlegendary columnist Charlie Brookerwas a target, withmySocietydeveloper Matthew Somerville rebranding guardian.co.uk as "charlian.co.uk" - revising the entire site to include only the work of the great man himself.Tucked away in the bowels of the Guardian offices, the significance of the event might have been lost on the hundreds of word monkeys hammering away in the rest of the building. But this was an important day for guardian.co.uk, an all too uncommon collaboration between technical and editorial staff.Put together by Matt McAlister, head of the Guardian's developer network, the Hack Day formula comprises introductions from speakers; 24 hours to build something (through the night, fuelled by pizza and beer); and just 60 seconds to pitch each finished product the next day.Simon Rogers, news editor on the Guardian's graphics desk, kicked off by presenting acres of data ripe for hacking. Rogers has to compile this to produce infographics for the newspaper, but once a pie chart or map has been produced, the rest of the data will be left behind. And it's fascinating data — government budgets for health, education, and defence spending, election results and even the price of illegal drugs across the country.Recently installed technical architect Simon Willison could hardly contain his excitement extracting and mashing this data through the online database service Dabble DB. He settled on creating an electoral map of the UK, but turned the tedious process of tidying the data into something approaching a game, asking users to help identify constituencies on the map."I work on the paper and our data tends to live in the moment that the paper is published," said Rogers. "When we do an election map it takes us hours to process that data - and Simon automated that process and did it in 30 seconds. Journalists aren't usually very good with numbers, but there's actually loads of interesting work to be done with data and analysis. It's great for the Guardian and the Observer for the future."Besides the obligatory robot hack (Java-powered, Bluetooth-controlled), another to pick out DVLA records just from photos of cars, and a recession-free version of the Guardian site (omitting any story with "credit crunch" or "recession"), there were echoes of influential US developer Adrian Holovaty's "Faces of the Fallen" project for the Washington Post. "Tony's" hack took Ministry of Defence data on fatalities in Afghanistan and presented each of them with names and stories.Tom Armitage scanned the RSS feeds of political stories and attached LEDs that would show the bias of MPs and parties mentioned in the piece, and Rob McKinnon (a visiting hacker from New Zealand's version of TheyWorkForYou) picked out key comments and phrases to represent opinions on the site. Type "Chinese democracy..." and the hack returns nine phrases from guardian.co.uk, including "leaking like the Titanic" and "finally finished which means Guns N'Roses should next year have a product to tour".Techbelly came up with a Greasemonkey-powered floating menu that helps to "add meaning and context to numbers". If you're reading a guardian.co.uk story about executive bonuses, one click and you can see how many teachers those bonuses are equal to.What was impressive about the Guardian's Hack Day, says McAlister, was the calibre of the hacks. "Almost all the hacks were about content or media, so developers were thinking about the information rather than just hacking the technology for the sake of it. The technologists are always talking about how great it would be to have that kind of data to play with, but it's not until you see what can be done with that that it all starts to make sense."
Won't somebody think of the children? This mantra is being used with great effect by the Australian government to increase its control over what Australians see, watch and do - all, ostensibly, in the name of protecting the nation's youth. And a scheme that amounts to censorship is coming closer: the government has said that it wants to start live trials of ISP-level content filtering before Christmas.In January, the government annouunced its $A128.5m (&pound;55.2m) Plan for Cyber-Safety - a content-filtering scheme based on the pre-election pledge of Kevin Rudd, who became prime minister last year. His plan follows the failure of the A$189m NetAlert scheme put in place by the government of John Howard, who was defeated in the last federal election.The plan was put together by Australian Labor senator Stephen Conroy, the minister for broadband, communications and the digital economy, with the aim of protecting children from pornography and violent websites and the banning outright of illegal material.Australians will be unable to opt out of the scheme. Senator Conroy told the Australian media: "Labor makes no apologies to those that argue that any regulation of the internet is like going down the Chinese road. If people equate freedom of speech with watching child pornography, then the government is going to disagree."Keeping it cleanThe scheme will require ISPs to offer a "clean-feed" web service to all homes, schools and public internet access points. There will be two blacklists: one that blocks all illegal material, such as child pornography; and the second which blocks a list of things deemed unsuitable for children, to be determined by the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA). Only the latter blacklist will be optional.What better rationale than children's sensibilities to reassure people the trampling of their rights is worth it? The Australian government's agenda on national censorship is based on an appeal to emotion - it doesn't matter what it bans or censors, it can always claim it's for the benefit of children.However, the response has been largely hostile. An online poll by the Courier-Mail newspaper in Queensland showed that some 86% of respondents do not support the scheme. And concerns that it is technically impossible to implement and will slow further Australia's already slow internet speeds by as much as 30% are just some of the fears.Civil liberties groups say that the scheme is an infringement of Australians' rights. Colin Jacobs, who chairs the online users' lobby group Electronic Frontiers Australia, says: "I'm not exaggerating when I say that this model involved more technical interference in the internet infrastructure that what is attempted in Iran, one of the most regressive censorship regimes in the world."Australia doesn't have a good track record on censorship. For example, the continued refusal by the attorneys-general of Australia to introduce an R18+ classification for videogames is just one issue in addition to the proposed filtering scheme.When DH Lawrence's Lady Chatterley's Lover was first published in 1928, Australia was not the only nation to ban the book. But 40 years later, it remained one of the only countries where the ban was still in force. Bret Easton Ellis's American Psycho is still in effect banned in the state of Queensland - the book is classified a Category 1 publication, meaning it cannot be sold in the state and must be sealed in plastic before it is sold anywhere else. And Australia's previous attempt to censor the internet is nothing to be proud of. In August last year, 16-year-old Tom Wood was able to hack through the NetAlert filters, put in place by the previous government at a cost said to be A$84m, in just half an hour (Are web filters just a waste of everyone's time and money?August 30 2007). When the Australian government was apprised of that, it added another filter; Wood cracked that in 10 minutes.Helen Coonan, the then communications minister, said at the time that "unfortunately, no single measure can protect children from online harm and ... traditional parenting skills have never been more important". But perhaps that has been rethought in favour of ever more ambitious filters. While nobody would argue that it's important for everyone to have access to child pornography, the counter-argument - that it's more important to find the tiny number of people who access such content and prosecute them, while leaving everyone else alone - doesn't seem to have occurred to the Australian government.Who benefits?The Rudd government has released the results of a lab trial carried out last year by the ACMA, a closed-environment test of ISP-level content filters which tested the effect on network traffic and its effectiveness at identifying and blocking banned content. While the filtering technology had improved since a trial in 2005, what is clear is that a slower network is guaranteed. Of the six ISP-level filters tested in July by the ACMA, the majority caused drops in speed between 21% and 86%. The filters also proved inaccurate, with a significant number of innocuous pages blocked (1.3% to 7.8%) and unsafe pages let through (2% to 13%).What's more, the scheme will only be applied to web traffic, meaning that peer-to-peer filesharing will not be filtered, despite accounting for an estimated 60% of internet traffic in Australia.The government has tried to get around these problems by pointing to Britain, Sweden, Canada and New Zealand, which all have similar filtering systems. However, in those countries the filtering systems are not mandatory. In the UK, BT's CleanFeed system uses a list of thousands of sites hosting content such as child pornography provided by the UK-based Internet Watch Foundation; the list is offered without compulsion to ISPs.The Australian government is commited to pushing ahead with its trials, despite the overwhelmingly negative reaction. Nobody seems to be benefiting from the move - except possibly the ISPs, who will be able to charge for additional filters. The children the government is so keen to protect will simply see their internet speeds degraded.
Quite possibly. Jerry Yang announced on Monday that he will step down from the post of chief executive at Yahoo, having been in the position for just 18 months — a period dominated by Microsoft's unsuccessful $33 (&pound;22) per share buyout offer, which valued the company at $44bn. This week Yahoo's shares touched a low of $10.50 (though Yang's departure boosted them). Yahoo's underlying problem is that despite being the world's most visited website, by some reports, it is a distant second to Google in search advertising revenue. It seems that running popular services for free is not necessarily good business.Which brings us to Jonathan Schwartz, chief executive of Sun Microsystems, just along the road from Yahoo's California head office. Its shares have dropped even further than Yahoo's in the past couple of years — from $21.68 in November 2006 to under $4 now.Sun Microsystems makes high-end servers, and prospered on the back of these in the early years of the internet, declaring itself "the dot in dotcom". Sun also invented the Java platform, which is everywhere in enterprise software; yet the company has never recovered from the "dot bomb" crash of 2000, when many web companies failed and stopped buying Sun's servers. By the time the business recovered, the trend was towards multiple cheap commodity servers, as used to power Google, rather than Sun's expensive offerings.In April 2006, following a series of poor results, Sun's co-founder and then CEO Scott McNealy stepped aside in favour of Schwartz, an internal appointee. Schwartz has tried to turn the company round through open-source software. Under his stewardship, Java has become open source, as has the Solaris operating system; he also nurtured the freeOpenOffice.orgproductivity suite. In January, Sun bought MySQL, with its free open-source database manager, for $1bn.It adds up to a dazzling array of open-source software, but where is the business model? Schwartz argues that Sun is acquiring customers who will buy hardware or services; but the strategy has failed to prevent further losses. Last week Sun announced that it was cutting up to 6,000 jobs, or 18% of its global workforce. Its business alliances are also under strain. A software distribution partnership with Google has ended, and the MySQL acquisition puts Sun in competition with Oracle, which is arguably less inclined to recommend Sun's kit.Few will be surprised if Schwartz follows Yang. The interesting further question is how the failure of Sun's open source experiment might affect Java and the wider software community. Yahoo has a free website and services like the Flickr photo-sharing site; Sun has free software which powers much of the internet. The financial problems afflicting both companies, in recessionary times, call into question whether "free" is ever good business.
Gamers are so cocky. As the rest of the world crumbles around them, they sit on their comfy sofas, controllers in hand, looking smug. After all, it appears that the only market continuing to rise is theirs. The final quarter of the year has traditionally been the make-or-break time for consumer electronics; the Thanksgiving holiday in the US signals an international scrum in games stores. Most games companies wait until now to fire their big guns, and they are rewarded.This year should be different, but it's not. Games sales in the US soared in October and the UK is expected to have its busiest quarter after two flat ones. Analysts in Europe and North America are optimistic about the games industry's performance this holiday season. So why isn't the games industry facing the same problems as everyone else?Well, expensive hardware isn't on Santa's list this year; he already delivered. There's a huge increase in the installed console base from last year thanks to the casual gamers' embrace of the Wii and now new and old gamers just need software, not hardware. Much kinder to the pocket.But the industry is battening down its hatches. Already the big names like EA, NCSoft and Midway have started culling jobs. In Japan, the industry's litmus market, sales are down. The products you'll see on the shelves this year were completed in a different economic climate - their creators could now be on the breadline. Come April, expect less optimism and more crunching. It's not going to be pretty for those who don't have big hits this season.As the good times screech to a halt, gamers play on. Ironically, the crunch could be great for them. The indie scene is thriving, with an influx of redundant developers and more distribution channels than ever. Switched-on gamers can find everything they want without having to remortgage.And the best piece of advice going around right now is for the major players to diversify into serious and casual gaming. Big money is already flowing in on the casual side: Apple is pimping its devices as superior to other hardware, and console publishers are pouring silly amounts of cash into TV slots for their casual products in an increasingly competitive market.One analyst has predicted that the casuals will kill the consoles, but the hardware manufacturers are pumping R&amp;D into their own casual channels and are playing around with new financial models.Serious gaming, once considered the nerdy brother of an industry that has its fair share of nerds, is in a great place too: by jumping on that bandwagon, developers ensure a lifeline from education and science, both stable sources of cash.Armageddon may be upon us, but gamers know how to handle it. They've had years of practice. How cocky is that?
Barack Obama has shown with resounding success how internet innovations - from Facebook to Twitter - can help win elections. But can similar tools help solve the economic problems facing Gordon Brown and other political leaders trying to jump-start a stalled global economy? The government is looking for socially useful measures that will give an immediate boost to the economy and help employment without piling up debt.Ministers are thinking of building new homes and that must be a good thing in the long run. But before that what about filling and, if needed, renovating empty houses? According to The Empty Homes Agency (EHA), a charity, there are now 940,000 empty homes in the UK. That is a shocking figure, inflated by the boom-to-bust mania of the buy-to-let era. It is possible to be reasonably accurate about the figures, because they are based on homes not paying council tax.There are two problems: identifying where the empty houses actually are and then putting pressure on local authorities and landlords to do something about it. This is where technology comes in. The EHA has linked up with the admirablemySociety.orgfamily of social websites to provide an easy way to report empty properties so the council, or whoever, can take action throughreportemptyhomes.com. As with other mySociety sites, ranging from contacting your MP to applying for data under the freedom of information act, the site (officially launched next week as part of National Empty Homes Week) is a model of easy use. You simply type in a postcode or street name and up comes a mini-map of the surrounding streets: you then click on the map where the empty property is and a flag stays there to mark the spot.As with mySociety's sister site facilitating the reporting of potholes, it then sends the information straight to the council officials concerned. This doesn't guarantee they will do anything, as some backward-looking officials regard it as an outside intrusion into something they should be doing. When I reported potentially dangerous potholes some months ago the site worked beautifully but nothing happened (until an irate neighbour rang the council directly) - but mySociety says that 8,000 potholes have been repaired as a result offixmystreet.com.Reporting empty properties is potentially more controversial than potholes because it could become a manual for squatters, burglars and others to find them. But one suspects they have their own antennae for this sort of thing and the prospect of property being identified might, one hopes, prompt local authorities and owners to do something about it.Of course, the problem is more complicated. It is not so easy to fill empty properties when the banks won't lend to each other, let alone to members of the human race. One of the reasons why property is lying idle - apart from the excesses of the buy-to-let boom - is that owners won't sell in the misbegotten hope that their property is still worth last year's inflated price. But that doesn't alter the fact that this is a problem waiting to be solved. If Brown wants to do something, then identifying empty homes for renovation (thereby boosting local employment) is a good place to start.As David Ireland, chief executive of EHA, points out, thousands of homes have been vacated in recent years to make way for stillborn regeneration schemes, such as the 2,000 homes awaiting the bulldozers near Anfield football stadium in Liverpool which could be modernised rather than razed to the ground. But first properties must be identified and pressure put on local authorities. It would help if local authorities actually embraced mySociety's impressively useable websites rather than see them as a rival. It would help everyone and probably save them money on their web operations as well.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Who goes there?One of the best ways to create secure passwords is to simply use a sentence (Read me first, November 13). "Longpasswordsarestrong" is 22 characters, which is essentially impossible to crack. Passwords created in this way are extremely secure and very easy to remember. Instead of passwords, perhaps passphrases should be used instead.Robin Bailey,WheatleyI can't help but feel that Bruce Schneier has missed the point. Fixed passwords are vulnerable to far simpler attacks, such as keylogging. Although a clever password may fool a password guesser, it will fail against a keylogger. One-time password systems which give the user a set of easy to follow graphical cues offer the greatest potential for the perfect mix of security and usability.Jonathan CraymerChairman, GrIDsure Limited, HuntingdonWe need to be considering more secure alternatives that involve levels of authentication. Usability is the key to widespread acceptance.craigmurphy.com/blogYou chooseCory Doctorow (Who is your top tip for the job of Britain's digital champion?, November 13).Sean Kenneyvia emailMoira Stuart. A person widely recognised, with a track record of seriousness and good humour.Tony BarrettCatertonIt's blindingly obvious - Stephen Fry.Sandra SempleSeatonHas anyone ever told you how irritating it is when journalists show a photograph of someone that has absolutely nothing to do with the article together with a reference to that person having nothing to do with the article? At the foot of page 3 in today's Technology supplement, an article is illustrated with a picture of Russell Brand and mentions that he has nothing to do with the article. You should credit your readers with the intelligence not to need eye or word candy to entice them.Michael SwerdlowLiverpoolPulp fictionI will still buy books (Rewriting the book on profitable publishing, November 13). The problem with this, though, is the whole quality issue. How do you sort the wheat from the crap?agamisu.livejournal.comProgress of a sortAlthough [Michael Cross] doesn't mention it, the further work [on e-voting] will, civil servants tell me, particularly focus on audit trails for e-voting and e-counting systems (I vote for the old-fashioned way of balloting in elections, November 13). Given the likely persistence of e-counting in both Scotland and London, both of which have had e-counting systems with noticeably poor audit trails, that is at least progress of a sort.libdemvoice.orgPension off the softwareHaving just retired, I needed to claim my state pension and went todirect.gov.ukto do so. I was linked to the Pensions Service site (which is called Siebel) and readily found the right form. I started filling the form in but could not progress from page to page. I switched from Safari to Firefox and had the same experience.The pension service has no email address so I complained to the direct.gov.uk helpdesk, which has been charming and thorough, explaining that the Siebel software handling pension forms cannot handle carriage return characters sent by Mac or Unix machines - only ones sent by Windows machines. It was not at all apologetic.No other website I have ever used exhibits this glitch and I'm told this one has been known since 2006. Why can't they get it right?Michael EdwardsLondon• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk• Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
When the government talks about "critical national infrastructure", for most of us it brings to mind images of guarded nuclear facilities, choked railways and failing banks. But now, on a business park on the outskirts of Oxford, a keystone of the modern economy is the subject of an increasingly bitter power struggle that could trigger a Whitehall power grab at the independent heart of the UK internet.Nominet is the not-for-profit company founded in 1996 to run the UK internet registry, when demand for domain names soared. Every time we click a link or type a web address containing .co.uk, .org.uk and other UK-centric suffixes we're connected to the correct website thanks to Nominet's database. In August, it celebrated registering its its seven millionth domain name, for a driving school in Ilford.Torrid politicsSuch success in fostering a national identity for the UK online conceals deep divisions and torrid internal politics that now threaten Nominet's foundations. In the past month, two directors have called for the resignations of the chief executive and chairman amid allegations of misconduct, and a senior civil servant at Peter Mandelson's Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR) has pointedly asked the company to justify its independence from the government.The two episodes are connected and arise from the same conflict. Nominet's members are a diverse group of more than 2,800 companies and individuals who pay for its operations and make a living by selling domain names - a multimillion pound industry. They elect four non-executive directors to the board, which is completed by chief executive Lesley Cowley and Bob Gilbert, the chairman.The people who established Nominet wrote a constitution that obliges it to act not only for the members but also in the interests of wider industry, the government and ordinary internet users for example when representing the UK at international internet policy debates such as those organised by Icann, the US organisation that acts as the internet's de facto governing body.That conflicted role means that Nominet's leadership is now battling parts of its membership. Chief among the dissenters are non-executive director Jim Davies and Angus Hanton, who resigned his non-executive seat on the board last week. They represent a constituency in the membership - so-called "domainers" - who would like to see the cost of domains names slashed. Others argue that maintaining higher prices is in the interest of all internet users because it stops speculators buying up swathes of generic domains to serve advertising pages that add to the web's ever-rising tide of junk.Davies and Hanton want the Nominet leadership out. As well as philosophical differences over the organisation's future direction, they allege significant mismanagement of staff discipline and executive pay. In turn, the executives claim that they have the support of the majority of members and have rejected the calls for an emergency meeting, criticising their detractors for publicising Nominet's problems. "Just because two people are not supportive that's not a basis on which to call a general meeting," Cowley says. The two other non-executive directors have written to support her and Gilbert."The only way to demonstrate member support is by calling a general meeting and testing the claim," says Davies. "An emergency meeting should resolve the matter of Nominet's future direction, and the type of people who run it, once and for all. Surely that is in the best interests of the company and the .uk community - let all the members decide, rather than just claiming their support without being prepared to test it."Meanwhile, BERR was called in after a proposal that would have granted executives powers to appoint unelected non-executive directors (who would represent non-members) failed to attract enough support at Nominet's annual meeting in May. Cowley and Gilbert met civil servants to discuss what they described as the company's "vulnerability to capture" by domainers.Likely winnerThat meeting drew a follow-up letter from David Hendon, BERR's director of business relations, noting that many countries regard their internet registry as "a national asset, the management of which required the direct involvement of government". In response to the letter, Nominet has called in an independent reviewer to examine its corporate structures and report before Christmas.In his resignation letter, Hanton alluded to allegations that Nominet executives want to erode member influence by any means. He wrote: "My firm impression is that some other directors would like to eliminate the membership's control of the organisation and are not committed to the company's not-for-profit objectives." Cowley denies this and says Nominet is committed to maintaining the registry's independence from the government that has seen the UK internet thrive for more than a decade. She also denies suspicions held by some members that the approach to BERR was made by Nominet itself.Both sides of the spat say they don't want the government to be involved in Nominet and profess the hope that the successful self-regulatory approach will survive. Yet at the moment it seems the likeliest winner of their battle is Whitehall bureaucracy, which would be a shame for Nominet members, the UK internet public and our critical national infrastructure alike.
The financial crisis is grim enough without the Financial Times panicking; yet last week the paper committed theworst online redesign I have ever seen. There is no excuse for this loss of nerve and trust in its readership, but there are, perhaps, some explanations. They are very disheartening.First, to the nature of the crime. The front page of the FT's site used to be a tightly designed space, with the main stories in about 10-point type and a sidebar containing anything up to 30 links that allowed you to explore the rest of the paper. There would be 15 or 20 stories immediately available. This was a lot of information. People who read the FT are assumed to be capable of processing lots of information.The front page of the website this morning has something like a fifth of the number of words on it. The font size has nearly doubled, and the leading - the blank space between the lines - has grown even more. There are perhaps a fifth as many links visible as in the old design. Aesthetically, this Janet-and-John look is familiar from lots of Wordpress templates, though in general a Wordpress blog makes better use of white space. Other newspapers have approached it - theTelegraph is the most obvious example. But the Telegraph looks grown-up next to the FT's redesign, which is even larger and even more shapeless. The new look resembles a mobile phone screen, hugely inflated. It is ugly, uninformative and actively confusing. Instead of presenting a lot of information quickly and quietly, it presents very little, slowly, and with maximum confusion.On a mobile phone screen, this is understandable. You can't read very much on anything smaller than a smartphone (and lots of phones are very smart without being smartphones: my little Nokia has a PDF reader built in, but a screen too tiny to make this very useful). So the best mobile phone sites have been redesigned to present you with no more than eight or 10 clear choices and a simple way to navigate between them. The clients for Gmail and Rememberthemilk (a task manager) are good examples of how things ought to look. But that's on a screen of 320 by 240 pixels or thereabouts. Real computers are different. It's almost impossible today to buy a monitor less than 1024 pixels wide, even on a laptop, which means there is something like 16 times as much space to play with; and the FT's redesign wastes almost all of it. It's like Powerpoint that has been dropped into a blender.It looks as if it has been aimed at people who don't want to read. No doubt this is a growing and important segment of the population. Some of its members are successful in business: the Tory politician Michael Heseltine is dyslexic, in a way that is painfully obvious if you have ever watched him read from a brief in parliament. But it's not very sensible for a newspaper to pitch its products at the dyslexic market; and it's particularly stupid for the Financial Times, which is a newspaper for the elite if it is anything at all.Financial Times readers are smarter than the readers of almost every other newspaper - that's certainly what its marketing department would say - and they are used to making decisions under pressure: even the skull-crushing pressure of having to spell out thousands of words before understanding what's going on. That is why they pay for the paper. Not only is it able to charge a large premium at the news stand - &pound;1.50 instead of &pound;1 for its nearest rivals - but it can, almost uniquely, charge for content online. This is because it is read for information and not just entertainment. The content of the FT forms the basis for readers' decisions in a way that is just not true of most of the other papers.As the world dives into the biggest financial crisis since 1945, the redesign suggests that FT readers, who will largely be the people who get us out of it, now can't or don't handle chunks of information more than a couple of hundred words long. In that case, we really are all doomed.There is one old-fashioned gesture still available. Because the paper charges for access to much of its website, I can greet the new dawn with the ageless cry of the reader everywhere - and cancel my subscription.
Microsoft is hyping NXE – the new dashboard update for the Xbox 360 which launched today – up to be as important as the launch of colour TV. Ha. But ridiculous hype aside the NXE is actually rather nifty and a definite improvement on the original blades (although these can still be accessed). Whether it will make the console more mainstream-friendly is debatable – it could be Xbox 720 before that happens – but the 360 certainly feels more approachable than before.The key additions are Wii-style avatars, the ability to install games on the hardrive – which, hurrah, reduces noise and load times – and interoperability with the  Xbox Live Marketplace on PC. The party system, which allows up to eight people to chat and remain in chat whatever game is played is also welcome. Of course, with avatars (Wii) – plus the forthcoming karaoke game Lips (Singstar) - you could argue that the 360 has just stolen the best ideas of its competitors. And you'd be right. But for me the key thing is navigation – NXE makes it much easier to find stuff on the 360. What do you think then? NXE worthy of the hype? Or is just an annoyance to be bypassed on the way to Gears 2?
Microsoft hasannounced plans to change its strategy on anti-virus software, in an attempt to upgrade PC security, particularly outside the developed countries. It's a tacit admission that its OneCare strategy hasn't worked: it hasn't gained significant market share, and it hasn't impacted the malware industry.Microsoft says it will keep OneCare going until it releases new software code-named Morro in the second half of 2009. This "will provide comprehensive protection from malware including viruses, spyware, rootkits and trojans. This new solution, to be offered at no charge to consumers, will be architected for a smaller footprint that will use fewer computing resources, making it ideal for low-bandwidth scenarios or less powerful PCs."Amy Barzdukas, senior director of product management for the Online Services and Windows Division at Microsoft, says in a press release:"This new, no-cost offering will give us the ability to protect an even greater number of consumers, especially in markets where the growth of new PC purchases is outpaced only by the growth of malware."The market isn't working particularly well at the moment. Most of the money in the anti-malware business goes to Symantec and McAfee, who pay PC manufacturers to have their products pre-installed on new PCs. Some users resent it as crapware, and some are unwilling to pay when the trial version runs out. Unless they make a significant effort to uninstall it and replace it with one of the many free alternatives, they may end up with less protection than they need.The situation is worse in developing countries where users may not be able to afford commercial offerings or may not have credit cards to pay for them.As a result, less than half the world's billion or so Windows PCs have up-to-date anti-malware protection. In other words, the whole industry is failing.It would be much better for users if Microsoft shipped Windows with anti-malware software built in, but anti-trust authorities would presumably prevent that. (The European Commission is so anti-Microsoft it made the company offer Windows without a media player, even though media players are standard issue on computers, smartphones and other devices.) Also, Symantec and McAfee already have a track record of complaining to the EC, having made misleading complaints about the much-improved security in Vista.Built-in anti-malware software would ultimately reduce the impact that criminal gangs are having on individual users, which should lead to a reduction in spam and identity theft, and greater confidence in ecommerce. This would reduce costs for the whole industry, including ISPs, and improve life for Mac and Linux users as well as Windows users. But I guess that's much less important than Symantec's profits….
The first time you look at the LG Prada II, the second version of themobile phonecollaboration between the Italian fashion label and the Korean phone manufacturer, you can't help feeling a sense of disappointment. It looks almost identical tothe first-generation Pradalaunched last year, except that it's about 5mm thicker and about 50% heavier at 130g.When you get past that, and actually get your hands on the product, you realise that it has a plethora of new features: the slide-out QWERTY keyboard (which accounts for the weight and thickness), an ultra-user-friendly menu display and (thank god) Wi-Fi enabled internet browsing. And for an extra £250, you can pick up a sleek Bluetooth watch accessory, which had this writer in raptures.The logic behind the new Prada is: let's keep the old design, because it sold a massive 100m units, but let's give the user a lot more functionality.As one marketing executive explained, Prada I customers bought the product to show it off, and kept another phone hidden away for actual use. With Prada II, the idea is that you can show it off AND send and receive emails and browse the net comfortably.With this launch, the company has thrown down the gauntlet to other touchscreen phones such as Blackberry's Storm and Apple's iPhone, and the trio will do battle over the Christmas period alongside T-Mobile's G1 and Nokia's Xpress Music.Prada II is priced at €600 in the eurozone, the same as the first phone when it hit the shelves – it's not really the fault of the company that the weak pound means it's a lot more expensive in the UK this year, at about £500. Since the phone is SIM-free, the price also depends on the provider you get the phone with.The watch accessory retails at €300 (£252). Expensive, but a beautiful product. You can use the watch to cancel calls, read text messages and put your phone on silent mode, which is perfect for cutting off your mum when she insists on ringing while you're in a board meeting. In fact, one of the company representatives gleefully gave a demonstration when his phone rang while he was answering journalists' questions.As he put it later, €300 is expensive for a watch accessory, but pretty decent value for a Prada watch. In a neat marketing gimmick, the first batch of customers – the company hasn't revealed how many – will get the watch for free.If you decide that's not too much money, what you get in return is one of the most elegant phones on the market. The menu display, while not as pleasing to the eye, is certainly as convenient to use as the iPhone.Different menus are easily navigated through the touchscreen facility, and you can create your own set of shortcuts by placing your finger on the relevant option – such as messages – and dragging it onto the main screen. Once you've clicked and dragged all the shortcuts you want onto the screen, you give the phone a little shake, and they arrange themselves in neat columns and rows.The touchscreen is as intelligent as the first Prada, with the added feature that the phone vibrates slightly each time you press a number, which is pointless but quite cool.The internet browsing on this phone is far ahead of that on the first Prada. The interface is fairly easy to use, and unlike the first phone browsing is Wi-Fi enabled. On the company's own HSDPA network, it can go up to 7.2MB per second.The 5-megapixel camera is ahead of the competition in the same space, with a Schneider-Kreuznach certified lens, and the phone incorporates slow-motion video recording and plays videos in the DivX format. It also plays the standard music formats and has an 8GB external memory slot.It's a really good product, but the problem is you'll have to pointedly slide out the QWERTY keyboard to differentiate it from the earlier phone. Size and weight are a problem as well, but the main issue is that it could alienate the wag market that made the first product so successful.Will businesspeople be impressed enough to choose it over the Blackberry Storm, and be prepared to shell out £500? Only time will tell if Prada II will be seen as a brilliant all-in-one product, or a phone with a bit of an identity crisis.
Say you work in a local authority. Being helpful, you want people to be able to find the public toilets in your area via an online map. So you look on your in-house mapping system for the locations of those toilets (which your council built, maintains and cleans, and whose location you originally fed into the in-house map), and begin feeding their positions on to Google Maps, Microsoft Live and Yahoo's Maps.According to Ordnance Survey, the government's mapping agency, you've just broken its copyright, because the map you checked is licensed from it. And your council licence, like most OS licences, doesn't allow you to put data derived from an OS map on to the world-visible Google Maps - even though Google's maps are also licensed from OS.In short, you're not allowed to put data you created (the toilets' locations), and then provided to OS, on to a different map - even though that new map is licensed from OS. You, or the council, could be sued. Last month OS sent atwo-page letterreiterating its licensing restrictions, ostensibly as "guidance" to help councils considering using Google Maps. Though it might just seem like a licensing quirk, the re-assertion by OS of its rights is a high-stakes political move whose effects could be far-reaching.Mapping crime is a crimeFirst, it will stymie plans to introduce crime mapping by police forces. That would provoke a row between the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, who made a high-profile announcement in July saying that police forces would alloffer crime maps by the end of the year, and Iain Wright, the minister in charge of OS at the Department of Communities and Local Government. If Smith's pledge is derailed by OS - which would lead to Smith facing embarrassing questions in Parliament - Wright would have to explain why to her.OS is unrepentant. "If the police data used ward or boundary data from OS maps, it would be covered by our licence," it says. "There would be a problem if they wanted to put that data on Google maps." But crime data is collected by ward; so theMetropolitan Police crime mapuses Google maps and shows those boundaries - clearly breaching the OS licence. (OS confirms this.)The move also seems to block most of the winners of Cabinet Office's recently completed &pound;80,000 Show Us A Better Way competition to find innovative ways to use government-held data. The winner of that competition, a site called Can I Recycle It?, would rely on locating local recycling centres - which OS could argue has been derived from its maps if a council keeps them with any sort of geographical referencing. The same would be true of another winner, Loofinder, which aims to make locations of public toilets available in a map online, just as described above.Although OS issued a press release congratulating the competition winners and offering them "full access" to its Google Maps-like OpenSpace system - which has similar programmability - the OpenSpace licence limits the number of viewings allowed per day, and bans any use by business, central or local government. Furthermore, OS claims ownership of any data plotted on an OpenSpace-derived map. And the use of derived data would break its licence with authorities.This would mean OS has made an enemy of Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister who set up the competition, as well as Michael Wills, the justice minister whose office provided &pound;20,000 of prize funding. That could be costly in political capital at a time when senior government figures are considering whether to force OS to make some of its digital mapping products available for free without copyright restrictions.Though government-owned, OS functions as an arm's-length trading fund, responsible for its own profit and loss account. It receives no direct government funding, but roughly half of its annual &pound;118m revenues come from local and central government licences; the rest is from the sale of licences to the private sector.Threat to revenueShifting to a free data model would cut OS's licensing revenues - but a study by a team of Cambridge academics earlier this year suggests it would also stimulate the public and private sector. That is the argument the Free Our Data campaign has made since March 2006: that restrictive licensing of government data holds back public and private projects, and that making them available for free would stimulate businesses and generate taxable activity that would more than offset revenues lost from direct licensing.OS's letter to councils has provoked a furious row: some local authorities now say they will collect data on their own using satellite navigation systems and enter it into the wiki-style OpenStreetMap project to avoid OS.Still not happyOne council, Surrey Heath, has already started: one employee, James Rutter,commented on the Free Our Data blogthat: "OpenStreetmap provides us with a very flexible platform to put 'stuff' on to that we are interested in ... with the added bonus that everyone can benefit from it. Rather than sitting back waiting for things to change regarding OS licensing, we're doing something about it."Another commenter, Dane Wright of the London borough of Brent, suggested that the long-term solution is to change the Mapping Services Agreement, under which local government in effect bulk-buys licences to OS data. It expires next March - and is being renegotiated now. Wright argues that the agreement should be rewritten to let authorities share data more freely and ensure that basic democratic boundaries such as boroughs, parishes and wards can be freely reproduced without OS licensing issues. Wright added: "The short-term solution is to generate location data for public mapping and reuse using non-OS sources such as OpenStreetMap or Google/Microsoft maps. This is a practical way forward for relatively small volumes of data such as school catchment areas, libraries, public toilets etc, but it obviously requires local authorities to duplicate work. As for the OS OpenSpace API - one can only laugh when reading OS FAQ 6.7, which specifically prohibits its use by local or central government because they are commercial organisations."Google even changed the terms of its mapping licence last week in an attempt to clarify that it is not claiming ownership of data. But OS said it is still unhappy with the terms and that it is "working with" Google to "redefine" the clauses. OS says: "We don't feel the revised terms and conditions resolves the issue."• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
when i am an ousted ceo, i shall bleed purple / and i shall spend my $2.3 billion net worth on brandy and summer gloves / and write my resignation memo in lowercase / and run through walls / and say we've no money for butter.I'm paraphrasingslightly, of course, but that's the gist ofthe memosent this week by Yahoo's Jerry Yang to all staff — sorry, all "yahoos" — announcing that he will soon be stepping down as the company's Chief Executive. Seriously, he actually calls them yahoos. And he plays golf. Is there any wonder so many people wanted his head on a spike?Better informedcommentatorsthan I have already weighed in with their expert analysis of the announcement. Analysis that can basically be summed up with the words 'well, duhhhh'. It was obvious that Yang's days as boss of the company he co-founded — along with pastry heir, David Filo — were numbered following a long series of final straws. For many, the very final of those straws came with the arsed-up Microsoft buyout fiasco, which frankly the talking paperclip could have managed better — "It looks like you're rejecting a buyout offer at $31 a share. Would you like some help?"For others it was the announcement of another 1,500 staff cuts, bringing the total this year to 2,500, or the collapse of an advertising deal with Google which could have brought up to $450 million extra revenue in its first year. For still others it was the episode back in February when Yang — usually famed for his unflappability — arrived at a board meeting carrying an obviously distressed tawny owl dressed as Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, complete with tiny T-shirt reading "I'm Steve Ballmer" and, in front of startled board members, tore off its head with his teeth screaming: "I bleed purple, you feathered son of a bitch — purple! What colour do you bleed?"Whatever the ultimate reason for Yang's exit, the markets reacted positively to the news, with Yahoo's share price initially rising 14% on the morning after. There's also word that Microsoft is heading back towards the negotiating table — a move that only an idiot would put down to coincidence. But even with Yang gone, Yahoo's position remains much like that of the bus at the end of the Italian Job, with the Microsoft buyout representing the bars of stolen gold, the Google deal and a couple of thousand laid off employees as the crumbling cliff-face, and with everyone hoping a new CEO will be able to convincingly deliver the line "hang on a minute, lads, I've got a great idea..." before the whole thing crashes to the bottom of the Italian Alps. Which I suppose, in this case, would be in Sunnyvale.The job of casting this new CEO has been handed to John Thompson, the headhunter who hired Eric Schmidt to be Chief Babysitting Officer at Google, and already names like Meg Whitman (former eBay), Dan Rosensweig (former, er, Yahoo) and Jonathan Miller (former AOL and star of Beyond The Fringe) have beenfloated. Sure, these are highly qualified candidates, but if America has learned anything in recent months it's that, when the world is going to shit, there's only one thing guaranteed to turn things around: change. A total departure from the status quo, without regard for experience or qualification. So if you're reading, John (and I know you are), I've taken the liberty of drawing up an alternative short list of five candidates for you, complete with pros and cons for each. You can thank me later.1) Sarah Palin (Former Republican VP nominee)Pros:Unemployed maverick who loves Yahoo so much that she famously used a Yahoo Mail account to conduct official business, in violation of Alaska law. Experienced in being elevated to positions for which she is totally unprepared. Can see Microsoft from her house.Cons:Almost everything else about her.2) Rain Man (1988)Pros:Socially awkward, great with numbers, a born gambler, gained huge personal wealth overnight. The archetypal Valley CEO.Cons:Fictional character.3) Owen Thomas (Editor, Valleywag)Pros:Obsessed with Yahoo, and his very public criticisms of Jerry Yang will endear him to disgruntled shareholders ("Yang has proven himself incapable of meeting the company's many challenges"). Also, with last week's announcement that Valleywag will be rolled into parent site Gawker in December to ensure its survival, it's safe to assume that Thomas will be looking for a job come January.Cons:Every single high-profile CEO with two first names has ended up in jail. Martha Stewart, Joe Francis... can Yahoo really afford that kind of risk?4) Russell Brand (Former Radio 2 DJ)Pros:Messy, unpredictable, largely ignored by anyone in the UK with critical faculties but still unfathomably popular with Americans, a walking trainwreck - if anyone embodies the true spirit of Yahoo, it's Russell Brand.Cons:The only thing that would make Valleywag more depressing right now is if it started to run stories about Russell Brand.5) Gerald Yin (CEO, AMEC)Cons:Not really suited to the job, and has expressed absolutely no interest in it.Pros:Come on, Gerry Yin? After Jerry Yang? That would be hilarious.There you go, John. Choose wisely. And then send my finder's fee c/o The Guardian. These are uncertain times, and I could use the extra cash.[Important note: I've been asked — and I swearthisis true — to make it clear that at no time did Jerry Yang bite the head off an owl dressed as Steve Ballmer. Apparently there is concern that, unless this is spelt out, I might get the Guardian sued for libel. Again.]Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atwww.bringingnothing.com
When Dan Lyons joined Newsweek, it appears he had to give up his popularFake Steve Jobspersona*, and in July, Fake Steve started blogging atReal Daninstead. This has included some pretty pungent stuff, but recently the pungent stuff has started vanishing. And according to The Industry Standard --The Real Dan Lyons bails on blogging-- he may have stopped altogether.One post referred to Jerry Yang's decision to step down as boss of Yahoo. Lyons had been assured that Yang wasn't stepping down and that the Google deal was "a sure thing" but neither turned out to be the case. On his blog, he intemperately referred to Yahoo's "PR operators" as "really an unsavory bunch" and a "crack team of lying sacks of shit". (Come on, Dan: PRs just tell you what the company tells them to tell you. That's their job.) Not surprisingly, this post has now been withdrawn.Another post railed at Kara Swisher from the Wall Street Journal's All Things Digital blog for puffing her "EXCLUSIVE SCOOP" on Yang's announcement: she sent Dan a note chiding him for not crediting her. That post -- Kara Swisher: Everybody look at me! Not at Jerry! At me! At me! At me! -- has also disappeared. (Sure, All Things D isn't very good and it's insufferably smug, but if you trash publications on those grounds you'll soon be reduced to reading cereal boxes.)The Industry Standard has republished the texts of the deleted posts.But it must be tough for Dan Lyons. He could say more or less what he liked as Fake Steve because it was satirical (many a true word spoken in jest, as they say), and that brought him a big audience. He can't say the same sort of things as Real Dan and a Newsweek employee, so he doesn't have a big audience. And there certainly isn't enough money in blogging for him to give up the day job.* Take your pick:"I hear that I've been blacklisted, and that Apple reached out directly to Newsweek to complain about my hiring" Dan tells us. Seriously.http://www.alleyinsider.com/2008/7/fake-steve-jobs-r-i-p-"Mr Lyons said that he had grown tired of his fictional creation, but mainly he was worried about making fun of a real person whose health has been a recent topic of speculation."http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/10/technology/10blog.html
The first generation that grew up accessing the web has come of age and is changing the way theinternetis being used, according to Europe-based research released today.Net usage is booming across Europe, with more than half of users going online at least once a day, according to the annual Mediascope survey by the European Interactive Advertising Association.Usage is being driven by the 25- to 34-year-old age group, many of whom were originally shown the internet at school. They were the first generation that flocked to Google to navigate their new environment, having started with sites such as Lycos, Excite and AltaVista.They were the original users of MySpace and the first people to experiment with user-generated content sites such as YouTube, having grown bored with the portals their service providers offered.Their tastes for email and instant messaging, music downloads and funny videos have influenced the development of the web. But now they have got money and, in some cases, families and responsibilities, and they are changing the way the internet is used."One of the things that has come through strongly this year is that people are using the internet more to manage their lives," said EIAA executive director Alison Fennah. "With the 25- to 34-year-olds, what you are seeing is a mixture of the fact that they are natural internet users, they know their way around the web, with their movement towards more mature types of lifestyle management as they themselves mature."The new survey of more than 9,000 people in the UK, France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Belgium, Scandinavia and the Netherlands shows that 25- to 34-year-olds spend 13.9 hours per week online — up almost an hour in the past year alone and well above the average, with more than a third clocking up more than 16 hours.Two-thirds of them are online every day. Half of them regularly use social networking sites and a quarter maintain their own digital profiles.They are also responsible for the rise in the use of the internet for functions such as managing finances and accessing health or local government information.As if to underline the ascendancy of the internet's equivalent of the baby boomers, HarperCollinsannounced this weekthat the word "meh" will be included in the 30th anniversary edition of the Collins English Dictionary.The word is synonymous with the hard to please, blasé attitude of the technologically literate. It rose to fame on the Simpsons but has been all over the internet for years, used by bloggers as the ultimate slacker put-down. The dictionary defines it as either an interjection used to suggest indifference or boredom, or an adjective used when something is mediocre or a person is unimpressed.Almost three quarters – 73% – of European internet users, and there are 178 million online each week, say that as a result of the web they are staying in touch with friends and relatives more, while 54% say they have booked more holidays or made more travel arrangements. Almost half Europe's internet users report that they are better able to manage their finances because of the web, a trend that is driven by the web-boom generation.Comparing this year's Mediascope study with previous surveys shows the rise in web usage among European consumers. The average time spent online by the region's internet users is now 12 hours, up 36% on four years ago, while the percentage of people who spend 16 hours or more online has grown to almost a third from 17% back in 2004.Consumers are also using the internet more as a research tool before making purchases. In 2004, just 50% of consumers went on to buy something after carrying out research on the internet, that conversion rate is now 87%.Now they have cash in their pockets, the web-literate 25- to 34-year-old generation have helped drive the expansion of e-commerce over the past few years, with everything from clothes to food being bought online, compared with a few years ago when books and DVDs were the big sellers.
The leak of the details of 10,000-odd members of the British National Party could almost have been made for a mashup. (Insert your own joke about the BNP trying to appear ready for government by having a data leak.)And sosomeone has, although as its author notes - and you should too, please -I extracted the postcodes from the member list and converted them into latitude and longitude co-ordinates, which are then plotted on the map.These markers are not at all accurate - they point out postcode location only.(Emphasis in original.)The map, given how it contains so many bits of information, may crash your PC; and you should treat any information you find there as beingapproximate.Just because Google's pushpin is on that house at the corner doesn't mean they're BNP members. (Near where I live, the Chinese restaurant appears to be a member, which I find unlikely.)However it is indicative of where the strongholds, if you like, of BNP engagement are. Politicians who wonder about voter disengagement and disillusionment might like to look at the zoomed-out version.Mike Butcher atsays at TechCrunch UK:Istill believethat a map which showed more general areas, like towns and cities, could actually be helpful to local authorities for creating policies to tackle attitudes towards diversity. If you were a local councillor and had been made aware that there were lots of BNP members in your area, you may be able to do something about the attitudes which leads to support for such a far-right political party.But now this more accurate map is out of the bag, and others are probably planning similar maps, the implications are far reaching. What no-one would wish is for a witch-hunt to begin. Plotting this map will make the data available to just about anyone. My personal opinion is that in this, quite accurate form, it should be taken down. On the one hand the BNP has a notorious history of violence. On the other, it also has a history of attracting disaffected young people who later regret joining - their lives should not be tarred by their actions as naive youngsters.I think we can agree on that.Update 1235:the Google map has been removed and replaced with a "heat map". Charlton comments in the revised post:I have decided to take down the map. Many people have commented that the map does give a false impression of accuracy, despite my making this clear, and I'm tempted to agree. I do not want to single anybody out and by removing the accuracy from the map it is possible that it ends up incorrectly implying a property contains a BNP member. It has been suggested that an inaccurate map that doesn't make that clear is worse than publishing the list itself, and I think that's a reasonable comment.So - all happy now?Update 2:Tom Steinberg of MySocietyputs forward the case fornotmashing the data:the moment you sacrifice the values and compromises that hold together liberal democracies (such as a presumption of innocence and a right to privacy for people who've not actually been convicted of crimes) for the sake of humiliating your political opponents, you're starting on a path far more likely to result in ruination for us all than a bunch of marginal wing nuts.And he prefaces his remarks "as someone who'd have been gassed by the Nazis simply by virtue of family name..."I think we cancall Godwinon the whole thing, then.
I think I'm done with World War II. Playing Call of Duty: World at War last night,  as well-designed and effective as it is (and it IS brilliantly executed), I found myself heading out on a sniping mission and just losing heart. The same bomb-battered urban environments, the same gruff commander running up ahead, the same targets, the same objectives. From Battlefield 1942 to Brothers in Arms and back to Call of Duty, shoot-'em-up fans will now have played through most of the key campaigns of the conflict. I've had enough. Going by the strong sales I must be in a minority.But there are darker questions surrounding this particular game, and they are to do with its incredibly shaky morality...World at War begins with a cut-scene in which a Japanese general stubs out a cigarette in the eye of an American POW – an act which you are immediately invited to avenge. This more or less sets the tone for the rest of the experience, which absolutely revels in the graphic portrayal of battlefield violence and viscera. Here, soldiers aren't just shot, they're obliterated, with geysers of blood and chunks of gore spraying out from every impact zone.This was always going to happen as the graphics capabilities of videogame consoles began to catch up with the stark realities of combat injury. It is also acceptable within the boundaries of adult entertainment – I mean, if you want to start wringing your hands over the entertainment value of gore, you may as well go right back to Greek theatre and ask why the audience received catharsis from Oedipus gouging his own eyes out. And don't get me started on Shakespeare, the ultimate popularist and gore fiend; alive today do you think it would be more likely that he'd be writing plays or designing games like World at War? Are you kidding? Macbeth would be down there screaming, "Is this a flamethrower I see before me?" before incinerating Duncan's machine gun post.But World at War plays a very dangerous game, toying with the realities and imposing modern conventions to accentuate the impact. During key set-pieces, pounding rock music plays in the background – a nod no doubt to the tastes of the game's target demographic: teenage American males. To them, it's no doubt blood-pumping, adrenaline-boosting stuff, but it is also willfully incongruous, distorting the game's 'reality' in a fundamentally exploitative way.There are also awkward concessions to the moral complexities of combat. From the very beginning, you encounter badly injured enemy soldiers and have the choice between shooting or sparing them. But it seems clear which way the game wants you to go – in one early scene you launch a rocket attack on an enemy outpost, then rush in to investigate – out of the mist, survivors begin stumbling toward you, "put 'em down!' shouts your commanding officer. So you do.This is actually an interesting quandary, which goes beyond World at War to include all FPS titles with similar moments. In videogames, moral questions are often complicated by the fact that there are two sometimes opposing forces at work: the player's own moral compass and the demands of the game design. What if I don't shoot the injured enemy and I fail to complete a mission objective as a result? Or what if he immediately shoots one of my comrades? Or me? Game designers are happy to play around with moral choices in the same way as script writers – any one who's watched Saving Private Ryan or Band of Brothers knows that one act of gracious pity can often have terrible consequences further down the line. But in interactive entertainment, it'syourfinger on the trigger - and as games are about action and interaction, the designers usually want you to pull it.I don't believe that it's morally questionable to set games within a real-life conflict. Quite the opposite – it can be a valuable educational experience. And if Hollywood movies can do it, why not games? If anything, interactivity at least forces a true engagement with the subject matter. But game designers need to be careful  - sensitive even – to how they portray these events, and in what ways they employ modern conventions to 'spice up' the action. I'm not the only one to make this point about World at War: US game site, Kotaku, recentlycriticised a trailer for the game, which showed a succession of bloody battlefield sequences, intercut with the words "No rules. No fear. Only chaos". World War II wasn't an extreme sport, dudes, it was a global conflict that claimed the lives of some 72 million people. If we can't be governed by morals, should we at least be governed by taste?The concern is, as developers return time and time again to this war, they will need to find new angles, to deliver more extreme experiences, in order to rise above the flood of similar titles. There are nightmarish places left to visit, and I'm almost certain, in many cases, we really shouldn't go there.
As folks turn to new moneymaking options with the economic downturn from traditional businesses, one arena seems untouched - and a possible haven for those wishing to cushion devaluing securities: the sale of virtual goods. Yep, it's still going on, and some places continue to turn real-money-transfer between players in online games and social virtual worlds into quite palatable bankables. Just witness the phenomenal sales opportunities on eBayCategory 1654 (Internet Games)- just one of the marketplaces for this new economic world order.A few years back, theUS federal government looked closely at the issue of taxables on non-existent (take that with a pinch of salt, pedants) contentbased in universes fabricated by games people. That seems to have fallen by the wayside there. It was never even seriously brought up in the UK.However, in China, where RMT represents $1.37bn active industry (often to the dismay of Western game players), the government has stepped in to tax the sale of virtual goods. According toWired, they've recently laid out the details of their formal plans:Once income is generated through the sale of virtual goods, individuals "should go to the tax department to pay personal income tax within seven days of the day after the transactions," according to Shanghai Daily. Those who can provide proof of the value of the original property will see a 20 percent tax on their profits, while those lacking solid evidence will face charges equal to 3 percent of the total transaction.More information atShanghai Daily.Saving a few pennies by skirting under the IRS with your RMT income isn't going to hack it in the Far East anymore. Keep an eye out if yo're trying to boost your savings on these shores too; these regulations may just come our way in the future.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
