In anearlier postI may have mistakenly given the impression I thoughtNTLwas improving its standards of customer service. I would like to take this opportunity to say sorry for misleading Onlineblog's readers. NTL is still at hard at work, redefining the term "bad service".Calling to report a fault tonight I discovered it was impossible to speak to a human being and - better yet - their call handling system would disconnect you after delivering a message that essentially said "whatever your fault, wait and see - things might improve". They didn't, it's still broken, and I'm still fuming. My tip: think really, really hard about taking any of their services, unless you get some kind of twisted pleasure out of waiting in call queues.
The Palm m130's failure to deliver all its advertised colours (below) has prompted aclass-action lawsuit. When HP had a similar problem with early Jornada handhelds itoffered customers a refund, and that's what Palm should have done after it finished apologising.
A new version ofMozilla, the open-source web browser, is now out for Windows, all Macs, Linux and OS/2. It's promised to be faster and sport new features, although some arecomplainingit still doesn't go far enough. Still, it has a very passionate (if small) body of users - worth a download to see what the fuss is about.
Auden said it best. "Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone, Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone, Silence the pianos and with muffled drum, Bring out the coffin, let the mourners come." For savage Jaguar, the new Mac OSX upgrade,killed the happy Mac icon that has greeting Mac users every morning for the last 18 years. Many Mac users areunhappy. I know I am.
Notes is dead?Hurrah, says this user. (viaScripting News)
Update to the Enetation entry below... it's running again, and pretty fast too on its new code. A new server apparently arrives soon... fingers crossed...
Surfing the net for a holiday bargain may never be as fulfilling again for a British family which snapped up the ultimate cheap deal thanks to an error on a travel firm's website.Dalite Dryer and her husband Nick could not believe their luck when they discovered return flights to Florida advertised on theFirst Choiceholiday website at &#163;15 each, at least &#163;450 less than the normal fare.The couple from Woolton, Liverpool, had been planning a summer trip across the Atlantic to visit Mrs Dryer's father and had begun searching for the best flight deal.Discovering the First Choice offer, which also included a &#163;10 discount on each ticket because they were booking online, the Dryers wasted no time in booking seats for themselves and their daughters Talia, four, and Yaell, three, at a total cost of &#163;60.The family then rang Mr Dryer's parents, Martin and Maureen, in London and persuaded them to take advantage of the offer too."Our initial reaction was that it was a promotion to get people flying to America again in the wake of September 11. Then we thought it might be just the cost of the airport tax and the cost of the actual flight had not been added," Mr Dryer said yesterday."We decided to put the credit card details in anyway and it came back as confirmed, so we   rang my parents in London and said 'we think we have found something amazing and do you want to come?' They said yes, as you would for &#163;30, and so we went back online and booked them flights too," he added.The family put off booking hotels and hiring cars for several months because they were worried their flights might be cancelled if First Choice realised there had been a mistake."We did not know what to think. I was convinced that at any time the company would ring and say there had been a mistake. We waited for a couple of months before booking hotels and car hire just in case."They never did ring and two weeks before we flew, the tickets arrived. We worried even when we were checking in and going through the gate that someone might stop us but they didn't and we were on the plane and away as planned on July 8," Mr Dryer said.First Choice yesterday admitted a mistake had been made by someone loading information on to the website.The family paid &#163;15 each for the flight instead of a much higher fare. The exact amount they should have paid was not available, but the price of a ticket on the same date next year was &#163;522 per person, a spokeswoman confirmed."It was human error. But all we are saying is that we are glad the family enjoyed their holiday," she added.Others, however, have been less fortunate in their dealings with holidays and the internet.Emma Nunn, of Sidcup, Kent, and Raoul Christian, of Charlton, south east London, both 19, bought their tickets for "Sydney" over the internet for &#163;740 each, expecting to travel to Australia.Instead, the pair spent their holiday in Sydney, Nova Scotia, a small industrial town on the north eastern seaboard of Canada known locally as the Steel City.Problems with flight bookings made on the internet have also contributed to the rise in the number of consumer complaints, according to the aviation industry consumer watchdog, the Air Transport Users Council.Ian Hamer, chairman of the council, said: "We are handling increasing numbers of telephone inquiries about reservation errors, most of which appear to have arisen from direct bookings with airlines either over the phone or via the internet."&#183;The UK is the biggest online travel market in Europe, with almost six million people visiting travel sites in January 2002. Germany is next with 5.1 million, followed by France with 2.6 million.&#183;Internet analyst Jupiter estimates that the European market for online travel will be worth more than &#163;12bn by 2006, and that online traffic to travel sites grew by 75% in some European countries last year.&#183;There has been a significant shift in the way we are buying our holidays, with a switch towards direct sales through call centres and the internet. In 1992 75% of sales were through shops, in 2000 the figure had fallen to 62% and by the end of this summer the figure is expected to have dropped by another 10%.&#183;Travel continues to be one of the most popular categories among UK internet users attracting more than 30% of the 15.2 million online population.&#183;Travel sites are most popular with those who earn more than &#163;45,000 per annum.&#183;Online travel companies have increased prices of package holidays and flights by 10% over the past year as the industry tries to begin making profits, according to the most recent annual survey by credit card provider Goldfish.&#183;A Holiday Which? survey of members in 2000 showed that at least 8% of them had booked some or all of a holiday online, and nearly all said that they would do it again.
Datamonitor, a business information group, recently put out a note arguing that 3G, which allows users to download video clips and colour photos, as well as browsing the internet on their handsets, should now RIP.Since then, more gloom and doom has shrouded 3G phones. Vodafone has already postponed its UK launch of 3G from this year to next, and analysts wonder whether British telecoms will ever recover the £22.5bn they splurged on 3G licence auctions held by the Treasury back in 2000.It's the same story on continental Europe. Spain's Telefonica and Finland's Sonera have abandoned their £5bn-plus sally into 3G for Germany and other European markets. Even in Sweden, where licences were free, Orange has asked for a three-year delay before it achieves national coverage for 3G.But wait a minute. Telecom debt is large more because of silly acquisitions and general creative accounting than because of licence fees, a burdensome tax though these were.Moreover, providing national 3G coverage in Sweden, which has a very low population density, was always going to be tough ­ even with a free licence. Datamonitor worries that operators will only get payback from 3G after several years, rather than within the 18 months that a venture capitalist would prefer.But this perspective is depressingly short-term. Payback matters to individual operators; but society as a whole has a longer-term interest in 3G. It will offer users real benefits over the rival technologies between 2G - today's standard - and 3G.There are difficulties. 3G handset prototypes aren't yet compatible with current 2G technology. They haven't yet managed to handle 3G calls to current networks with any great speed. Nor has anybody got 2G and 3G on to the same chip yet. Finally smaller telecom operators, having little buying clout, will be particularly hard-hit if shortages of 3G handsets ever emerge.But advances in chip design and manufacture make handsets cheaper, better and smaller each year. The technical snags will be solved. 3G will triumph in the end not just because it's faster than current technology, but because it's more reliable - for corporate users it offers industrial strength security - and lends itself to billing systems better.In other advantages, 3G is a universal standard that will work all over the world, offers consumers graphical depth and richness, as well as being permanently connected to a network. This means SMS messages, emails or video clips can be delivered any time. You will no longer have to dial up to check mail.Japan's success with iMode, an inferior technology to 3G, shows that even with a clunky system, consumers will soon delight in the largely person-to-person pastimes of sending snapshots and playing games. It will take a little longer for business to demand 3G, but one day it will want reliable and secure mobile corporate intranets and mobile corporate videoconferences, and it will be prepared to pay for them.Finally, the price for verisimilitude and geographical pinpointing will come down not just for mobile games, but for mobile sex and mobile sport. So then consumers will flock to 3G. Other technologies will give 3G a run for its money, to be sure.Many telecoms will prove losers in the 3G race, not winners, as in any new technology. But there will be winners. When, in October 2000, Datamonitor's own report on 3G in the EU described it as the business opportunity of the 21st century, it was only exaggerating a little.&#183;James Woudhuysen is professor of innovation and forecasting at De Montfort University, Leicester.
After four years of planning, music retailer HMV plans to launch a subscription service for digital downloading of music within the next month.HMV will initially make nearly 100,000 tracks available, ranging from almost the entire Elvis back catalogue of 990 songs to rock and pop acts such as Kylie Minogue, Dido and the Chemical Brothers.For a monthly subscription price of £4.99, users can download 50 tracks onto a PC, and make a single digital copy onto a portable player. The tracks can be stored and played on the PC for as long as the monthly subscription is paid up, but music on portable players will be locked after one month.Burning tracks onto a CD will cost extra, however. Each track will be individually priced, but HMV expects most to cost either 99p or £1.49.No specific launch date has been set, but HMV expects to have the service up and running by the end of September. Users will need to have Windows Media to use the service.Stuart Rowe, the company's e-commerce director, says the timing of the decision to sell music digitally has been critical."We were looking at digital downloading in 1998, so a lot of the technology has been around a long time."Napster was a big wake up call for everybody. Commercially the paid-for service was not viable with Napster around, but now there is a real commitment to tackle the pirates," he said.The launch of HMV's service coincides with research from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) showing music CD sales decreased 7% in the US during the first half of the year.The RIAA, which has been in the forefront of prosecuting illegal file sharing services such as Napster, said the numbers are a further indication that online music sharing sites are hurting the recording industry.     The RIAA released a separate survey of internet users' music habits, which found that most consumers between the ages of 12 and 54 bought fewer CDs as they downloaded more tracks.Previous studies independent of the music industry have suggested that free music on the web encourages consumers to experiment with new acts and buy more CDs.Mr Rowe declined to estimate subscriber numbers, but said HMV believed in-store sales would "remain core to the way that people choose to buy their music for the foreseeable future".The service is being set up in conjunction with OD2, the online music distribution company set up by Peter Gabriel in 1999."HMV's decision is a major milestone for the digital music," said Charles Grimsdale, the chief executive of OD2. "It's a clear signal that the industry's attitudes towards digital music have changed significantly from the days when it was seen as a threat rather than an opportunity."
Online advertising giant DoubleClick has agreed a near £300,000 settlement to end an investigation into the way it recorded and dealt with sensitive information on web surfers' online habits, reportsMediaGuardian.co.uk.
Is the south pole the last permanently populated place on earth to have the internet?No. In reality plenty of places have no internet access. The south pole is about the only place that cannot have it in theory, simply because satellites do not overfly the region regularly and provide reliable access. So scientists want a fibre optic cable that will run over 1670 km of solid ice and provide a permanent, terrestrial communications link from the south pole to a base station on the outer reaches of Antartica.Where is the internetIn september 1991, back at the birth of the net, only North America, western Europe, Australia, India, Japan, and a smattering of countries in South America and south east Asia were connected, according to an internet census conducted by University of Wisconsin professor, Larry Landweber. By 1997, Landweber's census map showed almost every nation on earth had some sort of connection to the internet.So it's all equal now?No. Digital divides exist largely in the areas you would expect them - developed countries tend to have more advanced digital economies than underdeveloped nations. Even within developed nations there are digital divides and areas with quite sophisticated wireless access networks.What area of the world is the least connected?Africa. A 2001 map produced by US researchers at the University of Notre Dame compared the locations of internet routers (which direct online traffic) to population density. The US, Japan, South Korea and the whole of Europe dominated internet connections, while heavily populated areas such as India and China barely registered. Central Asia and South America were only lightly represented, while Africa looked mostly blank.What is the state of the internet in Africa?From a slow start, today every country inAfricais connected to the internet, according to research and maps put together by Mike Jensen of the International Development Research Centre (IDRC). However, that statistic belies the fact that most people in Africa do not have access, and even if they did, the cost would be prohibitive. In Somalia, 20 hours per month of dial-up access would set you back $160.Of course, some African nations are far more wired than others. The IDRC used bits per capita (bandwidth divided by population) to measure actual internet usage within Africa. They found that the Democratic Republic of Congo, geographically the third largest country in Africa, has a bit per capita measure of .02. The tiny Seychelles islands measure 49.49.Do you need wires to access the internet?Not at all. Regions without wire connections, like the phone line you plug into at home or in the office, can rely on satellites for communication connections. Fibre optic cables, though, provide far more bandwidth.Hundreds of thousands of kilometres of undersea cables have been laid to provide high speed internet and telephone connections across the globe. Those cables port intoAfricaas well, although the amount of cabling laid throughout Africa pales in comparison to, say, the US orEurope.
Online advertising company DoubleClick has agreed to pay nearly £300,000 to settle an investigation into its use of personal information about web surfers, intensifying the debate over privacy on the internet.The agreement brings to an end a 30-month investigation by 10 US states into the company's controversial practice of gathering personal information about web users.Under the settlement, DoubleClick has also agreed to provide more information about how it tracks consumers' online habits, and to ditch some of the information it has stored on them.The company will also give web users access to the profiles it has built up on them."When an online contractor can invisibly track nearly every online consumer, consumers deserve to know the privacy cost of surfing the web," said  a statement from the New York state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer.DoubleClick is one of a number of online advertising firms that have used so-called "cookies" to build up a marketing profile on them and enable it to sell to them more effectively.Cookies work by tracking the websites a consumer visits and recording their surfing habits and preferences to build up a profile on them.But critics claim this is an invasion of web users' privacy and earlier this year Doubleclick agreed to pay up to £1.2m in legal fees to settle class action privacy suits.The US federal trade commission is also investigating the practice and new EU legislation will force sites to tell consumers why they are using cookies.Mr Spitzer said DoubleClick was developing a "cookie viewer" for consumers, which would allow them to find out how the advertising company selects which online ad it shows them.The issue of privacy on the internet resurfaced recently when it emerged that EU governments were considering a plan to store records of personal communications, including all emails and telephone calls, for at least a year.Under the plan, all telecommunications firms, including mobile phone operators and internet service providers, will have to keep the numbers and addresses of calls and emails sent and received by EU citizens.
Back in June Iwrote aboutvarious add-ons for your weblog, including commenting (the function that allows weblog readers to add their comments to individual posts, like we have below). I featured Enetation, then a new commenting service run by 18 year-old Robert Taylor, because its ease of set-up and functionality impressed me. Taking my own advice, I even installed it onanother weblogI run.Things, alas, have not been as peachy as I - or, presumably, Robert - would have wanted. The Enetation service has had more than a few problems since that piece (perhaps because of the piece?), running into a few of the issues anyone who has attempted to set up a commenting service has experienced. That's why there aren't many externally hosted commenting services around.The slow response times of Enetation's servers have dramatically slowed the loading of my pages, and now the whole thing is kaput while Robert re-codes, and buys new servers with more RAM. I suspect he's on a steep learning curve - he's certainly already learned the lingo of service provider understatement, admitting on thehome pageonly to "some service issues in the last few days". Here's hoping he manages to get the service going again: Enetation Mark 1 was good while it worked.
TheWashington Postreports that AOL is "returning to its underdog roots for a much-needed turnaround" by paying more attention to its customers. Paying attention to your customers is, I'm told, a winning way to help your business along (hey - even NTL is slowly learning that lesson). But AOL as an underdog? Hmm... ever seen a nine hundred-pound gorilla try to hide behind a tree?And while we're talking about AOL, the Observer'sJohn Naughtonwrites another excellent column, which uses AOL woes to remind all those who need to be reminded (many, many people): "Internet users are not passive couch potatoes and the web is a lousy way to receive TV - even on a broadband connection".It's a sentence which should be tattooed on many a new media forehead.
Competitors in this year'sInternational Design Competitionat MIT were able to useTablet PCs. The Microsoft-sponsored format has been prreviewed at Comdex but has yet to be launched.
Stand has produced a usefulone-page primeron the European Commission's defective copyright directive and the UK government's even more defective plans to implement it.
Joel Hodgell took a Florida spammer to court and was landed with $7,000 judgment to pay the spammer's legal fees. CNet uses this set-back as a peg for a good round-up ofanti-spam litigation, including the inconsistency of judges and other problems.
The Washington Post takes a look at the relatively new phenomenon ofspoofing -- posting fake downloadsto sabotage the MP3 file-swappers.
The judge in a US Federal court hasthrown out BT's claim to own hyperlinking.
Tim O'Reilly, famed publisher of "open source" and free (GNU) software books, has been looking atX Switchers. He doesn't claim this is any sort of scientific survey, of course, and the sample is tiny, but the anecodotal evidence is interesting. Basically, he thinks Apple's Mac OS X is proving more appealing to Linux users (who want Unix and something that "just works") than Mac OS 9 or Windows users. His conclusion (including a pinch of salt): "Apple may be wise to target Unix/Linux rather than Windows in their switch campaign." Although the Macintosh "topping" is closed and proprietary, the underlying operating system in OS X is based on BSD Unix and is available in a Free Software Foundaton distribution,GNU-Darwin, that also runs on Intel processors. The amusing thing about this development is the possibility that people who now use the GNU (Gnu's Not Unix) operating system with a Linux kernel (wrongly calling the whole thing "Linux") will be able to switch to a GNU operating system without Linux.
Analogue mobile phones users are up to 80% more likely to develop a brain tumour than people who have not used them, according to a study by Swedish researchers.The study, published in the August edition of the European Journal of Cancer Prevention, found users of one type of first generation analogue mobile phone were 30% more likely to develop a brain tumour on average. However those using the Nordic Mobile Telephone (NMT) phones for 10 years or more increased their risk by 80% compared with a control group.Researchers found that the tumours generally corresponded to the area of the head most exposed to mobile phone radiation, the area behind the ear.Research team leader Professor Lennart Hardell from the oncology department of Orebro University hospital, said: "We don't think analogue phones are safe. The results are very clear."Mobile phone manufacturers denied the researchers' findings. A spokesman for Ericsson in Sweden told the Reuters news agency: "The study and the conclusions it reaches differs from at least three other studies in the past in several highly regarded scientific journals. None of these studies found a connection between mobile phones and cancer."Whether or not mobile phones are involved, the odds of developing a brain tumour are still low. In a population of eight million people in Sweden, Prof Hardell said there are 1,200 reported brain tumours a year.In addition, most of us now use next-generation digital GSM mobile phones, although NMT phones are still produced. Across western Europe, analogue use is unusual, according to John Delaney, principle telecoms analyst at Ovum."You'd have to work hard to buy an analogue phone in Europe," he said, noting that Norway's Telenor shut down its NMT network last year.Researchers found no correlation between digital phones and brain tumours. Prof Hardell said that could be down to the fact that analogue phones give off two to three times the radiation of digital phones. However, he also put forward a theory that we simply have not been using the digital phones, in widespread use only since the mid-90s, for enough time for tumours to develop. NMT phones have been in use for over 20 years.Prof Hardell and his team had compared the mobile phone usage of 1,617 Swedish patients diagnosed with brain tumours between 1997 and 2000 with a control group that did not suffer from brain tumours."The risk is higher primarily in the temporal lobe, on the same side as the phone is used. Here the risk is 2.5 times greater. The type of tumour showing the largest increase, a 3.5 times greater risk, is tumours of the auditory nerve," the study found.Prof Hardell described his own use of a mobile phone as "very sparse"."I use it always with a headset and for very brief communications, just to say 'I am here', or something like that," he explained. "I never have long conversations over a mobile phone."He said he recommends his teenage children use the phone sparingly.However, Mr Delaney said he uses his GSM phone "with no particular concern"."I don't use a headset and I hold the phone to my ear," he said. He said from a symptomatic point of view - for example headaches and warming behind the ear - analogue had been much worse than digital, but that neither type of phone had been proven to cause cancer."There is no evidence that NMT phones are causing cancer because there is not causal link established between mobile phones and cancer," he concluded.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:Afghan refugees in Britain are to be offered payment to return home. But will they feel undue pressure to go back even if they don't feel safe?Pashmina:I cant beleive Nina did itLadeezMan:did what?Bronco:how much are they getting?Pashmina:killed teriLadeezMan:Wot? My video ran out five minutes before the end.Bronco:Who's nina?Pashmina:she's in 24Host_Chris2:The answer to your   question, Bronco, is &#163;2,500 plus air fares. I would like to remind you all that this is a current affairs chatroomPashmina:durh Chris2Bronco:so wotHost_Chris2:While within its virtual walls, please confine yourselves to discussing current affairs!Pashmina:we areBronco:what's 24?LadeezMan:&#163;2,500? They could have a wicked week in Ibiza for thatHost_Chris2:do you really believe that a second-rate TV show is suitable fare for a serious news forum?Pashmina:everybody's talking about itLadeezMan:I don't understand, pash. If nina was the mole, why did   the baddies order jack to kill her?Bronco:whos jack?Pashmina:even my dad!LadeezMan:U could even go to australia for thatHost_Chris2:actuallythe makers of 24 only decided to make Nina the mole after episode 12 because they didn't know whether the full series would be commissioned when they started making it. Although, you could argue that Ira Gaines wasn't far enough up the pecking order to know that Nina was working for the Drazens.Bronco:Who's Ira Gaines?Host_Chris2:apologies, everybody, that was very unprofessional of me. Could we   now return to the topic of conversation?Pashmina:Chris2 what eles do you watch on tv?LadeezMan:Six feet under? The Job? The Sopranos?*Chris5 has entered the newsroom*Chris5:Chris2, the supervisor would like a word at the end of your shift*Chris5 has left the newsroom*Bronco:oh, chris2, we've got you in trouble now.Host_Chris2:I really think perhaps we should return to the topic without further delay.Pashmina:will they sack you?Bronco:maybe we'll get chris1 back again.LadeezMan:don't be so tactless broncoPashmina:I did like Chris1, though. He was funny.&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Compaq's iPaq has dominated the market for PocketPC-based handheld computers to the extent that Microsoft used it as the standard for the 2002 version of the software. But in the next round, the American company, now owned by Hewlett-Packard, will have to fight off a strong Japanese challenge led by Toshiba, Fujitsu, NEC and Casio.Toshiba's e310 and e740 both went on sale in the UK this month. Toshiba says the consumer-oriented e310 is the smallest and lightest PocketPC available: it weighs only 140g. It may also be the cheapest at &#163;299.99 inc VAT. For comparison, the Palm m515 is 1mm thicker, only a gram lighter and costs about the same.However, the Toshiba e310 has 32MB of memory, a 206MHz processor, a 240 by 320 pixel colour screen, built-in stereo MP3 player and great handwriting recognition, whereas the Palm m515 has 16MB, a 33MHz DragonBall chip, a    160 by 160 screen (only a third as many pixels) and Graffiti. Both have SD (Secure Digital) expansion slots. But for business users, the e740 is much more attractive.It is one of the first PocketPCs to come with built-in wireless - either Bluetooth or Wi-Fi (802.11b) - and it has an accessory battery that extends its running time to 32 hours. The built-in rechargeable pack works for 10 hours, says Toshiba, then you can swap that for an accessory pack that runs for 22 hours.This does make the e740 thicker, but not much. Another interesting accessory for the e740 is a &#163;20 extender that slots into the bottom. This adds a USB port and a standard PC monitor port: the e740 has an extra ATI Imageon 100 graphics co-processor to drive it. You can plug the e740 into a video projector to give presentations, or plug in a PC monitor and keyboard and use it as a desktop PC replacement.    (A PocketPC won't run standard PC software, but you can use its built-in Windows Terminal Services to run those remotely on a Windows server.)The e740 has 64MB of memory and a CompactFlash II expansion slot, as well as an SD slot. This makes it slightly thicker (15.2mm) and heavier (179g), but provides more options for plug-in cards. It also has the 400MHz Intel    XScale version of the StrongARM processor.However, with current software, this seems to offer no advantages, and adds to the price. The e740 costs &#163;469 plus VAT with Bluetooth (&#163;551) and &#163;495 plus VAT with Wi-Fi (&#163;582). The Compaq iPaq H3970, by contrast, seems to be much the mixture as before - until you turn it on. The new TFT screen is brighter and much    clearer than my 3670. (It also has a bluish tinge that makes the old model look pink.)The H3970 also has a 400MHz XScale and the performance feels very snappy. But then, it always has. What sets the iPaq H3970 apart are its Bluetooth wireless connection, Nevo infra-red software and back-up software. This fits on a 48MB flash ROM (up from the usual 32MB) with 20MB   free.The Bluetooth Manager will find and connect to a wide range of devices such as audio headsets, mobile phones, printers and PCs. Nevo lets you use your iPaq as a universal remote control for infrared devices such as TV sets. The PocketPC's appeal has always been its ability to perform multiple functions: electronic book and map reader, media player, voice recorder, etc. Adding remote control is an obvious but useful enhancement, but hardly justifies the price: &#163;529 plus VAT (&#163;622).The H3970 is a lot less pocketable than a Toshiba - it's 16mm thick and weighs 190g - but the extra expansion sleeves let you use a wide range of peripherals. People who have already invested large sums in add-ons will want to stick with the brand.However, those new to the game should check the availability of CompactFlash- and SD-compatible plug-ins to see if they can get the functions they need in a sleeker format. Just try to avoid seeing the H3970's screen.    (JS)Danger's entry rings alarm bellsIf you think the &#163;400 or so it costs to buy a connected PDA such as 02's XDA and Jornada 928 is a bit too steep, you've got a new ally. Danger, a US start-up, wants to slash the price of integrated mobile phones/handheld PCs with a product it hopes to launch in the UK early next year.The Hiptop device, shaped like a bar of soap, has a 2.6in monochrome screen that flips open to reveal a small thumbpad. Users can make calls, send and receive email and access HTML internet pages via a GPRS (general packet radio service) connection. It also features Instant Messaging and regular PDA facilities such as an address book and calendar.The company has also signed contracts with a variety of companies to provide additional content and enhance its personal organiser, digital camera and music-playing facilities.Unlike products from rival companies such as Palm, Handspring and Research in Motion (manufacturer of the Blackberry), the Hiptop is targeted at the young, rather than business users. "There are a lot of people looking for an inexpensive mass market device," says Danger's chief executive Andy Rubin. He predicts buyers in the 20-40 age   bracket will be attracted by the offbeat design and competitive price.Its US launch price is around $200, less than half that of comparable connected PDAs. Part of the reason is that the Hiptop will not be sold under Danger's name. Rather, it will be badged by the networks that buy it - in the US it is T-Mobile, and in the UK, possibly Orange. See the link below.Further proof that manufacturers are taking the budget end of the PDA market seriously has come from Sony. It has launched its cheapest Clie Palm-based handheld PCs in the US. The $200 PEG-SJ20 features a monochrome screen, rechargeable lithium ion battery and 16MB of memory. Its cheaper sibling, the $150 PEG-SL10 has just 8MB of memory and is powered by two AAA batteries. Both models are expected in the UK later this year.If your idea of a PDA is a tiny device that can carry large files, DGN's Dion DMX may fit the bill. A little larger than a watch and weighing only 30g, it can carry up to 128MB of data, which is transferred to the device from a PC via a USB connection. Facilities include an integrated MP3 player, voice recorder and clock. It is available for $149.00 from GGN Tech (see link below). (AN)
Spam solvedDave Birch's suggestion (Second sight, August 15) to make spammers pay for sending spam is excellent and fully in line with the "polluter pays" principle. However, you can keep spam a little more manageable by an extension of the disposable Hotmail account. As most online registrations do not actually require a valid email address (ie, to send a confirmation email), simply make one up unless you really do want the site to be able to contact you. For example, the RealPlayer registration form gives the example of "name@company.com". So, if your name really is Name, and you really do work for Company.com, then my apologies for any Real Networks spam you're getting on my behalf.Antony Hawkinsa.d.hawkins@shef.ac.uk&#183;I have a large list of spam filters on my client, but one catches more spam than all    the others put together. I noticed that in my nearly 10 years of using email, I'd received exactly one useful message with an HTML image in it, and simply stuck a filter on.Adam Williamsonaw280@cam.ac.uk&#183;I have two possible solutions. First, users should be allowed to specify which email address they are willing to accept. All other emails would be rejected. Second, users can specify a password they give only to people they want mail from. The sender inserts the password in brackets in the "subject" field. Again, any mail that does not have this password would be rejected.Joe MasanLondon&#183;I think as well as raising the cost for anyone wanting to send unsolicited commercial emails, they should be forced to have something like &#91;AD&#93; or &#91;ADV&#93; in the subject line. It would certainly help identify unwanted emails more quickly.SV Shahsv_shah@hotmail.com&#183;Birch's idea of making spammers pay to send spam seems good at first glance, but workarounds would appear in no time. A much more    interesting solution is produced by Cloudmark. Its system (SpamNet) lets you determine what is or isn't spam and report it back to a central server. It then tells everyone else's mail client what to look out for. With lots of people using it, it's extremely efficient. If everyone used this sort of system, the spammers would pack up and go home.Ralph Averbuchralph@electricnews.netGame plansCongratulations to Sean Dodson on a very good article on mobile phone gaming (Ready, aim, text, August 15). As an established mobile game developer we're pleased to see the industry beginning to be featured in the mainstream press. I have one small correction, however. The end of the article says the Java handsets are very expensive. Although the Nokia 7650 is currently around &#163;150 on contract, the 6310i is available for &#163;65, and the 3410 and the Siemens M50 can be got free. Mobile gaming: it's affordable for children.Niall FraserDirector Covert Operations Ltdniall@covert.co.ukFertile groundAmong various oddities in his article The Future on a Plate    (Online, August 15) Henry Gee quotes the commonplace that "fishing represents the last hunter-gatherer industry", as if it were a novel insight. It isn't, and it isn't true. Leaving aside "bush meat", hasn't he observed the astonishing quantities of wild mushrooms and berries on sale in Russia and Eastern European markets? He goes on to say of the Fertile Crescent that "it doesn't look fertile any more". Has he checked this out? The parts I've seen look pretty fertile to me. But, anyhow, "fertile crescent" is a modern construct, and geographically imprecise.Prof Robin Milner-GullandUniversity of Sussex, BrightonMac humourThe absence of Mac help sought from Ask Jack (Feedback, August 15), could be trivially dismissed as low readership by users of the delicious platform. Proof of the Mac's superior serviceability exists, however, in the platform-specific press. The four major Mac magazines available in the UK (MacAddict, Mac Format, MacUser and Macworld) contain fewer than a dozen pages of "How do I fix it?" between them each month. Over in 21st century Windows and Linuxshire, there are entire magazines devoted to reaching a desktop and staying there for a    moment or two. They make hilarious reading.Robert Tedderrjt1@mac.com
It's Thursday so the latest printed issue of Online is alsoonline.
A BBC survey of the 100 greatest Brits contains a fair selection of scientists including the Web's inventor, Tim Berners Lee. ThisZDNet storyconcentrates on those while avoiding comment on the more spectacularly stupid choices. (The full list, printed in the Guardian, could hardly be considered a recommendation for what passes for an education system in the UK. Indeed, the Guardian's own list of Ten Who Missed Out doesn't include Benjamin Disraeli, David Hockney, Dr Johnson, John Maynard Keynes, Lewis Carroll, John Milton, John Stuart Mill, Henry Moore, William Morris, Cecil Rhodes, William Henry Fox Talbot, Sir Christopher Wren and many more.)
TOCA Race DriverPS2 	&#163;39.99 Codemasters	****Vroom, vroom, snore? If the thought of yet another PlayStation 2 racing game    fills you with apathy, then TOCA Race Driver may change your mind. This is an above average racer made great by two elements - narrative and damage.As a rookie driver, you will experience revenge, love and betrayal, emotions not normally associated with a racing game. Of course, traditionalists will be happier fiddling    with downforce and tyre grip, with the tinkering element almost as important here as it is in the petrolheads' favourite Gran Turismo 3.The graphics, nice as they are, aren't up to GT3's standards but the effects are more convincing. However, it is the non-visual touches that impress most. Hanging back in second, approaching a part-   strewn bend? Then listen as your pit team offers encouragement.Cut up an opponent, pausing only to flick a V-sign in the rear view mirror? Then watch as he seeks revenge and confronts you afterwards in an animated cut-scene.  These features elevate TOCA above its rivals, although there are problems. The handling of the cars makes for some fiddly control issues, while lengthy loading times do their best to dissipate the atmosphere. The difficulty level is high, with single mistakes in later races making victory nigh on impossible.  But with 38 tracks and 42 cars, and a touch of narrative fairy dust, TOCA has re-ignited the PS2 racing genre. (GH)Beach LifePC	&#163;29.99 Deep Red/Eidos	***Gratuitous violence apart, the games industry tends to be more politically correct than you might expect. This very British effort refreshingly bucks the trend. Beach Life is, essentially, Sim Ibiza: a conventional sim game in which you take charge of various island resorts, fulfil   missions and make money.Thus, you may have a certain number of days to cure the water supply problem, or develop a virtually deserted island in shark-  infested waters into a posh, safe resort. Beach Life does not push the sim game envelope, but it is well executed, with an intuitive interface and a rare aura of coolness.The game's delights stem from the way the virtual holidaymakers behave - or can be made to behave - as though they were the average infamous Brit abroad. Cranking up the strength of the beer and slashing its price, for example, will fill your coffers but breed widespread fighting.You can even sell a type of beer that leads to over-amorousness and, if your customers get bored, a wet T-shirt contest should pacify them. The biggest drawback, though, is that it should be much longer: some of the missions are too short and there are not enough of them. (SB)Aliens vs Predator 2: Primal HuntPC £19.99 Monolith/Sierra ***You have to feel      sympathy for Sierra. In any other year, Aliens would have been a shoot-'em-up      everyone talked about. It is long, tense and genuinely different, depending on which of      the three characters you played. The problem is that 2002 has been deluged with      quality titles in a similar vein.Unfortunately, this mission pack will neither attract      new legions of bug-hunters nor satisfy the existing ones. With a mere nine missions      available (three for each of the marine, alien or predator categories), and only a      handful of new weapons and adversaries, it remains fun to play but only for a short      time. The scripted interludes suck you into the story. However, the level design is      perfunctory at best, with miles of gloomy tunnels, an over-reliance on unavoidable      shock-attacks and the familiar imbalance between the characters.The marine levels      remain mindlessly enjoyable, while the alien missions see you scuttling up walls like      some heavily armed cockroach and the predator looking far from the fearsome hunter      we know and love.The story, too, is disappointingly predictable, with lame conclusions      to the missions. Once again, use of the Lithtech engine means only high-powered PCs      will see the most impressive lighting effects. At best, the action is fast and tense      with a stronger multiplayer element and improved AI.At worst, it is too short and too      predictable - a pity given the potential of a killer licence so far overlooked by the      movies. (MA)
A small robot from Seattle has landed a jobwashing I M Pei's glass pyramidat the Louvre. It could also work on planes....
Janis Ian answers questions aboutfile-swappingfor the Mercury News, following up "the article the whole industry is talking about,The Internet Debacle - An Alternative View" on Janis Ian's Web site. You can also read Ian's more recent thoughtshere.
An Australian researcher is developing data glovesfor the deaf, reports AP.
Would the internet have ever caught on if every time anyone wanted to post a web page or distribute a web browser a royalty had to be paid? If HTML hadn't been freely available, the internet almost certainly wouldn't have grown as quickly as it has.But unlike HTML, there aren't any standards for audio and video on the internet, just a bunch of competing formats. All of the compression techniques, or codecs, used to shrink audio and video files so they can be shared over   the internet are each owned by a different company. The leading formats for online audio and video - Microsoft's Windows Media, Apple's QuickTime, and RealNetworks' RealMedia, DivX Networks' DivX, and Fraunhofer Institute's MP3 - are patented and require some kind of licensing fee for their use. That is, until recently.With the release of the oddly named Ogg Vorbis, there is now an alternative. The product of a loose amalgamation of programmers, led by Chris "Monty" Montgomery, and working under the aegis of the non-profit Xiph.Org Foundation, Vorbis, as it's known, is a new format for compressing audio that is royalty-free and available for anyone to use without licensing fees or restrictions. The hope is to create standards for audio and video on the internet that belong to no one and are controlled by no one. Xiph.Org is already at work on VP3, another free and open format for compressing video.While this may not seem like such a big deal, in actuality, whoever controls the codecs for audio and video on the web actually wields a tremendous amount of power over how music and movies will be distributed. Hollywood and the recording industry are clamouring for a crackdown on the sharing of   music and movies online. Mindful of this, Microsoft has been pushing the entertainment industry to adopt its Windows Media format, which has built-in security features that could potentially restrict computer users from swapping files over the web. Microsoft would love to be the only place that the industry could turn to in order to securely distribute music and movies over the internet.While it's still to early to tell whether Vorbis will emerge as a viable alternative to Windows Media and RealMedia for broadcasting over the web, it does pose a more immediate challenge to the current status of MP3 as the format of choice for digital audio files. Few people realise that MP3 is the intellectual property of a German research lab that invented the algorithm for compressing audio back in 1991. The Fraunhofer Institute holds the patent for MP3, which it did not enforce, allowing MP3 to become established as the de facto standard in the interim.Fraunhofer decided in 1998 to collect royalties, and now requires software and hardware manufacturers to pay fees for each player or recorder sold or given away, and 2% of revenues for the distribution of MP3s online. They are asking even more for MP3Pro, the higher fidelity   format it recently introduced. While those fees might not sound like much, with the price of MP3 players plummeting, a $5 licensing fee may soon be greater than the players cost to manufacture, preventing prices from dropping any further.Because Vorbis matches or exceeds MP3 in terms of sonic fidelity, in theory it should prove an attractive alternative, since there are no licensing costs associated with its use. So should you ditch your MP3 player and your collection of MP3 files and start over with Vorbis? Not quite.The upstart format is a long way from displacing MP3, which has millions of users now and, as the de facto standard for file-trading and portable digital audio players, is deeply entrenched in the popular mindset as the format for digital audio online. MP3 and Vorbis aren't mutually exclusive as formats. With a simple software upgrade, your MP3 player could easily play your Vorbis files, allowing collections of   both files to easily co-exist.You can find people sharing songs encoded with Vorbis on peer-to-peer networks such as Gnutella and KaZaA, and Vorbis.com has links to downloads of Vorbis-enabled software players.RealNetworks, the company behind Real Player, has recently taken steps to incorporate Vorbis into its audio playback software, and WinAmp, the world's most popular MP3 software, supports the new format.There are already some hardware players that support Vorbis, such as MP Sharp's Digital Jukebox. Some video game publishers have begun using Vorbis as the audio format for their games (Fraunhofer charges $2,500 for game publishers to use MP3), and the BBC is testing the use of streaming Vorbis for online webcasts of The Archers and other programming.In the long run, even if Vorbis and VP3 fail to emerge as the formats of choice, it probably won't matter. Rather, the true significance of the effort of this group of volunteers to create free and open standards for online audio and video may be the dashing of Microsoft's, or any other corporation's, dreams of a multimedia monopoly.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What will mobile addicts do with their new picture phones? Capture those "compromising moments where a camera would usually be forgotten", suggests T-Mobile, the first to launch picture messaging in the UK.Presumably, instead of hazy memories the morning after, you'll be able to browse through the full photographic evidence - or your friends will message it to you.T-Mobile says it has 1,000 subscribers for its picture or multimedia messaging service (MMS), which, for &#163;20 a month, lets users send hundreds of messages including photos, words and sounds. Next month, the network operator is also planning its first MMS campaign with Flytxt, a wireless marketing company.Pamir Gelenbe, Flytxt's director of corporate business, believes MMS offers richer possibilities than short messaging services (SMS).For example, his company   alerts German farmers on behalf of the chemicals giant, Bayer, when weather may damage their crops. It hopes to be able to photo-message them a map showing the areas worst affected by, say, airborne bacteria.Use of picture messaging is spreading. Orange launched a service last week with a per message charge of 40p. Rival networks Vodafone and O2 plan to introduce MMS before Christmas.Virgin Mobile is also planning a service, though customers with picture phones such as the T68i can already email photo messages.Gelenbe says: "Network operators are banking on MMS to generate significant data revenues over the next five years, and mobile marketers are waiting for pictures, colours and rich sounds to enhance their campaigns."It uses the same paradigm as SMS, but improves the length, content and reach of messages that can be sent. And it has that 'wow' factor." But, he warns, "there are many hurdles that need to be overcome for MMS to take off." Handset penetration is the first. With high prices (&#163;150-&#163;500), it is not going to be until Christmas at the   earliest that a significant number - at least 5% of UK subscribers - will own MMS-enabled phones.Then come the technical issues. Photo messages still can't be sent between mobile networks. And there can be problems within the same network if the recipient has a different make of phone.Another issue is speed. SMS is the ideal form of short, quick communication. Lars Vestergaard, head of wireless research at analysts IDC, says one of the most popular messages is "I luv u".But will users want to embellish other popular mes sages, such as "Running L8", "C u in 5 mins"? "How often does one add colour to emails or insert images?" asks Gelenbe. "Anything getting in the way of speed could act as a barrier."Moreover, rival technologies, such as mobile instant messaging in the US, could compete with MMS.   And messaging software written in Java could be downloaded on to the new Java phones.Though the industry is heading towards per-message charges of up to 40p, this is expensive for some early adopters, such as teenagers.But others might be willing to fork out to embarrass a friend, send a holiday snap or share birthday celebrations. Steven Day, of Virgin Mobile, predicts: "People will use MMS for everyday things, like messaging the poor souls in the office with a picture of the pint they will have drunk by the time colleagues join them."Gelenbe believes that: "Marketers also stand to win from the advent of MMS or its equivalent, as pictures, sounds, colours and (eventually video footage) will add significantly to mobile marketing campaigns." However, he does not expect widespread adoption overnight.So MMS could bring lucrative moments for operators, as well as compromising ones for consumers.
Two years after her divorce, Karen Riley decided she was ready to meet someone new. However, being in her thirties with a small child and a demanding job, she wasn't getting much opportunity."As I didn't feel up to loud nightclubs on a Saturday night, I decided to give an online dating agency a go," she explains. "Although I was the last person on earth to use   an offline agency, using the internet helps rid you of your inhibitions."Following a couple of near misses, it proved third-time lucky when she started chatting to Jon on the DatingDirect.com site. "He lived in Leicestershire where I had grown up, and had a daughter who was a year younger than my son," she says. After exchanging emails for a few weeks, they eventually decided to meet   and (yep, you've guessed it) fell head over heels in love. They tied the knot last year and are both now keen to spread the word about the merits of internet dating. And, as the number of similar success stories continues to rise, it would appear they are not alone.Until recently, however, internet dating was a taboo subject. It was always something other people did, and these "other people" were often perceived to be sexual deviants, axe murderers and paper bag wearers.Now this prejudiced view of cyberdating is being challenged by the sheer popularity of web-based matchmaking services. Consider the figures. Match.com, one of the largest international online dating agencies, now boasts more than 3.25 million registered users and receives, on average, more than 75 reports each month of its members getting married or engaged. The UK's largest web dating service, Dating Direct.com has more than 350,000 active members. On most weekday evenings, the increasingly active Love@Lycos service has more than 3,000 UK singles logged on simultaneously, ready to flirt with whoever takes their fancy.It is reasonably safe to assume that the majority of these people are not axe murderers or perverts, and are able to walk safely out of their house without a paper bag over their head.According to Alex Kovach, the managing director of Lycos UK and Ireland: "Online dating is now a mainstream activity and, if anything, the internet has helped make dating services more legitimate by adding a fun element." There are increasing signs that the UK is following the US, where online dating is stigma-free. Match.com's fantastically titled vice president of romance, Trish McDermott, claims that, "in the US, the single scene is the internet."For those who have tried it, the main advantage of online dating is that it helps them cast a wider net. Just as users of Amazon welcome the greater choice of books, toys and DVDs, subscribers to web dating services have access to a wider variety of dating potential."You meet people you would not normally come into contact with, perhaps because they live in a different area, do a different job or mingle in different social circles," explains Kathryn McElhinney, who met her partner through WheresMyDate.com. She also adds that the internet enables you to "filter out" those people with whom you have little in common. If dating is, as Match.com's Trish McDermott puts it, "a number's game", there can be no denying that the numbers are increased online. The speed and affordability of these ser vices are further attractions.This helps confirm the theory that the internet is no longer "a last resort", but an enhanced dating environment. Indeed, new research from Bath University reveals that online relationships have a better than average chance of success in the real world."Contrary to popular belief, chatrooms don't lead to shallow and impersonal relationships," says Jeffrey Gavin, the lecturer who headed the research project. "They lead to really close relationships because people express themselves more freely on the internet."Dr Adam Joinson, a psychologist from the Open University, agrees. "The specifics of internet communication help explain the comparative success of online dating," he says. "Not being able to see the other person means we don't need to worry about controlling our physical appearance and can concentrate on the actual communication. After all, trying to sound and look interested, while at the same time holding in your stomach, can play havoc with your ability to actually listen when courting in 'real life'."Match.com's McDermott goes even further, claiming that matchmaking sites can radically change the nature of relationships. "Sites such as ours have helped people to get to know each other from the inside out," she says. "Traditionally, it has been the other   way around."However, the freedom of identity offered by the internet also leads to security concerns if a romance is to be continued offline. Sites such as Safer Dating Saferdating.com  and WildXAngel.com  provide invaluable advice for anyone taking cyberdating seriously. But, according to Kathryn McElhinney, the risks need to be kept in perspective."Although people are nervous that the person on the other end of the keyboard is a psychopath, this isn't any worse than meeting someone in a nightclub after 10 vodka Red Bulls," she says. "Also, the issue of security can be partly mitigated by joining a subscription site, where your profile is shown only to other paying members."Because of this paid-for element, subscription-based dating sites are big business and, along with the Friends Reunited phenomenon of tracking down long-lost classmates, are proving that paid-for communication-based services do not deter web users.As Match.com was set up in 1995, when women made up only 10% of the online population, the company has seen the online dating business come of age. "In 1995, the concept was not necessarily understood and probably even deemed questionable," says McDermott. "We've come to realise our subscription-based model is probably one of the better   business models out there." With more than 17m registrations since its launch in 1995, it is hard to disagree. Even those services that do not charge for web subscription, such as Love@Lycos, are able to generate revenues through advertising. After all, given the nature of dating sites, advertisers can get a very clear idea of who they are targeting.Match.com, along with many others, identifies the UK as a "key market" for    online dating services. Indeed, some even suggest that the UK population is uniquely suited to this type of dating. Not only is there now a larger number of female web users (according to March figures from Jupiter Media Metrix, 42% of British women use the internet), but it has been suggested there could also be something about our national character that makes us "compatible" with dating sites. "We tend to be more reserved   in the UK, so online services are bound to be more popular than their offline counterparts," says the founder of WheresMyDate.com, Toby Jones.However, most dating sites still claim to have more men than women signed up. Which means, of course, that male users have to try that little bit harder to win the hearts of their potential matches. One trend that Lycos's Kovach has spotted has been photos of men with dogs. "When we first added a picture service, we were surprised by how many men had a pet by their side," he says. "Then I was directed to a recently published piece of research which had found that women trust men with dogs. And as trust is a big factor in online communities, it sort of made sense."A more sensible approach for both men and women is to make sure you are using the right service to begin with. There are thousands of dating sites out there, catering for different needs. At one end of the scale, there are such sites as NoMore Frogs.co.uk, which uses psychometric personality tests in place of photographs to ensure members are matched with compatible partners. At the other end, there are fun "flirt-based" services such as Love@Lycos. Then there are successful offline contact services such as The Guardian's Soulmates, which are now also included on the web.As cyberdating has taken off, a number of specialised sites have also emerged. Ivorytowers.net is the UK's graduate dating service. ChristianConnection.co.uk is for those who want someone's knee to squeeze during Sunday mass. There's even HorseCouples.com, for people "looking for someone who shares the wonder and amazement of these great animals."Many of the most popular dating sites have hundreds of success stories under their belts, including some marriages. For instance, NoMoreFrogs.co.uk has claimed two marriages since its October 2000 launch, while Match. com has a string of UK success stories, including that of Suesie and Steve Glagow, who married six months after discovering they had a "compatibility rating" of 98%.But if things eventually turn sour, the internet can still help out. A UK divorce site, Divorce-Online.co.uk, was launched earlier this year to allow couples to separate over the web with minimal negotiation.Do:Be secure:"Ask all the questions you need to ask your potential date and feel very satisfied with the answers before revealing any contact details," says Match.com's Trish McDermott.Select the right site:Check the privacy procedures of each site before signing up.Be realistic:"The relationship has to be practical," advises Karen Riley, who met her husband via DatingDirect.com.Use any additional services:Many sites offer optional extras to potential daters. For instance, at Love@Lycos, users can submit their mobile number and arrange for date requests to be forwarded to them on the move.Don't:Idealise:"Like other geographically separated relationships, online lovers are suspect to a process of idealisation about their partner," warns Open University's Adam Joinson.Be put off by registration forms:Registering before browsing helps sites cut out non-serious use of their services.Underestimate the technology:"Already, technology has allowed people to change the initial process of desire," says Match.com's McDermott.Forget dating etiquette:You may be more than a convenient slapping distance away from your potential date, but queries such as "What underwear are you wearing?" are still generally unwelcome.&#183;Andrea Semple's forthcoming novel, The Ex-Factor, will be published by Piatkus, priced £6.99
A couple of startled newcomers to internet banking have proved that honesty remains the best policy in the IT age, after an office glitch mistakenly credited them with &#163;689,000.Pausing briefly to wonder if the money was the ultimate tempter for new customers, the pair rang the online financiers Egg to ask what was going on."We kept getting messages on our computer saying that all these funds were available," said Jackie Tudor, 51, who works in a Cornish gift shop while her husband Steve, 46, skippers a transatlantic merchant ship. "We knew it wasn't our money because we'd only just started the account three days earlier with one deposit of &#163;100."The couple have been rewarded with the gift from Egg of the &#163;1,034 interest the money earned while in their account - 10 days because of 
 unspecified problems at the bank. The Tudors contacted Egg straightaway, but it took a further six days before the huge balance was downloaded to its rightful owner."We knew we could have a lot of fun with the money but we also knew that would be fraud," said Mrs Tudor, of Looe, who started the account with her husband to try a bit of dabbling in stocks and shares. "Steve is in the States at the moment and so if he had wanted he could have changed his name and run off with the money and we could have done well for ourselves - until we got caught."It was fantastic to have so much money in the bank but in the end honesty is the best policy."A spokesman for Egg said: "A mistake was made on Captain Tudor's account which has been rectified."The bank did not specify the cause of the bungle, beyond "a clerical error".
MetafilterMetafilter is a long-running "collaborative weblog" where any one of its thousands of members can post an entry, before a lively debate kicks off underneath it. Its large, net-savvy membership has helped ensure it is one of the most intelligent debates on the net. For some time, membership had been closed because its founder could not afford additional servers or bandwidth to serve more users. The good news is that memberships are open again, at a price. Pay at least $10 via PayPal or Amazon's Honor system and you can get posting rights. The membership, once apparently stuck at just over 14,000, has already increased to 15,000+, so get your application in quick before it is closed again.www.metafilter.comwww.paypal.comPoor lawsFeel a little sorry for corporate lawyers? Suspect they're just a bit maligned, doing a tricky job in difficult times? Wipe that feeling clean away by reading the story of Dave, aka Davezilla, a weblogger now incurring the corporate wrath of Toho Co. The chaps at Toho - no, we hadn't heard of them either - own the rights to Godzilla and the cartoon/film character's "likeness". Dave has, in their eyes, committed two crimes: he has appended their "zilla" to his name, and he has a little, gaunt-looking dragon as his blog logo. Cue lawyers' letters and uproar in Blogistan as a popular citizen prepares his defence. Which includes the fact that dictionary.com includes two definitions for "zilla".www.davezilla.comSlashdotSize him upThe silly season is a good time for Condomi, the (no points for guessing) condom manufacturer, to release its risqu&#233; "sizemograph", which claims to estimate the size of a man's penis from various more visible dimensions: the size of his hands, nose and feet. On that basis, one newspaper has already declared that David Beckham must be "small". "It has been scientifically tested and proved to be accurate," a spokeswoman claimed last week. Best visit the site and make up your own mind: your correspondent would like to say little more, other than to point out the words of disclaimer at the foot of the results window. "Most scientists assert there is no relationship between penis size and that of someone's feet, hands or nose". So there.www.sizehimup.co.ukNorway ads upYou might be surprised to learn this, but the net can be extremely good news for (relatively) obscure Norwegian dance music acts. Just ask Royksopp, the now-less-obscure Norwegian dance music act, who had their music featured in the recent O2 TV ads for multimedia messaging. Once, to find out what track was used in an ad, you had to rely on some bloke in the pub telling you, or a DJ mentioning it on the radio. Now, you can head online to Commercial Breaks and Beats, and they'll likely already have it listed - along with a link to buy the music. This partly explains why Royksopp appeared in the charts last week, and why we'll probably be hearing a lot more from them in the months to come.www.commercialbreaksandbeats.co.ukwww.royksopp.comGimme gizmoIf you can't wait for our weekly fix of gadget news, help is at hand. Nick Denton and Peter Rojas (who, among many other things, both write for Online) have launched an "experimental" weblog devoted to the gadget world called Gizmodo. It is experimental because this is a commercial weblog, yet few people are blogging for fame and fortune, and neither partner is sure how much, if any, revenue will roll in. At least the nature of the medium - the weblog - means they are staking very little.www.Gizmodo.comwww.nickdenton.org/archives/2002_08_01_archive.htm#85344422Soccer senseAnyone who has played football on public pitches will know the scene: a bunch of small children hunting, in a pack, for a muddy football, while parents shout words of criticism, abuse and even - occasionally - encouragement from the touchlines. Now the English Football Association is trying to encourage dads and - oh yes - mums to behave a little better. The FA wants them to offer their offspring more constructive advice than "get 'im haaard", by encouraging them to qualify for an online "certificate" in responsible soccer mom and pop skills. It's a tough job they've given themselves.http://soccerparents.thefa.comNew &amp; noted&#183;Cold Dark Matter, an online exhibition:www.tate.org.uk/colddarkmatter&#183;Crisis in Colombia:http://web.amnesty.org/web/content.nsf/pages/gbr_colombia&#183;Phone covers galore:www.expresstelecom.co.ukSix of the bestBank holiday weekendNational Trustwww.nationaltrust.org.uk/Notting Hill Carnivalwww.btinternet.comReading &amp; Leeds Festivalswww.bbc.co.uk/radio1Alton Towerswww.alton-towers.co.ukFind Edenwww.edenproject.comChaos?www.theaa.com
Do we need a proper rollout of broadband for online gaming to really catch on?Multiplayer gaming has always been a strong part of our games. The net allows us to realise our potential as a global community of players, sharing cultures and dreams along with great strategies and fun game play. Broadband makes this connectivity an easier and more solid proposition.How did Battle.net come about?AtE3in 1996 we talked over our impressions of the show, and the push for a solid internet gaming model was evident. We'd done all our previous games with support for modem and LAN games, so we came up with an idea for playingDiabloover the net. The fledgling Battle.net had only a few servers, all in southern California. Today, it has hundreds of servers co-located in Asia, Europe and in the United States. We host more than 11m games every month and commonly have a peak concurrency of well over 200,000 players.Any advice to anyone wanting to work in the games industry?The chance for people to get an entry-level position and then move into a career they really want is still here. You should have a love for what you're doing and for games. Getting into this industry is no guarantee of fast cars and big money. If you want an in-depth look at what Blizzard looks for in developers, point your browser towww.blizzard.com/jobopp/intro.shtml and check out each section.Favourite gadgets?I'm itching to try out aSegway Human Transporter. This super-smart, computer chip-laden machine won't topple with a driver's clumsiness. Instead, it responds to a driver's slightest moves and runs on pennies worth of electricity a day. I saw a postal worker in San Francisco on one and it pushed every techno-geek button I have!Do you support the release of tool-kits and code to allow players to modify games?We support the community creating new content for our games. We do not, however, allow add-ons or expansions for our games to be made and commercially distributed. The World Editor in Warcraft III is far advanced over the one we shipped with StarCraft, and our designers feel it is the best tool they have worked with. You can now script any behaviour or game event you want by using the extensive scripting language. There's also an easy-to-use 3D editor that anyone can utilise to make maps. New sound effects or speech files can be placed into any map, and players can even create movies within the game engine to tell their own stories.Favourite sites?www.pvponline.com;www.sinfest.net;www.reallifecomics.com;www.penny-arcade.com;www.zombo.comwww.demisecomics.com/demise/wwwy/;www.megatokyo.com;www.theonion.com;http://inktank.com/AT/index.cfm;www.ifilm.comVisit:www.blizzard.com
From the Walkman to the camcorder, Japanese technology has routinely been years
    ahead of Europe and the US. Having a compact, geographically isolated population, with
    a high rate of adoption of new technology has meant innovations can reach the market
    far quicker than elsewhere.The most recent gadgets to have found mass market favour in Japan are mobile
    phones with a built-in camera. Adverts for Ericsson camera-phones operating on
    T-Mobile's 2.5G system have appeared in the UK; Hutchison is desperately trying to
    launch the UK's first 3G service by the end of this year, offering us multimedia
    internet access on our phones.So what else does Japan have up its Kimono sleeves? I recently tagged along with
    Labour MPs Derek Wyatt and Ian Gibson on parliamentary fact-finding meetings in
    Tokyo, to see what may lie in store for the British public. 
    Our first destination was the offices of J-Phone, one of Vodafone's empire-building
    purchases and among the most successful mobile operators in Japan, with 12m
    subscribers. We were treated to a virtuoso display of mobile gadgetry: one phone took
    a video of us, then sent it to another phone across the room; then a phone was set to
    play an orchestral version of God Save the Queen, followed by a football chant.Both Wyatt and Gibson are technically savvy: Wyatt, a former English rugby
    international, is a fierce proponent of broadband and constantly pesters ministers to
    get their act together. Gibson, a former science professor at the University of East
    Anglia, chairs the science and technology select committee and is similarly
    forward-thinking. They were quite chuffed by the experience.The UK does have a 3G test bed - in the Isle of Man - and no doubt Hutchison or others
    will launch services to the rest of the country sometime next year, but the question
    of what services people will want remains in the ether. The Japanese are fond of small
    cartoons; they send these all the time. But except in the adolescent market, this may
    not take off in the UK.In Japan, the most popular mobile content requests are for ring tones, downloaded by
    71.2% of users. Next comes wallpaper for the colour monitor(46.4%), then news,
    weather, leisure information, traffic details and fortune telling (15.9%).These figures were presented by Magnus Nerve at Cybird, which acquires mobile phone
    content and then pro vides it to the operators. "There has been a lot of growth in
    mobile internet," says Nerve."The most popular operator, DoCoMo, which introduced
    the i-mode phone, can access around 3,000 official internet sites and 53,534
    unofficial sites." 
    The importance of the i-mode phone is that it brings true internet compatibility on
    mobile phones much closer.The phones being tested in Japan will increase this
    capacity, allowing access to the internet at a speed equivalent to a 100k modem. 
    I-mode has been operating mobile games and other graphics on Java applications for
    two years. The increased speeds make it all the more likely that UK customers will
    want to follow suit.Richard Clifford, an analyst at Datamonitor, believes Japan has led the way not only in
    technological innovation, but in business models: "In Europe, application developers had
    no incentive to deal with the mobile operators, because the terms offered were so
    poor. I-mode in Japan showed the way, offering to take 14% of revenue, leaving 86% to
    the developers. In Europe, the operators had wanted 40%."Clifford is confident that 3G services will take off in Europe, despite the numerous
    difficulties in establishing the platform. Most recently, Telefonica of Spain and the
    Finnish company Sonera backed out of a deal to supply the German market with 3G.
    Commentators now predict that others will follow. The price paid for the licences has
    been ruinous: they can no longer deliver the goods. 
    What the Japanese experience of 3G has taught us, however, is that the services
    appeal to a broad section of the public: more than 50m Japanese use mobile phones to
    access the internet.This is at a point where there are still relatively few things to
    find on it. The signs are that once the internet and mobile telephony are more
    seamlessly integrated, we'll all be at it, when we're not videoing each other and
    sending the pictures around the world...
Pic to emailTaking a screen shot by depressing print screen in Windows produces a bitmap image. Could you advise a silvertop how to convert to JPeg for quicker transmission by email?Mike BakerQueensland, AustraliaJack Schofield replies:You   can change the format of an image by pasting it into a graphics program and then saving it as something else. In Windows, you already have Microsoft Paint (see Start| Programs|Accessories|Paint). Open it and press Ctrl-V to paste in the bitmap. Next, choose File|Save As, go to the "File save as" box, select either JPeg or Graphics Interchange Format (*.gif), and give it a filename. Doing this reduced a bitmap of my desktop from 2.25 megabytes to a 58K GIF, though the colour was a bit off. (GIF is better for flat images such as cartoons while JPeg is better for complex images and photographs.)You can do more if you have a proper graphics program such as Microsoft's Picture It! or Jasc's Paint Shop Pro. JPeg is a "lossy" compression system - it reduces the information in a picture - and you can often choose how much quality you are willing to sacrifice when you save it. This may be done on a sliding scale or by choosing high, medium or low.You can also use the "resize" command to change an image intended for printing (such as 1280 by 960 pixels and 300 dots per inch) to one suitable for viewing on screen (such as 640 by 480 pixels and 72dpi). Right-click any image file, select Properties and then click the Summary tab to discover a picture's current format.SneakyI came across a web site (www.interneteraser.net) that advertises protection software. A popup window listed all the files on my C: drive, which when double-clicked, would open, displaying any subdirectories. I have Zone Alarm installed and was wondering how this was possible.Neal EdmundsJS:It is a trick. Windows Explorer and Internet Explorer have a lot in common and either can do the other's job. To see all your files in IE, simply type C:\ in the Address box instead of an internet address. It is not surprising that you can see your own files on your own PC, but the information has not left your desktop. (To complete the circle, paste an internet address into Windows Explorer and it will display the website.)Email maxedWhen I open an email in Outlook Express, it opens in a window when I'd prefer it full-screen maximised. Is there a way of getting it maximised by default?Kevin BellJS:There should be, but Outlook Express seems to have a bug that prevents it from doing so, except perhaps   under Windows XP. However, Microsoft programs usually remember how they were last opened, so if you set a window how you want it, then close it, the next one should open in the same position. So, open an email (eg, by double-clicking it), use the mouse to drag the window to its maximised size, and other emails will open like this.Gone missingMy hand-me-down Windows 98 PC does not appear to have defrag or disk compression programs and other system tools. Is there any way of re-introducing them?The Rev Julian DunnJS:The core Windows tools are not optional and cannot be re-installed using the Add/Remove Programs applet in the Control Panel. The simplest way to restore them is to reinstall Windows over the top of the current installation. This will retain your settings and files, but obviously you must back up your data first, in case something goes wrong.In Windows 98, you can also restore and replace files by using the System File Checker. Go to Start|Run and type sfc in the box, then click OK to run it. You can choose Scan for altered files or Extract one file from installation disk. The disk defragmenter is DEFRAG.EXE and   goes in C:\Windows. The process is not user-friendly. In Windows Me, Microsoft replaced it with the msconfig utility, which has an Extract File button under the General tab. See the Microsoft Knowledge Base article How To: Extract Original Compressed Windows Files - search Google for Q129605.There are so many cheap or free hand-me-down hard drives around, I do not recommend disk compression utilities. Your best bet could be to appeal for a new hard drive and re-install Windows.Web spellsDo you know of a way to makewww.spellcheck.net, mentioned in Webwatch, check spellings other than in American?Richard CooperJS:I don't, but Web Spell in Japan offers a choice of American and British dictionaries. See:http://lsd.lab.nig.ac.jp/spell/spellcheck.htmlBackchat&#183;Surprisingly, only two readers responded to Anita Batas' question about saving an email to a floppy disk. Ron Graves and Russ Reid pointed out that you can use File|Save As and use the drop-down list marked Save in: to choose Floppy (A:). This is true, but saving direct to a floppy can   cause problems. I prefer the right-click drag-and-drop method described last week for two reasons. First, you can see what you are doing. Second, if you want to copy several emails, you can drag and drop them all at once. If they are not next to one another, you can hold down the Control key and select individual emails with the mouse.&#183;Also last week, Deryck Johnson wanted an alternative to Twigger, a website that lets you check an email box. Richard Struck recommendswww.mail2web.com.&#183;There were more responses to Reg Bauckham's confession (August 8) that he kept forgetting to close his internet connection. Michael Salem says: "There is a free Windows program,NetLaunch, which will disconnect automatically after less than x bytes have been transferred in y minutes. This is a minor feature of a program which will do many other things". Peter Rowland says that after sessions, "I have made it a rigid ritual for all the family to pick up the receiver and check for the dialling tone."
RealNetworkshas launched a new version of its multimedia player, which raises several questions. Will it be buggy, slow and crash a lot? Will it set itself as the default even when you don't want it to? If you download it, will you get deluged with pop-up ads and junk mail, sorry, important special offers? Will it work as spyware, or has Real really recanted on that? Will it be used to deliver low-quality streams that you can't save or replay from your hard drive? Will it be worth the $19.95 charge? (See that pulsing FREE button? You have to enter a credit card number to get that FREE download.) And if Real goes bust, will Microsoft get the blame? I have absolutely no plans to find out the hard way..... What is interesting is that RealNetworks is presenting it as a "universal" player since it plays Microsoft's Windows Media format (among others). TheMercury Newsreckons this is great for Real, but I wonder if it simply forgot to ask Microsoft what happened to its earlier support for Real's format. The Merc also seems to miss a rather important point made by Paul Thurrott inWininfo, which is that you have to install Windows Media Player and Apple's QuickTime player to enable Real's player to "support" their files: "So whatever benefits the universal player offers users are unclear."
Apple's new dual-processor Power Macs have a faster system bus and DDR memory but tests run byBare Featsshow they are no faster (unless you are running Quake 3 Arena).eWeekis covering the debate, and Apple's response.
A power failure this morning knocked out phonelines and computers at university admissions service Ucas during one of its busiest periods, a spokeswoman has confirmed.The Ucas head office in Cheltenham was hit by the widespread power failure, meaning that students were unable to use its phonelines or internet site to access information about finding a university place.The power failure occurred at about 7.30am and affected many businesses in Cheltenham.Power now appears to have been restored.Tony Higgins, Ucas chief executive, said: "We are expecting a high volume of calls this afternoon after this morning's events. We ask that applicants bear with us if they have any trouble getting through."Students can access information about clearing at EducationGuardian.co.uk/clearing.
Tens of thousands of email messages from around the world offering condolences to the families of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman have been received by three websites that opened on Monday.More than 22,000 people emailed a Cambridgeshire police website within 20 hours of it opening; 9,000 emails were received within the first day at a website set up by Cambridgeshire county council; and thousands have contacted a community website.Tributes at a rate of 30 a minute, one every two seconds, are coming from Australia, Israel, Zimbabwe, Bahrain, Brazil, and Dubai. One came from an oil rig in the North Sea.The idea of channelling public grief on to a website was pioneered after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, when 600,000 messages were posted on the royal website in the week of her funeral.A site set up by New York police after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre received an overwhelming response last year. But the use of electronic books of condolence for the death of two hitherto unknown girls is a departure.Yesterday the first non-electronic books of condolence at St Andrew's Church in Soham were being filled by local mourners and visitors from around the country.The Cambridgeshire county council website posted a selection of the emails it received. One, from a man in Sri Lanka, read: "I was following your daughters' case from day one on Sky News, here in Sri Lanka. Each day I hoped would bring better news than the previous. The final outcome has been incomprehensible and intolerable, even for me, someone from a war-hardened country thousands of miles away."A second, from Margaret and Chris in France, said: "Words can't express how we feel, but I hope that the love which will come to you through this modern medium may help in some way."A 13-year-old from Palestine wrote: "I heard the dreadful news of the two girls, Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. I've been following the latest news every day, hoping that it would turn out well. I feel deeply sorry for them."Many messages are from parents. "As a mother of a child of the same age, I am at a loss as to what to say: I have worried with you; I have hoped with you; I have despaired with you; I have cried with you," wrote one woman from Yeovil in Somerset.Celia Minnett, who is overseeing the operation, said: "We're getting about 20 a minute - it's amazing. All of them are really moving. Now that we have the internet, people in Australia can express their thoughts to the parents in a direct way."The three electronic books -www.cambs.police.uk/soham,www.sohamtragedy.org.uk, andwww.cambs.police.uk- will remain open for as long as there is a demand, and then be downloaded and placed into books for the girls' families.Bob Pearson, the council spokesman who came up with the idea, said: "We just thought it was the right thing to do, and we have been overwhelmed by the results."
If you are stuck with a lame duck processor, the obvious solution is to put two in the box. That's what Apple has been doing with itsPower Mac G4range, which it reworked last week. As usual, Apple didn't manage to quote anyindustry standard benchmarks-- or even arealistic application benchmark-- to back up its hype. However, since Apple users have no choice of hardware supplier, it doesn't really matter -- they have to take what they can get. Multiprocessing may be very old news in the Unix market, and even Windows users have had it since 1993, but no doubt you can expect glowing reviews in the US papers that shill for Apple products.
Turbolinux has decided toget out of the Linux businessand concentrate on proprietary software, reports CNet. The company has yet to announce a new name.
Next month the EU council will vote to implement a widespread electronic surveillance regime, requiring service providers - phone, internet and postal - to retain the records of every customer in all 15 member states for up to two years.The reason? In case law enforcement or intelligence agencies in any one of these countries decides, at some point in the future, that some or all of us is involved in some form of wrongdoing.Civil liberties campaigners have denounced the move as the biggest threat to data privacy in a generation.But in Britain, we are well ahead of the rest of Europe in the data snooping race.Already legislation is in place for the police and intelligence agencies to access enough data to build up a complete map of an individual's private life.Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (Ripa), authorities in the UK are already able to access customers' personal details, including: an individual's name, address, source and destination of emails, websites visited and at what time, phone calls made and received and mobile phone location data, which, by logging the base station used by the handset to connect to the network, can pinpoint the whereabouts of its owner whenever the phone is switched on.The data is currently accurate to within a few hundred metres in cities, but GPS technology in 3G phones will be accurate to within a few metres.Communications companies retain all this information - known as traffic data - for their own billing and marketing purposes. However, data protection law requires them to destroy it as soon as they no longer need it.The period of retention ranges from a few days for web caches, to up to 20 months for mobile phone records.After September 11, ministers decided these powers did not go far enough so they included provisions in anti-terror legislation rushed through parliament last autumn that would require service providers to retain traffic data for much longer than required - only for purposes of national security.Unlike the EU proposals, which will require judicial authority for access to data, no court or executive warrant will be required in this country - authorisation will come internally from officers of superintendent rank or above.Even calls made from office switchboards, emails, or web browsing on internal computer systems will not be immune.Companies are regarded by the law as communications service providers and will therefore have to hand over any records required by the authorities.The communications industry has reservations over the logistics of stockpiling such vast amounts of data.While new storage technology makes it entirely feasible for the information to be stored - probably for a year online, then archived for the second year - internet and phone companies say the costs will be prohibitive.But they are far more concerned about being deluged by thousands of demands from various agencies for customer records.One internet service provider, Claranet, which has around 50,000 subscribers in the UK, told the Guardian that it was already receiving requests from the police for records.The company fears that once law enforcement agencies have the power to demand, rather than request traffic data, the floodgates will open.Ministers' response to this has been contradictory - on one hand they insist there will be very few orders issued for data, and on the other they argue that judges would be unable to handle all the applications they received quickly enough.Human rights campaigners say that allowing the authorities to authorise themselves to access the records of any number of customers will inevitably lead to them conducting "fishing expeditions" against innocent citizens.They also say the system will do little to fight crime - determined terrorists or criminals will be able to sidestep the authorities simply by using pay-as-you-go mobiles and anonymous email accounts on public terminals.It is unlikely that logistics will bring the data snooping framework crashing down. Instead, it could be the law.Last month the information commissioner, the official privacy watchdog, warned the Home Office that legal advice from an eminent QC suggested a serious risk that the system is illegal under human rights law.A fundamental contradiction between the two laws governing data retention exists.While the Anti-Terrorism Act 2001 allows traffic data to be retained strictly for national security purposes, Ripa will allow authorities to access this data even for minor investigations such as public health and tax collection.So whatever happens at EU level next month, the battle over communications data is far from over.
KPN, the Dutch telecoms operator, today reported a record 9.3bn euro (£5.9bn) loss for the second quarter after reducing the value of its foreign mobile assets, mostly in Germany and Belgium.But KPN shares rose 6.5% to 5 euros as core profits beat expectations and as the company raised its growth forecasts to at least 14% from 12%.Investors welcomed KPN's decision to bow to the inevitable and take a big hit on its investments on delayed third generation or 3G mobile services - offering internet access and other hi-tech services - particularly in Germany, Europe's toughest market for mobile phones.The company took a total charge of 6.6bn euros for its E-Plus German operation. But KPN said it had decided to cut its losses in Britain and put up for sale its 15% stake in Hutchison 3G, a mobile consortium it owns along with Hutchison Whampoa from Hong Kong and Japan's NTT DoCoMo."This is a non-core asset and all non core activities are up for sale," Ad Scheepbouwer, KPN's chief executive, told Reuters. "The two things that have changed were the number of subscribers we expect and how quickly we will attract them, as well as the average amount they will be willing to pay."The 9.3bn euro loss for the quarter to the end of June - the largest ever Dutch corporate loss - compares with a loss of 499m euros last year, and outstrips the 7.5bn euro full-year loss KPN disclosed last March.Mr Scheepbouwer said the heavy charges reflected more pessimistic prospects for 3G mobile phone technology.Launch of new generation services has been delayed throughout Europe, including the UK, by technical glitches and cash shortages among operators.KPN, burdened by huge debts, was forced to correct 2002 revenue forecasts after issuing an incorrect statement.In common with other European telecom operators, including Vodafone, KPN went heavily into debt to buy third generation mobile phone licences. But telecom operators have yet to see any return on these investments because of the delay in 3G services.
Dell Computer is to offer dealers unbranded (or "white box") PCs for resale, moving beyond is "sell direct" origins, according to a Wall Street Journal article followed uphere. "After years of deriding personal-computer dealers as costly middlemen, Dell Computer Corp. is poised to begin recruiting these dealers to sell its PCs, marching directly onto the turf long cherished by Hewlett-Packard Co. and International Business Machines Corp," says theWSJpiece, but the full text is available to subscribers only.
Microsoft's co-founder Bill Gates, playing in the World Bridge Championships, plays the game online but reckons the best bridge software has some way to go.
Pop stars have rights too, a United Nations agency ruled yesterday as the singer Robbie Williams succeeded in shutting down a website bearing his name, which redirected people to a site for the band Oasis.It was the worst place for his fans to be redirected as he and the grandees of Britpop have had a long running feud.Williams complained to the UN World Intellectual Property Organisation aboutwww.robbiewilliams.info.It was run by Howard Taylor, of Southampton, who said he intended to set up an unofficial fan club from the site.The UN Wipo, which mediates disputes about domain names, said the site had been set up in bad faith and ordered that it be handed over to Williams. Mr Taylor, an IT consultant, claimed he thought the feud between Williams and Noel and Liam Gallagher was a publicity stunt and that "anyone who knows about it would see the humour".The spat began when Noel Gallagher branded him "a fat dancer from Take That". The next round saw Williams sending the band a funeral wreath after their album Standing On The Shoulder of Giants was panned by critics.Ordering Mr Taylor to hand over the domain the Wipo arbitrator ruled: "This does not appear to be the action of a fan, but rather the actions of someone who wished to provoke the complainant."&#91;He&#93; refers to the humour involved in such an act. However, I doubt that the complainant would have seen any joke."
Forbes magazine's latest list showsEarnings from the Crypt. No prizes for guessing that Elvis is still bringing in more cash than any other dead person, and most live ones.
