You've got an email from your bank. Or at least, it says it's from your bank. But what if it's a fake? Chances are it is: up to 150m phishing emails are sent every day, according to the Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG). Sophos estimates that 58% of email users receive at least one each day and 22% get five or more. And people fall for them: figures from Apacs, the clearing banks' organisation, found that in the first half of 2008, online banking fraud in the UK increased by 185% to &pound;21.4m.But if the email is really from eBay or PayPal, it will have been digitally "signed" - that is, end with a string of digits generated from a private cryptographic key and the original message, using DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM), an emerging standard created by Yahoo and Cisco in 2008 after years of deliberation. An agreement with Yahoo and Gmail means users of those email services won't receive messages purporting to be from either organisation if they lack DKIM signatures. They won't even make it as far as the spam folder.Digital signatures sound like a formidable weapon against phishing, since in theory they give users a way to check that emails are genuine, and they're less likely to open the fake ones. Ever since Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) arrived in 1993, people have had a way to cryptographically sign their own emails, as have organisations - you can create your own cryptographic key for free. We could all be free of phishing; yet we aren't. The question is, why not?In 1999 Jim Bidzos (currently the interim chairman and president of VeriSign)told the RSA data security conference: "Public-key cryptography is a solution in search of a problem, and e-commerce is that problem." In 2000,the Guardian reportedthat public-key infrastructures (PKIs) could be used to ensure electronic communications are trustworthy. But in 2009, PKI is still waiting for its heyday."PKI is everywhere and most of us don't realise," says John Bullard, global ambassador for the identity authentication system IdenTrust. "But it's predominantly used in the corporate world where transaction values are higher. For example, your direct debits and salary are wrapped up in a PKI-based digital signature when they're sent to Bacs (the banks' automated clearing service)."Keys to the problemBut it hasn't reached the user level yet. One problem is the number of different encryption systems available. There's DKIM, as well as the commercial PGP, its open-source alternative Gnu Privacy Guard (GPG), S/MIME and more. "We're in an era where there are a lot of PKI systems," says Bullard. "Individual solutions create little islands of trust. The problem comes when you try to go from one island to the next."Garreth Griffith, PayPal UK's head of risk management and a director of Get Safe Online, says the competition between digital signature technologies has delayed their implementation. "The battle between companies to figure out which one to adopt created a time-lag," he says. "Should you build for all of them or wait for one to become dominant? When Cisco and Yahoo came together to create DKIM, that was a huge step forward as people could start to back someone and develop accordingly."So why aren't digital signatures being used more widely? "Mail senders, providers and ISPs need to implement their parts of the systems, such as Google's deal with eBay and PayPal," says Mark Bowerman, a spokesman for Apacs. "PKI is very secure, but it's complex and slow to roll out to large numbers of people. The take-up by mail providers to support PKI has been relatively low to date, so the benefits are not yet as apparent as they could be."Some email clients that support signed mail add an icon, such as a ribbon, to signed messages, or offer an option to view more details, but many providers and clients don't display digital signatures. "I haven't seen any of the major email clients do much with the information, even if it's there in the first place," says Adam Geller, vice-president of enterprise and government authentication for VeriSign."The technology is very capable, but the way it's being exposed to end-users leaves something to be desired. If I receive an email from PayPal that is not officially signed in a way I can validate, I should assume that email is suspicious. But your email client may not show you that in a meaningful enough way."At the Anti-Spam Research Group (ASRG), chairman John Levine agrees: "Email providers should be doing it. The better we can tell email is real, the easier it is to build a case against the guys selling the fake stuff. The vast majority of big companies buy email from specialist vendors who say yes, this is really important and they'll do it in the next version. The big providers know about it and the technology is quite sound, but the software vendors are slow."Lack of supportAccording to Jon Callas, chief technology officer for PGP Corporation and one of the authors of DKIM, email providers are reluctant to let end-users see digital signatures because they don't want to deal with the ensuing support calls asking what they are."The large ISPs wanted to be able to make DKIM completely invisible because they didn't want to get tech support calls. Yahoo wanted to show their users, others don't. If 1% of their customer bases called in, it would cost enough that they wouldn't want to do it," he says.And that's the crux: the cost of phishing emails falls on the person who receives it, not the organisations that let it through, whereas the cost of those support calls falls firmly on the ISPs; so even if implementing signing would lead to an overall fall in fraud, for which ISPs' customers (and banks) could be grateful, there's nothing in it immediately for the ISPs.For the mail that doesn't get filtered, end-users need to be able to check whether or not it's signed. After all, there's no point adding digital signatures to emails if nobody bothers to look for them. "Criminals play on trusted brands," says PayPal's Griffith. "You see a word you trust and you drop your defences. It takes time to educate end users to look for that seal and know what it means, just as it's taken years to educate consumers about looking for a lock on a secure website. The boom of web-based email programs makes it even more complicated."Even so, Callas says progress is being made. "Email providers are starting to support digital signatures, but it's a gradual process. It's starting to work - early adopters are seeing a drop-off in phishing attempts."However John Colley, managing director (Europe, Middle East and Africa) of (ISC)2, which educates and certifies security professionals, and formerly head of information security at the Royal Bank of Scotland, says digital signatures aren't a viable solution. "The use of digital signatures as a means of verifying emails to customers has been widely assessed as impractical," he says. "The registration and key maintenance process to verify encrypted emails would have to be as effective as the process of applying for a passport, putting the costs too high for vendors that cater to the wider public."Unpicking the lockColley says there is also too much required of the non-technical user. "They are not going to make the effort without a clear understanding of the value they get for it, which requires an awareness exercise - better to just educate on the phishing risk itself."The security expert Marcus Ranum, who invented the proxy firewall, says PKI won't work because there are too many other risks. "Even if there was a global public-key infrastructure, there would immediately be a global black market for stolen keys to be used for spamming," he says. "The keys would probably be a file, encrypted, sitting on a user's hard drive. That file, and the encryption password, would be stealable by a Trojan horse or spyware. We'd be right back where we are now."So the advice remains the same: don't click on the link in the email from your bank. Go to the website via your browser. PKI may be the solution to a problem that's been identified, but the problem is that nobody can be persuaded to pay for it.• This article was amended on Friday 9 January 2008. The headline, 'Signed, sealed, delivered: by who?' was grammatically incorrect. This has been corrected.
One of the biggest problems faced by current game designers is the diversity of the audience. A few years ago, it was all about challenging the stereotypical hardcore gaming demographic. But now, Wii, Facebook apps and the PC casual gaming scene have brought in a wider, less "sophisticated" audience. And with development budgets hitting tens of millions of dollars, this market cannot be ignored.Difficulty, then, has become a key issue. How challenging should a game be? And what does challenging mean anyway? Certainly, making everything easy peasy is not the answer: many pundits believe that Google's MMO, Lively, failed because its lack of complexity bored users. "Reduce the tasks and features of a virtual environment far enough," claimed the MMO news site Massively, "and you have Flickr".Other titles have had more success by punishing inexperienced gamers less when they mess up. In the latest Prince of Persia adventure from Ubisoft, it is impossible to die. Fall off a cliff and you'll be saved by your AI sidekick. Some have found that this makes for a less compulsive experience, but others see it as a refreshing release from the tyranny of the checkpoint.But there are more flexible approaches to the difficulty quandary, and we'll see them employed more. For online gaming, expect to see plenty of asymmetric multiplayer modes, in which both newbies and veterans can compete successfully, thanks to handicap systems that, say, provide better armour and greater weapon damage to beginners. The co-op mode in Gears of War 2 was designed specifically so that one friend on Easy could play aside another on Hardcore. Gears' designer, CliffyB, said he wanted to make the game more "girlfriend-friendly". You can interpret that how you like.The other trend is procedural content, where a game will continuously adapt to each individual player. Valve's thrilling zombie romp Left 4 Dead, for example, features an "AI director", which selects where to spawn enemies depending on the abilities of the participants. This will become the norm rather than the exception, especially as developers move away from linear, corridor-style designs and embrace truly open worlds. Eventually, every game will be a sort of virtual solipsistic utopia - no one will ever have the same experiences because everything from physics to scenery to AI will mould around the playing styles and preferences of the individual.In the future, then, if we want to find out what we're like as people, we won't take personality tests or consult star charts, we'll boot up Resident Evil 7, and see what comes out of the dark to get us.
Are you facing some hefty fuel bills this winter? Professor Richard Williams of the University of Leeds may have a possible answer to those rising costs. But the development of his innovative nanofluid technology (Tiny tubes could bring big savings on fuel bills, 13 April 2006) for improved heat transfer is taking longer than he originally hoped.Add carbon nanotubes (an arrangement of carbon atoms more than 50,000 times thinner than a human hair) to liquid, and they'll disperse to form a "nanofluid". Williams's interest lies in the thermal conductivity properties of this mixture: the nanotubes could make a 10% difference to the efficiency of transferring heat from the boiler to your radiators.The nanofluids transfer heat at a higher rate than ordinary fluids (for example, water) which allows for more efficient heating or cooling while reducing energy consumption. Over the past two years, Williams has carried out more scientific research into the phenomenon. "The most significant area that we have been exploring relates to how tiny clusters of particles cause heat to be transferred more effectively compared with fully dispersed nanodispersions. Many of these effects can be explained using conventional physics but a range of variables need to be accounted for."Although domestic central heating remains of interest, Williams has since concentrated on industry as a quicker route to market. "We have been working with various partners to evaluate industrial applications including thermal transfer for transportation and computer cooling applications," he says.Finding exactly the right nanofluids for car engines to computers is important as, even in flowing liquids, the particles can clump together, thanks to van der Waals forces - that is, attraction between molecules. In addition, carbon nanotubes cost thousands of pounds per kilogram, although you only need a tiny percentage by volume. "We have been developing fluid formulations that perform at low and high temperatures," says Williams.This complex area is subject to patent applications, so he won't discuss specific details of the work. However, suitable nanofluids may be made from carbon nanotubes or metal oxides along with water, glycol (antifreeze), and mineral oil with other additives.The practicalities of scaling up from the laboratory bench to 200-litre test batches have also slowed progress. But this hasn't deterred Williams and his colleague Professor Yulong Ding from establishing a spin-out company, Dispersia.Backed by venture capital and a regional grant, they've managed to attract development collaborations in the automotive and power electronics fields. While all this looks promising, it'll be a while before your central heating system receives that energy-efficiency boost.
Twitter has just discovered one of the drawbacks of attracting a lot of attention: this weekend, it suffered a large phishing attack, and 33 of its "celebrity users" had their accounts hacked.People who "follow" Britney Spears, Barack Obama and others were treated to some humorous "tweets", with Rick Sanchez from CNN apparently reporting: "I am high on crack right now might not be coming into work today."In the phishing attack, some Twitter users were lured into giving away their passwords after they received direct messages (DMs) from friends that said "hey! check out this funny blog about you...". The link took users to a site that copied Twitter's front page.Twitter dealt with the problem by reporting the offending domain, and resetting the passwords of people who had logged in. It also found the site had a similar fake page for Facebook users.While it would now be considered foolish to follow an email link and give away your password, this is a normal part of using Twitter. More than 100 third-party sites and add-on programs have been launched to offer new features to Twitter users, and these are very widely used. Many of them require users to type in their Twitter IDs and passwords.One such utility, Twply, was knocked together, launched, heavily used and then sold on Sitepoint within 24 hours. Whoever paid $1,200 (&pound;820) now has a pile of Twitter IDs and passwords.Part of the problem is that Twitter started as a somewhat trivial application, and users may not have felt their ID and password were particularly valuable. Now it is becoming widely used and features regularly in the press, things are more serious: people's reputations could be affected.Another part of the problem is that Twitter does not provide a mechanism that allows safer external access to data. Open-source advocate Chris Messina, author Dave Cross and others have argued that Twitter ought to support OpenID and the OAuth protocol for "delegated authentication". While Twitter has said it will release a closed beta version of OAuth, it has yet to do that.The celebrity account hacking appears to have been performed using Twitter's own internal support tools - those used "to help people do things like edit the email address associated with their Twitter account when they can't remember or get stuck". Twitter said: "We immediately took the support tools offline. We'll put them back only when they're safe and secure."Pointing out that Facebook users have also been attacked recently, David Emm from Kaspersky Lab says: "Social networking sites are easy prey for cyber criminals. Users are very trusting of these sites, so they lower their guard. Vulnerabilities in these sites are often left open for significant periods of time, making it easy for hackers to take full advantage of security loopholes."Since we have already suffered from security being an afterthought with the internet, email and certain operating systems, it's dispiriting when it's still an afterthought for web 2.0 sites as well.
Roll out the barrelPerhaps there have been lay-offs in construction in Japan and Korea, but that's not a problem for game show creators, who set up a challenge between the best barrel-rollers around. They're goodYour car really stinks. It should?Petrol and diesel are of course the waste products once geology is done with dinosaurs and other animals. But more cheaply, why not use rubbish to power your car? There's plenty about.New from Apple: flying iPods!A champion javelin thrower takes on the task of seeing how far he can chuck an iPod. It's surprisingly far.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer has taken over the delivery of the CES keynote (seebelow) from his buddy Bill Gates, and it's a pretty safe bet that he'll announce the release of Windows 7 beta 1. We know it's about ready because Microsoft haspromised copies to developersthis month, and because there's a leaked version unofficially available online, and because it would be frankly amazing if Ballmer missed the chance to give it a plug.Windows 7 is already well known to the people who watch Windows, and Paul Thurrott'sWindows Supersite has a FAQ(first posted on February 14, 2007) that will probably tell you more than you need to know. And if you haven't seen Windows 7 in action,CNethas just reviewed theleaked unofficial beta, which confirms that it's a snappy performer.But there are, of course, plenty of questions still to be answered. First, is the real Beta 1 going to be same as the leaked version? If so, it's on track to deliver great performance.Second, is Microsoft going to change the look-and-feel before the launch? As it is, it looks like Vista, and that's still the victim of a lot of what we can politely describe as outdated, misleading or prejudiced comment. Windows 7 is related to Vista in much the same way that Windows XP was related to Windows 2000, but XP looked different. The plumbing was the same, but the exterior got a paint job.Third, how is Microsoft going to market it? It would be nice to see some cut-price deals for XP owners, because a lot of them have PCs that can run Windows 7. (The 32-bit version runs fine on a 1GB Atom-powered netbook.) It would also be nice to see Vista owners offered a cheap or even free upgrade, because Windows 7 is what they should have got in the first place. But I suspect Microsoft would rather add to its cash pile than get Windows 7 off to a flying start.Fourth, when is it going to ship? Microsoft got burned for shipping Vista late, and the current mantra is "three years from Vista". That could be taken to mean early in 2010, but the quality of the current beta suggests Microsoft can easily beat that. However, I suspect it won't promise it earlier just in case something bad happens. It will just say: "Hey, we beat our deadlines."Fifth, is Microsoft going to push the 64-bit version? If not, why not? The 64-bit version of Windows XP wasn't particularly good, but the 64-bit version of Vista SP1 is outstanding (and exactly the same code is widely appreciated in Windows Server 2008). Since all PCs nowadays (except netbooks) are 64-bit machines capable of exploiting huge amounts of memory, it's just silly to ship them with 3GB and a slower, more limited version of Windows.If I ran Windows marketing, I'd certainly have occupied the 64-bit market long before Apple started talking about Snow Leopard.Sad to say, absolutely none of these questions will be answered by Steve Ballmer at CES, but it would be nice to know what that niceMr Sinofskyhas in mind.
2009 may be different, what with the recession and all, but 2008 was a record breaking year for the UK games industry with the market worth over GBP 4 billion last year. Software accounted for nearly half of that (GBP 1.905 billion) with game sales up 23% on 2007. Hardware sales rose 14% to GBP 1.422 billion. But which format sold the most? Go on, have a guess.Yes, Nintendo had a predictably fantastic year in the UK with the Wii accounting for nearly 25% of all software sales (around 20 million units).  This was up a rather impressive 153% on 2007. Revenue from Wii game sales was GBP 481 million. This is the same revenue figure as the DS, which sold just over 19 million units – a rise of 28 per cent.And what about the 360 and PS3? The 360 saw software sales rise 51 per cent (14.9 million units sold in 2008) with revenue of GBP 443 million. This compares to 10.4 million PS3 games sold which generated revenues of GBP 334 million. PS3 game sales did rise by an impressive 145 per cent from 2007 though.So what does this tell us? Well the top level figures prove Nintendo's dominance. 20 million Wii games and 19 million DS titles sold compares well to the 360's 14.9 million and PS3's 10.4 million.  It will be interesting to see if the gap between 360 and PS3 game sales narrows in 2009, especially as the PS3 arguably has the more interesting exclusive titles this year.Anyway, how do you think UK sales will go in 2009? Will the Wii see slowdown? Will the PS3 catch-up? Will the 360 continue to grow?
In case you haven't seen this yet, the conflict in Gaza is now the subject of a satirical Flash game.Raid Gazais a stripped down RTS, in which you take on the role of the Israeli military, building tanks, fighter planes and missiles in order to pummel the Palestinian territory and kill as many people as possible within three minutes. Bonus points are awarded for hitting hospitals and police stations. Meanwhile, the Hamas threat is characterised by spluttering Qassam missiles, which whir out of Gaza and usually explode uselessly in fields. The author of the game claims ina recent interviewto have begun the project almost two years ago, in response toa UN reporton the human cost of the continuing conflict.Reactions have been mixed. News siteKotakuclearly feels it's in poor taste, but political gaming expertIan Bogost writesthat Raid Gaza is successful as a polemical attack on Israeli tactics.At the heart of the debate is an ongoing question - are videogames an appropriate medium for political satire?Certainly, they are hugely successful. Notable examples such asSuper Columbine Massacreand Molleindustria'sMcDonald's Gamehave garnered masses of press coverage as well as thousands of hits. The fact that political pressure groups like PETA are now producing their own satirical games strongly suggests that this is an effective means of communicating controversial messages.It could also be argued that as the emerging popular artform of the day, games areexactlythe right forum for political satire. They are comparatively easy to produce, can be disseminated easily online and, if they're fun enough, will spread virally from user to user. Plus, the interactivity - which no doubt prompts most of the criticism - is an intrinsic element; it literally forces the player to take your side, or at least takeaside.And where else should we go for satirical comment? To novels? It is debatable whether there has been much satire of worth since the era of Evelyn Waugh and Angus Wilson. As for TV, when was the last time you saw a really effective and controversial piece of political satire on the box? In The Thick of It was fun, but its targets were politicians not policies; The Daily Show has its moments, but is largely preaching to the readily converted. Can you ever imagine another Brass Eye - especially given the fuss surrounding the Brand/Ross answer phone scandal?And more importantly would anyone watch it? The increasing marginalisation of 'proper' news content and the continued dominance of reality TV, drab cop shows and domestic sitcoms would suggest not. In the sixties there was Beyond the Fringe and That Was The Week That Was. The eighties boasted The Young Ones, Spitting Image and Not The Nine Olock News. Now we've got Gavin &amp; Stacey and the Midsomer Murders. Modern TV wants to be your friend, but a lone programmer with a chip on his shoulder couldn't care less.There's an old rule about satire - if it doesn't disgust a majority of the audience it's not doing its job - "I'll publish right or wrong," wrote Byron, "Fools are my theme, let satire be my song". And the thing is, videogames still have so much power to disgust. People are, after all, still scared by the very concept of gaming, let alone the content. And while they're scared, they are at least listening.
In certain ways, our world is now startlingly, almost unimaginably accurate. The metre, which used to be calibrated to the charming and comprehensibleplatinum-iridium metre baris now defined as the distance travelled by light in a vacuum in 1⁄299,792,458 of a second. Not something one could hope to measure at home. Thekilogramis still defined by a physical object but time, once measured by observing thesun, moon and starsis now defined by reference to thevibrations of an atom of caesium. And in the closing moments of 2008, the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service added aleap secondto the year.Given that most of us can't accurately estimate a minute in our heads, and that less than one leap second a year is added, the lack of leap seconds wouldn't make a noticeable change within the lifespan of the average person. Nonetheless, we add the seconds and aim for perfect accuracy; it's inspiring, really.And yet despite the elegant perfection of our measuring systems, things continue to go wrong. Themillennium bugmight not have lived up to expectations, but the 2008 leap year caused Microsoft's Zune – an MP3 player designed to rival Apple's iPod – tofreeze up, with much ensuing hilarity.Barack Obamafailed to issue a statement responding to the "Zune apocalypse", but plenty of other users were understandably annoyed by thisNew Year's Eve inconvenience.It is infuriating when technology fails to work properly; and perhaps more so because technology holds such a promise of perfection. Unlike human beings, computers can do the same task a million times in exactly the same way, don't get tired or need a change, and don't suddenly start to introduce their own interpretation into whatever task they're undertaking. FromMetropolisto Iain M Banks'Culturenovels, the prospect of a society run by technology has been both threatening and enticing for broadly the same reason: its anticipated total efficiency. Though our real experience of using technology is often moreMillennium FalconthanStarship Enterprise, that imagined efficiency and perfection persists; and it's hard not to get angry when it goes wrong.The other day I found myself shouting at a poor woman from PayPal over a glitch in their website. Admittedly, something had gone quite wrong with their site: a page asking me to "restore my balance" urged me to click "continue" and then "click the red 'restore my balance'" link which … led me back to the original page with that instruction. And, admittedly, PayPal are typical of many internet-native companies in making it irritatingly difficult to speak to a real person. I had to endure several automated menus and an automated explanation of a problem I wasn't having, which was then emailed to me without my requesting or agreeing to it before I got to speak to the poor PayPal employee herself. But nonetheless, it wasn't my finest hour; it's never the CEOs who have to listen to enraged customers shouting about the inadequacies of their products, and maybe it'd do us all some good to restrain our expectations a little.So if you're reading, Anna, this article's for you and I'm very sorry. We may live in a world where the time is atomically guaranteed accurate to the leap second, but technology will always continue to go wrong and perhaps, in this year where very many things are predicted to go quite wrong, we could all do with a little less anger and a little more acceptance.
Apple's last Macworld keynote speech turned out to be notable as much for what did not appear as what did. Steve Jobs, the company's chief executive, was the most obvious non-appearance - but also missing were expected appearances of new iMacs, an updated Mac mini and any sign of Snow Leopard, the next update to Apple's Mac OS X operating system.Instead Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice-president of worldwide product marketing, gave a 90-minute presentation showing off new versions of the company's iLife and iWork software suites, a new MacBook Pro laptop with a 17in screen and non-removable battery, and announced that in the near future the entire 10m song music repertoire on the iTunes Store will move to DRM-free formats.iLife and iWork, for what?Schiller's breezy presentation could not disguise the fact that Apple had little to show off - and that some of the innovative features in the software being unveiled were already being made available for free through Google's free services.For example facial recognition, added to the iPhoto picture organisation program in the next version of the &pound;69 iLife "leisure" suite of software, is a feature of the free Picasa download from Google, announced on Monday evening. A "document collaboration" feature in the &pound;69 iWork "office" suite, where users can upload documents to iWork.com, "will eventually be a paid service", Schiller said. By contrast, Google and Microsoft both offer similar document collaboration services for free.Schiller did unveil one piece of new hardware: a new 17in MacBook Pro, a top-end laptop with prices starting at &pound;1,950, which follows the slimline MacBook Air by having a non-removable battery.  Schiller insisted that though the new battery requires specialist replacement, it will go for up to eight hours between charges, and work for up to 1,000 charging cycles. "We wanted to deliver our longest lasting battery ever, but we wanted to keep it thin and light," he said, explaining the decision to build the battery into the chassis. The use of lithium polymer technology meant that the battery would have three times the industry standard lifespan and charging cycles, he said.Snow-free zoneBut the focus on the annual updates to iWork and iLife meant that other, expected announcements did not happen, leaving question marks over the future of some of the Apple hardware line. In particular the lack of any focus on the Mac mini, the "headless" low-end machine which has not been updated since August 2007, and had been the focus of a number of rumours ahead of Schiller's appearance, has led to concerns it might be killed off.Also absent were any new iMacs, the consumer-level desktops, which were last updated in April. Some had expected a formal announcement this week, after industry suggestions that Quanta's factories in China were making new models for launch this year.The biggest absence however was Snow Leopard, the next version of Mac OS X, which according to a presentation given last November by Jordan Hubbard, head of Apple's Unix Technology Group, would appear in "Q1 2009". That timescale would tend to imply at least a demonstration in January to whet the appetites of buyers for a release by late March. And given that Microsoft's Steve Ballmer showed off some of the next release of Windows, called simply Windows 7, at his CES keynote on Wednesday, Apple had been expected to try to draw some attention to its own product, which is widely anticipated to marshal graphics processing power for general computing purposes.The announcement that iTunes will move entirely to DRM-free music formats, nearly six years after it launched in April 2003, indicates that both Apple and the record labels which provide the music see a benefit in not tying songs to iPods or a limited number of computers or digital music players any more. Jobs had called for the labels to drop their requirements for DRM on songs sold through the service as long ago as February 2007; it appears that the price they exacted for fulfilling that wish was flexible pricing, under which songs will sell for 59p, 79p and 99p, with "most albums" costing &pound;7.99 - a change from the previous structure under which individual DRM-enabled tracks always cost 79p, and DRM-free tracks 99p.Mark Mulligan of Jupiter Research said: "Don't expect it to kick start the digital music market, which is worryingly sluggish. This is just a basic enabler the market needs for long term viability. It is, however, crucial for future differentiation of the next wave of digital music services."Apple's abandonment of DRM also implies that it will not try to launch a subscription service for iTunes; having become the largest single seller of music in the US it has plainly calculated that it will make more money from selling songs playable on any computer or digital player than by trying to protect the iPod's market share through tying iTunes songs to it.
Tetris is good for easing the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), scientists have found. Yes, you read that correctly: the infuriating, mind-swallowing piece-twiddling row-building gameactually has a medical value.Theresearch, which was conducted at the department of psychiatry at the University of Oxford, suggests using Tetris as a "cognitive vaccine" against flashbacks from traumatic events. It's published on the open-source science research Public Library of Science (PLoS) website.Here's how they set out their recommendations:The rationale for a 'cognitive vaccine' approach is as follows: Trauma flashbacks are sensory-perceptual, visuospatial mental images. Visuospatial cognitive tasks selectively compete for resources required to generate mental images. Thus, a visuospatial computer game (e.g. "Tetris") will interfere with flashbacks. Visuospatial tasks post-trauma, performed within the time window for memory consolidation, will reduce subsequent flashbacks. We predicted that playing "Tetris" half an hour after viewing trauma would reduce flashback frequency over 1-week.In other words, if you're looking at falling squares, lines, hoooks and whatever those twiddly ones that are two overlapping lines of two are called, then you don't have time to visualise your previous bad experiences.I'm glad I wasn't asked to take part:Forty participants watched a 12-min film of traumatic scenes of injury and death (n = 20 per group). Film viewing was followed by a 30-min interval before simple random assignment to one of two experimental conditions. There were no baseline differences between the two groups in terms of age, depressive symptoms or trait anxiety or gender. Mood was equivalent between the groups prior to watching the film, and as predicted,both groups experienced comparable mood deterioration following the film(emphasis added).(Tell me about it. Someone at work was looking for gruesome scenes from ER involving helicopters and instead found a real-life one. I'm recommending Tetris to him.)Afterwards, one group just sat quietly, and another played Tetris, for ten minutes. They then kept a diary about flashbacks they'd had; this showed that the group which had played Tetris had significantly fewer (with a probability that it was chance less than 1%).It's a remarkable finding; though looking at the long list of references, the idea of visual "distraction" as a method of desensitising people from visual memories has been around since at least early this decade.But who'd have thought we'd find a potentially workable cure in agamethat for a while 20 years ago seemed like a Russian plot to turn all our population into obsessive cursor-button pokers? (Wait, did it work?)So maybe that's going to be the new treatment for returning soldiers from the front: Nintendo Gameboys loaded with Tetris. Then, all we'll have to worry about will becuring their Tetris addiction.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Welcome to the second in our week-long series of podcasts straight from two of the world's biggest technology events – the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas and Macworld in San Francisco.Today we're at Macworld, coming to you from the Moscone Conference Center in San Francisco, where Apple fans turned up to hear the company's final keynote address delivered by vice-president Phil Schiller.In the programme Chris Phin, the deputy editor of Mac Format magazine, and regular Guardian contributor Danny Bradbury discuss what was said, who said it and what it all means. On the menu was software updates for iWork and iLife, DRM free tracks in iTunes, and a new 17in MacBook Pro.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The millions of songs available for download from Apple will no longer be tied only to iPods and customers will be able to transfer their tracks freely.Apple today announced that its entire iTunes music catalogue will soon be available without any copy protection, after agreeing a new deal with the world's major record labels.The move means customers will soon be able to buy songs via iTunes – the world's dominant digital music retailer – without being locked into using an iPod.Music fans will be able to buy tracks without digital rights management (DRM) from iTunes and easily transfer them between computers, many different brands of music player or even onto their mobile phones.Later this year, Apple said, the company will add a further 8m new unprotected tracks to iTunes, and shortly afterwards expects its entire library to follow suit."By the end of the quarter all 10 million songs will be DRM free in iTunes and iTunes plus," said Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide product marketing.DRM was originally designed to prevent downloaders from sharing files illegally, but it has become a divisive issue.Customers can already download some unprotected files from iTunes, and from other retailers, but the news marks a significant shift for Apple. It has struggled to convince the record labels to agree to drop DRM for iTunes downloads in a power struggle over who controls the future of the music industry.The plan to drop copy protection was accompanied by the news that Apple would also allow variable pricing for the first time – meaning tracks could be sold for prices other than the standard 79p. In the UK, tracks will be available for 59p, 79p and 99p.The move is thought to have been part of a deal to convince the major record labels to offer their music libraries for sale without copy protection mechanisms. Until now Apple has refused to incorporate pricing flexibility, but it is thought that the music industry's increasing support for competitors such as online retailer Amazon's MP3 store helped it change its mind.According to the usually furious rumour mill surrounding Apple announcements, the company's final keynote address at the Macworld Expo in San Francisco had all the hallmarks of being a damp squib. Early speculation had focused instead on the health of its talismanic chief executive, rather than the products that the company might unveil.But even without the presence of Steve Jobs –who finally admitted yesterday to health problems caused by his cancer surgery– Apple did its best to please fans today, with a slew of new products and services.The task of delivering Apple's valedictory address fell to Schiller, who started off by thanking the audience for their presence. "I can't tell you how much I appreciate you all showing up," he joked.Among the other announcements were an updated 17-inch MacBook Pro laptop and new versions of the company's iLife and iWork software.The new MacBook Pro was widely expected following updates to the company's smaller models late last year, and will go on sale starting at $2,799 (£1,900).It claims to be the world's thinnest and lightest 17in laptop, with a larger built-in battery that can hold up to 8 hours of charge.Updates to iLife, due at the end of this month, include a new version of iPhoto incorporating face recognition, an improved version of iMovie, and the addition of downloadable music lessons to Garageband, featuring artists including Sting and Norah Jones.Schiller also announced a beta version of iWork.com, an online document sharing service, intended to compete with Google Docs, Microsoft Office Live and others.The crowd, famous for whooping with excitement at every utterance from Jobs, did their best to recreate the traditional atmosphere – but things were noticeably subdued compared to the usual furore of Apple's January announcements.In comparison to previous years – which have seen the unveiling of the iMac, iBook, iPod mini and iPhone – this year's address was devoid of significant breakthrough.Many of the products predicted by analysts and industry observers – including a low-cost Apple laptop and a smaller, cheaper version of the iPhone – failed to materialise.A small group of fans queued overnight to make sure they got places inside San Francisco's Moscone Center, but there was little sign of the enormous lines and crowds that usually mark the occasion.Apple's decision to end its involvement with the conference , which is organised by an independent company, IDG, left many preparing themselves for the eventual death of the 24-year-old expo – despite insistences from the organisers that there would be "many successful years of Macworld to come"."This is my first Macworld and possibly my last, because if Apple's not presenting then it's not necessarily 100% worth it to make the trip all the way down here," said Nik Lensander from Santa Barbara, California, who was the first in the queue.Apple's legion of obsessive followers, however, still regretted that there was no surprise appearance from Jobs."I actually made plans to come here to watch him, and when I found out he wasn't I was disappointed," said Alex Lee, who travelled from Dubai to attend. "However, life moves on."
Once upon a time, not long ago, it looked like bedroom coding was dead – at least as a commercial pursuit. The nineties brought in a growing obsession with detailed 3D visuals, requiring ever-larger teams of ever more specialised coders, artists and designers. And while an indie gaming scene continued to flourish online, the fruits of those labours were largely unseen and unappreciated by mainstream gamers.But a lot has happened over the last three years. Vitally, Microsoft started trawling the indie scene for content to fill its Xbox Live Arcade service. Sony and Nintendo soon followed suit, resulting in the likes ofBraid,World of Goo,Mutant StormandStrong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive Peoplebecoming key downloadable releases. At the same time, the growing PC casual gaming scene, together with the arrival of the iPod and iPhone as fully-fledged gaming platforms, has built an audience that clamours for graphically simple puzzle and word games. In a sense, casual gaming has legitimised non-naturalistic, often 2D, visuals and intuitive gameplay, reclaiming videogame culture for the masses.Bedroom coding is back.What we're seeing now is an intriguing interplay between the community ethic of indie coding and the commercial clout of the industry's corporate giants. AndStickman Studiosis a great example.Formed in 2005, Stickman is essentially Simon Nevill and Harvey Greensall, two ex-Codemasters staffers with backgrounds in web design and architectural modeling. Bored of churning out trees, tarmac and other peripheral objects for games like Club Football, LMA Manager and Colin McRae, the duo quit to set up their own studio. Originally, their plan was to abandon videogames altogether and work on a card trading game, but an encounter withImperial Gloryby Pyro Studios got them thinking about creating their own pirate adventure."We really liked the naval battles in the game which were set during the Napoleonic Wars," explains Nevill. "The ships looked great and it had a good feel to it, but it had a point-and-click interface and the ships moved incredibly slowly. We thought that a faster-paced, arcade-style game could work for this same period of history. Our own idea was to give the player control over a single ship as opposed to a squadron of boats and make the ship itself the 'character'. So we based the game in the Caribbean and gave the player direct control of their very own pirate ship".The result, released via Steam at the end of last year isBuccaneer: The Pursuit of Infamy, essentially an arcade shooter, based in wooden ships rather than spacecraft. Players blast through a variety of missions, upgrading their boat as they go – sort of Team Fortress meets Midnight Club on the high seas.It's a remarkable achievement, especially considering it's ostensibly the work of two men – and neither of them coders. Their first decision was to licenseTorque, a fully-featured cheaply priced 3D engine developed by indie publisherGarageGamesand available to small studios for just $150.But price isn't the only attractive factor. As Nevill explains, "we wanted an engine that was not completely reliant upon having a full time coder sat working with us. Torque's script-based coding system meant that many areas of the game could be changed by us… simply altering settings in existing scripts. There is also a great community spirit on the GarageGames forums and any problems you encounter are likely to have been seen before, so there is always help readily available."The GarageGames set-up, part-commercial publishing hub, part thriving community, is what indie gaming is all about in 2009. And the fact that large publishers like Vivendi are employing Torque is another hint that the mainstream industry is now happy to court the indie sector if the price and the results are right.It's also the community element that insured Buccaneer became more than just an idea scribbled on the back of a fag packet. "We have had masses of help from a number of great people throughout the development process," admits Nevill. "Being basically self-funded (thus poor), we haven't had a budget for outsourcing work and so have relied heavily upon the good will of a number of people. Our time spent in the game industry meant that we already had contacts in the industry skilled in programming and several were willing to help us out in their spare time. Massive thanks must go out here to Neil Palframan, now working for Electronic Arts in Canada and Mr. "Winston Wolfe"."We were also approached by a number of guys via the GarageGames forums who offered to supply audio work for us because they simply wanted to be involved with a pirate game. Our original plan was to do the vocal work ourselves and have some musically talented friends create a theme tune for us, but fortunately due to the incredible work supplied by some very talented individuals, Harvey and I were not required to get our microphones out. Special thanks have to go out to Pattarawit Arinyasak for his great Artificial Intelligence work, Joel Steudler for his unbelievable musical masterpieces and Captain Paul Bergel… the gravelly voice of Buccaneer."Brilliantly, Stickman also somehow became involved with New Jersey-based, pirate metal bandSwashbucklewho let the studio use some of their material in the game. They make a virtual appearance at the Buccaneer Tavern. "In return we put together a music video for their song "Drink Up!", which is accessible fromour website."Along the way, Simon and Harvey carried out freelance work for a range of companies to fund their pirate project. One client was veteran Leamington-based developerBlitz Games, to whom the chaps showed a demo of Buccaneer. Suitably impressed, Blitz offered to support the remainder of the game's development, providing vital QA testing and also using its bulging contacts book to secure distribution via Steam.Coincidentally, Blitz was also making contact with another small studio, Regolith Games, entering into a similar partnership with them to see through the development of crossword puzzler, KrissX. From here, the company decided to formalise the process, setting up its1&gt;UP programmeto fund and support smallscale game projects. "Funding is just one of the resources that we supply, and in fact that part is always likely to be a minor element," explains Chris Swan, Director of Blitz Arcade, the developer's specialist downloadable game studio. "We aren't trying to be a publisher here, and in fact one of our clients put it best when they likened us to a 'Swiss army knife of an agent' since there are so many elements that we can potentially provide. Things like advice on game prototypes based on our knowledge of the marketplace, resources such as art, design, code and audio, licensing our high-end BlitzTech, providing PR or legal advice - these can all be put into the mix."To be honest though I think one of the largest benefits is our network of contacts, which stretches all the way from outsourcing and developers to publishers and distributors. By being one of the largest independent developers we are also able to meet with a lot of the bigger players who are simply unable to provide the time for reviewing individual proposals from very small developers. So when Blitz has a meeting with a client, we can present an entire raft of games, some of which are ours and some which come through the 1&gt;UP programme."Blitz's approach reflects an industry-wide interest in embracing the indie community. The likes of XBLA (which should see a conversion of Buccaneer soon), PSN and WiiWare represent a reasonable revenue stream for publishers and developers, especially with a recession looming. However, in-house staff may not have the skills required to punch out cool, hugely intuitive budget games, with little or no management. If you look at something like Geometry Wars from Bizarre Creations, the project was started in the free time of experienced coder Stephen Cakebread, and may never have happened had he been shunted on to different, larger projects (seemy blog poston the subject).Instead, big industry players are reaching out to the indie scene to source talent. Blitz has formed 1&gt;UP, but you've also got Epic buying small studios likeChair EntertainmentandPeople Can Fly, and Valve nurturing its own mod community into tomorrow's A list developers.It's probably the Valve model, of engaging with - and nurturing - a dedicated home coding community that's going to shape the industry over the next few years. Maintaining massive in-house teams will surely become all but impossible for many developers, and outsourcing only solves half of the problem – outsource studios are usually highly specialized, perfect for churning out graphics and audio to strict pre-agreed templates, but often not able to provide their own creative ideas. Meanwhile, buying studios is a risky and expensive move, with no guarantee of subsequent product.What 1&gt;UP points to is perhaps a videogame publishing model that works more like – for want of a better allusion – a terrorist network: independent cells working on their own projects with only the loosest direction from a higher authority. If one cell goes down, there are others to produce the goods. Of course, there will always be a place for epic Triple 'A' blockbusters, but at the moment, the industry is undergoing a major period of fragmentation, both in terms of audience and available platforms – the only way to hit all the targets is to produce a lot of cheap, original content.Chris Swan agrees that creating small, highly-targeted games could well be the way ahead. "It's always hard to predict ahead in this industry, but I'm confident that in the long run this is an area of growth. In particular, as the portals and platform-holders more sublimely present the consumers with tailor-made game lists, we should be in an era where every kind of game can reach and make an impact on its ideal audience". Through the inter-coupling of indie guile with corporate experience and finance, the industry is going long-tail. Chris is right; nothing is really predictable from here.
This week, we bring you four Tech Weekly programmes (so, more Tech Daily, perhaps?), based around what's happening at theMacworldandConsumer Electronics Showexpos in the US.Bobbie Johnsonwill round up the big names and scour the floor to find out about the new exciting gadgets that we'll be seeing during 2009 – and we'll bring them to your ears every morning this week (UK time).Today's installment is a preview to this week's events, with our regular columnistPaul Carrand Kat Hannaford,T3.com'snews editor.  They tell us what to look out for (and what NOT to expect), and Bobbie goes off to meet the Mac devotees that are sat at the very front of the queue for tomorrow's show.Get involved and tell us what you'd like to hear this week from all the shows (the contact details are below), and don't forget to check outBobbie's video reports too, as well as all the coverage fromMacworldandCES.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Point and click adventure games once ruled the gaming roost. Early 90s classics like LucasArts' Secret of Monkey Island were a heady mix of puzzles, storytelling and easy to use controls.But the rise of 3D graphics essentially killed off a genre which has now been commercially dead for over a decade. But a revival may be on. The Wii and the Nintendo DS – both having controllers ideally suited to the genre – have seen a number of point and clickers released and now the PC is getting back on board.Vampyre Story was created by a team of ex-LucasArts employees and the pedigree shows throughout. For a start it looks fantastic – all gothic cartoon and comedy bloodsuckers – but it is the story and puzzles that charm. The conundrums are usually straightforward "use object" puzzles, although retro fans will be enjoying some of the more obtuse teasers. Occasionally niggly controls are an issue, but Vampyre Story is a treat for adventure veterans and newcomers alike.
E-readers are still a minority fad, so how does the concept work on a cheap, already popular device like the DS?Not bad, actually – having two screens makes turning pages by stylus feel natural and there's several levels of zoom to compensate for all the squinting you have to do, especially in direct sunlight. As for content, you get a substantial library of classics here, from Austen to Shakespeare and Dickens, with another 10 to be downloaded over Wi-Fi.Is it as an enjoyable way of reading? Not particularly. Despite clever features like a search facility and some ugly bookmarks, it still feels too bland and impersonal – but you can't fault it for value.
Given the prevailing, recessionary mood, 101 in 1: Explosive Megamix would seem to be spot-on.As the name suggests, it crams 101 mini-games onto a Nintendo DS cartridge. And as you could imagine, those games are short and sweet affairs. You get to play each for five minutes, in a quest to amass as many points as possible. Initially, only 10 are unlocked, but as you rack up the requisite number of points, you begin to unlock the other 91.Explosive Megamix makes decent use of the DS's attributes: all of the games are controlled using the stylus rather than buttons, and are surprisingly impressive in terms of graphics. They involve tasks like playing keepy-uppy with a football, chucking a basketball from the bottom screen into a hoop on the top screen, or playing air-hockey or darts.But occasionally, they demonstrate a WarioWare-style modicum of inventiveness, such as when you're invited to fire skewers at floating pieces of sushi, or manipulate an ever-growing smiley-face which eats bubbles in a fish-tank, while avoiding the fish therein.Some of the games, naturally, will bug you enormously. But in general, it's perfect for train journeys and the like, and surprisingly addictive.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
It's been a long time coming, but former eBay chief Meg Whitman now appears to bepreparing to run for the post of governor of California.Whitman seems to be planning a future as Arnold Schwarzenegger's successor, and she's spent the past year getting her credentials in order. Her ties to the Republicans are tight: she was a co-chair of John McCain's failed election campaign and before that an adviser to Mitt Romney's failed campaign to win the Republican nomination.With such a startling record of political success, I quite hope she gets the nod - but I also hope that people start to question her period in charge of eBay.After all, yes, she guided the company from a small outfit to worldwide success. She made it through the dotcom bust and came out the other side. But then things started to go awry: when eBay turned into a massive struggling bureaucracy that needed a bit of direction and oomph, she decided to buy Skype (which the company had towrite down by $1.4bn) and then, this time last year,got the hell out of Dodge.And just a few months after she bailed, the companylaid off 10% of its workforce. California's got plenty of problems already.Still, record aside, Whitman wouldn't be the first technology executive to try her hand at politics. Although in recent years Bill Gates has wielded the greatest political influence of any technology supremo (he once told me that he regularly phoned Tony Blair and Gordon Brown to check on the progress of the NHS's troubled IT upgrade) in the end he preferred to exercise his muscle for the company, not the country.In recent American history, that means the most famous example of a technologist-turned-politician is Ross Perot, the founder of Electronic Data Systems who ran as an independent presidential candidate in 1992 and 1996. At his most successful, Perot received as much as 19% of the popular vote. Crikey.Sidenote:Whitman's political links have also ledsome to speculatethat she could be lined up as a potential secretary of commerce under Barack Obama. But despite another high-profile vacancy under the new White House administration, there's no whisper that she could be up for the job ofAmerica's CTO.
Just one more New Year post – promise – but veteran game designerPeter Molyneux'sthoughts on 2008/9 makeinteresting reading. Perhaps the biggest discussion point raised concerned game difficulty.On the gaming front, GTA IV was a real moment for the industry. Rockstar nailed how you characterise a game and their engine and cut sequences are state of the art. However, only a few people actually saw all the cut sequences because the game was so tough to play. Are we making games too difficult? That's a question the industry has been asking itself of late.Anyone who has played the very forgiving Fable 2 –my game of the year– will know what conclusion Molyneux and his team came to.Xbox 360 developer Molyneux also talks about the PS3 – "disappointing to say the least" – but has kinder words for Sony title LittleBigPlanet.One of my personal favourites was Little Big Planet; superb artistry and a fantastic marketing job by Sony - yet it didn't make the numbers. I wonder if Christmas is really the right time to release a new title.He has a point here but I'm not sure LBP would have fared better if released earlier in the year. The core PS3 audience was always going to be more excited by Resistance 2, Call of Duty and the rest.  And the casual audience likely to be attracted bySackboyand co just isn't there -  in sufficient numbers - on PS3 yet. But unlike Resistance 2 and forthcoming shooterKillzone 2- which will likely chart high as the fans buy but then quickly disappear from the sales rankings - you can imagine LBP will still be shifting steady numbers in a year's time, especially to new PS3 owners.Molyneux is pessimistic about 2009 though.Next year, well, it's all looking a bit dry. All the triple A titles came out this Christmas and while there is stuff in 2010 we can look forward to, off the top of my head I cannot think of anything next year that really excites me.Games too difficult? LittleBigPlanet not appealing to the masses? 2009 looking dull? So, do you agree with Molyneux?
Wars have always been waged on all sorts of fronts. They have also, of course, always been about words: who asserts what; what different people mean when they say, "That's mine." The internet has vastly increased the ways in which people can have these arguments, and how directly they can have them, but even so it is huge step up to hold, as the Israeli consulate in New York did last week, a public, government-backed "citizens' conference" on the social site Twitter - and then to keep replying to comments from all over the globe. It has proved massively popular: the consulate's Twitter site (twitter.com/israelconsulate) yesterday afternoon had 3,739 followers, and at one point was posting a new comment, or answer to a comment, nearly every second.You can see why it has caught on. Twitter allows notes of only 140 characters, so everything is admirably short and to the point. No space here for waffle; just a surgical strike. Many of the notes on the Israeli consulate site are quick links to other sites: videos from the BBC, pieces in the Wall Street Journal, clips on YouTube (the Israeli Defence Force has also, during the current invasion, become the first national army to broadcast an offensive directly to interested users of the web, in real time). But a lot of it is also direct answers to direct questions, squashed into text-speak to fit the space available. "We R pro nego ... we talk only w/ ppl who accept R rt 2 live", for example. Or "Isr. left Gaza in 2005 to send message of peace. Ans. more rockets." Or "if hamas's goal were 2 btr the lives of its cit. they wouldn't target IL. they would invest in edu/hlth not in bombs."The consulate is, in effect, firefighting. The answers come from its PR office (no doubt somewhat harried, given the number of questions it has had to answer), and from its chief PR officer David Saranga, who has described his job as justifying the Israeli strikes, and making sure that there is detailed official information available to counteract the swirls of allegation and counter-allegation available elsewhere on the web. Israeli military spokeswoman Major Avital Leibovich has been even clearer. "The blogosphere and new media are another war zone and we have to be relevant there."Twitter is only two years old, and, in essence, very simple: like the status update function in Facebook, it asks the question "What are you doing?", and then gives you a very small space in which to answer. And that's all it does: no faffing about with profiles, photos, poking or sheep. Just what you're doing this minute, which immediately appears on your page, and on the pages of people who have signed up to track you. Biz Stone, co-founder of Twitter, has compared it to "flocks of birds, the way they are able to move around an object in flight. It looks so choreographed, it looks like it's planned out ahead of time but it's not, it's just rudimentary, simple communication among individuals. It's just feedback that produces beautifully elegant, choreographed real-time movement."It's a gift to celebrities, of course, for whom the size of their publicity footprint depends on how much the public know about their everyday doings - and, by extension, a recipe for unrelieved banality. John Cleese recently told the world that, as far as he was concerned, it was a big "yes to Marmite. But an even bigger yes to mustard, particularly German mustard, of which I possess an epicureal collection." Last week, former rugby player Will Carling announced he was making a cup of tea to welcome in the new year. A year ago Scott Karp, formerly director of digital strategy at the Atlantic magazine, now CEO of Publish2, Inc, a web-based newswire, wrote a heartfelt blog on his website about why he stopped using Twitter - "Twitter is a massive waste of time ... Twitter has turned distraction into an art form" - which, predictably, triggered a tsunami of comment from Twitterers everywhere. His answering update was reasonable, but firm: "Twitter may be the first step on an evolutionary path to something indispensable, but for me, it's just not there yet."That was in December 2007. By the time terrorists struck Mumbai in November Twitterers were, at times, uploading information faster than the TV networks and newspaper websites. Not all of it was true - but some of it usefully gainsaid official errors, noting, for example, that shooting had not ceased even though Indian reporters were saying it had. Vivid eyewitness reports appeared in real time: "at home so no idea wats happening in colaba side 4:55PM but v did hear some loud noise a few mins bk 4:57PM ok v just heard a few nore [sic] loud thuds.. 5:02 PM I have just heard 2 more loud blasts around my house in colaba ... 5:09PM."Has everything changed? Has Twitter come of age? The answer, as so often, is both yes and no. Certainly experts predict that, having begun as something used by the techno-literate, it will have become much more a part of our multimedia consciousness by this time next year. Whether or not the average person in the street will be using it is another question. "I think if you look at the majority of people using it, there's an extremely high if not direct overlap with people who blog," says Karp, meaning the self-selecting group of people who like to broadcast their thoughts to the public, as opposed to simply share updates with friends on Facebook. "It's used very much the way blogging is used, but as a short quick lowest-threshold way to say something or share something. It's like public instant messaging."He thinks the Israeli consulate's use of it was basically "an interesting way to hold a press conference with a bunch of media types", while at the same time giving the valuable impression of transparency and immediacy - and relevance, to people who might think, "OK, the Israeli consulate is using Twitter - therefore they must be pretty smart and hip about communication. It brings a certain credibility." As for your average concerned citizen, "I'm sure there were some people from the general public in there but I would guess a much smaller group."But others are concerned that their Twitter experiment is also something of an own goal. Dropping in on Twitter, says Chris Lake, editor-in-chief of econsultancy, a leading internet marketing research group, is a great way to keep your ear to the ground, to find out what people are talking about; anyone in the public domain, whether company or celebrity or government, would do well to monitor their reputation in that way. (Neither Karp nor Lake is very convinced by its usefulness in breaking news, however: "It's not really a news source, just an echo chamber," says Lake. "If you follow the right people in any given area you'll hear news very early on. Occasionally people are breaking news, but not often.") But using its capacity for two-way conversations, as Israel has done, is quite another thing. "You have to wonder whether Twitter, with its 140 character limit, is the right forum," says Lake. "I just think it's crass to abbreviate in that manner, writing in text-speak like some 15-year-old going out on a Friday night. It seems a little bit crass given the graveness of the situation."He thinks it's a great sign that they're listening to people's questions - "but maybe they should have given the answers via their website or a blog, or YouTube", where slightly more length, and therefore more subtlety, are possible. Or, as one respondent to the consulate's efforts put it, on the consulate's website: "Israel's PR is terrible. While this is a good step in the right direction, it is not enough to illuminate your message. Your Sec of State, her name escapes me, is a passionate defender of Israel's action in Gaza. I recommend that she hit the road as they say and get her a..s in front of the cameras."
Twitter is discovering that popularity brings attention from the sort of people you don't want attention from: hackers.That's the clear message from the fact that33 accounts were hacked, using the company's own internal support tools.Yes, that's certainly Monday morning madness. Among those affected: Rick Sanchez of CNN and Barack Obama of, um, the President-Elect's office - though the latter hasn't used his account since winning the election in November.These accounts were compromised by an individual who hacked into some of the tools our support team uses to help people do things like edit the email address associated with their Twitter account when they can't remember or get stuck. We considered this a very serious breach of security and immediately took the support tools offline. We'll put them back only when they're safe and secure.The effect is that Twitter has now realised that encouraging - or at least, not actively dissuading - people from using third-party services such asTwplythat ask them just to hand over their usernames and passwords, which are the only authentication you have with Twitter at the moment. (Twply is pretty much the poster-child for taking advantage of Twitter users' lack of care: it grabbed passwords and was rapidly put up for sale by auction. Quite a valuable database you have there..)Which has driven Twitter towards something that I was going to predict they would do this year: implement something likeOpenID(in this case,OAuth), to let people log in to such sites without actually handing over your details.We plan to release a closed beta of the open authentication protocol, OAuth this month but it's important to note that this would not have prevented a Phishing scam nor would it have prevented these accounts from being compromised. OAuth is something we can provide so that folks who use third party applications built on the Twitter API can access to their data while protecting their account credentials.True, it wouldn't have stopped either hack; but it will stop services like Twply etc from trying to spread themselves virally on the service.However it's not a good thing overall that Twitter seems to have had a "security last" approach. Maybe 2009 will see everyone actually reaching a proper Web 2.1, where authentication, and not just providing the facility, matters.
The head of the Apple technology empire, Steve Jobs, has revealed that a "hormone imbalance" has caused him to lose weight and to take on a gaunt appearance that has alarmed investors, analysts and gadget enthusiasts.In an attempt to quietenpersistent rumours that he is fighting a recurrence of pancreatic cancer, Jobs made a rare personal statement on his health today, which proved sufficiently reassuring to reverse a steady decline in Apple's shares.The man behind the iPod, the iMac and the iPhone said he had nothing more serious than a nutritional problem with a "simple and straightforward remedy", although his remarks caused a degree of puzzlement among experts in endocrinology.Jobs, who co-founded Apple in 1976, is widely viewed as the driving force behind the company's innovation in consumer electronics. The 53-year-old's weight loss has prompted worries on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley over the future of the business.His decision to pull out of MacWorld, an annual trade show in San Francisco this week, heightened concerns, though he stressed today that he fully intended to remain as chief executive.In aletteraddressed to the "Apple community", Jobs said he had grown tired of media reports that he could be on his "deathbed". He said the cause of his weight loss had initially been a mystery but that doctors had recently discovered a "hormone imbalance that has been 'robbing' me of the proteins my body needs to be healthy".He continued: "The remedy for this nutritional problem is relatively simple and straightforward, and I've already begun treatment. But, just like I didn't lose this much weight and body mass in a week or a month, my doctors expect it will take until late this spring to regain it."During early trading on the technology-dominated Nasdaq exchange, Apple's shares rallied by 3% to $93.56. The stock has fallen by 45% over six months, in part depressed by rumours about Jobs, despite the phenomenal global popularity of Apple's touch-screen iPhone handsets.Speculation began last summer when Apple's army of followers on technology websites remarked upon Jobs's slim appearance at an event to launch a 3G version of the iPhone. Some pointed out that Jobs had surgery for pancreatic cancer in 2004 and that at the time Apple had been cagey about his condition.Apple's repeated refusal to comment on such a "personal matter" did little to silence the rumour-mongers. The newswire service Bloomberg unwittingly kept the issue in focus by accidentally ­publishing an obituary of Jobs in August. Then two months later, a contributor to a news blogging site owned by CNN,  iReport, wrongly reported that Jobs had suffered a "major heart attack", sending Apple's shares down 11% within 10 minutes.Richard Ross, a professor of endocrinology at the Royal Hallamshire Hospital in Sheffield, said that although Jobs's description of his condition was opaque, a hormonal imbalance could be a result of his pancreatic surgery."If you've had surgery around the pancreas or small bowel, you can get mal­absorption or nutritional symptoms," said Ross. "If you've had damage to the pancreas, you can lose enzymes that break down food." Such disorders are generally treated with dietary supplements and drugs. A common imbalance of this type is diabetes.Analysts expressed relief that Jobs had clarified his condition."I think it does put to rest all the speculation on his health and I think people will now start to focus on the business," said Vijay Rakesh, an analyst at ThinkEquity Partners in Chicago. "I think obviously this is very good for Apple and the stock because Jobs has been an innovator. He steered the company into a lot of new products."
In an earlier age, Christine Dolce might not have achieved much fame beyond the make-up counter where she worked. However, thanks to her social networking skills, she's appeared on the cover of FHM, in a Playboy "celebrity pictorial", in music videos and on TV. She's also collected a marketing award from Advertising Age magazine, and started a fashion business,Twisted Elegance. But you'll already know this if you're friends with ForBiddeN, her persona onMySpace– and 1.73 million people are.People join MySpace for all sorts of reasons, but self-promotion may be the biggest. It's a vehicle for people in the movie, fashion and porn industries, and most of all, for the music industry. Lily Allen became famous for promoting herself on MySpace, the Arctic Monkeys started as a MySpace band. With last year's launch of MySpace Music, this is something its owner, Rupert Murdoch'sNews Corp, is keen to exploit.But what's the appeal for more everyday users? MySpace provides, it says, a space where you can put yourself online: your personal details, likes and dislikes, photos, movies and music. It's also a place where you can connect with friends, exchange messages, and run a blog. Every MySpace user has one, though few people seem to use them.There are, of course, hundreds of sites where people can do the most of the same things, including social networks such as Facebook and Bebo. But there seem to be two main reason's for MySpace's remarkable success. First, it gives people much more scope to express themselves by changing the colour schemes and adding photos, music tracks and videos. There are skins and themes to make this easy, so users don't have to learn anything about web design. The result is chaotic, and often ugly, but much more vibrant than Facebook, which is staid by comparison.Second, people tend to join the service their friends have joined, and MySpace benefited hugely from a bandwagon effect. The number of users shot up from 2 million in May 2004 to more than 250 million today, withmore than 115 million userslogging in every month. You have to sign up if you want to keep up with people who have protected their profiles, and to participate in the party and dating scenes.MySpace should continue to grow as it opens up in more countries and offers versions in more languages. However, it is now growing less rapidly than Facebook, and at some point, the number of users will level off and then probably decline. It's easy to imagine many of today's young users dropping out as their focus shifts from sharing music and getting laid to paying their mortgages and raising their own kids.Where MySpace will end up is anyone's guess, because we don't know what the next internet craze might be. However, I'd expect it to have between 250 million and 300 million active users. It could collapse, but I think its momentum will ensure it survives for some time.
Steve Jobs and Apple have, finally, broken their silence about Jobs's health, after rumours that he must be seriously ill had been allowed to build up for weeks after the company announced that he would not be giving the keynote speech at MacWorld, which starts today.The timing of the announcements is fascinating: rather than putting paid to speculation, as could have been done at the time, Jobs and Apple put out their statements, blaming his weight loss on a "hormone imbalance", just as MacWorld is getting prepared... and Steve Ballmer is practising his speech for CES on Wednesday. Effortlessly, Jobs has wrenched the spotlight away from CES and MacWorld without even going there.So what's at the root of the "gaunt" Jobs? In hisletter, he saysAs many of you know, I have been losing weight throughout 2008. The reason has been a mystery to me and my doctors. A few weeks ago, I decided that getting to the root cause of this and reversing it needed to become my #1 priority.Fortunately, after further testing, my doctors think they have found the cause—a hormone imbalance that has been "robbing" me of the proteins my body needs to be healthy. Sophisticated blood tests have confirmed this diagnosis.The remedy for this nutritional problem is relatively simple and straightforward, and I've already begun treatment. But, just like I didn't lose this much weight and body mass in a week or a month, my doctors expect it will take me until late this Spring to regain it. I will continue as Apple's CEO during my recovery.Let's recap why there's concern about his health: in October 2003, he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer - which is usually a quick killer. But Jobs is extraordinarily lucky: he had neuroendocrine cancer, a rare and treatable form. He had theWhipple procedure(which removes the head of the pancreas, where the cancer was, and theduodenum, which connects the stomach to the jejunum) to treat it in July 2004 (having unsuccessfully tried to "treat" it through diet, a fact that waskept from Apple shareholders beyond the board).The Whipple procedure does however mean that you need to watch your diet afterwards,according to Pancreatic Cancer UK:Because the pancreas is an organ which provides enzymes to aid the digestion and absorption of food and nutrients, any kind of surgery which removes part or all of the pancreas will affect the ability to digest and absorb food and nutrients. It is important after any surgery to try and have as nutritious a diet as possible , and after pancreatic surgery this is best done by using small frequent meals and snacks.And:Ensure that you are taking in enough calories and protein in a form that you can cope with, either as liquids, soft diet or normal foods. Try to have a good variety of protein foods such as meat, chicken, fish, eggs, milk and cheese as well as foods which provide energy such as bread, pasta, rice, potatoes and cereals. Small frequent meals with snacks such as crackers and cheese, full fat yogurts, cakes and biscuits, are often easier to take when your appetite is poor. Foods such as fruit and vegetables provide vitamins and minerals and should be included daily.Jobs was, famously, afruitarian, though is now understood to be vegan. The question is whether he has been eating enough protein-rich food to make up the difference. The mention of a hormone imbalance that has eluded even California's best is intriguing: surely they can advise about hormone imbalances that might be caused by pancreatic surgery? Unless it was something quite different. (I'm trying to contact a pancreatic specialist for more info.)Will this stop the murmuring about Jobs's health? Briefly, perhaps - but until he appears in public looking at least slightly chubby, then some people probably won't. Or has it satisfied you that he has put this out?
Apple founderSteve Jobshas written an unprecedentedopen letterrevealing details of his health problems.The chief executive was due to deliver the keynote address at the Macworld conference in San Francisco this week, but pulled out late last year sparking fears about his health as he had appeared gaunt in recent public appearances. Jobs survived pancreatic cancer in 2004.But now Jobs says he has been suffering from a "hormone imbalance" and doctors have told him that he needs rest. He says that he will continue as CEO while he recovers."I have been losing weight throughout 2008. The reason has been a mystery to me and my doctors," Jobs, who turns 54 in February, said today in a statement. "After further testing, my doctors think they have found the cause – a hormone imbalance that has been 'robbing' me of the proteins my body needs to be healthy."In a statement, Apple's board said: "It is widely recognised both inside and outside of Apple that Steve Jobs is one of the most talented and effective CEOs in the world... If there ever comes a day when Steve wants to retire or for other reasons cannot continue to fulfill his duties as Apple's CEO, you will know it."Speculation about the reasons for Jobs's decision not to make the keynote speech at the Macworld show in San Francisco this week had pushed questions about his health to the fore. The company previously declined to comment on it and Apple's share price fell. Apple's share price rose in pre-market trading today.Macworld is run by the company IDG, and Apple has said it no longer wanted to be committed to releasing new products at another company's trade show and that it didn't see reason to have its CEO speak at a conference it wouldn't be attending in the future.In his statement, Jobs added: "The remedy for this nutritional problem is relatively simple and straightforward, and I've already begun treatment...Just like I didn't lose this much weight and body mass in a week or a month, my doctors expect it will take me until late this Spring to regain it."
Okay, so most New Year resolutions are doomed to failure. We get carried away, overshoot and ultimately realise that we can't change fundamental aspects of our personalities because of a date on a calendar.But Gamesblog regularly asks readers at this time of the year, how they plan to change their gaming habits over the coming 12 months. So if you've included any game-based resolutions on your list, let us know. Perhaps you've resolved to play less sequels - an ill-advised move this year considering the imminent arrival of Resi 5, Killzone 2, God of War 3 and many, many others. Maybe you'll endeavour to keep up to date with the indie gaming scene? Or play more mobile games?Whatever it is, let us know. And this will conclude our New Year-themed posts for the day (unless Aleks has plans I don't know about...)
Palm is expected to announce a new smart phone with "amazing" new software on Thursday, but the new hardware and new Linux-based Nova operating system will need to make a big impact. The company used to dominate the PDA market, and its Treo phone was a success, but it's now trailing badly. AsSF Gatepoints out: "In its most recent quarter, Palm sold 599,000 smart phones, down 13% from the previous year. Apple, meanwhile, sold 6.9 million iPhones in its most recent quarter, while RIM shipped 6.7 million BlackBerrys."CrunchGearis claiming an exclusive on some details of the new Palm phone, which "will have a full QWERTY keyboard that will slide down under a portrait-oriented touchscreen." It says:The new operating system is described as "amazing" and there will be a full software bazaar on launch. It will have media playback functions along with standard Palm calendar, email, and contact functionality.The problem is that this is already a crowded market. We have RIM's BlackBerry, Apple's iPhone, Google's Android/Linux, Nokia's Symbian and Microsoft's Windows Mobile, which makes five operating systems that are not going away soon. Is there really room for Palm as well?If you look at the early-stage markets for mainframes, minis, PCs and similar devices, there were usually 50 or more contenders. These are quickly reduced to a handful at most, often with one big winner (IBM VM/MVS, Unix/Linux, Windows) and two or three stragglers. I don't see any reason why the smart phone market won't also end up with a Power Law-style distribution, with Palm among the stragglers.
Apple and Steve Jobs have both issued letters about the latter's health, so we're publishing the full text here. They were first issued through news wires but are now also on Apple's site.This is theletter from the Apple board:CUPERTINO, Calif. -- It is widely recognized both inside and outside of Apple that Steve Jobs is one of the most talented and effective CEOs in the world.As we have said before, if there ever comes a day when Steve wants to retire or for other reasons cannot continue to fulfill his duties as Apple's CEO, you will know it.Apple is very lucky to have Steve as its leader and CEO, and he deserves our complete and unwavering support during his recuperation. He most certainly has that from Apple and its Board.And now, here's theletter from Steve Jobs.Dear Apple Community,For the first time in a decade, I'm getting to spend the holiday season with my family, rather than intensely preparing for a Macworld keynote.Unfortunately, my decision to have Phil [Schiller, vice-president of marketing] deliver the Macworld keynote set off another flurry of rumors about my health, with some even publishing stories of me on my deathbed.I've decided to share something very personal with the Apple community so that we can all relax and enjoy the show tomorrow.As many of you know, I have been losing weight throughout 2008. The reason has been a mystery to me and my doctors. A few weeks ago, I decided that getting to the root cause of this and reversing it needed to become my #1 priority.Fortunately, after further testing, my doctors think they have found the cause -- a hormone imbalance that has been "robbing" me of the proteins my body needs to be healthy. Sophisticated blood tests have confirmed this diagnosis.The remedy for this nutritional problem is relatively simple and straightforward, and I've already begun treatment. But, just like I didn't lose this much weight and body mass in a week or a month, my doctors expect it will take me until late this Spring to regain it. I will continue as Apple's CEO during my recovery.I have given more than my all to Apple for the past 11 years now. I will be the first one to step up and tell our Board of Directors if I can no longer continue to fulfill my duties as Apple's CEO. I hope the Apple community will support me in my recovery and know that I will always put what is best for Apple first.So now I've said more than I wanted to say, and all that I am going to say, about this.Steve
SNK should be dead. The veteran Japanese game publisher, arcade cabinet manufacturer and one-time console contender closed for business in October 2001 after twenty years of knocking out unashamedly hardcore shooters, fighting games and coin-op oddities. During the following weeks, no self-respecting arcade dweller would be seen dead without one of the hastily produced commemorative T-shirts, emblazoned with the phrase '2D Forever, SNK 1978-2001' and available from import game stores everywhere.But somehow the company lives on. Months after the collapse, founder Eikichi Kawasaki set up a new company,Playmore, and successfully bid for SNK's intellectual rights. Unlike Atari, which today survives in name only, SNK retains its original founder and many key staff. SNK lives.And, as it turns out, SNK also answers its email. A few months ago I sent over some questions to the company via its UK distributor, Ignition. I wasn't really expecting anything back – Japanese publishers aren't great with interview requests. But just before Christmas, they got back to me, answering under the collective name of 'The SNK Playmore team in Japan' and dealing with every single one of my questions.But first things first - why does all this matter?Well, for a start, SNK has been responsible for some smashing games. The company's first hit was undoubtedly vertically scrolling military blaster Ikari Warriors, which introduced the world to the concept of the co-op shooter about 20 years before it became achingly trendy. You can also thank SNK for the fondly-remembered footie sim Soccer Sidekicks and the brilliant Metal Slug series of humour-tinged sideways scrolling shooters. On the hardware side, there was the Neo Geo (and later Neo Geo CD) console, a competitor to the SNES, Mega Drive and eventually the PlayStation, brilliant for arcade conversions, but always too insular to complete on the world stage.Perhaps SNK's seminal release was 1991's Fatal Fury, a 2D beat-em-up launched just months after the epoch-shattering Street Fighter II, but reportedly in developmentbeforeCapcom's show-stealer. The release, its subsequent sequels, and the onslaught of stablemates such as Samurai Shodown, Art of Fighting and King of Fighters, set up a lengthy rivalry between the two developers, culminating in the wonderful SNK vs Capcom series, featuring characters and combat styles from both companies. Many gamers believe the Art of Fighting and King of Fighters titles were better than their Street Fighter rivals, with more imaginative fighters, better scenery and deeper fighting systems.It also matters because SNK remains the beating heart of hardcore gaming; it is a symbol of the industry as it once was, dominated by tough-as-old-boots coin-ops. The company's brilliant handheld console, the Neo Geo Pocket was compatible with Dreamcast, and the sad demise of Sega's machine seemed to inextricably tie in with the fall of SNK – two stalwarts of the arcade scene, battered by the prevailing wind of PlayStation casual-dom.So, for the last couple of years, the company has been successfully living off its rich back catalogue, releasing dozens of cut-price anthologies crammed with cult arcade and home console classics. Last year, we saw the likes of World Heroes Anthology and Fatal Fury Battle Archives. This March, SNK addicts can look forward to SNK Arcade Classics Volume 1 on Wii, the Samurai Shodown Anthology on PS2, PSP and Wii and The King of Fighters Collection: The Orochi Saga on PSP and Wii. The publisher has also moved into the download market, supporting Wii's Virtual Console and sticking Fatal Fury Special, Metal Slug 3 and Samurai Shodown II on Xbox Live Arcade.This year will see the XBLA release of King of Fighters '98 Ultimate Match, which some consider the very zenith of 2D fisticuffs.  "First among the list of new features is the 'Ultimate Mode'," explained the SNK chaps in their email. "This allows players to customise settings from Extra and Advanced Modes, giving fans a slew of gameplay options.  The visual alterations / additional graphics, updated stages, newly arranged music, and variety of original content and game modes (plus online support) will make for an entirely new experience for fans of this classic KOF series installment.  The remake also features even further improved game balance which has been finely-tuned by our staff, with an all-star roster containing nine additional characters for a total of 64!"SNK also confirmed that it would be developing for PS3 this year and will make an announcement shortly. It's also likely that the company will extend its support for Wii as well. I also asked if any of its key Neo Geo Pocket titles – the likes of Gals Fighters and SNK vs Capcom Card Fighters Clash - might appear on mobile or iPhone this year. "Keeping in mind we received great response for both of those Neo Geo Pocket Color titles, we will be sure to look into it!" was the enigmatic response. Oh, and if you're a connoisseur of import games, look out for a forthcoming (and currently Japan-only) compilation of Neo Geo classics originally developed by cult studio ADK, including Twinkle Star Sprites, Ninja Master's and Ninja Commando.Of course, the key release of '09 – the 15th anniversary of the King of Fighters series – will beKing of Fighters XII, hitting Japanese arcades in April and no doubt arriving on home consoles before the end of the year. They're calling this a true rebirth for the series, echoing the language Capcom is using to hype up Street Fighter IV. The two old rivals are heading into the ring once again.Finally, I asked how the company has retained such a dedicated and obsessive following over the years. "First and foremost, through each game release we feel SNK has constantly kept our love and respect for our fans in mind. SNK Playmore tries as much as possible to listen closely to our fans' opinions, whether they are from questionnaires or at events." And that's really it. SNK exists mostly for its hardcore fanbase these days, resolutely and unrelentingly giving them what they want, like one of those old prog rock bands that continues to tour long after fickle mainstream tastes have left them behind; still going, still, at times, brilliant.SNK tasting guideFancy sampling the works of this veteran publisher? The most approachable are probably the Metal Slug titles – I'd go for Metal Slug Anthology (PSP, Wii, PS2) or Metal Slug 3 on XBLA. If you're looking for an overview of the company's arcade heritage try SNK Arcade Classics 1 on PS2 – it's got the original Metal Slug, Fatal Fury, World Heroes and King of Fighters titles as well as other well-known hits (although there are issues with loading times and some technical glitches). Otherwise, check out King of Fighters '98 Ultimate Match when it arrives on XBLA later this year.
You are probably, like me, still ploughing through the late 2008 release rush but take your eyes away from Far Cry 2 (the game seemingly on all my friends "will play it soon, honest" list) and Fallout 3 for a moment. Yes, it's time to look forward to what 2009 has in store.  Well, sort of.There are plenty of 2009 most wanted type lists around if you need some suggestions but for me this year promises a more intelligent, less sequel filled, release schedule.  Yes, the next 12 months will finally see gaming going big on narrative. Or in other words,Heavy RainandAlan Wakebetter be bloody good. Both promise atmosphere, story and progression based on using your brain more than your thumb.Of course, Alan Wake has been on the radar for at least three years but there is still no sign of its Twin Peaks meets Silent Hill action. Fingers crossed we see it in 2009.  Heavy Rain is still scheduled for a 2009 release though and things arelooking goodso far.So, 2009 then. What game are you most looking forward to playing this year?
Monday's first day back edition of Chatterbox
The Nielsen Media Research group, better known for saying what the American public watched on TV, has released some research on "usage minutes" for games consoles in the US last year (Jan-Oct). It turns out that Sony's PlayStation 2 still leads the way, accounting for 31.7% of the time spent console gaming. However, the Xbox 360 (17.2%) came second, ahead of Nintendo's Wii (13.4%). Even more embarrassing for Sony, the original Xbox (9.7%) beat the PlayStation 3 (7.3%).PC Worldcomments:Everyone thinks no one's playing the Wii. They're wrong. The 360 can claim the slightly higher usage-to-units ratio, but the Wii leapt from 5.5% in 2007 to 13.4% in 2008, a notably larger increase than the 360's 11.8% to 17.2%.The PS3? Its usage increase (2.5% in 2007 to 7.3% in 2008) was actually commensurate with the 360's. Still, Sony's got a year to really get the lead out if it doesn't want to be this generation's GameCube.The top PC game was World of Warcraft, which was being played for 671 minutes a week. However, its share dropped from 1,023 minutes last year -- a plunge of 17 hours to 11 hours. However, the launch of Wrath of the Lich King may have changed that since.The top 10 for Mobile Games in last year's third quarter -- a new category -- was headed by a stunning game called Tetris (based on carrier-billed revenues). It's interesting that people are happy to pay rather than carry around an old Game Boy. Also, I wonder if any of the carriers have figured out they could make even more money by making Tetris just a little easier…
Some Twitter users were lured into giving away their passwords in a phishing attack over the weekend. Lots of us received direct messages (DMs) that said "hey! check out this funny blog about you..." The link took you to a site that copied Twitter's front page. However, the trick was soon spotted, and the "don't click" warnings rapidly became much more annoying than the phishing messages.Twitter dealt with the problem,its blog says, by reporting the offending domain. It also found a similar fake page for Facebook.The attack could be by someone possibly connected with "Name : zhang xiaohu" in China, according to thedomain registrationviewed at Domain Tools. But since his phone number is in the contact info, I suspect it's not him.Some people did log in to the phishing site, so Twitter reset their passwords.It's always easy to accuse victims of being dumb, but Twitter users regularly type their Twitter passwords into third-party sites that have sprung up to offer dozens of utilities, some of which have been knocked together in a few hours. Indeed, one utility -- Twply -- was knocked together, launched and thensold on Sitepointin a few hours. Whoever used the buy-it-now option and paid $1,200 now has a pile of Twitter IDs and passwords.As Chris Messina and others havepointed out, Twitter ought to support a mechanism such asOAuthfor "delegated authentication", and while it says it will, it doesn't. Yet.
loopt.comThe most widely tipped of the new wave of location-based services, this web 2.0 company is a "mashup" of Google Maps and social-networking style profiles that enables users to locate via GPS exactly where their friends are, then recommend, for example, the best local restaurant in the area as voted for by other online users.funnyordie.comA contender for 2009's funniest website. Set up by comedian Will Ferrell and actor/director Adam McKay, funnyordie combines usergenerated content with exclusive material by established comedians. Visitors vote to keep or kill the videos on the site. The site's partnership with HBO is expected to increase input from top comedy acts, such as a recent screening of the premiere of the second season of Flight of the Conchords. A British version,funnyordie.co.uk, is also online.zopa.comA peer-to-peer banking site which puts private buyers and lenders in touch with one another. With loans harder to come by, and the post credit-crunch backlash against the banks, this is billed as "a smarter, fairer and altogether more human way of managing your money".cooliris.comA new search engine which allows users to preview images and video hosted by multiple websites via an interactive slideshow, or "3D wall", without leaving the original search page. The result: a "lightning fast" way of browsing the web that makes navigating from page to page a thing of the past.erento.co.ukAn eBay for renters, allowing users to hire, rather than buy, everything from gardening equipment to jewellery. Expected to mushroom in 2009
What does 2009 hold for the world of technology? First: the small print. If you want to know the future, buy a crystal ball. Besides, if columnists knew what was going to happen then they wouldn't be wasting valuable time writing columns, would they?The only thing to be done, therefore, is to identify long-term trends and see what they might imply for the short-term future. In that context, the biggest trend around is the remarkable transition from a world in which the PC was the computer to one in which the internet is the computer. People once fantasised about which device everything would "converge" on to: TV, PC or mobile phone. What none of these fantasists noticed is that it had already happened - and that the net was where everything had landed. The "converged" future turned out to be one in which any device worth its salt had to be able to offer a real-time window on to the network.We've begun to see the implications of that. One sign was the emergence of so-called netbooks - simple, ultra-portable handheld computers with smallish displays, no moving parts and running a lightweight version of Linux. They came with onboard wi-fi, simple webcams and Skype built in and were essentially portable life-support systems for a browser and a few selected web applications such as Gmail or Hotmail. And they are the fastest-growing market segment in the industry: about 10% of all portable computer sales last year were netbooks.Why? Simply because many people found that all they needed was a cheap, highly portable, robust device that gave them a window on to the net. And the first manufacturers to notice this were not major laptop vendors such as HP and Lenovo, but an unknown Taiwanese outfit called Asus. Now even Hewlett-Packard offers a netbook or two.The other sign that the network is now the computer is the raging success of Apple's iPhone, which is basically a powerful hand-held Unix computer that also does voice calls. People with iPhones report using their "proper" computers less, and it's obvious why. For many purposes (email, browsing, using calendars or maps) the iPhone screen and interface are good enough.The most puzzling thing about mobile phones last year was why no company seemed able to stop Apple dominating the smartphone market. But the paralysis cannot last, so I expect the launch of a slick handset that runs Google's excellent Android software like a native. And such a device will be, like the iPhone, essentially a powerful computer that also does voice calls.This will radically change the market for software. For the next few years the action will be in mobile phone "apps" - ie small programs that run on the iPhone and Android devices. These cost from zero to $5 and will be downloaded in their millions. They're cute, clever, specialised and lightweight, but they do exactly what you want. Which means the market for big, expensive operating systems and software packages is set to decline. This is depressing news for those companies that have grown fat on the proceeds of bloated PC software suites. And as "bloatware" recedes and solid-state ("flash") drives reach capacities of 64GB at affordable prices, traditional hard-drive manufacturers will need to find new markets (back-up systems for the home, perhaps?).On the web, we will see whether Twitter, geeks' beloved microblogging service, can find a viable business model. Given that Jonathan Ross and Jeremy Clarkson have just discovered, and signed up for, the service, it has clearly peaked. When boobies like that are using it, all persons of taste flee.In the corporate world, 2009 is likely to be dominated by: speculation about Apple's ability to survive Steve Jobs's departure (yawn); Yahoo's death throes; Microsoft's struggle to erase the bad karma of Vista with shiny new Windows 7, plus its doomed attempts to seize the initiative in web services, search and online advertising; and Wall Street's disillusionment with Google, as the search giant struggles with the impact of recession on advertising. Hard times will mean fewer impulse buys of electronic toys, that upgrades will be postponed, and that companies will finally begin to examine the energy costs of their PC-based networks.Other than that, I haven't a clue what will happen. Happy new year!
Lexus IS FPrice&pound;51,155Miles per gallon24.8CO2 per KM270 gramsGood forSuper MariosBad forLoser LuigisIn a garage deep beneath Hyde Park, several hundred men (and, yes, speaking as a man, it saddens me to say that it was only men who were there, the kind of men whose minds find respite from the nagging despair of existence by repeatedly jabbing little buttons and staring unblinkingly at computer screens) have gathered to play the latest version of Gran Tourismo, the astonishingly realistic virtual driving game. I always thought these "kings of the console" loved cars and the drama of the track but due to force of circumstance were reduced to satisfying their cravings electronically. But as I watched them walk, eyes front, thumbs twitching, past a &pound;1m-plus grid of real cars to get to "game corner", I realised they were just computer geeks. Which is their loss, as most of them failed to notice the parked Lexus IS F - the first to make an appearance in this countryIn many ways, it is an easy car to miss. Other than the four gleaming oval-shaped exhausts protruding from its shapely derri&egrave;re and the low-slung jowls of its front valence, the Lexus is a model of restraint and understatement. For the best part of a decade, Lexus has been the go-to marque for luxury and lady-shave smoothness. But it has never been known for performance. The IS F has changed all that. The pet project of two engineers, Yaguchi-san and Sakamoto-san, the IS F - named after the Fuji Speedway, the marque's home GP circuit where most of the testing was carried out - was given the go-ahead in 2004, but it was another four years before the first cars hit the road. Only 150 models will be available in Britain each year, so it will never be a big seller. But Lexus is hoping the "halo effect" surrounding its premium motor will boost sales of the 8,000-plus standard IS models that will (hopefully) be leaving showrooms in the next 12 months.In many ways the IS F is really two cars. It has a Jekyll and Hyde personality. At low speeds, it is capable and responsible; a diplomat of the road. But beneath the cold steel of its aerodynamic body lies the most powerful engine Lexus has yet created - an eight-gear, 5-litre, V8, 417bhp monster which when unleashed turns the IS F from sensible citizen to a bulging-eyed maniac with froth-flecked lips. The real surprise, however, is the manner of the transition. The power never feels overdone, it is always smooth, and seemingly limitless. Often cars with this amount of "grunt" are as hard to control as a hyperactive child with a taste for Red Bull.But the Lexus IS F emanates self-discipline.The IS F also comes with a stereo as powerful as its mighty engine. The Mark Levinson sound system is so rich and resonant you almost feel you have Louis Armstrong in the passenger seat. Buried around the car's architecture are 14 speakers (four tweeters, five midranges, two midrange woofers, two woofers and one inverted subwoofer... just as you guessed). The overall effect is so hyper-real that it feels like the soundtrack for a starring role in your own road movie - or, dare I say it, computer game.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The short film is called My Story (Anorexia). It contains a series of still images of a beautiful girl from Kiev in Ukraine, whose ambition to be a model turned into an obsession with losing weight. "I ate green apples with black coffee for a week and a half," say the stark captions. "I decided I'd do ANYTHING to get thin ... I was purging 14 times a day ... I was abusing diet pills. I overdosed on them twice. I didn't care if it killed me. I wanted to die. To disappear."What makes the YouTube film so compelling is the combined effect of the pictures with music. As the sad story of 18-year-old "katerynabilyk" unfolds, a soulful female voice with an Irish accent sings about an anorexic girl called Sophie who, to the distress of her family, is "tryin' to make herself thinner". Her desire "to be like all the other girls, be just like all the other girls" is driving her towards self-destruction.The impression is that the song, entitled "Sophie", was produced to lend a potent cinematic quality to the film, whose final caption reads: "Anorexia lied when she told me that thin was worth everything ... It's not worth it." But the song was recorded more than 10 years ago by a little-known Irish artist and quickly disappeared. Its creator, singer-songwriter Eleanor McEvoy, described it as an "obscure track" that was placed far down the playlist of her third album.Yet in the era of the internet "Sophie" has been rediscovered and grown into a sleeper hit, an anthem that is touching, inspiring and consoling thousands of anorexic girls around the world.Dozens have turned to YouTube, the video sharing website, as an outlet for self-expression, confiding the anguish of eating disorders as they might to a diary or therapist. Many have made films containing photos of themselves with captions narrating their personal stories. Some have included magazine pictures of super-thin models or computer animations. They have then added "Sophie" as the haunting soundtrack to their lives. One girl, user name "LanaxCore", has filmed herself singing it in her bedroom.Collectively, the "Sophie" films have been viewed more than 1.5m times. Many have attracted comments from YouTube users, asking where they can get the song, expressing support or, in some cases, arguing that anorexia is a positive aspiration. The trend has shown the potential of web "mashups" - the editing together of images and music - to empower users to create something more arresting than a simple blog.McEvoy, who lives in Co Wexford, based the lyrics on observation of anorexia's effects rather than personal experience. "I think all women, or maybe all people nowadays, do have more focus on their appearance than they should have," she said. "We tend to know what weight we are, which we shouldn't really if we're reasonably healthy. It shouldn't be a big issue to the extent that people are starving themselves."McEvoy, 41, drew inspiration from two acquaintances who suffered anorexia. She explained: "With one of them, it really hit her family, and I thought her siblings were neglected a little bit because of it. The second thing that hit me like a hammer was that they felt they were freaks and they wanted to be extra thin just to fit in and be 'normal'."The third thing was that women have had so many constraints put on them and now they're putting these things on themselves. People say, 'Oh well, it's men doing this to women'. But it's not men; it's generally women who make comments about other people's weight."The name "Sophie" was chosen for its sound, and the song emerged well down the playlist of McEvoy's third album, Snapshots, in 1999. She is more astonished than anyone at its new lease of life. "It's a little bizarre because it's such an old song and was an obscure track on the album. You write hundreds of songs and sometimes you wonder if they touch anybody, but you just keep churning them out."Suddenly messages from teenagers began appearing on McEvoy's website and page on the social networking site MySpace, thanking her for the song which they said had changed or even saved their lives. One said: "I just wanted to thank you for 'Sophie'. I am about to turn 30. I have struggled with anorexia and bulimia for going on 19 years. I'm struggling tonight and I happened upon your page. It must be a God thing, and I felt the need to thank you for 'Sophie'."Another wrote: "I had never heard your song 'Sophie' ... until 10 minutes ago and I am now going to go and get help for my eating disorder instead of continually trying to convince myself and the counsellors I don't have a problem." Another message said: "Hi. My name is Caroline and I can truly relate to your song 'Sophie'."And one girl wrote: "My therapist had me listen to your song called 'Sophie' because it relates to my problems. For the past few years I have been struggling with anorexia. I am trying my best to get better, but I feel so weak. I do not have much time and my body is shutting down. It is really hard on me, but more on my family. And my little sisters."Girls have come to McEvoy's gigs and asked her to autograph the lyrics of "Sophie". The musician, whose latest album is Love Must Be Tough, has noticed that a minority of the YouTube videos have taken a controversial "pro-anorexia" stand and some of the comments seek to celebrate it. She insists that her song does anything but.Yet her surprise success does not add up to a moneyspinner. The rights to the album are still owned by Columbia Records in New York, so McEvoy cannot re-release it. "I've been trying to buy it back from the record company for years now," she said. "They're not selling it either. I can't even get a copy of the damn album myself - sometimes you find one on the web - so it's intensely frustrating."But the emotional impact of the song has its own rewards. On a recent tour of Poland, McEvoy was invited to a children's hospital to meet anorexia sufferers in the psychiatric unit."When I went in they all said, 'Thank you so much for the song, it really helped me'. In Poland! I've got some beautiful letters from people who've taken strength from the song and said they want to beat anorexia now. It's lovely to have people thanking me."Other YouTube hitsAvril Lavigne - GirlfriendViews:111,700,000Why:The most viewed video on YouTube, partly due to a viral marketing campaign by fans at Avril's Bandaids forum.OK Go - Here It Goes AgainViews:42,720,000Why:Filmed as one continuous shot, OK Go's attempt at synchronised treadmill dancing had a home-made quality that appealed to YouTube users.Tay Zonday - Chocolate RainViews:32,770,000Why:The incongruously deep voice of boy-faced Zonday and the infectious nature of this self-composed hit helped this video's rise to fame, and led to an appearance on America's Jimmy Kimmel LiveWeezer - Pork and BeansViews:16,170,000Why:Weezer created their entire video from clips of YouTube's viral stars. The website's users viewed the song in their millions.Will.i.am - Yes We Can Obama SongViews:14,990,000Why:The Black Eyed Peas rapper sampled a rousing Obama speech and recruited a wealth of stars to create this internet sensation, which became an anthem for the presidential candidate's campaign.Holly BentleySophie by Eleanor McEvoySophie cannot finish her dinnerSays she's eaten enoughSophie's tryin' to make herself thinnerSays she's eatin' too muchAnd her brother says, "You're joking"And her mother's heart is brokenSophie has a hard time copingAnd besides, Sophie's hoping...To be like all the other girls, be just like all the other girlsLiving in an ordinary world,Just to fit in, in the ordinary worldJust to fit in like an ordinary girlSophie's losin' weight by the minuteHow did things get this bad?Sophie's family don't understand itGave her all that they hadAnd her sister won't stop cryingAnd her father says she's dyingSophie says she's really tryingProblem is, Sophie's lying...To be like all the other girls, be just like all the other girlsLiving in an ordinary world,Just to fit in, in the ordinary worldJust to fit in like an ordinary girl
Guinness World Records: The Videogame - Nintendo DS (reviewed), WiiThe problem with being a record breaker is all the tedious dedication you apparently need. Stripping away the need for years of planning, effort and in all likelihood, physical abnormality, Guinness World Records: The Videogame makes competing for world titles compatible with remaining seated on your sofa. The records in question are achieved on a variety of mini-games: first you beat the high score on your console, then on a regional level and - if you're really good - you can have a go at world records. It's a system that renders this vastly more accessible than the slightly depressing online global rankings for many games where placing in the top 100,000 is a real if ringingly hollow achievement. It does no harm that for once the mini-games are a pretty decent bunch too. While this probably wouldn't have been enough to trouble Roy Castle, record breaking adds a deftly realised edge.• Warner Brothers, &pound;19.99-&pound;24.99100 Classic Book Collection - Nintendo DSNot a game, but a collection of 100 classic novels from the dustier recesses of the HarperCollins back catalogue, this is more evidence of Nintendo's continued flirtation with people who don't consider themselves gamers. With little written even last century, the list includes books by the Bront&euml; sisters and Dickens as well as the complete works of Shakespeare, thereby appealing to a very different demographic from say, Mario Kart. The static library (albeit slightly extendible via downloads) and relatively small number of words on screen mean this would never compete with Amazon's Kindle or the Sony Reader and, given the selection of literature on offer, it's unlikely to tempt non-readers into giving it all another go. At least Nintendo had the good grace to release it on Boxing Day, thereby avoiding thousands of recipients being disappointed by receiving something for Christmas that, when wrapped, looked like it was going to be a proper game.• Nintendo, &pound;19.99Sonic Unleashed - PS2, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360 (reviewed)How the mighty have fallen. Sonic The Hedgehog, once rival to Mario and mascot for a generation, has for years now been in a wilderness of exceptionally weak software. Unleashed starts with adventure-game leanings that force you to wander around lifeless towns listening to the pointless inanities spouted by dozens of bystanders before progressing to action stages that fall into two types: daytime levels that you run through as Sonic and night ones in which you use Sonic The Werehog, his new hairy, stretchy-armed alter ego. Some of the running levels are pretty great, but the turgid beat 'em-up action featured in the Werehog stages is never fun and wandering the hub towns is just desperate. So this all boils down to running levels reminiscent of the flawed Sonic Adventure on Dreamcast, itself now a decade old. Note to Sega: must try harder.• Sega, &pound;19.99-&pound;49.99
To follow the development of the Ford Fiesta through its seven different incarnations is a bit like tracing the evolution of man. A child of the oil crisis, arriving in the dark days of the mid-70s, it started out squat and heavy, with a jutting jaw of a bonnet that made it look brutish and Neanderthal. But as the environment became richer, so it adapted, its lines softened and eventually, like some sofa-bound, modern slouch, it acquired steering wheel button controls.Over the past 33 years, 12 million of the protean Fiestas have been produced. This new model is undoubtedly the most handsome of the lot: well contoured, nicely proportioned and in nearly all particulars perfectly inoffensive. But you have to wonder whether it has now reached its species high point.Not because this Fiesta is so wonderful that further minor innovation is unimaginable, but because Ford itself is in dire economic straits, looking to a reluctant US government for a massive cash infusion, and the car industry has reached stagnation point. Throw in the growing anxiety about carbon emissions and the general economic downturn, and it's conceivable that the mass-market, petrol-engine, five-door supermini may not have anywhere interesting to go.It was with that bleak thought in mind that I drove to Tottenham, a destination that only ever makes sense if you haven't got anywhere interesting to go. It's fair to say that on the way I didn't pass a more attractive supermini than the Fiesta. But then I didn't pass anything speedier than a bicycle. It's not that kind of car.Just as the mark of a good football referee is that you don't notice him, there is argument that what's required from a reliable get-around-town-mobile is that it doesn't bring attention to itself. In this respect the Fiesta is a commendably unmemorable drive. It handles easily, without quite being effortless, and it's responsive, without having a great deal to respond with.The interior is well-thought-out, with clear, sharp dials and sound ergonomic space utility. But in the standard grey finish, it's easy to see where economies have been made. Does it matter, in these days of crunched credit, if the cabin looks as if it was installed by MFI?On the way to Tottenham, I picked up my friend Tom, an advertising exec who, unafraid to reaffirm professional stereotypes, drives an Aston Martin. Despite the transport demotion, he was surprisingly complimentary about the Fiesta, perhaps because the businessman in him respects its huge popularity.In any case, I was feeling quite positive about the car by the time we pulled up a few minutes' walk from the Spurs ground, especially because it was a Sunday and I'd managed to find a single yellow line space, just large enough for the compact supermini.Returning after a dull one-nil win, I couldn't wait to get back into the Fiesta. But I had to, because it was no longer there. Say what you like about Haringey council's failings in other areas, it is very conscientious - some might say severe - when it comes to vehicle removal. They charged me &pound;250 to get it back.That's the thing about economy cars in London: they can still end up costing a lot of money.Ford Fiesta Zetec 1.4Price£12,095Top speed109mphAcceleration0-62 in 12.2 secondsAverage consumption49.5mpgCO² emissions133g/kmEco rating8.5/10At the wheelHarry RedknappBound forThe car poundIn a wordPopular
230 Miles Of Love is the world's first "sat-com", a GPS-assisted comedy show that you download on to your sat-nav, GPS-enabled phone or PDA and listen to it as you drive along the M6. Like directions, the various sketches automatically play when you reach the relevant place on the motorway. You download either northbound or southbound and, in case you're travelling with children, there are both rude or clean versions of the story, with swearing bleeped out. In answer to the question "Why the M6?" the creator, Andrew Shanahan, responds, "to try and increase the sum total of beauty and happiness in the world, especially for the 200,000 people who use the M6 every day." It's also a fundraising tool for the charity Motivation.
As with Stuff White People Like, this never-ending list of people worthy of a virtual punch in the face works because we didn't realise we disliked the same obscure things - indiscreet nose pickers, people who take office magazines into the toilet, incessant Facebook updaters, close talkers, guys who wear too much cologne - until it was quite magnificently pointed out. The entries are very American and occasionally border on the dodgy, but plenty of it is universally annoying, such as the magnificent attack on grown men who don't eat the crusts on sandwiches: "what the hell is wrong with you Grown Man? We understand children like their crusts removed, but that's only because kids are stupid. Do you also eat pennies off the floor and put your fingers in electric sockets?"
A history ofMickey Rourke's faceYawningcools the brainHow to Benny Hillifyany YouTube videoThe 100 worstguitar solos of all timeThe 10 mostridiculous undergarments worn by women in videogamesThe bestHunter S Thompson quotesWe don't condoneshoe throwing, but we prefer it to warCeline Dionis awesomeYou are guiltyuntil proven hilariousMarmite wasdiscovered before Corn Flakes
With just a few days until Barack Obama officially becomes president of the United States, he's still not named a CTO - a situation which,as I reported today, some people should be remedied sooner rather than later.While Obama's made his choices in most other areas of science and technology, there's been little news on this front - indeed, it's not even clear what the CTO's job is going to be. So I've been speaking to senior figures in the tech industry to get their thoughts; including comms guru Tom Evslin - whohas blogged more about why the US government should invest in broadband- and Vint Cerf, Google's vice president in charge of talking about the internet, who went into some detail about his thoughts.Before we continue, though, an aside. Cerf told me categorically that he hasn't spoken to the Obama camp about the job - despite some rumour and suggestion to the contrary. He wants to set the record straight on that one.Anyway.What should America's CTO do, and who would be best suited to the job? Read on for a (lightly edited) transcript of our conversation.Q: What do you think the CTO's job will entail?Vint Cerf:The first problem is 'what's the job?' - it isn't 100% clear what is desired as an outcome. It's pretty clear just looking at the campaign rhetoric that there's a great apparent desire in the Obama administration to make better use of information technology throughout the government. And so part of the motivation, as I perceive it, is to take steps to improve that.But the choice of the term CTO, I think, was very deliberate - and probably extends to a much broader range of technologies than what you and I might think of as information technology. The indications that I have seen suggest the broader interpretation.That implies a couple of things in my view – because it's already quite clear that from a technological point of view, president-elect Obama has made some stunning selections: for example Steve Chu for secretary of energy… my god, the man's got a Nobel prize in physics, he's creative and also passionate on the subject of science and technology.So what I think is going on here is a great desire to stimulate serious thinking about how to put technology to work - and in the current economic climate there are huge opportunities.Think of all the infrastructure that needs rebuilding across the United States. Clearly we don't want to rebuild it using 20th century technology, we want to use 21st century technology. We get to reinvent a substantial portion of the American physical infrastructure, and I would include in that the telecommunications component – so we're talking broadband.That's to say nothing of investing R&amp;D. The scientists I deal with are all quite excited about increasing R&amp;D funding in this new administration – in part out of a belief that technology will emerge from serious research.Q: So is the CTO's job to put America back on track – to make it more competitive through technology?It depends a good deal on what they decide they want the job to be – and it may very well be that it's a job that gets defined by whoever fills it; the strengths of that person and the choices that person makes will determine the position.Given that there are so many other parts of the government that are focused in these areas – in energy the smart grid, for example, which would for the first time not only to match production against demand but also control demand so that devices that consume a lot of energy can be managed.What I'm sensing here is that there are many parts of the government interested in green technology or practices – and the CTO, probably, could be a very vocal proponent.I don't know whether they're considering this as a cabinet level post or whether it's assistant to the president or something else - but you can easily imagine them convening meetings in order to promote those ideas. They'd have great convening power.Another possibility which I wonder about myself is whether the position will have any budget. White House positions usually don't have much – they have to borrow people from other agencies, even. If it were a cabinet-level post it might have budget, but then you'd have to establish what that budget is and who to talk to in Congress, because they'd be very interested in who gets control of it.I don't know whether it starts out with or without budget, but even if it's intended to have some, they couldn't put it in until the 2010 budget.Q: So who would make a good CTO?It seems to me that there exists already within the American government a CIO council - the senior CIOs of all the various agencies of US government - so I would actually hesitate to put another chief information officer into that CTO position. If it were my decision I'd want someone with broader background and experience.That might still suggest that the CIO council could somehow wind up reporting to the CTO, as one component of the government's interest in technology – but I wouldn't want it to be the sole focus. So people who have primarily information technology backgrounds might actually be too narrow for that post.There are other people who have a broader experience.John Seely Brownwho use to run Xerox PARC – although his primary background is information technology, he's quite broad when it comes to other things. OrBran Ferren, for example. These are not necessarily people who I have any idea are interested or not, they are just examples of the kind of people who would be very effective in my view.What you need is someone who has good persuasive powers, has a credible CV, who is diplomatic, and probably a certain amount of patience. That isn't to say laxitude – you can be persuasive – but government can take time, so you have to be persuasive and patient.The other thing which occurs to me is that however this position is filled, they need to work very closely with the economic side of the equation.The reason for that is quite simple: the motivation behind the CTO is not only to improve the efficiency of government use of technology, but to try to see how the country's economy could benefit from some of these investments and some of these infrastructure developments.It's actually a remarkable opportunity for an individual - but also the US government - to do something in 21st century style which I think Franklin Roosevelt did during the Great Depression. In a funny way, in the midst of this horrible turmoil and joblessness and everything else, there is an opportunity. You know how they say opportunity lies on the edge of chaos? Maybe that's going to be true here too.
So how did I do inmy predictions for last year? Let's count. And then next week I'll offer my forecasts for the coming one."Energy use will matter more and more in 2008." Well, whenoil hit $143 per barrel, it certainly felt that way. But as the effect of the credit crunch pushed economies into recession, the price of oil fell (reduced demand but constant supply). 0.5. Total score:0.5/1"More and more companies will choose to move to try cloud computing". Google, Amazon, evenMicrosoft announced a cloud service. (The Guardian, in moving to its new offices, is using a cloud service for collaborative documents and scheduling.) I'd say that's +1. (1.5/2)"Microsoft will consider splitting itself into two companies, one for operating systems and another for applications." Nope. Big fat 0. (1.5/3)"Data privacy and sharing will rocket up the charts. Facebook will see a surge in people leaving as they realise that it really is watching what they're doing." Although government, local authorities and banks kept losing our data, this really didn't happen; we don't seem to care much about our data. And Facebook keeps growing like Topsy. 0. (1.5/4)"Apple will easily hit its 10m iPhones sold in the first year target." Itdid. (2.5/5)"Apple will offer five updates to its new Leopard operating system." Started year at 10.5.1, ended at 10.5.6 (seethe Wikipedia page- and no, I haven't edited it in my favour). (3.5/6)"Apple will see growth in music sales through its iTunes Store slow as phone makers and networks improve their music consumption services." Hmm, Silicon Alley Insiderthinks growth slowed; and looking at the graph at theWikipedia page tracking the iTunes Store, you'd have to say it's more of a straight-line than exponential shape. I'll claim a point, please. (4.5/7)"Apple will not launch a music subscription service, even though it is forecast to do this for video." Indeed, it didn't happen for music, though you can rent movies. (5.5/8)"Apple won't launch a tablet computer." It didn't. (6.5/9)"BT's ADSL2+ to start rolling out; people will complain we need fibre but whine about the cost."Ofcom certainly thought we should have fibre. I'm claiming a point. (7.5/10)"Zigbee, UWB and WiMax will finally begin to have an impact." Not in the UK they didn't. Big fat 0. (7.5/11)"Caps on broadband accounts will be raised, but not lifted." I really can't discover whether caps have been raised - but they haven't been lifted. I'll have a half, please. (8/12)"By the end of 2008, there still won't be a self-propagating worm affecting Mac OSX." True. (9/13)"Spam, which has colonised email and web commentary, will try to invade some of the microformat systems such as Twitter." Absolutely happens; Twitter has constantspammer purges. But it hasn't affected it seriously. I'll have the point, please. (10/14)"Malware writers will turn their attention to the developing world - specifically, the Intel Classmate and OLPC laptops." Hmm, no sign of that yet; there's still plenty of mileage in the developed world. (10/15)"We'll find out who was behind the Storm worm, and why." Wedidn't. (10/16)"We'll say goodbye to Vonage." We didn't: it'sstill there, but valued at only $103m, less than its cash pile of $112m, and burning through that pretty fast. But still going. Well done guys. (10/17)"We'll say goodbye to Napster, which might get sold (a year after the For Sale sign was put up) but might just die quietly." It gotsold in September to Best Buy. Will it keep the name? I'll claim just the half. (10.5/18)"We'll say goodbye to SCO, finally, at long last": well, it'sstill in Chapter 11, a total zombie. But not liquidated. Only a half. (11/19)OK, and then we come to:"The credit crunch will have widespread effects; banks are going to try to hoard cash to shore up their liquidity ratios, after borrowing and lending too freely using exotic financial instruments. Everything flows (or doesn't) from that." Look, I think that's worth two points. After all, somewell-paid economists were forecasting storming growth for the UK. I wasn't. Go on, go on. (13/20)"Stock market flotation won't be an option for most companies. Facebook will have to get through a year in which advertising may drop off." There were tech IPOs in 2008: four in the US,total; 87 filed to IPO but withdrew. Nothing's stirring either unless you likedebt-racked porn/social networking sites. (14/21)"Companies which are highly geared (have high debts compared with their assets) will struggle, or die." Circuit City, Polaroid, andIcefloe Technologies(last January) among them. (Icefloe? No, me neither.) (15/22)"HM Revenue and Customs won't discover its lost discs, but examination of government procedures will show laxity and poor practice over data protection and transport that would shame a beginner's class in IT." It didn't and itdid. (16/23)"Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign will find more countries that are benefiting from government giving away personal data for free; the report on trading funds, due this month, will be equivocal about the benefit of free data." We did, but the report on trading funds was unequivocal: making data free would havesubstantial benefits for the economy. I'll happily sacrifice the half-point. (16.5/24)"All of the music majors will offer their songs in DRM (digital rights management)-free formats through at least one online store."Hello, Amazon MP3and others. (17.5/25)"Microsoft will wake up from its dream and tell Universal - which currently gets $1 per Zune music player sold - that it's doing fine now, thanks, and the Zune can stand on its own feet without paying tithes." It didn't. (17.5/26)""Passenger space services" will be delayed. Again." Well,in effect they were, Richard Branson self-publicity notwithstanding (he has a magician's art at making you look the other way). Full point? (18.5/27)"The UK won't commit to building enough new nuclear power stations to close the gap between future energy demand and domestic supply." It didn't, despite the pronouncements of various ministers. (19.5/28)"The phenomenon of "electrosensitivity" (and associated stories about Wi-Fi and mobile phones) will continue to resist hard scientific analysis." Indeed it did, though at least it died down somewhat as a news topic. (20.5/29)"Duke Nukem Forever's makers announce a ship date (it's only 10 years later, come on.) Unfortunately it never ships." No,they didn't. (At least I didn't have this on a double with Guns'N'Roses's Chinese Democracy.)Final score:20.5/30, or68%. I think that given the unpredictability of the year just gone past, that wasn't bad. The ones I'm most proud of? Seeing the credit crunch's likely effects, and calculating the OSX updates. (I did actually work it out.)And for the coming year? I'm going to go away and put my thinking hat on. But I'll give you two now: no Apple netbook; and no self-replicating worm for OSX. I think I'm ahead already..
