Carol Bartz doesn't have an enviable job. The Yahoo chief executive charged with turning around the beleaguered web company in the face of stiff competition from Google and, increasingly, Facebook, has rolled out a dramatic series ofstaff cuts and cost cuts. But she struggled to convince analysts, following the company's latest financial results last week, that Yahoo is heading in the right direction. She was forced to admit that the much-vaunted search advertising partnership with Microsoft isn't proving as profitable as she had hoped, while a typically unflattering comparison with Google's results for the same quarter shows that Yahoo's revenues fell 24%, while Google's rose 27%.But if Bartz's style is to go down with all guns blazing, she may have a secret weapon. Deep under the bonnet of Yahoo's product development is Dr Prabhakar Raghavan, who founded Yahoo's scientific research lab in 2005. Raghavan's mission has been to ensure that state of the art scientific practices are at the centre of the company's search, advertising and communications products and his new focus, having installed chief scientists on all Yahoo products, is to drive even more product development.Bartz has described Yahoo Labs as the centrepiece of her strategy to turn the company around, and has just promoted Raghavan to Yahoo's executive board as chief strategy officer and executive vice-president. So what does his appointment mean for Yahoo – and can his methodical, research-based approach to innovation produce the kind of turnaround Yahoo needs?In the late 1990s, Raghavan was working at IBM and teaching at Palo Alto's Stanford University, researching search engines and link analysis. He wasn't the only one; the other team happened to be two precocious Stanford students called Larry Page and Sergey Brin. "The two teams had vigorous technical exchanges and seminars together,"  recalls Raghavan of the world's seminal work on link analysis. IBM resisted his efforts to explore consumer search, sticking to enterprise, and Raghavan eventually joined Yahoo under former chief executive Terry Semel in 2005.'This science thing'"Semel knew we needed 'this science thing' but wasn't sure how to do it, so we built Labs from scratch. At a high level, Yahoo predicates the way we do business on science, art and scale – and Labs is the science part of it." Raghavan made it a priority that rigorous scientific research and practice would inform Yahoo's business from email to advertising, but under Bartz, the focus has shifted to the direct development of new products. Labs' research, from 300 staff in six global offices, has stretched from machine learning and text analysis to the social sciences and economics, exploring audience engagement and large-scale marketplace design.Display advertising still accounts for the major of Yahoo's revenues, and while internet advertising provides far more detailed metrics than traditional advertising, there is plenty more work to be done. Much like flight pricing systems, where seat prices fluctuate according to date, time and demand, pricing for online advertising at scale demands complex algorithms that can value and serve 10bn impressions every day. "The promise of the internet is two-fold – targeting people, and then measuring how people react," said Raghavan. That measurement could be analysing the effects of an online campaign upon in-store sales, or examining brand reinforcement and product awareness. Hiring economist David Reiley toexplore experimental advertisingwas clearly a good idea, said Raghavan as an aside: "After we hired a chief economist, Google and Amazon started hiring them."Raghavan's scientific approach applies a steady, process-based logic to innovation that is very different to the common perception that ideas and development are more about luck and spontaneity. It's an often overlooked part of technology businesses. "Scientific insight is what takes us, as a young industry, to the next level," said Raghavan. "As the industry matures, we'll learn from these repeatable insights."User behaviour is still a rarely explored area, where psychologists used to studying 30 or 40 individuals are now faced, as part of the Labs team, with analysing the behaviour of up to 50 million Yahoo users. In terms of engagement and capturing the imagination of users, why did Twitter take off when another 99 social startups didn't? Social networks have always existed, but have been transcribed online in the past 10 years. And our innate human desire to tell the world about ourselves will have to become more sophisticated as the consumer web develops – not least because however much our capacity to output information increases, our capacity to consume it will remain pretty much constant.Social influenceAnalysis ofTwitter influencein a network has been explored by Yahoo researcher Duncan Watts. "We have a good handle on who talks to who and the level of frequency and urgency, but still don't have an angle on who influences who. For our industry that's a really pressing question." One experiment explored the effectiveness of spending on brand endorsements via celebrities on Twitter. "Advertisers were willing to pay Kim Kardashian $10,000, but if you look at the investment over the propagation of influence, you can't predict which tweets turn into a social epidemic. Social influence does work, but is overrated, so it would be much better to spread that investment across individuals."Similarly the long tail analogy is a rather simplistic interpretation of consumer tastes and engagement.Yahoo has concludedthat paradoxically, people are moreinfluenced by popular songssimply because they are more popular, so the "short head" on that long tail is actually reinforced. This is what Raghavan calls "the paradox of social influence". Conversely, the 10,000 most popular songs actually make up 20% of the overall market and there are underlying social phenomena that explain these consumer tastes."The convention is that 80% of people are 'normal', and buy mainstream music, films, books and so on, and that the remaining 20% are 'weird'," said Raghavan. "That turns out to be folklore, because though we spend most of our time buying 'normal' products it turns out we're all partially weird – we make regular forays into the long tail."It's extremely hard to predict how all these trends might manifest in a consumer product. "Much of what happens today is a direct translation of what has happened offline – TV became services like YouTube and Hulu online, letters and phone calls became email and status updates, and shopping offline became online retail. The really exciting opportunity has to come from things we can only do online that we would never dream of doing offline."User engagementFledgling services like Twitter show this is starting to happen, and one of Yahoo's researchers, Elisabeth Churchill, has been exploring online dimensions that can be exploited including synchronous connections, spatial dimensions and physical distance. "Exploring different forms of user engagement, whether that is consuming content, communicating or purchasing is something we're constantly looking at. What's the nature of attention in a flow of tweets between people while they are watching a TV show, and what's extraneous to the show. It's something the engagement industry really has to crack." Churchill's observation that users arefar more engagedif they watch a video together has already led to a video player that shows clips to users concurrently in Yahoo Messenger, replacing just a link that each user plays separately.Channelling all these observations into consumer web products is a matter of trial and error, which is why Raghavan said failure has to be "baked into the process" of developing new products. "It takes years to figure out a subtle insight. An existing product like Yahoo Mail – the biggest mail product on the planet – doesn't get flipped into something different overnight. We'll do modest, incremental things that support the product team, so our insights, like those that drive new forms of user engagement, will be used in some incarnation down the road." Bartz, said Raghavan, is supportive that in an experimental company, it's OK to fail.Something repeatedly asked of the Bartz is to define what Yahoo is for, and how it fits into a competitive market where Google still seems to overshadow everything Yahoo does. "With content, media and communication, we're arguably the largest company doing all three," said Raghavan. "We shouldn't be looking over our shoulder and saying 'what if' or 'if it wasn't for Google'. The market should innovate as a whole, and our existence is predicated on innovating within the existing market."Defining the futureDefining the future for Yahoo is no small task, especially given the gloomy outlook for the company painted by analysts. Most expect that after giving Bartz a suitable amount of time to attempt her turnaround plan (she became chief executive in January 2009), Yahoo will becarved up for the benefit of investors. (There have even been rumours that some sort of leveraged buyout or even rekindled Microsoft takeover is on the cards.) Its profitable Asian businesses are widely expected to be sold off, and its advertising business and then Flickr, the popular photo sharing site,could be next.But Raghavan's challenge is to explore the most optimistic outlook possible, one where Yahoo's academic credibility and insight can restore and fulfil its commercial vision. That's a very tall order; if Yahoo ultimately fails, it will be interesting to see where Raghavan takes his formidable experience and knowledge.And if that wasn't challenging enough, Raghavan is also well aware that the biggest threat to the future of the company could be from an idea being hatched today by a college kid in a garage, just as Apple and Google once were.For now, though, his work is focused on giving Yahoo's products back their edge, backed up by extensive and thorough research that is trying to define what that future could look like."The challenge is to deal with the scale of the company without losing sight of what Yahoo is trying to do," he says. "What we do now online would have been considered silly and outrageous five years ago, so that tells us that what happens in another five years is very unpredictable. And in five years the industry will be built on the insights we identify today."
YouTube is launching a movie rental service in a partnership with Hollywood film giants including Sony and Warner Bros, to rival Netflix and Apple's iTunes.The video website will expand into streaming big-name, full-length blockbusters in May,according to reports. With the premium movie-on-demand service, film lovers will be able to stream new releases for as little as $2 (£1.20), though prices will differ for each movie.Three of the six major film studios – Sony Pictures Entertainment, Warner Bros and Universal – have reportedly agreed licensing terms with the Google-owned video giant. Paramount, Fox and Disney have not yet committed to the plan, it is understood. The service is expected to be limited to the US for the foreseeable future.A spokeswoman for YouTube declined to comment.Google hasstrengthened its relationshipwith Hollywood and programme makers in recent months in an attempt to keep up with competitors, including the market-leading Netflix and iTunes.In the US, Netflix dominates the nascent online movie streaming market. With 23.6 million subscribers, the US-only sitenow commands as many eyeballs as Comcast, the largest cable operator in the US. Apple's iTunes, meanwhile, offers a formidable roster of new releases to download and to rent online.Despite a low-key foray into independent movie-streaming –announced at the Sundance film festival in January 2010– YouTube has yet to offer any big-name titles. The site's global reach, attracting more than 100 million users around the world, is understood to have complicated negotiations with film studios, which usually sign licensing agreements on a country-by-country basis. The deal has been further complicated by existing partnerships between Hollywood studios and streaming services including Netflix.YouTube has signed up a number of high-profile media executives, including former Netflix boss Robert Kyncl, in recent months as the site tries to move away from its user-generated video image. Two Paramount executives, Alex Carloss and Malik Ducard, have also joined YouTube recently, along with Universal Sports chief Claude Ruibal.Kyncl, now YouTube's vice-president of TV and film entertainment, hinted at the movies-on-demand plan at a conference earlier this month. "Imagine if you had a video store on YouTube, where you could rent or buy the movie without being sent elsewhere," he said. "Obviously, there are things coming, but we can't talk about them yet."YouTube, which was bought for $1.6bn (£970m) by Google in 2006, generated about $544m in revenue last year and is thought to have recently become profitable.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
UK top ten games charts, week ending 23 APril 2011Game (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (35)PC (10)12 (–)Mortal Kombat(18+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (46)13 (9)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (40)PC (5)Wii (3)234 (1)Zumba Fitness (3+)Wii (90)Xbox 360 (10)45 (2)Lego Star Wars Iii: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (36)DS (20)Wii (20)PS3 (14)56 (–)Operation Flashpoint: Red River(15+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (30)17 (4)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (34)DS (7)PSP (6)308 (3)Crysis 2(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (35)PC (4)59 (20)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)6910 (6)Homefront(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (41)PC (2)6UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Update 11.50pm: Sony says that the PlayStation Network has been hacked, and that users should be aware that their credit card details may have been stolen.More details onthe Sony PlayStation blog.We're into the sixth day of Sony's PSN shutdown and currently there is no firm word on how and when the situation will be resolved. Jemima Kiss hassurmised things so far, while a statement on Sony Europe'sPlayStation blogreads:"I know you are waiting for additional information on when PlayStation Network and Qriocity services will be online. Unfortunately, I don't have an update or timeframe to share at this point in time. As we previously noted, this is a time intensive process and we're working to get them back online quickly. Will keep you updated with information as it becomes available. We once again thank you for your patience."It was initially thought that the network had been infiltrated by hackers acting in solidarity with George Hotz who, last year, gained access to a PS3 root key that could allow users to bypass the machine's built-in security measures. Sony threatened legal action and the two parties subsequentlysettled out of court.Yesterday, however, someone claiming to be a moderator at the homebrew coding forumPSX-Sceneprovided an alternative explanation.In a post on Reddit, the source pointed out that a custom firmware named Rebug is now available online, allowing users to gain access to Sony's trusted developer network via a normal retail machine rather than a development - or 'debug' - system. The post speculates that some Rebug users may have worked out how to employ fake credit card details to download games and other content from PSN for free.The mention of 'credit cards' has set off alarm bells, with the BBC's technology editor, Rory Cellan-Jones, appearing on Breakfast Time this morning to theorise over potential security fears for anyone who has an account on the system. Although it's unlikely that customer details would be vulnerable in this scenario, Sony will naturally want to make sure its online platform is entirely secure before allowing transactions to continue.Meanwhile,according to industry news source VG247, Sony has warned developers that PSN is undergoing "emergency maintenance".More info as we get it...
Given that it seems to be standard practice now that every single first-person-shooter (FPS) must have a multiplayer component, the success or failure of these games goes hand-in-glove with whatever new feature they can bring to the online party. Whether it's perks, RPG levelling, unlockables, jetpacks or vehicles, each new shooter seems to try and leverage some of the market share by providing something unique.The developers behind the multiplayer mode for the upcoming horror FPS, FEAR 3 (or F.3.A.R., as its stylised logo would have it), have gone to some lengths to set their online mode apart, by roping in the paranormal elements from the main campaign. If you've never played a FEAR title before, the franchise's story deals with the paranormal fallout caused by shady corporate types, who conducted human experiments in their quest to create units of super-soldiers. One of their test subjects, a young girl named Alma, went rogue and used her formidable psychic abilities to take savage revenge on her tormentors. She also set off a chain of events which allowed evil supernatural entities to roam free in the streets.For FEAR 3's multiplayer, the developers have used these horror elements to create an innovative series of online experiences. Instead of the standard match-types in other shooters, players in FEAR 3's multiplayer will find themselves possessing enemies as spectres, fending off waves of supernatural foes, watching their backs against their own team-mates and frequently running for their lives.The multiplayer is broken into four match types; Contractions, Soul King, Soul Survivor and Fucking Run. Contractions is a team-survival mode which owes a little debt of inspiration to the Horde match type in Gears Of War 2. In it, players take control of soldiers who have to fend off wave after wave of enemies, which gradually increase in size as each wave is repelled. Teamwork here is essential; between each wave, players can forage for weapons caches which, once returned to base points, are added to the team's general arsenal. They can also use the breaks in the action to strengthen their defensive positions by barricading entry points. The atmosphere is mercilessly taught in Contractions; battles are quick and vicious and the time between enemy waves feels all too brief.Soul King offers a very different experience, combining frenetic shooter action with what amounts to a supernatural game of tag. This time players take control of a Spectre – a quick and nasty ghost – and they dash around the map, taking possession of soldiers on the battlefield. Once this is done, their job is to stack up as high a bodycount as possible using the soldier they've possessed, and collect all the souls which drop from their victims. Their choice of target for possession can help immensely; some soldiers are armed with better weapons than others, and there are a couple of heavily armoured brute soldiers tromping around the map, which when possessed, give the player a definite edge. If a player's host soldier is shot down, they have to flee quickly into another body before they're shot in Spectre form. If this happens, all the souls they've collected thus far are dropped and can be picked up by their opponents. The player with the most souls at the end of the match is the winner.Soul Survivor is a neat combination of the Contraction and Soul King mode. The match starts off with four players fending off wave after wave of enemies. However, one of the players is soon possessed against their will, and then their job is to use the enemies flooding their former teammates and their own supernatural abilities to turn all the other players over to their side. The task facing the rest of the players is avoid this for the remainder of the round's time limit, when an escape point will be opened up. The mode is alternately tense and gleefully boisterous; players who are trying to survive have to keep mobile throughout the match, while keeping their ammunition stocked and watching the backs of their comrades. The players who have been turned can take a more relaxed attitude to the mode, having both endless respawns and steadily increasing numbers of allies on their side.The final and most interesting multiplayer mode is Fucking Run, which is a four-player co-op mode where the players do a lot of running and gunning. The match begins with players arming themselves from nearby caches and then running down a wide corridor-like environment. Once they start running, a large roaring column of smoke – called "The Wall Of Death" – springs up behind them and chases them through the map. Enemies pop out on the road ahead of the players, snapping off rounds and generally slowing them down. If the Wall Of Death catches them, or if the enemy soldiers shoot them down, the round is over. The more callous and selfish players out there might be alarmed to hear that if any soldier gets left behind, the match is over. Each round in the match finishes when the players get to a bunker at the other end of the map, and then they're given a brief breather to re-arm and reload themselves before being forced to outrun the Wall Of Death again.The maps we played through in the demo were well suited to each match type – and the developers say this will hold true for all the maps over the different modes. In Contraction, the burnt-out building blocks of the Mechanised Assault map provided players with sections they could can fortify with barricading and use as bolt-holes against the oncoming swarms of enemies. In Soul King, the Fresh Fish prison-yard map was tightly constructed and claustrophic, peppered with raised walkways and corners for players to duck around should their host body die. Soul Survivor's You're Done Now map was a shanty town, filled with tight corridor-like streets at ground-level but wide open rooftops the players could dash across in their quest to stay alive. For Fucking Run, the Mother's Dark ruin map took players through a section of creepy woodland, dotted with enemy positions and obstacles aimed at making the players' progress as hazardous as possible.The modes are all well balanced, varied in the way players have to approach them, and above all, great fun. Some matches also have a wild card tossed into them in the form of Alma, who will pop into the action with no warning. When she does, regardless of the match type, our advice is to cut and run given that she's impervious to damage and shooting at her only attracts her unwanted attentions.It's true that when she turns up, players are forced to do a lot of running away, but then, isn't that how it should be in a horror game? The key factor in scaring someone is to ensure danger is ever-present, and ultimately unbeatable. This reduces their chance of survival to a slim window where luck is a deciding factor. FEAR 3's multiplayer may not actually terrify players, it's shot-through with enough nail-shredding tension to make picking up a copy an enticing prospect when it's released later this year.
It's Tuesday. Have you finished all your Easter eggs?
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPak 'n Save owner sees a good side &gt;&gt; Stuff.co.nz"The owner-operator of Hamilton's Mill St Pak 'n Save is hoping the Anzac and Easter spirit will get the better of shoppers who helped themselves to groceries on Friday.&#10;"The supermarket was to open at 1pm today after a weekend of publicity about a computer glitch which saw the doors to the supermarket unlock and lights turn on at 8am on Good Friday."RIM BlackBerry PlayBook: Unfinished, unusable &gt;&gt; InfoWorld"The fundamental nature of the PlayBook's flaws begin with the requirement that a BlackBerry be tethered to it for access to business email, calendars, or contacts. Other than using a Webmail client, a PlayBook without a BlackBerry is unable to communicate. You can't connect to POP, IMAP, or Exchange servers directly from the tablet, as you can from an iOS or Android device -- you must have a BlackBerry tethered via Bluetooth using the BlackBerry Bridge application. In that case, you essentially see your BlackBerry email, calendar, and contacts in a window on the PlayBook when connected."&#10;But then you get problems if AT&amp;T won't let you install Bridge on your BlackBerry phone. And they multiply.White iPhone 4 matters, especially in China, says analyst &gt;&gt; ComputerworldRumours are that the white model will finally go on sale next week: "The white iPhone's "mystique" -- Apple originally announced the color last June, but quickly acknowledged "challenging" manufacturing issues -- will provide "a bit of a tailwind for iPhone units during the June quarter," said [Brian] White [analyst at Ticonderoga Securities].&#10;"Although White said potential sales of the white iPhone would only be incremental to Apple's numbers, he emphasized the phone's potential in China, the market that contributed approximately 10% of Apple's total revenues during the last six months.&#10;"This will be especially hot in China, where white anything is popular," said White. "White is just a very desirable color there for all kinds of consumer electronics. It goes for both men and women."Apple delays iMac orders ahead of next week's refresh with Thunderbolt I/O and Sandy Bridge processors | 9 to 5 Mac Apple delays iMac orders ahead of next week's refresh with Thunderbolt I/O and Sandy Bridge processors &gt;&gt; Apple Intelligence"All current signs point to an iMac refresh sometime next week." Save your pennies until after the May Bank holiday, if that's the market you're in.Google is eating Microsoft's lunch, one tasty bite at a time &gt;&gt; RescueTime BlogFrom June 2010, showing trends in time used (RescueTime is an app that allows monitoring of peoples' computer use at work). We'd love to see an update.Seven Questions for Rajen Sheth, Who Wants To Put Chrome OS On Your Desktop &gt;&gt;| AllThingsDInteresting interview with the guy who made Google Apps happen, and now wants ChromeOS to happen.Illinois Attorney-general calls on Apple and Google to address mobile device privacy concerns &gt;&gt; illinois.gov"Attorney General Lisa Madigan today called for a meeting with Apple Inc. and Google executives in the wake of reports that iPhones, iPads and Google Android devices are collecting and storing detailed information about users' locations.&#10;Madigan sent a letter to both technology manufacturers in response to press reports that Apple and Google mobile devices store user location information that can be transmitted back to the companies. The information – latitude and longitude coordinates coupled with a timestamp – is reportedly unencrypted and unprotected. The Attorney General has asked the companies to detail what information the company is storing, for how long and what it is used for."Well, Google's been forthcoming, Apple less so. Apart from that Steve Jobs one-liner.Adobe's Digital Publishing mistake » Blog » Elliot Jay Stocks"Perhaps it's foolish of me to be surprised by the extortionate software prices set by Adobe — it's certainly their usual practice — but the shocking aspect is that Adobe are going to charge recurring fees on top of the standard software price. That's totally understandable, since releasing an iPad magazine incurs a hosting overhead (primarily for in-app purchasing), but these fees are astronomical."Though if you buy the software in the US, then the prices are merely extortionate. But this seems like a retrograde step by Adobe: extracting a rent on software? HTML5 is quite cheap, we hear.WebM Community Cross-License initiative launched &gt;&gt; The H Open Source"Google, Matroska and Xiph.Org Foundation have announced the launch of the WebM Community Cross-License (CCL) initiative , which will see WebM CCL supporters cross-license patents, on a royalty free basis, that are essential to WebM between other members of the WebM CCL initiative. The move is intended to protect the emerging WebM ecosystem."Digging trenches in preparation for war requires the trenches to be deep.China Approaches 900 Million Mobile Phone Users &gt;&gt; PCWorld Business Center"China is on the verge of becoming the first country in the world to have more than 900m cell phone users, according to government statistics.&#10;"The number of mobile phone users in the country reached 889m at the end of March, an addition of 30m in the quarter. Based on that and recent growth rates, the total number of users is likely to surpass 900m sometime during May.&#10;"The figures underscore the soaring rate of mobile phone adoption in the country. In March 2009, the country had 670m mobile phone users. During the same period in 2010, that number reached 776m."Guess where the largest number of (a) Android users (b) smartphone malware outbreaks is going to be.Yahoo Moves Fast — Real Fast — To Scoop Up IntoNow For $20 – $30 Million &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"This past January, upon seeing a demo of IntoNow, we noted that the media check-in game just changed. Apparently, Yahoo agreed — they've just acquired the company for something in the range of $20 to $30 million, sources with knowledge of the deal tell us."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
App developer interest is shifting back toward Apple as fragmentation and "tepid" interest in current Android tablets chips away at Google's recent gains in momentum, according to a new survey of more than 2,700 developers around the world.The survey by mobile cloud platform Appcelerator with the analysts International Data Corporation (IDC) - to which The Guardian has had exclusive access ahead of publication - suggests that interest in Android has hit a plateau - but equally that those developers do not think Microsoft, BlackBerry-maker RIM or HP can catch up on Apple and Google, which between them have around half a million apps available for their phones and tablets.In the survey, 91% of developers said they were "very interested" in iPhone development, and 86% said the same for the iPad.For Google, interest in Android phone add development fell 2 points to 85%, and for tablets - particularly Honeycomb - down three points to 71%, after having risen 12 points in the first quarter. The figures are within error margins for the survey, but don't match the growing interest that has been seen in Android over the past year.There is some good news for Microsoft and for Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop, who determined that the mobile phone company should adopt the Windows Phone platform: the survey finds that Microsoft is just ahead of RIM in the race. But that is tempered by a dramatic fall in developer interest, which has fallen 7 points, with only 29% of developers saying they are "very interested" in the Windows Phone platform; for RIM, the figure was down 11 points to 27%.The figures suggest that Apple's iOS and Google's Android are beginning to benefit from a "network effect" through the concentration of developers' interest in writing apps for them, which in turn attracts users and enterprises willing to pay for the results. That, in turn, is shutting out the potential of development for other platforms while developers' focus is on those two platforms.Microsoft and Nokia are trying to woo developers by offering discounts on the low standard fees required for the platform, while RIM has tried to use the scale of Android by offering the possibility that its PlayBook tablet will run Android apps. HP, meanwhile, which has announced webOS-based smartphones and tablets, seems to be struggling to muster a strong developer community.However Android developers and would-be developers have expressed concern at "fragmentation" on the platform as different versions of the OS which have slightly different compatibility become widespread among mobile operators and users: nearly two-thirds (63%) of respondents said that device fragmentation in Android poses the biggest risk to Android, followed by weak initial traction in tablets (30%) and multiple Android app stores (28%)."Android remains an exceptionally strong OS but the cumulative effect of unresolved issues with the Android ecosystem is taking a toll on developers," said Scott Ellison, vice-president of Mobile &amp; Connected Consumer Platforms, IDC, who co-authored the report. "The challenge for Google will be to better align app developer momentum with the momentum of Android device shipment numbers, and therein lies a competitive opportunity for Microsoft, Nokia and RIM."The report suggests that "fragmentation" of mobile is six levels deep, say the report authors: "Android fragmentation only ranks third behind the fragmentation of skills (e.g.: Objective-C vs. Java), and the fragmentation of OS capabilities (e.g.: iOS vs. Android vs. WP7).  This context sheds light on how fragmentation within the Android operating system compounds an already larger problem, and it will be a critical issue for Google to address and an opportunity for competitors like Microsoft, HP, Nokia and RIM to exploit."The survey also suggests that a growing number of businesses are interested in using mobile devices to create a "mobile cloud" strategy in which they access public or private cloud-based services.Appcelerator survey 2011: which platform will developers write for?• A complete breakdown of the trends is available athttp://appcel.us/q2_2011_report
John James Audubon was born on this day 226 years ago. Unlike previous Google doodles, such as the interactive submarine which celebrated the birth of Jules Verne, this time Google has kept things simple.But while the specially designed logo on the search engine's home page boasts no moving parts or any other type of animation, its latest graphic might just go down as one of the more beautiful of recent times.The letters of the internet giant's name are barely recognisable amid the branches and colourful plumes of the birds which adorn the logo, created in the style of the French-American painter and ornithologist's creations.Born on April 26, 1785, John James Audubon developed a deep appreciation of nature from early childhood and moved to America from France at the age of 18 in order to avoid joining Napoleon's army.He was to go on to make name for himself by painting birds in a signature life-like manner that was to overshadow contemporaries and predecessors."I felt an intimacy with them ... bordering on frenzy must accompany my steps through life", recalled the painter of his relationship with his feathered subjects.His far reaching influence on ornithology and natural history extended to being quoted by Charles Darwin in 'On the Origin of Species' while Audubon's field notes are regarded as having made a significant contribution to the understanding of bird anatomy and behavior.As recently as December, 2010, a copy of Audubon's 'Birds of America' was sold at a Sotheby's auction for £7,321,250, a record price for a single printed book.
Millions of smartphone users and BT customers who use Wi-Fi wireless internet "hotspot" connections in public are vulnerable to fraud and identity theft, a Guardian investigation has established.In tests conducted with volunteers – to avoid breaching telecommunications and computer misuse laws – security experts were able to gather usernames, passwords and messages from phones using Wi-Fi in public places.In the case of the best-selling Apple iPhone 4 and other smartphone handsets, the information could be harvested without the users' knowledge and even when they were not actively surfing the web if the phone was turned on.BT, the UK's biggest provider of such hotspots with five million of its "Openzone" connections in the UK in train stations, hotels and airports, admitted that it has known of the weakness for "years" and that it is working on a permanent fix. But it has no timetable for when it might be implemented.Using a £49 piece of communications equipment and software freely available for download from the internet, the investigation established that crooks could set up bogus Wi-Fi "gateways" to which the latest generation of mobile phones would automatically connect. Once a connection is established, all the information passing through the gateway can be either be read directly or decrypted using software that will run on a laptop.In another test, a fake Wi-Fi hotspot invited people to "pay" for internet access with their credit card – but required them to click a box to accept terms and conditions which clearly stated "you agree we can do anything we like with your credit card details and personal logins".A number of people entered their details. The Guardian did not retain any users' details in the experiment.Not only could the information be used to steal identities, hijack email accounts and commit fraud but also to gather information about individuals and company employees. With the information gained in our investigation, fraudsters could have bought goods online or sent multiple e-gift vouchers worth as much as £1,000 each to pre-set email addresses. It is believed that such vouchers are already being traded by crooks over the internet.The attack works because public Wi-Fi hotspots have no form of identification except their name, which an off-the-shelf device can mimic. Many smartphones are sold with automatic connectivity to BT's Openzone Wi-Fi hotspots to enhance the contract and reduce the load on the mobile carrier's data network from the phones, while offering faster connectivity.Jason Hart, chief executive of the security company Cryptocard in Europe, said: "An O2 iPhone will automatically connect, because BT Openzone connectivity is usually part of the package for free internet access. It will pass over its credentials and because it can see the internet through the hotspot, it will start sending and receiving data."BT, which boasts of having 2.5 million Wi-Fi hotspots available to its 5 million broadband customers said: "This hack is known as 'Evil Twin' and has been known to the industry and others for some years."The company is working with the Wireless Broadband Alliance, an industry group which aims to help hotspot providers deliver a "reliable and trustworthy" service, to introduce a security system known as 802.1x, which forces detailed authorisation when devices connect. But it is not clear whether the devices themselves will be able to detect fake hotspots.Apple, manufacturer of the top-selling iPhone series, declined to comment. O2 did not respond to requests for comment.BT broadband customers who agree to allow a part of their Wi-Fi bandwidth to be used publicly are, in turn, allowed to use the Wi-Fi of other subscribers. The resultant Wi-Fi community is called BT Fon and utilises wireless routers – boxes which broadcast the Wi-Fi signals – in people's homes. BT Openzone users have to provide usernames and passwords. Subscribers may use both services through their smartphones. On the first use anywhere, they must give a username and password – but after that, their phones forever hunt out hotspots with the names "BT Fon" and "BT Openzone" hotspots automatically, and will join them.Stuart Hyde, the Association of Chief Police Officers' lead on e-crime prevention, said: "We became aware of the potential for criminals to use Wi-Fi in this way last year and have become increasingly concerned. All they need is to set themselves up in a public place with a laptop and a mobile router called 'BTOpenzone' or 'Free Wifi' and unsuspecting members of the public come along and connect to them."Once that happens, there is software out there that enables them to gather usernames and passwords for each site a user signs in to while surfing the net. And once criminals have access to your email accounts, Facebook account, Amazon history and so on, the potential for fraud and identity theft is very serious indeed."Until there are improvements in security, I would advise people to be very wary indeed when using insecure Wi-Fi in public places."Professor Peter Sommer, a cyber-security expert at the London School of Economics, said: "This is all very alarming. It means that literally millions of people who use Wi-Fi in public could be at risk. If criminals are able to harvest the usernames and passwords of all the websites you visit, they could do significant damage in terms of identity theft and fraud."The safest route for existing users of mobile phones, particularly if they use BT Fon or Openzone, is to switch off their Wi-Fi when they leave home and only use it on systems they know to be secure – such as at home or at work. Everywhere else you use Wi-Fi – whether in a coffee shop, an airport, a railway station and especially out in the street – you are taking a calculated risk."The experiment: how we set up 'evil twin'Experts commissioned by the Guardian conducted two exploits to demonstrate how crooks could cash in on bogus Wi-Fi gateways. In the first, Jason Hart set up his mobile Wi-Fi router, the size of a cigar packet, at St Pancras International station in London and soon saw half a dozen smartphones try to connect to it.Only the phones of our volunteers were allowed to connect. Because modern smartphones regularly "push" email and other updates automatically, they sent the owners' usernames, passwords and messages through the bogus BT Wi-Fi gateway, in one case while the phone was in a volunteer's pocket. Free software downloaded from the internet was then used to decrypt and display the information on a computer attached to the router.The Guardian is withholding details of this software, but was shown details of its workings, which uses the power of modern graphics chips to decode encrypted data.For the second exploit, Adam Laurie, director of Aperture Labs Ltd, demonstrated how bogus Wi-Fi gateways can be used to harvest credit card numbers. He established a fake paid-for gateway with its own website at Waterloo station. Users are allowed on to a gateway web page but must pay to use it to access the internet.First they must provide their name and credit card details – including the CCV security code on the back and the expiry date – and agree to a terms and conditions policy. Our usage policy warned potential subscribers that it provided no protection for their private information. Incredibly, during a 30-minute period in the station, three people agreed to the terms and conditions and tried to log on and provide credit card details. To avoid breaching the law, Laurie rejected all these approaches.
Hackers have kept Sony's lucrative PlayStation Network offline for a fifth day while engineers scramble to overhaul the system and make it more secure.Sony's equivalent of Apple's iTunes Store, PlayStation Network is the internet-based retail service that allows users of its PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable devices to buy games, films, music and game add-ons, and to chat with one another.Sony confirmed on Friday that the service had been attacked by hackers, describing it on theofficial PlayStation blogas an "external intrusion". Patrick Seybold, senior director of corporate communications, wrote that Sony planned "a thorough investigation … to verify the smooth and secure operation of our network services".In anupdate on Monday, Seybold wrote: "This is a time intensive process and we're working to get them back online quickly."Staff have not been given any details about the problem, which first resulted in PSN going offline last Wednesday. A weekly internal progress email mentioned the "external intrusion" but did not give any indication how long the service would remain offline.Sony's troubles began when it removed the "Other OS" option from all PS3 consoles in March last year, which meant users could no longer choose to install and run the Linux operating system. Sony cited security concerns, but the move triggered some users to hack the PS3 so that they could still run Linux.Sony then moved to sue a group of hackers that included 21-year-old George Hotz – who had already earned a reputation after jailbreaking the iPhone – who had allegedly published a root key for the PS3 that meant any content, such as films and music, could be played on a jailbroken device.The high-profile Hotz case, which was settled out of court this month, attracted attention from the Anonymous hacking network, which pledged to target Sony. A post on theAnonymous blogon 4 April said the action against Hotz and fellow hacker Graf_Chokolo was "wholly unforgivable"."You have victimised your own customers for merely possessing and sharing information … Your corrupt business practices are indicative of a corporate philosophy that would deny consumers the right to use products they have paid for, and rightfully own, in the manner of their choosing," it said.Despite the threats, a later post on the blog stated "for once we didn't do it" and said Sony could be "taking advantage of Anonymous' previous ill-will towards the company to distract users from the fact the outage is actually an internal problem with the company's servers".Patrick Garrett,on the games industry blog VG24/7, said the PSN crisis could have dire consequence for Sony if it did not adopt a more sophisticated strategy for dealing with hackers. "PlayStation's entire 2011 so far has been marred by a single issue: hacking," he wrote. "Sony has now allowed the issue to affect its entire audience: it has been forced to deny millions of PSN users a key PlayStation feature over a global holiday."Garrett referred to speculation that hackers might have compromised personal information for Sony to have taken the serious step of closing PSN for five days. PSN has an estimated 75 million users worldwide, many of whom have credit card information registered with the service."Sony's escalation of its war on hacking could potentially threaten not only Sony's ability to cut content deals, but, in a nightmare scenario, may compromise personal information of its millions of users. Sony must demonstrate it is capable of dealing with this situation right now. If these episodes become regular in any way, PSN's users, core or not, will lose faith in its brand and gravitate elsewhere."
It could be game over for the Wii console after Nintendo announced that it would reveal the successor to its wireless console this summer before a full launch next year, in an attempt to reverse a slide in profits.The Japanese computer games company on Monday reported a 66% fall in full-year profits to ¥77.6bn (£574m), the second year of decline. Annual sales slipped 29% to ¥1.014 trillion. But the company is hoping for a rebound in profits for the current year, as sales of its new Nintendo 3DS offset a slump in demand in its home country after last month's earthquake and tsunami.Nintendo said that it had not suffered any direct damage from the disaster that would significantly affect its production. But it added that there would be "an indirect impact from individual consumption patterns".The company said that it planned to show a playable version of its new console, so far unnamed, at the E3 trade fair in Los Angeles in early June. The new device will replace the Wii, which has sold 86m units since its launch in 2006. Sales last year fell 27% to 15m and are expected to fall again, to 13m for the current&nbsp;year.Nintendo hopes to sell 16m of its handheld 3DS consoles, which went on sale in February in the UK and Japan, and a month later in the US, Europe and Australia. The 3DS allows users to play 3D games without wearing special glasses and also to take 3D pictures. Customers will eventually be offered 3D movie streaming.In recent years Nintendo has found itself operating in a tough market. The&nbsp;company has been facing increased competition from the likes of Microsoft, with its motion-sensing Kinect gaming system, as well as the rise of smartphones and tablets from operators such as Apple.
Steve Jobs has responded to the mounting questions about iPhones collecting location data for up to a year - a revelation thatcould lead to privacy investigations by some European governments.In a characteristically terse email, apparently sent directly from his iPhone, the Apple chief executive - who isofficially on medical leave from his company, and has been seen only briefly in public since January - insisted that "we don't track anyone", and instead aimed his ire at Google, claiming that "they do" track users.The exchange,documented by a reader of the MacRumors websitewho emailed Jobs (whose address is well-known online), appears to be legitimate. Apple has not commented on its provenance.The reader asked Jobs:Could you please explain the necessity of the passive location-tracking tool embedded in my iPhone? It's kind of unnerving knowing that my exact location is being recorded at all times. Maybe you could shed some light on this for me before I switch to a [Google Android] Droid. They don't track me.Jobs's reply, in full:Oh yes they do. We don't track anyone. The info circulating around is false.Sent from my iPhoneWhile it is certainly true that Android phones do gather anonymised location information, Google has insisted that the collection is opt-in, with a clear dialogue which the user is presented with before proceeding. In addition, Google's system only retains the most recent 50 mobile cell masts and 200 Wi-Fi networks seen, and in a form that is hard to access. By contrast Apple's seems to collect an almost unlimited amount in a form which is easily accessible to anyone who gets their hands on the phone.Apple has also confirmed to the US Congress that iPhones and iPads collect location data when permitted by the user, and buried in the lengthy license document for the iTunes Store (used to synchronise data) is an 86-word paragraph which gives the company the right to access location data collected by the user.However the data is all anonymised, with no personal details of the user or physical addresses for the phone.Jobs's claim that "we don't track anyone" is arguably true, in that Apple could not target named individuals. However the benefits of the location-tracking services to targeted advertising based on whether a phone is being used are clear to both Apple and Google.Jobs's assertion that "The info circulating around is false" is hard to analyse, given that he does not say which information he is referring to. But hundreds of people have posted maps online showing how their iPhone or iPad has tracked their movements.
The 'world's first' streaming of a village cricket match took its place in internet folklore today with thousands tuning in to the #twicket.Complete with an appearance from a 15 foot scarecrow and the issuing of yellow cards more usually associated with football, the cricket match from Wray in Lancashire was broadcast across as far afield as America and Australia.Organiser John Popham, who first came up with the plan to highlight the need for faster rural broadband provision just a few week ago, told me: "It worked better than my wildest expectations both in terms of viewers and the technology. The BBC even came along – I think they might be a bit worried!"At its height the match attracted more than 2,300 live viewers – and succeeded in making a local woman who stepped in to be commentator, Brenda Mickle, into an immediate online star with her observations about players as she sipped her Pimms.Popham now hopes to use other live events as part of the campaign to highlight the need for fast upload speeds to enable people to share content more easily.Almost all broadband provision in the UK is "asymmetric" - meaning that download speeds are far greater than upload speeds. Studies in Australia have found that symmetrical upload and download speeds leads to more creativity among users, while asymmetric connections creates a "consumer culture". The UK government has repeatedly said that it wants the UK to be a leader in content creation, but there is little sign that it has taken in the importance of symmetric broadband in achieving this goal.Future events could well prove more difficult to achieve - Wray was chosen because, thanks to a network installed by Lancaster University, it is one of only three villages in the UK to have asymmetrical community network."It's going to be hard to live up to this, to do it again to this standard," Popham said.The livestream was managed by Birmingham companyAquilawhich used basic camera equipment (two Sony Z1 cameras and and a DSR 350) with microphones on the boundary and at the commentary.There was also an audio only stream brovided byRadio Youthologywith iPhone and Android apps.The hash tag #twicket started trending on Twitter shortly before the end of the match.
Nintendo has confirmed that it will be launching a successor to its massively successful Wii home console in 2012. As rumoured for several weeks, the new machine will be unveiled at the giantE3 video game event, which takes place from June 7-9 in Los Angeles.The company released a brief announcement on itsinvestor relations websitethis morning, but has provided no other information. The confirmation coincides with the release of the veteran manufacturer's earnings for the fiscal year ending 31 March 2011, which show a 52% fall in operating income, from ¥356bn (£2.6bn) in 2010 to ¥171bn. Worldwide annual sales of Wii hardware have also fallen from just over 20m in 2010 to 15.08m.The Wii remains the most successful console release of its generation, with sales of around 86m, compared to 53m for Microsoft's Xbox 360 and 49.5m for the Sony PlayStation 3. However, the console has been available since 2006 and a refresh is now thought to be essential if Nintendo is to maintain its dominant position. An E3 announcement would allow the company to build on momentum generated by the release of the 3DS console last month.Although no technical specifications for the Wii successor – allegedly codenamed "Project Cafe" – have been revealed, gossip and speculation are rife around the industry. Anonymous development sources have claimed to several news sites that development kits are already with big publishers such as Electronic Arts, Ubisoft and Activision. Games site IGNclaimsthat it has been handed details of the architecture, which reportedly includes a triple-core IBM PowerPC processor and an AMD Fusion graphics processing unit. If true, this would make it considerably more powerful than the current Wii and a step up from the Xbox 360 (which has a similar internal set-up) and the PS3.It is almost certain that, unlike Wii, "Project Cafe" will provide 1080p HD visuals. It is also set to feature a controller with its own built-in 6in display, effectively resembling a mini-tablet PC. This screen will be able to stream game visuals from the main console (showing, say, track layouts for racing games or interactive maps for adventure titles), but the controller may also be able to operate as seperate handheld games devices. Nintendo designer Shigeru Miyamoto alsohinted last weekthat the 3DS may be able to act as a "Project Cafe" joypad.Nintendo has refused to comment on any of the speculation surrounding the new machine.
Google really does have a very big location map - and that may include where your router is. The results of its giant Street View exercise in which it took pictures of houses and shops but also gathered locations of Wi-Fi networks and - oops! -collected data from open Wi-Fi networkshas all been collated.And what's more, you can query it yourself.Got a Wi-Fi router? Got admin access to its interface? Then you can get its MAC address and plug it into the "android map" interface offered by Samy Kamkar, a hacker and researcher wholast week showed that Android phones transmit their location data(asuncovered by another researcher, Magnus Eriksson)The page where you can plug in the details is athttp://samy.pl/androidmap/, and comes with an example MAC address in there, which if you click it shows the details that are held - log/lat, country, country code, region, county, city, street, house number, postal code, and "accuracy" - an interesting idea, though it's not immediately obvious whether that's accuracy in metres or some other metric.As Kamkar explains,android map exposes the data that Google has been collecting from virtually all Android devices and street view cars, using them essentially as global wardriving machines.When the phone detects any wireless network, encrypted or otherwise, it sends the BSSID (MAC address) of the router along with signal strength, and most importantly, GPS coordinates up to the mothership. This page allows you to ping that database and find exactly where any wi-fi router in the world is located.Personally, I tried it for the two Wi-Fi routers in my home, and it turned up nothing. It could be that the data for Britain has been wiped, or that my routers weren't turned on the day Google drove by (it certainly did, because it's got a pic of the front of the house) or that it somehow didn't reach the car.Scary? Encouraging? If all this data is somehow open sourced, is that useful or not?
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle loses Linux patent lawsuit, pointing up vulnerability for Android &gt;&gt; Los Angeles Times"Google has lost a high-stakes lawsuit in Texas that is raising sharp concern that the Internet giant could face more such claims.&#10;"A federal jury last week awarded Linux patent-holder Bedrock Computer Technologies $5 million in the closely watched patent infringement case. It may be the first such award over the Linux kernel that is at the core of the open-source operating system."A cloud on the horizon the size of a man's hand.Nokia is one of the most active Android contributors, and other surprises &gt;&gt; carlo daffaraAnd no, it's not the Evul Tracking Software thing. Also: about 75% of Android comes from external projects.How and why did Amazon get into the cloud computing business? &gt;&gt; QuoraAnswered by Werner Vogels, Amazon's chief technology officer. So it's a pretty full answer.Android Wifi/Cell Cache &gt;&gt; AteseaA map drawn from an Android phone's location cache data.Apple's 92% earnings windfall: The bloggers nail it, the pros miss by a mile &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"The shortfall in iPad sales was one of the few categories the Street called correctly."Still.. one out of six (iPods, iPads, iPhones, Macs, revenue, profit) isn't bad, eh?How long before a Wall Street firm hires one of the bloggers to do the forecasting job?Malware authors target Google Chrome &gt;&gt; Ed Bott"After the fake scan is complete, another dialog box comes up, warning that 'Google Chrome recommends you to install proper software.'&#10;"That's terrible grammar, and this social-engineering attack is likely to fail with an English-speaking victim, who should be suspicious of the odd wording. But a user whose primary language is something other than English might well be fooled. And the malware author has anticipated the possibility that you might click Cancel in the dialog box. If you do, it still tries to download the malicious software.&#10;"Each time I visited this page, the download I was offered was slightly different. My installed antivirus software (Microsoft Security Essentials) didn't flag it as dangerous. When I submitted it to VirusTotal.com, only five of the 42 engines correctly identified it as a suspicious file. Less than 8 hours later, a second scan at VirusTotal was a little better. This time, eight engines confirmed that the file was suspicious."Windows Phone 7 gets hidden WiFi connectivity. What? It didn't have it already? &gt;&gt; Recombu"It's another item on our wish-list for that Mango Windows Phone 7 update, the ability to connect to hidden WiFi networks, has been solved by phone-maker HTC, who have released a custom app exclusively for HTC phone users.&#10;"They'll then be able to enter the names of up to 3 hidden WiFi networks, and connect to them. Hidden WiFi networks do not appear on devices when you search for nearby networks, and is generally thought of as being more secure, as you need to know both the password and network name.&#10;"The lack of hidden WiFi is an eye-rolling blunder from the burgeoning smartphone brand- most businesses 'cloak' their wireless network."Eye-rolling blunder? Harsh. Though possibly fair.See your Android tracking files &gt;&gt; Packetlss on GitHubIn three months is anybody going to remember that Android phones track you too?BaltTech: Drug-dealing robots in Baltimore &gt;&gt; baltimoresun.comYes, we know just what you're thinking. Go and read it, then.There will be no Tech City in London if BT is not brought to heel &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"While there are sceptics about the whole 'East London Tech City' project, I do know that there is a big appetite to nurture this industry. Nothing happens over night, but at least we've started.&#10;"However, one thing I have been banging the table about – increasingly angrily as the weeks and months have past – is the provision for broadband to startups in London.&#10;"Time and time again startups are telling me that while they can deal with hiring people, deal with finding lawyers and partners and VCs, what they can't deal with is the achingly slow response times of broadband service providers."Privacy, Security &amp; Your Dropbox &gt;&gt; Dropbox blog"The previous section should clarify our commitment to user privacy. That said, there have been a lot of questions raised about government data requests.&#10;"Just so you know, we don't get very many of those requests — about one a month over the past year for our more than 25 million users. That's fewer than one in a million accounts.&#10;"That said, like all U.S. companies, we must follow U.S. law...When we get a government request, we don't just hand over your information or files. Our legal team vets all of these requests before we take any action. The small number of requests we have received have all been targeted to specific individuals under criminal investigation. If we were to receive a government request that was too broad or didn't comply with the law, we would stand up for our users and fight for their privacy rights."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Microsoft has announced that it hassold 350m Windows 7 licences in its first 18 months on the market. This of course comes with the moniker of "fastest-selling ever PC OS" because of course the actual numbers sold are far more than previous ones:Todd Bishop, over at Geekwire, had the bright idea ofasking whether that was a little or a lot proportional to the number of PCs sold, since of course the question isn't really how many numbers are being sold in an absolute sense, but how they compare in context.As he points out, Gartner's and IDC's numbers for that period suggest 523m and 517m PCs shipped (they use slightly different methodologies for counting shipments, hence the difference).That means that compared to the number of PCs shipped it's easy to calculate:Windows 7 licences are 67% of PC shipments in its first 18 monthsbased on the average of the two.Next, to Windows Vista: according to a regulatory filing, Vista hadsold 180m licences(page 23) by the 18-month point.Gartner says 416m, IDC says 398m shipments in that period; from the average,Windows Vista licences were 44% of PC shipments in its first 18 months.That's a long way down. But here's where Bishop runs aground: how does that compare to Windows XP? What are the PC numbers and what are the XP figures? He couldn't find them.But we can, and we're glad to help.There isn't an 18-month number, but Microsoft announcedin July 2003 that there were 130m XP licences sold(of which 70%, incidentally, were XP Professional). It seems like a safe bet to say that it was tied to the end of the shipping quarter at the end of June, so that means that the period covered is Q4 2001 (XP launched in October 2001, though it was being included in some machines before that official launch period) and Q2 2003, the April-June period just before that announcement.OK, and what are the PC shipment figures for Q401-Q203? Gartner: 244m; IDC 241.5m.Taking the average, and calculating the ratio, we get thatWindows XP licences were 54% of PC shipments in its first 18 months.So we can conclude that yes indeed, Windows 7 is indeed the fastest-selling PC OS ever. (In the absence of figures for Windows 95, Windows 98 and Windows ME, though the latter two are really unlikely to be in there.) Congratulations, Windows 7.Just to show those numbers again: for the first 18 (21 months for XP), the ratios are: Windows 7 67%, Vista 44%, XP 54%.But now here's the nub: why? Why is Windows 7 doing even better than XP, which at the time looked like a rocket?I suspect there are three things going on here.• XP's share in its first 18 months will have been held down because businesses buying PCs may well have been sticking with Windows 2000, the "business" OS, rather than getting XP Pro.• initially I thought that Vista's share in its first 18 months - which covers the period to the middle of 2008 - was being hit by netbooks (which started off with Linux and then Windows XP). But netbooksdidn't really start selling until 3Q 08, and even then only about 5m in a quarter where about 78m (average of Gartner and IDC) PCs were shipped. So netbooks aren't the answer to Vista's low number. It looks instead like it really was down to corporations choosing not to have Vista, and opting for XP licences instead.• Windows 7 runs on netbooks as well as "standard" PCs, so that with the netbook market counting for some tens of millions of machines per quarter, it's getting the benefit of them all. And far fewer businesses are downgrading to XP or Vista.Yet even with this said, XP remains one of the most-used operating systems out there, nearly 10 years after its introduction. It's really out of date, and though it has had some significant security upgrades, it really isn't a patch (ha) on Windows 7. If you're wondering whether to upgrade from XP, it has to be said that Windows 7 offers a much more secure environment - and that it can still run XP programs in an emulation mode.
Paul Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft, has lashed out at internet rivals such as Apple and described Google as "evil".After his views on his co-founder, Bill Gates, emerged last month when extracts from his memoirs were published in the US, Allen is now focusing on his rivals.He describes Steve Jobs, the boss of Apple who is on medical leave, as "monomaniacal". In an interview with the Sunday Times, Allen criticises Sergey Brin and Larry Page, the co-founders of Google, for their corporate mission statement: "Don't be evil". Allen talked about their "elbows and claws" in their pursuit for growth."I chuckle when I see people pushing the boundaries all the time of what they can do to monetise things, capture things – and then say, we're not evil, as if their default is not to push the boundaries," Allen said."If your default is to push the boundaries, to just go for it, and then see if you get pushed back, then don't say you're not evil," he added.Google was criticised after it emerged that while it was gathering the images for its Street View site, it was also collecting information on email addresses and passwords.In his autobiography, Idea Man, Allen describes how he and Gates were inseparable at school in Seattle but their relationship later soured and he describes Gates as a sarcastic bully who tried to force him out of the company.Allen describes how Gates brought in Steve Ballmer, the current boss, and how after returning from fighting Hodgkin's lymphoma he heard the pair trying to reduce his influence – and confronted them about their intentions.It sparked Allen's resignation and he refused an offer to buy him out for $5 a share – a sensible move given the share price is now $25 and his fortune is estimated at $13bn.
Norio Ohga, the former head of Sony who gave up a career as an opera singer to join the fledgling company in the 1950s and is credited with spearheading the development of the CD, has died.Ohga died on Saturday due to multiple organ failure at the age of 81, Sony said.He was the president of the company from 1982 until 1995 and became chairman until 2000. He is credited with leading its expansion from hardware into content, including the music, film and video games business.Ohga studied to be an opera singer at the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music before joining Sony, where it was recognised that his musical training and knowledge of sound and electrical engineering would benefit the firm.Later, his musical background led him to push for the 12cm CD format still in use today because it provided enough storage capacity for 75 minutes of music– he particularly wanted to enjoy Beethoven's Ninth Symphony on a single disc without interruption.Sony sold its first CD in 1982 and, within five years, sales of the format had overtaken those of LPs in Japan. Ohga's specification has also shaped the format of subsequent home entertainment developments, including the MiniDisc and the DVD.Ohga also played a key role in Sony's move into the music business with the acquisition of CBS Records, the 1989 deal to buy the Hollywood film studio Columbia Pictures, and the launch of Sony's PlayStation videogames console."By redefining Sony as a company encompassing both hardware and software, Ohga-san succeeded where other Japanese companies failed," Howard Stinger, who took over as the Sony chairman in 2005, said in a statement."It is no exaggeration to attribute Sony's evolution beyond audio and video products into music, movies and games, and subsequent transformation into a global entertainment leader to Ohga-san's foresight and vision."Ohga remained a senior adviser to Sony at the time of his death. He was also the chairman of the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra.
We were brushing through wet grass in the early morning when we saw it – a flash of white drifting behind a small patch of trees, backlit by the sun. Crouching down next to my small son, we watched the unmistakable shape of a barn owl until he disappeared into the wood. The look on my son's face was part of a brief moment of magic, the kind of memory that we live for.Ordinarily, my next thought would have been to pull out my phone and take a photo, send a tweet or record a video. Connecting is something I do unconsciously now. Tweeting is like breathing and photos and video have documented nearly every day of my 21-month-old son's life. The meaningful merged with the mundane, all dutifully and habitually recorded – my enjoyment split between that technological impulse and the more delicate human need to be in the moment. This is how we live.That weekend, however, our whole family – my partner, my son and I – were offline. Swallowtail Hill Farm, in Rye, East Sussex, is a pretty soft option when it comes to a digital detox; a charming small farm with a diverting collection of animals and four vintage tractors. Camping was an easy option for an offline experiment, but there wasn't much choice outside that for a UK break. High-end hotels in the US are now promoting their offline credentials, from boutique luxury to remote donkey trekking, but the UK has some catching up to do. Anyway, blessed with two days of good weather and some delicious local food, I barely even noticed I wasn't online.What I did notice was my partner, Will. If my worst digital habit is incessant tweeting, his is allowing his phone to be the single most disruptive thing in our relationship. Country walks, dinner, bathing our son – no moment is safe from the seemingly irresistible ringing, vibrating, nagging phone that demands – and wins – his attention when he should be enjoying the moment with us. Any objections of mine are swiftly defended by explaining the importance of dealing with that email/text/voicemailnow, though it never seems anything that couldn't wait half an hour. I take equal responsibility for our connectopia – magnetically drawn, as I am, to any screen that can feed my addiction.We handed our phones in at the gate. The only interruption during lunch was from two woodpeckers and the entertainment during dinner by the fire was our own conversation. There was a moment when Will was distracted by a buzzing sensation and reached for his phone, before realising it was  a bee. Without our phones, we had no idea what the time was. I reached for my phone when I wondered about local property prices and whether it is normal to see a barn owl during the day. And those moments when Artley, my son, was leaning out of the steam train window, having his bath outdoors under a woodburner-powered shower and being read his bedtime story in front of an open fire, I've had to try and commit to my own fallible memory.Breaking away from my connected life, I could feel how the compulsion, the divided attention, the multitasking has permeated my way of being. Early adopters, the heavy technology users who throw themselves at every new device and service, will admit to an uncontrollable impulse to check email, tweets or Facebook. Researchers have called this "variable interval reinforcement schedule"; we have in effect been trained into digital message addiction because the most exciting rewards are unpredictable. We're no better than slot-machine addicts.The hustle we develop as we struggle to keep up with the pace of digital information has produced a restless, anxious way of engaging with the world. Desperate for efficiency, this seeps into our physical lives; I feel compelled to tidy while on the phone, to fold the washing while brushing my teeth. No single task has my undivided attention. A study by the University of California, San Francisco, last week concluded that constant multi-tasking gradually erodes short-term memory. And interruptions are a massive problem, taking anything up to 20 times the length of the interruption to recover. For those of us compelled to check email every few minutes, that revelation explains where the day goes.As consumer web technologies mature, so too does our desire to understand the impact they are having on our lives. Few books on digital dystopia are more resonant thanHamlet's BlackBerry, an imaginative and thoughtful book that explores philosophical reaction to new technologies throughout time and the lessons we should have learnt from those. The author, formerWashington Postjournalist William Powers, is, like me, a true believer in the power and potential of digital technologies, but concludes that we need a little discipline to restore control over our unsettling, hyper-connected lives."The more we connect, the more our thoughts lean outward," he writes. "There's a preoccupation with what's going on 'out there' in the bustling otherworld, rather than 'in here' with yourself and those right around you. What was once exterior and faraway is now easily accessible and this carries a sense of obligation or duty." That feeling that we should be reaching out, or be available to be reached out to, is tied to the self-affirmation the internet provides. "In less-connected times, human beings were forced to shape their own interior sense of identity and worth."Powers offers practical solutions, including advocating the use of paper as a more efficient way of organising our thoughts. The theory of "embodied interaction" asserts that physical objects free our minds to think because our hands and fingers can do much of the work, unlike screens where our brains are constantly in demand. The eponymous technology he describes in his book is an intriguing Elizabethan version of a PDA, pocket-sized notebooks with pages coated in an erasable, plaster-like material. "Writing tables", as they were known, were used for note-taking and checklists. While we can't be sure Shakespeare used one, we're shown that Hamlet was a keen user of the latest screen technology."Yea, from the table of my memory," Hamlet reflects, after meeting the ghost of his dead father.I'll wipe away all trivial fondrecordsAll saws of books, all forms, allpressures past,That youth and observationcopied thereHamlet wants to clear his life of all the superficial detritus so that he can focus exclusively on avenging the death of his father. The development of print culture was adding to the tumult of life in Elizabethan England, just as we are overwhelmed with the explosion of always-on digital information today. Exploring Seneca's "spa of the mind" as a way of escaping the commotion of a busy city, Powers explains that the constant demands of being overwhelmingly connected need to be balanced out by reintroducing a little disconnectedness. That's exactly  what Powers did at home, banning the  internet at weekends. It took six months for the family to adjust. "Because we were now away from our connectedness on a regular basis, we grasped its utility and value more fully … There was an atmospheric change in our minds, a shift to a slower, less restless, more relaxed way of thinking. We could just be in one place, doing one particular thing, and enjoy it."At home, my concern about our digital addiction is most acute when I catch my son looking at me while I'm checking a screen. It's reinforcing how much more important the screen is than him, as if I'm teaching him that obeying these machines is what he needs to do.Our fireside conversation that night, against a backdrop of a moonlit wood, was aboutHamlet's BlackBerryand what Powers calls the "vanishing family trick", when a seemingly sociable family would gradually dissolve away to screens in different corners of the house. It's a familiar story."What's lost in the process is so valuable, it can't be quantified," Powers despairs. "Isn't this what we live for – time spent with other people, those moments that can't be translated into ones and zeros and replicated on a screen? I sometimes felt as if love itself, or the acts of the heart and mind that constitute love, were being leached out of the house by our screens."As we left the farm, the real work began, trying to resolve our new promise of balancing work and home life by introducing phone-free zones and offline days. Best of all, when the farmer handed back our phones, we didn't have a missed call or message between us.Jemima, Will &amp; Artley stayed at Swallowtail Hill Farm, 01275 395447;canopyandstars.co.uk
Here's a story of life in the technology jungle. In September 2007, a remarkable little gadget appeared on the market. It was the Flip Ultra camcorder. It didn't look like a camcorder – those clunky, hard-to-hold devices with which people record births, deaths and anniversaries for the edification of their nearest and dearest. The Flip was tiny (about the size of an Apple iPod Nano or a very small mobile phone), had a postage-stamp screen and no moving&nbsp;parts.Instead, it had a big red button which, when pressed, started recording. Another press on the red button brought recording to a halt. It was so simple that even a technology columnist could use it. You got an hour's recording on the device's internal memory, so there was no need to fuss with SD cards. On the side was a slider switch which, when activated, caused a USB connector to spring out, much like the blade in a flick-knife. This enabled one to plug the little camera straight into a PC. Or a Mac. In either case, the Flip checked to see if the host machine had the requisite software on board and, if not, immediately installed it from its own memory. Having done that, it then uploaded the video you had just recorded. And if you wanted to edit and forward it there and then, the newly installed software would enable you to do it. Straight away. And with no need to read a manual.The Flip was a delicious example of clean, functional design and it sold like hot cakes. From the first day it appeared on Amazon it was the site's bestselling camcorder, and eventually captured 35% of the camcorder market. I bought one as soon as it appeared in the UK, and soon found that my friends and colleagues were eyeing it enviously. One – a keen tennis player – bought one along with an ingenious bendy tripod called a Gorillapod and mounted it on the fence at the court where he was having lessons with his coach. (The coach was not impressed.) Another friend, this time a golfer, bought one and used it to analyse his swing when practising at the driving range. Thousands of YouTube videos were produced using Flips. It was what technology pundits call a "game&nbsp;changer".In March 2009 the giant networking company Cisco astonished the world by buying Pure Digital Technologies, the developer of the Flip, for $590m. This seemed weird because Cisco doesn't do retail: it's the company that provides the digital plumbing for the internet. It deals only with businesses. It was as if BP had suddenly announced that it was going into the perfume business. But, hey, we thought: maybe Cisco is getting cool in its old age.How wrong can you be? Just over a week ago, Cisco announced that it was shutting down its Flip video camera division and making 550 people redundant. Just like that. The immediate assumption was that sales of Flips must have been hit by the rise of smartphones, some of which now do fairly respectable video recording. But on closer inspection, that argument doesn't hold water. As David Pogue, theNew York Timestechnology correspondent,pointed out, "most of the world doesn't buy iPhones. Of the 1bn cellphones sold annually, a few million are iPhones. The masses still have regular cellphones that don't capture video, let alone hi-def video. They're the people who buy Flip camcorders. It's way too soon for app phones to have killed off the&nbsp;camcorder."Pogue went on to challenge the assertion that people had stopped buying Flips. "Only a month ago," he said, "I was briefed by a Flip product manager on the newest model. He showed me a graph of the Flip's sales; Flips now represent an astonishing 35% of the camcorder market. They're the No 1 bestselling camcorder on Amazon. They're still selling fast."So why did Cisco axe what looks like a respectable business? John Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, told theNYTthat the company had decided to make "key, targeted moves as we align operations in support of our network-centric platform strategy". Which, translated, reads, "Piss off: it's none of your business".This leaves us with two possible explanations. Either Cisco made a big half-a-billion-dollar mistake. Or it just bought Pure Digital because it wanted the Flip's innovative video technology for its own videoconferencing business, and to hell with the 550 deluded schmucks who thought that just because they had developed a beautiful piece of technology they were entitled to earn a living. Like I said, it's a jungle out there.
In a games market saturated by military-themed first-person shooters, theOperation Flashpointseries has always stood out through skilful execution.Red Rivercontinues this tradition by putting players into as technically accurate a representation of combat as possible. The exception to the franchise is that here a linear plot guides the action in an attempt to make the realism more accessible. The results are mixed.Set in Tajikistan in 2013, players make up a team of US marines fighting insurgents along the politically sensitive Chinese border. The vast scope of solutions to battlefield problems in earlierFlashpointtitles has, to a certain extent, been sacrificed to drive this storyline, although the variety of options previously did often make for a steep learning curve. So here, air strikes are available, but can only be called in on certain targets; maps are vast and geographically varied, but going off-script will almost certainly lead to a violent demise. The linearity, meanwhile, is not helped by graphics and AI blips doing their best to hamper the illusion of reality. Nonetheless, atRed River's core is a better-than-average FPS, albeit one offering potty-mouthed entertainment amid a dubious and somewhat facile storyline.
At a cursory glance,Portal 2looks like a typical sci-fi-themed shooter. All the requisite elements are firmly in place: ceramic white interiors and retro-futuristic robots; a protagonist gripping a glowing slab of destructive-looking gadgetry with crosshairs lingering centre-screen and, of course, an omnipresent artificial life form observing every moment.And yet this is a game without bullets and bodycounts. The air is free from the sound of rattling machine guns and there is no arsenal of weaponry. And that's because, despite appearances,Portal 2is in fact a near-unique puzzle game, set deep in the bowels of an expansive, automated, scientific testing facility.The game's protagonist, lost like a rat in an elaborate maze, can only use the eponymous portal gun, which fires pulses of light. The projectiles, however, do not do any damage. Instead they leave entrances or exits where they strike, allowing the player to create doorways in walls, floors, ceilings, and all kinds of other places that offer routes to otherwise unreachable areas. These portals can also be used to manipulate lasers, gravity and various other stalwarts of scientific experimentation, giving the game's hero a chance to escape her research-and-development prison. The conundrums are executed marvellously, and each chapter of the game introduces new ideas that remould the player's understanding of 3D space.This, then, is a game that adjusts the way you think, and to experience a game manipulating your thinking processes as you play is a unique and extraordinary pleasure. When the puzzle-solving is going well, it offers the player an enormously pleasing sense of successfully imposing their intellect.And yet the puzzles are not the game's most striking element. Like its predecessor,Portal&nbsp;2's character is its greatest asset. The narrative, which celebrates science while evoking a cautionary vision of technological progress, is expertly woven, offering as an ensemble piece a beguiling science-themed mystery. But it is also the personality, within this ensemble, of the apparently sentient computers that make up the game's cast that is outstanding. Comedian Stephen Merchant's role as a rebellious AI module may divide opinion, but "female" binary demigod GlaDOS really is (in a rare case of living up to the hyperbole) one of the most fascinating characters in the history of the video game.Funny, frightening, mentally stimulating and including a multiplayer mode with a standalone but complementary storyline and hours of extra play time, it is absolutely not to be missed.Portal 2will be remembered as one of the greatest games of recent years.
What was it about your partner that first made you fall in love? Was it their career prospects? Or the fact they could silence a room with an imperious recital ofTam o' Shanter? Chances are it was something far simpler – the curve of her throat perhaps, or the breadth of his shoulders. And so, smitten, with hardly a&nbsp;backwards look, you launched into what would become the most profound relationship of your life.In contrast, I've spent months agonising over a&nbsp;new road bike, and still haven't committed to one, yet I&nbsp;fell in love with my wife because… well, she was the only one who answered the ad (it was ajoke, darling). And so it is with cars. It is the incidentals  that bind.In the head-long rush to make vehicles more desirable and to differentiate their cars from the oh-so-samey ones of other producers, manufacturers have surprisingly few weapons in their arsenal. With obvious exceptions at the pavement and penthouse ends of the spectrum (a Perodua Kenari costs £5,799, while a Bugatti Veyron is a&nbsp;snip at £1.4m), there is precious little to separate the majority of today's cars in terms of performance, price and build quality.Currently there are 437 different models on sale in the UK at an average price of £15,100. In the supermini category alone, there are 50 to choose from. So howdifferentcan they really be? They all have doors, seats, wheels, an engine, does it matter which one you buy? Of course not – but it makes the world of difference to the manufacturer.Bearing in mind that most of us exist in a state of ignorant bliss about the mechanical meat of our cars, makers invest huge resources into perfecting these superficial trifles. The reassuring clunk of a&nbsp;door, the rubbery nub of a tactile indicator stalk, the balletic unfolding of a drink holder – these aren't design solutions, they are the salesman's hook.These elements are called "surprise and delight" features. And Skoda's Superb has one that made me swoon. When you turn on the lights, the twin lamps raise their beams like swans uncurling their long necks, the beams then cross flirtatiously before settling back into their tracks, gazing steadily into the darkness. It's a gimmick, obviously, but it's the sort of detail that could clinch a potential sale.So much for the lights, what about the rest of the Superb? The car is the poshest Skoda makes. Not long ago you'd have as much chance of seeing the words posh and Skoda in the same sentence as Charlie Sheen and celibate, but now the multi-award-winning Czech manufacturer is one of motoring's greatest success stories.All five of Skoda's models, from the Fabia to the Superb, are also now available as part of its GreenLine range. By producing baby's-breath emissions of 114g/km of CO2and managing an impressive 64.2 miles to a single gallon, the Superb is actually the dullard in Skoda's eco class.The GreenLine cars are all "slippy", a reference to their reduced air drag, have stop/start systems, make gear-change recommendations, recuperate battery energy and have dizzyingly efficient diesel engines. The results are amazing. For instance, the Fabia, the baby of the group, can cover 930 miles on a single tank of petrol – you could drive from London to Prague without refilling (if your bladder could cope).So when your heart falls for those lights, your head will be more than happy to back it up.
There's no shortage of quantity in browser gaming, but quality is an issue, with far too many revealing nought but the emperor's new clothes. Yet, as so often with the internet, really interesting, original ideas are hiding there too.Take, for example, rock-climbing, keyboard-skills, puzzle gameGirp, which is a great deal more fun than it sounds, but unsurprisingly complex to describe. It uses the alphabet to help an impossibly athletic climber ascend a letter-scattered cliff face to escape an ever-rising pool of water – tangling players' fingers into strange, knotted forms around the keyboard, in a game that deftly mixes action, strategy and puzzle elements to deliver an unexpectedly engaging experience.Also slightly unusual is the first world war-themed shooter1916: The War You Never Knew; a monochrome horror title set in the trenches. This student-made release twists the sombre setting by introducing dinosaurs. Despite this, it maintains a subtle eeriness, and boasts a refinement that makes for a scare factor that defies the diminutive form of the browser game.Taking the concept of abstract gameplay several stages further is the wonderfulOsada, something of an interactive music video and surrealist story told with scrapbook cuttings and cheery, otherworldly audio. So minimal are the interactions that all that is needed to proceed through each scene is a few clicks on sound-emitting objects, but to play is to take a 10-minute journey through one of the most memorable gaming landscapes of recent months.
Operation Flashpoint: Red River, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360The US marines are, as the game delicately puts it, "balls deep" in Tajikistan.Set on its desolate and strikingly beautiful steppe, Red River puts you in charge of a four-man team in a series of increasingly brutal firefights, first with local insurgents, then against the far better trained, equipped and numerous Chinese army. It's an experience charged with more authenticity than most, its tense, protracted engagements requiring you to marshal your time among picking off aggressive bad guys, healing your team and making sure everyone's standing in the right place. Your team's AI is sometimes guilty of rank stupidity and you'll have to watch your men running through more kilometres than you could possibly believe of totally empty countryside, but its serious battles and chatty, fly-on-the-wall styling separate it from the legion of pumped-up Call Of Duty wannabes.Codemasters, £49.99SOCOM: Special Forces, PS3SOCOM: Special Forces.Previous SOCOM games have been distinguished by a leaning towards tactics and a habit of diverging into plots about mutants, aliens or zombies. Special Forces keeps its desert boots firmly on the ground, with only humans to shoot at in this tour of a generic south-east Asian revolution. Apart from occasional stealth missions, the majority of the action sees you commanding two fire teams, and although you'll end up shooting a few enemies, it's your near-unkillable super-soldiers who do most of the work, frequently spotting, targeting and killing enemies before you even realise there's anyone there. Levels are often quite open, but since you're led everywhere by rigidly-defined checkpoints, you may as well be in a corridor for all the freedom that provides. Despite moments of interest, Special Forces' lacklustre demi-thrills make it hard to muster much enthusiasm.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £49.99Games News: Wii 2Nintendo's Wii should never have worked. Eschewing the games industry's decades-old scramble for technical superiority, it even did away with the joypad, a trope few even sought to question, yet in doing so managed to outsell both of the market's safer, more conventional players. But all good things come to an end, and Wii's sales have finally started to slide, which lends more credence to a persistent set of rumours regarding the announcement of a new Nintendo console. Current speculation is that it will be more powerful than Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, feature a touchscreen on its controllers and potentially be compatible with this generation's Wii games and accessories. The official word from Nintendo is expected in June at the Electronics Entertainment Expo - both players and retailers will be waiting with bated breath.
This one has too many names. What do you drive? Yeah, a Peugeot Partner Tepee Outdoor as it happens. Hey, nice wheels. That's ridiculous, isn't it? The Partner part I&nbsp;can understand – it suggests reliability. Tepee, though: a conical tent made by Native Americans, sometimes out of animal skins – where are they going with that? Will someone bring out a rival, the Hyundai Yurt perhaps? AndOutdoor: aren't all cars outdoor? Apart from the ones without windscreen wipers and sprayed with water-based paint? Oh, I see, Outdoor just means the suspension is raised a bit, and it has bigger wheels, presumably for tackling the prairie of the Great Plains.Perhaps all the names are because it doesn't know what it is. Part people carrier, part SUV (without the S part), part van. A lot van actually – you know, it's one of those vans with windows, which you can easily turn back into a van by removing the seats, like the Citroën Berlingo Multispace, almost exactly the same, in fact. I've always liked them, for their practicality, their utilitarian charm, and the way they bring out the inner van driver in a man. There's a cheerfulness about them. Plus they have sliding doors.Sliding doors are brilliant from a practical point of view – they make loading (children, furniture, bags of sand) easier in confined spaces and are less hazardous for passing cyclists and their collarbones. But the real joy of sliding doors is in setting off with them open, then touching the brake, very gently, so the doors catch up with the vehicle and slide slowly shut. There's an art to getting it right – applying enough brake to dislodge the doors from their open position, but then immediately releasing so they don't shut with a massive bang. Best practised without children in the back. That's what I mean about your inner van driver; all men have it, somewhere.Fun aside, this is an incredibly practical vehicle, with endless possibilities for altering its car-to-van ratio and useful cubbyholes all over the place. Because I've got a high-spec Outdoor model, it has all sorts of things like air conditioning and cruise control that are a little incongruous to what it is – (a bit) like putting scatter cushions in the garden shed. It also makes it too expensive for what it is. Get a more basic one, that knows what it is, that's my advice.There is one feature I really like on&nbsp;the Outdoor and that's the "internal roof rack". Basically it means a&nbsp;couple of lateral rails under the ceiling above which you can store stuff – plywood, perhaps, or your surfboard. Or if you were a Sioux Native American, you could put your gun up there. "How."Peugeot Partner Tepee Outdoor HDi 112Price£16,495Top speed108mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12 secondsAveragefuel consumption53.2mpgCO2 emissions139g/kmEco rating7/10At the wheelSitting Bull
Apple and Google are using smartphones running their software to build gigantic databases forlocation-based services, according to new research followingthe Guardian's revelationsthat iPhones anddevices running Android collect location data about owners' movements.iPhones and Android smartphones swap data – which does not contain information directly identifying the user or the phone – back and forth with their respective companies if the user agrees to use "location services".The news has led some European governments to announce investigations into whether Apple is breaking privacy laws.Samy Kamkar, a hacker and researcher, has shown that Android phones, which run on software written by Google, collect the location data every few seconds and store it in a local file, but also transmit it to Google several times an hour.This functionality is almost certainly used in any phone that provides mapping services, meaning that similar files will exist in some form on all smartphones, including those from Nokia and BlackBerry-maker RIM.  It is not known whether these models synchronise data from the phone to the companies' servers as well as storing it locally on the handset.Sources familiar with Google's systems said the location data was used to help the phones orient themselves by identifying nearby mobile phone masts and wi-fi sources and comparing them with Google's own database, with which they are synchronised continually. The file is also updated so that if the mobile signal is interrupted – for example when the user is on a train and goes into a tunnel – it will be able to re-establish contact more quickly by knowing which towers are in the vicinity.Apple and Google are collecting the data, which amounts to an international map of the locations and unique identities of cell towers and wi-fi networks, to improve targeting of their adverts based around mobile phones.In a letter to the US congress last July, Apple confirmed it collected the data and said that, in order to be useful, "the databases [of tower and network locations] must be updated continuously".The value of location-based services, which feature advertising, is reckoned to be $2.9bn (£1.75bn) already and forecast by the research group Gartner to grow to $8.3bn by 2014.In 2009, Google itself pointed to the value for users of having Android phones upload real-time location data to its servers, suggesting it could give "a pretty good picture of live traffic conditions". It said: "We continuously combine this data and send it back to you for free in the Google Maps traffic layers. It takes almost zero effort on your part – just turn on Google Maps for mobile before starting your car."A Google spokesman said Android phones explicitly asked to collect anonymous location data when users turned them on.Apple iPhones and iPads also ask whether users want to have "location services" turned on, and the iPhone licence has a passage that says Apple "and its partners and licensees" may transmit, collect, maintain, process and use location data, including the real-time geographic location of the iPhone, though it points out that this is anonymised and can be disabled by turning off the "location services" feature.However, even if users disable location services, the iPhone and Android phones are believed to continue storing locations of cell towers and wi-fi networks in what is known as a "neighbour list".Google's list is limited to the most recent 50 cell masts and 200 wi-fi networks, while Apple's list is retained for up to a year. Sources close to Apple have suggested the long-term retention may be an error which it will correct in a future software update.Privacy advocates fear that although the data is anonymised, the Apple data is not encrypted and could be misused by law enforcement or others who wanted to capture information about someone's movements.One security researcher, Alex Levinson of Katana Forensics, said on Thursday that US law enforcement had already made use of the location data recorded by the iPhone in investigations.Some police forces, such as those in Michigan, already carry readers that can copy all the files from a smartphone even if it is protected with a password, and that it has been used on motorists stopped for minor traffic violations. The American Civil Liberties Union says such examination amounts to an "unreasonable search", which would be illegal in the US.In Germany, the Bavarian Agency for the Supervision of Data Protection said it would examine whether and why Apple's devices were capturing the information, and that it had asked Apple for more information."If it is true that this information is being collected... without the approval and knowledge of the users, then it is definitely a violation of German privacy law," Thomas Kranig, the agency's director, told the New York Times.Italy and France are expected to do the same. France's data protection authority suggested that a major source of concern would be over whether Apple transferred any of the data to any commercial partners. "If the information is marketed without the knowledge of the consumer, it is much more serious," Yann Padova of France's CNIL said.• This article was amended on 22 April 2011. The previous version stated that some European governments had announced investigations into whether both companies are breaking privacy laws
Samsung Electronics has hit back against Apple with a tit-for-tat lawsuit a week after the US group accused its South Korean rival of "slavishly" copying designs of its iPhone and iPad.Samsung filed suits against Apple in South Korea, Japan and Germany on Friday, alleging infringement of 10 patents in areas such as data transmission and wireless technology.The move comes days before it launches a new version of its Galaxy S smartphone, and is the first against Apple, its biggest client as well as a rival. The South Korean electronics maker supplies Apple with microchips, memory chips and other parts. Analysts say Apple would struggle to find a supplier of the same calibre.Samsung's Galaxy smartphones and tablet computers, which use Google's Android operating system, have emerged as the main competitors to Apple's iPhone and iPad. Apple sold 18.6m iPhones in the last quarter, while Samsung has startled rivals with the rapid growth of its smartphone sales and is estimated to have shifted 13m handsets between January and March. It aims to sell 60m smartphones this year."Apple is quite annoyed by Samsung's fast rise in a market which it virtually created," James Song, an analyst at Daewoo Securities, said. "It's quite threatening to see how quickly Samsung plays catch-up, and Apple might have felt a strong urge to put a brake on its march just when Samsung is set to roll out a new smartphone in May ahead of its new iPhone."Samsung said on Friday that it was "responding actively to the legal action taken against us in order to protect our intellectual property".Apple filed a lawsuit against Samsung a week ago, claiming that its Galaxy design features copy the iPhone and iPad. Its spokeswoman Kristin Huguet said then: "This kind of blatant copying is wrong." The US company brought 16 claims against Samsung, including unjust enrichment, trademark infringement and 10 patent claims. But Samsung insists that the design of its products is the result of its own research and development.The lawsuits are the latest in the fiercely competitive £100bn smartphone industry. Nokia has sued Apple, while the US company has brought suits against handset makers HTC and Motorola alleging patent infringement.The global smartphone market is set to grow by 58% this year, with Android devices expected to grow strongly, according to research firm Gartner. It estimates that the tablet market could quadruple to 70m units. The iPad will dominate in coming years, but its market share is expected to be eroded by Android devices and could fall from 69% this year to 47% in 2015.This yearphone companies will struggle to obtain  componentsafter the Japanese earthquake led to factory closures. Experts say smartphone sales could drop by up to 5% as a result.  Nokia, BlackBerry maker Research in Motion and Sony Ericsson are affected by supply shortages, while others including Apple, Samsung, HTC and China's Huawei are thought to have acted quickly to secure supplies from China, Taiwan and Korea instead.
Astonishingly, it is nearly a century and a half since Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland first enthralled the general public with its hallucinatory charms, yet Alice's allure remains undimmed. Last year's Tim Burton film saw her reclaim her position at the centre stage of pop culture, and introduced her to a new generation. But it played things far too safe to satisfy true Wonderland aficionados – surprisingly, given Burton's surreal track record. Salvation, though, may be at hand, in the shape of Alice: Madness Returns, a game in which you get to navigate Alice through the pitfalls of Wonderland.Alice: Madness Returns has a great pedigree, as well as an unusual provenance. It is actually a sequel, to the only previous Lewis Carroll-based game with any credibility, American McGee's Alice, although the original came out in 2000. Its creator, the wondrously named American McGee, is a man whose status in the industry was forged as a high-profile member of the id Software teams that defined first-person shooters as we know them – McGee was a leading light on the Doom games plus Quake and Quake II.To add another curve-ball to proceedings, despite his name, McGee is now based in Shanghai, and Alice: Madness Returns will be the first major western-published game created entirely in China. We caught up with McGee on a rare UK visit. So why resurrect Alice after a decade? "Well, there wasn't a lot of planning to it. I had moved to Shanghai, and started a studio there, and it made sense at some point during the creation of the studio that it became capable of doing a sequel to Alice. It was never a case of: 'Hey, it has been 10 years – let's bring this thing back to life."Playing through a demo level confirms that the general format of the original game has survived a decade intact: it's a third-person action-adventure, mixing platforming and combat, in which you play Alice and must traverse levels familiar in theme to followers of Lewis Carroll. Alice has melee and ranged attacks (she shoots bombs from a teapot) and can spawn clockwork white rabbits which explode after a while. Plus, she can shrink herself down, which also reveals hidden pathways.McGee elaborates: "We thought there was a combination of gameplay elements that worked really well in the first game, but at the same time, we had the luxury of listening to the audience for 10 years. There were certainly issues about the gameplay: the combat system in particular, so that gave us an opportunity to improve it and put a lot more depth in there. But at its core, it's still very much a narrative-driven game.""In each of the new domains Alice visits, we have a domain-specific ability. So, for instance, in the Queen's domain, there's a Giant Alice section, where she gets to eat some cake, stomp around and squish card-guards by the hundreds. There's side-scrolling in the Oriental domain, which happens by way of these shadow-projection puzzles; it looks very much like a Mario throwback. We also have a section we call Off With Her Head, in the Dollhouse domain. There, she has her head transformed into the head of a doll, and it is popped off, then thrown into a sort of Marble Madness level, where it bounces along and encounters obstacles. I think that really helps to strengthen the variety, which is one of the core aspects of the game."Won't a sequel to a 10-year-old game face accusations of being old-fashioned, though? "I think we may get that comment, but at the same time, I think these classic gameplay mechanisms that you now see re-emerging on mobile devices and in social games will live forever. Somebody who didn't have the opportunity to play the first game might find it quite refreshing"As might an Alice fan disillusioned by Tim Burton's film? "It was funny: we started development long before that film was even announced, so they managed to announce it, get the thing done and launch it in a matter of a year. Meanwhile, we had been working on the foundation and prep-work for the sequel to the game for quite some time. Personally, I was disappointed with the way in which that film came off. The biggest failing, I thought, was that they didn't focus enough on Alice as a character – it became this ensemble thing, with mainly Johnny Depp as the lead, although he was not that much fun to watch."American in ChinaAs McGee tells the story of how he ended up in China, one thing becomes clear: despite the patriotic name, he isn't exactly about to sign up for the Tea Party. He's only half-joking when he says: "I was living in LA, and someone offered me the opportunity to move to Hong Kong to work on a game. George Bush had also just won his second election, and I had told all my friends that if he was elected again, I was going to leave, so those two things coincided. Although I knew the production in Hong Kong was a flawed one before I ever moved, I saw it as a good opportunity to get out to the region and get some experience in China.""So after two years in Hong Kong, I was bouncing up to Shanghai quite a bit with a friend to start up an outsourcing company there which was servicing the games industry doing art assets. When someone offered me a development deal for American McGee's Grimm, I said: "I don't have a studio," but they said: "Don't worry about it: go and build one." So that was an amazing opportunity, and I jumped on it and took it to Shanghai, because by then I had developed some good connections there."Surely that must have involved some major culture-shocks? "I think probably the largest shock came not necessarily from the culture, but from the experience of leaving the US and moving to Hong Kong because, when I did that, I had a very "Burn it down" attitude. I literally sold everything I owned – my car, my house and my possessions – and all I was left with were two suitcases and a cat. That's a very powerful experience, especially when we've been brought up in a culture that assigns so much value to possessions. It was very cathartic, though. Moving into China, of course there are challenges, but you get past them."Surprisingly, McGee argues that developing games in China isn't necessarily cheaper, since he still has to adhere to international pay-scales, but what he likes most is the prevailing attitude: "It's a very optimistic place to be these days. There's a lot of innovation going on, a lot of change happening and a very blue-sky mentality, especially among the creative industries, because they are now, for the first time, inventing all-new markets, in all-new technologies, and all-new ways of accessing consumers, so that means you have a very young, dynamic creative and consumer culture there, which feeds directly into the culture inside the studio. It's a nice place to be making games." Meanwhile, in the west, optimism has never been in shorter supply. But at least Alice: Madness Returns should supply plenty of escapism.•Alice: Madness Returns is due to arrive for Xbox 360, PS3 and PC on 17 June
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I'm one of these people who's frustrated because we don't have jet packs and don't live on the moon. The promise of science fiction and the technology we were going to get just hasn't manifested, with the exception of two – mobile phones and the internet. The idea that all computers are connected and all knowledge is in one place is amazing. What's brilliant about it is that we take it for granted.When was the last time you used the internet, and what for?Technically speaking, this morning to use a map on my phone.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, computers are now all connected together – it's just going to go from strength to strength.What always frustrates you about technology in general?It doesn't work when it's supposed to. And it's often designed by engineers, because it has to be, and not the kind of person who has to use it. I wish there was more of a connection sometimes.Mac or PC, and why?PC, because they were the only computer that could do 3D software for a while, and it's better the devil you know. Also, I think that a Mac is quite fascist, in that "it's my way or the highway".What piece of technology would you most like to own?If there was some sort of device that could make you immortal, then that would be the best thing.•Gareth Edwards's debut feature film, Monsters, is out now on Blu-ray and DVD
If you openGoogle's homepageyou will be greeted by an Eden-like scene of diverse wild animals in their natural habitats.ThisGoogle doodle, built around the search giant's logo, is its latest celebration ofEarth Day, started 41 years ago to raise awareness of and appreciation for the natural world.The interactive scene features two pandas, one of which shocks the other with a sneeze when you place your mouse on it, a nod tothis YouTube video. Other animated features include a fish swimming up a waterfall, only to be snatched up in the jaws of a bear, a koala climbing up and down a eucalyptus tree and a penguin leaping off an iceberg (you can read here how islanders in the South Atlanticrescued thousands of endangered northern rockhopper penguins, which were caught in thick oil slicks).Last year Google celebrated Earth Day witha lush tropical rain forest, featuring six parrots, while the year before its logo featured an illustration of a waterfall and a rainbow of marine life.Although some commentators havequestioned the effectiveness of the awareness day, the first Earth Day in the US in on 22 April 1970 was credited with launching the modern environmental movement. The passing of the landmark Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and Endangered Species Act followed in its wake. In the words of its organisers, it is designed to "[activate] individuals and organisations to strengthen the collective fight against man's exploitive relationship with the planet."
Smartphones running Google's Android software collect data about the user's movements in almost exactly the same way as the iPhone, according to an examination of files they contain. The discovery, made by a Swedish researcher, comes as the Democratic senator Al Frankenhas  writtento Apple's chief executive Steve Jobs demanding to know whyiPhones keep a secret file recording the location of their usersas they move around, as the Guardian revealed this week. Magnus Eriksson, a Swedish programmer, has shown that Android phones – now the bestselling smartphones –do the same, though for a shorter period. According to files discovered by Eriksson, Android devices keep a record of the locations and unique IDs of the last 50 mobile masts that it has communicated with, and the last 200 Wi-Fi networks that it has "seen". These are overwritten, oldest first, when the relevant list is full. It is not yet known whether the lists are sent to Google. That differs from Apple, where the data is stored for up to a year.In addition, the file is not easily accessible to users: it requires some computer skills to extract the data. By contrast, the Apple file is easily extracted directly from the computer or phone.Google had not responded to requests for comment at the time this story was published.Senator Franken has asked Jobs to explain the purpose and extent of the iPhone's tracking. "The existence of this information - stored in an unencrypted format - raises serious privacy concerns," Franken writes in his letter to Jobs. "Anyone who gains access to this single file could likely determine the location of a user's home, the businesses he frequents, the doctors he visits, the schools his children attend, and the trips he has taken - over the past months or even a year."Franken points out that a stolen or lost iPhone or iPad could be used to map out its owner's precise movements "for months at a time" and that it is not limited by age, meaning that it could track the movements of users who are under 13. Another security researcher, Alex Levinson,saysthat he discovered the file inside the iPhone last year, and that it has been used in the US by the police in a number of cases. He says that its purpose is simply to help the phone determine its location, and that he has seen no evidence that it is sent back to Apple. However documents lodged by Apple with the US Congress suggest that it does use the data if the user agrees to give the company "diagnostic information" from their iPhone or iPad.Apple has still not commented formally on the purpose of the file, despite repeated requests from the Guardian.The discovery that Android devices - which are quickly becoming the best-selling products in the smartphone space - also collect location data indicates how essential such information has become to their effective operation. "Location services", which can help place a user on a map, are increasingly seen as important for providing enhanced services including advertising - which forms the basis of Google's business.Eriksson says he uncovered the files after seeing coverage about the iPhone file. "Following the latest days internet outrage/overreaction to the revelation that iPhone has a cache for its location service, I decided to have look what my Android devices caches for the same function," he wrote at the site where he has provided computer code to examine the file.(Updated: corrected URLs so that they connect to target pages.)
Sega has announced Mario &amp; Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, the latest in the hugely successful series of multi-sport tie-ins starring the two legendary gaming mascots. The first title in the series to name a specific Olympic location is being developed for the Wii and 3DS at Sega Japan and a release date is expected to be revealed later in the year.On the Nintendo Wii, the London title is set to boast new sporting tasks such as football and equestrian events, as well as favourites like athletics and table tennis. The 3DS outing is apparently set to feature 50 'original Olympic-themed' challenges, which makes it sound a little like a WarioWare title, which should be fun. Both versions will offer single- and multiplayer modes.Mario and Sonic were bitter enemies during the 90s when the Super Mario Bros titles went moustache-to-spike against Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog series. However, the intense rivalry was put aside several years ago when the duo discovered a mutual love of Olympian sporting events. So far, their previous co-projects, Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games and the fiendishly named Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, have sold over 19 million copies.To celebrate the announcement, Sonic and Mario have spent the afternoon travelling around London on a double-decker bus, having their photos taken in front of various landmarks. I'm hoping they were also pictured having a snog outside the John Snow pub in Soho, although I fear this is unlikely.
The latest in a generous series ofLA Noiretrailers has been launched this afternoon. This one gives some insight into the rise of Cole Phelps from uniformed cop to high-ranking detective. On the way, we meet the assortment of partners he works with at the LAPD, including his showy vice sidekick, Roy Earle, who has a touch of the LA Confidential Kevin Spacey about him.In the game, Phelps must solve a series of brutal crimes, with players using interrogation sequences to puzzle out the details of each case. The video explains the game's 'Intuition Points' system, which provides optional hints to players when they become stuck. There's also some stuff on the side-missions that players are able to partake in between and during the major crimes, including foiling street robberies and tackling 'Unassigned Cases'.There's lots of that famed period detail too, with plenty of famous Los Angeles locations zooming by during the in-game excerpts. LA Noire is out on Xbox 360 and PS3 on May 20. As ever, take a look and let us know what you think...
I'm going to university this year, and one of the things that I need is a new laptop, because my current one is dying. I have only a couple of requirements:• A 13in screen, or thereabouts: small enough to fit into my bag, but big enough to be workable.• Speedy enough to run Adobe Lightroom / CAD software, but I won't be playing games on it.• A VGA socket, so I can plug it into my TV/monitor when I'm in the flat.• A DVD drive, so I needn't take a player to uni.• A decent keyboard, so that I can type up essays.• A maximum price of £400. Don't forget, I am a student!SimeonThanks for providing such a good idea of what you want, but I don't think you can get it at the price. The closest to your ideal laptop would be something like the Toshiba Portégé R700. It has a fast Intel Core iX processor, non-reflective 13.3in screen, a built in DVD Super MultiDrive, and provides 8-9 hours battery life in a package that weighs less than 1.5kg. Unfortunately, the cheapest model with a DVD (PT310E-06T02KEN) costs £879 plus VAT from Toshiba UK. Even if you find one at a discount – which is not inconceivable now that the Portégé R830, an upgraded version, is about to appear – it's still twice your budget.The problem is your choice of screen size. If you wanted a laptop with a 15.6in screen – which is right in the middle of the mass market – you could find dozens of models to choose from, even at £400. However, these laptops are not particularly light (maybe 2.5kg), and the faster ones may offer only 2-3 hours of battery life. The ones in your price range are not really designed for carrying around most of the time.Laptops with 13.3in screens sizes are designed to be slimmer, lighter and more portable than mainstream laptops, and that often means leaving out the DVD. They also tend to have low-power processors, which provide extended battery life but are not as good for intensive jobs like computer-aided design (CAD). And even though you appear to be getting less, the price usually goes up by 50% or more.If you want this kind of lightweight portable, you could try searching for an Acer Timeline or Timeline X or an Acer Travelmate with a 2GHz or faster Intel Core 2 Duo processor, or preferably a Core i3. "Travelmate" indicates models made for mobile business users who are somewhat romantically called "road warriors". These laptops typically cost £600-£700, but if you shop around, you can get them for about £450. However, I haven't tried one since I looked at an Acer Timeline 3810T inJuly 2009, and that had a slow power-saving 1.4GHz processor.From a budget point of view, I think you should seriously consider moving up to a laptop with a 15.6in screen. This will give you a faster processor and much greater choice of brand, styling and price. Models worth a look include the Hewlett-Packard G62, Samsung R540, Toshiba C660 and Dell Inspiron 15R, though you will have to shop around to achieve your target price.Today, your best buy could be the HP G62-451SA with its 2.26GHz Intel Core i3, 3GB of memory, 320GB hard drive, SuperMulti DVD±R/RW and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. If you prefer to get a hands-on before buying – always a good idea – the HP G62 is available on the high street. In an advert in today's printed Guardian, Currys/PC World is offering the G62-451SA for £369, and the PC World website has it for£349. (The G62-450SA has a 500GB hard drive whereas the G62-451SA has a 320GB drive. Check HP'sdirect sales pagefor the codes that identify different specifications.) You could also browse websites such as Amazon, Tesco Direct and Argos for special offers, bearing in mind that prices will vary according to the specific processor, memory, and hard drive size.If you can find a bit more money, you could get an Asus X52F EX582V with a 2.53GHz IntelCore i5-460Mprocessor for less than £450 (Buy.comhas it at £432.78), though admittedly that's with only 2GB of memory. If you are going to use CAD software, you'll appreciate the Core i5's Turbo Boost – which the Core i3 lacks – but obviously this is not the new and improved Sandy Bridge version.Most Windows laptops still have VGA ports so the external monitor should not be a problem, though a few models are starting to drop it.Keyboard quality is another matter, and depends to some extent on taste. As a lover of old IBM ThinkPads, I think most of today's laptop keyboards are awful, but Sony, Asus, and Toshiba tend to have better examples. When you're typing long essays at home, you can use a laptop stand to lift the screen to a more comfortable height and plug in a separate USB keyboard. Stores such as PC World and Maplin have reasonably good keyboards at £6 to £15. However, it might be worth spending a bit more to get a wired or wireless keyboard with a built-in touchpad or trackball.
The SonyXperia Playis NOT a dedicated games console. This is what I was told, very firmly, as my review handset was packed up and posted to me last week. What it is, is a Sony Ericsson Xperiasmartphone, with all the functionality of the respected series of Android devices, including 5MP camera, TimeScape social networking system and huge 854 x 480 resolution touchscreen. It just so happens that it is optimised for gaming. Which is, let's be honest, the bit we're interested in.So while I completely accept that this is NOT a dedicated games console, there have been plenty of in-depth reviews elsewhere handling other aspects of the device. I want to talk about games.So after a week of messing about with it, I've found the gaming elements of the Xperia Play to be … interesting. The spring-loaded slide-out controller is certainly the star of the show. The d-pad and PlayStation buttons are small, but well-placed and give satisfying feedback when pressed.In the middle are the two circular touch pads, which act as surrogate analogue sticks and do an impressive job of providing more exact controls. I had no trouble using them to navigate Tevez through packed defences in Fifa 10. There are also two shoulder buttons, which have an equally pleasing click to them, but they are tucked in a little behind the screen, and didn't feel anywhere near as comfortable to use as they would on a regular joypad – at least with my gigantic hands.The controller is definitely an attractive functional feature, though – even if it does add heft to the phone, both in terms of size and weight. At 175g it's a bit of a porker compared to other Android handsets, but I like the slight chunkiness. It feels more like a dedicated games console. Oh no, I've said it now.Games-wise, it's very early days. The phone comes with the graphically impressive brawler Bruce Lee, the patchy 3D air combat shooter, Star Battalion, and two reasonable but uninspired EA conversions, Fifa 10 and Sims 3. It's hardly the most thrilling line-up. However, there's the whole Android Market to call upon and 60 titles have already been tweaked to employ the Xperia Play's physical controller. Developers using theUnity3Dengine can call on a special API, which helps with the optimisation process – several titles, including the gorgeous 2.5d platformerCordy, have already been prepared and we can expect many more to follow.As for classic Psone titles, you've probably heard that the selection is tiny at the moment. Naughty Dog's seminal platformer Crash Bandicoot is pre-loaded, and plays surprisingly solidly (plus, it's a good history lesson for younger fans of the Uncharted series – this was the studio's first significant release), and there are five more titles ready to download, including serviceable snowboarding sim Cool Boaders 2, amiable action adventures Jumping Flash and MediEvil and smashy racer, Destruction Derby 2. I found them quick to download, coming in at around five to ten minutes, but at £3.99 each they're reasonably pricey for nostalgic gaming snacks – especially as there are, let's be honest, PSone emulators around out there (although they're nowalittleharder to find on Android).The conversions are very good though (with Crash, you even get the original PlayStation title screen), and you're able to adjust the display settings to go for a stretched widescreen mode or a 4:3 option that matches the olden days TVs that PSone titles were quaintly designed to run on. There are lots of titles I'd love to see – Oddworld: Abe's Exoddus, Super Puzzle Fighter II, Pa Rappa the Rappa, Vandal Hearts, Ape Escape – but we'll have to wait and see. Of course, it would also be great to get access to the PSP library and the downloadable PlayStation minis…The navigation experience has taken me a little while to master. Among the main menu items, there's the usual link to the Android Market where all the new games reside, but there's also an Xperia Play icon. This takes you to a dedicated menu screen where you can browse all the games you have on your handset as well as see a selection of other available titles. Hit the teeny Android Market icon on this page and it helpfully lists all the Xperia Play-optimised titles in the store.Furthermore, the main menu also has a PlayStation icon: select that and it brings up a differently-styled "PlayStation Pocket" screen, which lists all the classic PSone titles you've downloaded. In the corner there's also a magnifying glass icon, which I assumed would just search my phone for games. However, this is how you connect to the range of retro PlayStation titles. It's a bit of a hodge-podge of menus, icons and pointers – all made slightly redundant by the fact that your games also appear seperately in that main menu set-up.The handset is also a moderate disappointment on the specifications side. The battery life is okay with around 10 hours of talk time and 5-6 of gaming. However, the screen – though massive – is a little dark: even with the brightness turned up, I couldn't see anything while sitting in my garden. Plus, like other reviewers, I'm concerned that, with a single-core 1Ghz Snapdragon processor and Adreno 205 GPU set up, it is underpowered compared to brutes like the Samsung Galacy S II and LG Optimus 2X which boast mighty dual-core CPUs and the latest high-end Tegra 2 graphics processors.Of course raw power is not the only deciding factor with games functionality, andSony saysits use of dual channel ddr2 memory operating at 300 Hertz speeds up communication between the CPU and GPU thereby turbo-charging performance. And well, Sony engineers know how to put games hardware together…If you want to see the graphics potential of the device, just look atBackstab, Gameloft's visually astonishing open-world swashbuckler. With its richly evocative 18th Century Caribbean setting and smoothly animated sword-fighting set-pieces, it's an Xperia Play exclusive that would stand up against a few very late PS2 or very current PSP titles. The controls are a little clunky, but that's not Sony's fault.The Sony Ericsson Xperia Play is NOT a dedicated games console. It is a respctable (although not brilliant) Android smartphone that just happens to have lots of functionality and form factor features aimed at gamers. I've really enjoyed the feel of it, and the presence of a very good controller has inspired me to play the sort of more complex driving and shooting titles that I usually avoid on touchscreen devices – because they rarely work, and Ihatevirtual onscreen controllers.To make a success of this, Sony needs to very quickly add another 20-or-so PSone titles to the PlayStation Suite. It also needs to consider a cheaper price point for retro games, and to ensure it's fully supporting developrs who want to customise their new titles for the system. What concerns me is that, right now, Xperia Play feels like a device for committed gamers, because it's all about that controller – casual gamers, the people who play Angry Birds and the massive market that Sony needs to attract – don'tneeda controller.So, just to re-iterate, the Xperia Play is NOT a dedicated games console. It has a controller, it plays console games, it is "certified" with a console brand, but it is a smartphone, with gaming features. It just needs more games. And maybe more attractive specs. I'll be sad to send it back, but I'll have one eye on Sony Ericsson's press site, expecting an Xperia Play 2 announcement before too long.
Sites includinganswer service Quora,news service Reddit,Hootsuiteandlocation tracker FourSquarehave been affected by outages at Amazon's cloud computing centre in North Virginia, which they rely on to provide their service.Quora was unreachable in the UK on Thursday morning and afternoon. The site is entirely hosted on Amazon's EC2 (Elastic Cloud Computing) service, as are FourSquare and a number of other services. Hootsuite's response was slow, while Reddit's search service was out of action, announcing: "Amazon is currently experiencing a degradation. They are working on it."Amazon's cloud computing status pagecurrently shows problems at the North Virginia centre, which provides services for a number of Web 2.0 companies. The disruption started at about 1.40am on the US West Coast, or 9.40am BST, and have continued since then.Many web-based companies, especially startups, use cloud computing services from companies including Amazon, Google and Microsoft. They are charged only for the computing power that is used, rather than having to make expensive capital investments in servers which could rendered undersized in a few months by the rapid growth that they often aim to achieve.Amazon hasn't given any specific time by which the problem will be fixed.The North Virginia site is one of many cloud computing centres run by Amazon, but such systems are usually designed so that an outage in one centre does not disrupt others – nor the clients using the service. Amazon has not offered any reason why the problems at North Virginia have not been routed around and the load redistributed to its many other centres.
Of course, this was always going to be madness. Just look at the culprits. Suda51 is the charismatic director of self-proclaimed punk rock games studioGrasshopper Manufacture; Shinji Mikami is the creator of Resident Evil, Vanquish and Viewtiful Joe. The first time these two design mavericks worked together they created Killer 7, a bizarre, visually arresting sci-fi adventure about warring assassins and multiple personality disorder. It was Metal Gear Solid on powerful hallucinogens.Now they are back withShadows of the Damned, a third-person horror romp described by Suda51 as, "a road trip to hell". Taking the journey is Garcia Hotspur, a tattoo-covered battler of the supernatural, who must travel into the underworld to rescue his girlfriend, Paula, from the king of the demons, Flemming. This, frankly, is the standard fare of gothic horror gaming, but from our brief hands-on demo, it's clear Grasshopper wants to take the phantasmagorical slaughter-'em-up to new heights of lurid excess. It also wants to have a bloody good laugh on the way.The grim humour is there from the outset, characterised by Johnson, Garcia's sidekick demon – effectively a mouthy flaming skull on a stick. He'll offer hints and wisecracks en route but he's also handy in a fight. All the demonic enemies you encounter are protected by a black energy, which must be dismissed with light before they can be killed (yes, it does sound like Alan Wake – I can only assume it's a coincidence). Hitting the circle button swipes Johnson at your foe, lighting them up and readying them for a more powerful attack. This can be delivered with one of three weapons, the 'boner', which blasts out bone fragments, the machine gun-like 'teether', and the skull-firing monocussioner.When the game begins, Garcia must enter the City of the Damned, a bloody adventure playground of gothic towers and Clive Barker-esque gore. Eviscerated corpses hang from walls, gurgling rivers of blood flow through fetid sewers, everything is caked in unidentifiable putrescence. It's nasty, but it is also a functioning society – on the walls are gruesome adverts for nightmarish products and stage shows. "I wanted to create something completely new," explains Suda51. "Originally, we thought of taking images from Eastern Europe, from Romania, the Czech Republic, and we're also influenced by Dante and some traditional Japanese ideas of hell. But I wanted to create a hell where culture and life exists."There are also several propaganda posters for Flemming hanging around the place. Although we don't see him in the demo, he is presented as part-showman, part slick politician, rather than simply a vacuous force of terror. As Suda51 explains, "I wanted the king of demons to be a sophisticated guy, not a rough, course monster."As I explore, a giant hand erupts from the floor and sends gallons of the dark force into our area, followed by slick, tar-covered ghouls, who climb over walls to get at me through the blackness. When a zone is submerged in gloom like this, demons are invulnerable. The only way out is to shoot one of the grotesque goat-like gargoyles looming from the stone walls. Blasting the correct one with light will open a new area, so you can escape. It seems you'll also have to find certain objects to unlock specific doorways. In one puzzle section we need to find a brain and an eyeball – one of these has to be taken to a gate which has a baby's head for a lock; shove the gloopy item into its mouth and the infant chews repulsively. Gate open.It's only one of the weird discordant images in the game. It also turns out that, for some reason, the demons love strawberries – except in hell, they're made of mashed human tongues. On one wall there is an advert for an appetising delicacy named Strawberry Shitcake. "The game's director,Massimo Guarini, came up with that," laughs Suda51. "He really understands our style, he us a fan. And we loved it! Some people at EA were confused at the beginning, but they've been really great – they said, 'that's fun, let's do it.'"In a nod (well, more of a grimace) to Resident Evil, the controls are tricky to get the hang of and require patience and skill to master. The left bumper aims your current weapon and right trigger fires, which is fine, but then each weapon can also shoot a bolt of light accessible on the right bumper. Then you've got the X button which makes Garcia spin round, which is ostensibly useful for attacking enemies who try to sneak up from behind, but there are also moments where the circle icon flashes on screen, allowing you to quickly shove Johnson in the face of any enemy attempting a rear attack. It is, in short a complex and unfamiliar array, swapping effectively between light shots and damaging bullet shots is a hellish juggling act – especially when multiple demon men come at you. But then, this is has all the claustrophobic, button-fumbling panic of the Resi games. This is Mikami all over.Another typical Mikami element is the boss battle. Garcia wonders into a courtyard where he finds a beautiful woman in skin tight bondage gear (very Bayonetta), performing some kind of highly gyratory dance. Turns out, she's summoning a monster, a huge blackened beast with swiping claws. It also turns out that there's a weakspot on its back, a bulging sac filled with human blood; a vital demonic power source. Pop that and it's all over.From here, Garcia lumbers into a marketplace where he finally meets his lover, Paula – except as she talks to him, she starts to fracture and collapse, her head exploding from her body – ah, it's a demon in disguise, of course. As the figure reaches for the head and jams it back on to the bloody neck, Garica quips, "well, there goes my stiffy." Yep, that'll be the Grasshopper Influence coming through. When the occupying monster finally bursts out of its human trappings, Johnson, dryly notes, "demons are like men, they all want to get inside the prettiest girls." Subtle, it isn't.Finally, we're pursued by another boss, a hulking brute with a harmonica seemingly sown into his mouth. Apparently, that has something to do with how the character died as a human. "I always try to image how the player will react, and I want them to be excited," says Suda51. "I think about what will shock them and I try to make that happen. I don't want the boss just to be a character to beat, I want a story behind the person."There is another key influence behind the game's style – sound designer Akira Yamaoka, famed for his terrifying work on the Silent Hill series (remember the radio crackle? That was him). And again, he has filled this game with disturbing screams, and ambient clanging effects to unsettle players. "I started thinking, why do certain audio effects have to be there?" he explains. "How necessary are the sounds when you walk, or when you enter a room? In real life you don't hear those sounds, so the first thing I did was eliminate them. Next, I asked myself, well, what is a scary sound? It could just be an uncomfortable sound. When you're waking down the street and you hear construction work going on, it's really uncomfortable and that can make you scared, especially in the dark. So I started looking for all the uncomfortable noises that surround us and then putting them together. When you do that, real-world sounds can make you very scared."Shadows of the Damned, then, appears to be this big Grand Guignol mash-up of grandstanding design concepts. It's stylish, it's silly, but it has what appears to be a rock hard take on Resident Evil 4 at its weird heart. This is perhaps, gaming's answer to a Tarantino/Rodriguez grindcore-referencing side-project – but a lot more entertaining and less self-indulgent. And any game that features a gateway made out of 'demon pubes' (I'm not making this up) has to be seen to be appreciated.While I was talking to Yamaoka about the sound design of horror, I asked him about the humour aspect of this game – did he find that it jarred with the atmosphere he set out to create with the audio? "The idea of adding humour was in there from the beginning," he smiles. "It actually makes the game more scary, used in the right way."There's a saying at Grasshopper: if you write on black paper with a black pen you can't see anything, but when you use a white pen everything becomes clear…"Shadows of the Damned is out on PS3 (version played) and Xbox 360 this summer.
What counts as a successful apps strategy for print publishers nowadays? Experiment, innovate and iterate, while trying not to pour money down the drain? The pace of the market has been dizzying since the launch of Apple's App Store, as publishers try different approaches.As managing director ofTigerSpike, Nic Newman is one of the people trying to step back and take stock of the key trends. His company has developed iPad and smartphone apps for the Sun, the Economist, the Daily Telegraph, the Times and Time Out among others.Apps Blog caught up with Newman after a hectic few weeks attending conferences and client meetings, to pick his brains on what he sees as the important trends. "People are getting a better idea of what they want, but they still have no idea where the market is heading to in the future," he says, picking out three trends in particular.Trend 1: Unique user interface and user experience"People are moving away from it being okay to having a UX that everyone else has got to saying 'I want a unique UI/UX design to stand out from the crowd," says Newman, although he happily admits that the big danger here is creating too much complexity, especially if people have to learn a new interface for every new media app that they use."The whole point is it has to be intuitive, rather than just creating complexity," he says. "Certain features are becoming what I'd call the equivalents of the clutch, brake and gas pedal – for example, left to right reading versus vertical."So, on one hand, iPad media apps are standardising around certain elements of UI and UX, while on the other, publishers are trying to make their apps stand out still. "In the same way that cars are driven the same way but the body can remain different, the slickness and speed of an app will define its difference," says Newman."The message coming back when we run user focus groups – although I'm paraphrasing here – is that in a world where content becomes ubiquitous, user experience is what makes people choose certain apps. The way it feels guides their choice."Trend 2: Loyalty over downloadsI spoke to Newman a few days before it emerged that Apple had changed its App Store rankings to factor in active usage of apps rather than pure download numbers. He was already thinking along these lines though, after Google had made a similar change in the weeks before the interview."There is a move from an obsession about downloads to an obsession about loyalty," he said. "Android changed their rankings to include an element of stickiness, and I'm sure Apple will follow suit. So for a lot of guys we do apps for, the questions are becoming how do they promote re-use, create loyalty and run CRM campaigns?"Newman sees these app store changes having a big impact on how magazine and newspaper teams view their apps, particularly when it comes to moving away from the brand essence of a title being a monthly or weekly publication."People don't want to turn their magazine into the web or a newspaper – that is fundamentally wrong - but what if people could choose to follow a story in the magazine throughout the week after it was first published?" says Newman."Think of an article on the BP oil spill, where you can follow the story as it develops through an infographic, which lets you know how the story is developing. A lot of stories can fit into this idea, as well as bringing in the different opinions about a story that people are having."That brings us onto the addition of social features to these kinds of apps – helping readers to see "what people are saying about these stories out there in the world" in Newman's words. The key challenge is how publishers can make sense of the mass of tweets, status updates and comments around any given story."Consumers do not just want a continuous stream, they want to be helped to place a filter over the information. So what kind of filter can we place," he says, stressing that it's early days.Trend 3: Which platform(s) to target, and how?Publishers continue to grapple with questions about which platforms to target with their smartphone and tablet apps, even if there are an increasing number of developers and services promising to help them go properly cross-platform.The Economist app for the iPad"Technology-wise, publishers are wondering what they should do," says Newman. "Should they continue to be native or go to HTML5? What is the right technology to become multi-platform, and how can they please their users while reducing the cost of multiple apps?"And? Newman says TigerSpike's current vision is of a "hybrid app" blending native code with HTML5, to make it easier to launch apps across various devices, while playing to their individual strengths."The Economist is going from iPhone to Android quite soon, and if you do it properly, the technology in the background can be replicated to go multi-platform. But the UI and UX has to be fundamentally different," he says, reflectingsimilar views from Taptu CEO Mitch Lazar, who was interviewed for the Apps Blog earlier this week.Newman says that TigerSpike's clients are as focused on business models as on technical differences when it comes to weighing up the various smartphone and tablet platforms, with Apple's recently introduced rules on subscription billing – which require publishers to offer an in-app subscription option – giving them a prod."Certain companies we're working with are developing a Plan A and Plan B for that scenario," says Newman. Rather than focus on Apple, who may not play ball with them in the future, they're focusing on how they can monetise the other platforms. HP is coming, RIM is coming, the Xoom Android tablet is out now. They're waiting for the other platforms to make it as easy to monetise apps as Apple have, but no one's quite worked it out yet."
If you own an LG, Motorola, Samsung or Sony Ericsson contract smartphone then you're more likely than an iPhone owner to own an iPad, according to new European data provided by the research company comScore exclusively to the Guardian.The surprising result emerges from a new comScore mobiLens study that also shows that across the five European countries studied - the UK, France, Germany, Spain and Italy - Apple has more than twice the share of mobile userscontract subscribers- 12.4% - as Android, which has 5.7%.Apple's iOS devices - its iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches - have a combined installed base of 28.9m users in the five main EU countries, compared to 13.4m Google Android phones and tablets in use, the data show.Compared to general mobile ownership, smartphone owners are more likely to be male and aged between 18 and 34. Those aged over 45 are less likely to have smartphones.Ownership of Apple's iPad tablet computer is highest in absolute terms among iPhone owners, but relative to their numbers in the smartphone market, iPad owners tend to be users of Motorola, LG and Samsung phones - which are Android marques - and Sony Ericsson phones, which use Android and Nokia's Symbian operating system.The research, for mobile userssubscribers aged over 13 - which therefore excludes pay-as-you-go phones- refutes the idea that it is only iPhone owners who buy iPads, says comScore. "This data clearly illustrates that the Apple ecosystem extends far beyond the iPhone, but it also shows that there is significant penetration of iPad users amongst owners of other handset manufacturer's devices," said Jeremy Copp, comScore's vice-president of mobile in Europe. "Blackberry users are the only segment of users to buck this trend and are significantly underrepresented among iPad owners - perhaps a signal of brand loyalty as they awaited the launch of the Blackberry Playbook."The new data "has significant implications for the media and developer communities as they consider how best to reach their audience on all types of connected devices," said Copp.Apple's financial results, announced last night,showedthat it is benefiting strongly from the ecosystem of apps and products around the iPhone and iPad: it reported revenues of $1.63bn from "music-related products and services", which indicates its iTunes App Store and Music Store, which grew by 23% year-on-year, and 14% from the previous quarter. With digital music revenues flat at best, this suggests that sales of apps from the App Store are continuing to drive profits.But other figures though indicate that Android is rapidly challenging Apple's position. Data from other organisations shows that its share of the mobile phone market has rocketed in the past year, and the number of new phones coming onto the market at a variety of prices - including the pay-as-you-go market - is attracting more and more users. There is little evidence though of strong tablet sales for Android devices so far.In absolute terms, iPhone owners are the biggest owners of iPads, with Nokia owners being the second-biggest group. But when adjusted for their relative numbers - with Apple having 20.6% of smartphone users, compared to Nokia's 41.7% - it emerges that Nokia and RIM users are least likely, proportionally, to have an iPad."This data clearly illustrates that the Apple ecosystem extends far beyond the iPhone, but it also shows that there is significant penetration of iPad users amongst owners of other handset manufacturer's devices," said Copp.The study contrasts with comScore data released earlier this week in the US looking at the same situation which found that Apple had 16.2% of mobile subscribers, compared to Android with 10.2%. The US study found that compared to their numbers, Samsung and LG owners were more likely than Apple owners to own an iPad, as were Nokia phone users, though in the US they make up a tiny proportion - 2.3% - of smartphone users. In Europe, Nokia smartphone users are 41.7% of subscribers, but they make up only 26.4% of iPad owners, making them only half as likely as iPhone owners to have one of the devices.iPad v smartphone brand ownership:Smartphone v iPad ownershipEurope% of Smartphone Users% of iPad UsersIndex of iPad to Smartphone Owners*Total Audience: 13+ yrs old [Age]100100100Apple [OEM]20.6227.2132Nokia [OEM]41.7126.463Samsung [OEM]9.0615165Sony Ericsson [OEM]4.426.6150LG [OEM]1.35.8446RIM [OEM]8.684.855Motorola [OEM]0.862.4267US% of Smartphone Users% of iPad UsersIndex of iPad to Smartphone Owners*Total Audience, Age 13+10100100Apple25.227108RIM28.91861Samsung8.614167LG3.612340Motorola10.7984Nokia2.33149source: comScore mobiLensDemographics:Smartphone demographicsEU5Total MobileSmartphoneiPadsmartphone relative %iPad relative to mobile %Total Subscribers100100100GenderMale49.558.862.4119126Female50.541.237.68274Age13-176.86.78.29912118-2410.714.816.213815125-3417.323.423.413513535-4418.921.821.611511445-5417.815.213.2857455+28.518.117.46461USTotalSmartphoneiPadTotal Audience: 13+ yrs old [Age]10010010010010013-17 [Age]7.16.37.68910718-24 [Age]12.516.915.213512225-34 [Age]17.627.42715615335-44 [Age]16.822.120.313212145-54 [Age]17.815.316.4869255-64 [Age]14.17.47.3525265+ [Age]144.66.233126source: comScore mobiLensApple v Android in Europe and US:Apple iOS v Android market shareEU5Total Installed Base (000)Share (%) of Mobile SubscribersTotal Subscribers233,500100.0%Apple iOS28,87312.4Google Android13,3685.7USTotal Installed Base (000)Share (%) of Mobile SubscribersTotal Subscribers234,000100.0%Apple iOS37,86816.2Android OS23,76310.2source: comScore mobiLensCorrected: the data are for all mobile users, not just contract customers, according to comScore.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Shares Up, Huge iPhone And Mac Sales Overshadow Weak iPad &gt;&gt; Business Insider"iPad sales were much lower than expected -- just 4.69 million shipped, versus expectations around 7 million. This is probably because of iPad 2 supply problems and low demand for old iPads leading up to the iPad 2 launch."Tablets replace laptops; best price for a tablet: "£250" says YouGov poll &gt;&gt; Recombu"One in 12 tablet owners bought a tablet to replace or instead of a destop PC, laptop or netbook, according to research by YouGov."From over 4,000 respondents, 76% bought their tablet in addition to a computer, but customers set totransfer their web browsing and internet needs to a simpler lighter tablet is set to increase- especially due to increased numbers of newer Android tablets expected to arrive in 2011."According to the survery, 13% are seriously considering buying a tablet, with over two thirds of these surveyed already knowing which tablet they intend to get. (Probably an iPad.)"But hit the magic £250 price and sales will explode, YouGov suggests. (Its suggestion was right before about the Kindle pricing: hit £100 and sell.)I'm working at Microsoft and we're donating imagery to OpenStreetMap! &gt;&gt; Steve Coast"I've super excited to tell you that I've accepted a position as Principal Architect at Bing Mobile and am moving to the Seattle, Washington area to work on maptastic things! Yay!"Even better, Microsoft is donating access to its global orthorectified aerial imagery to help OpenStreetMappers make the map even better than it already is."This is fantastic news for Steve, and for Bing, and for OpenStreetMap. Congratulations to all - everyone wins from this. Steve Coast's achievements with OpenStreetMap can't be underestimated.A brief history of Palm &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintIt's not that brief, but Pocket-Lint argues that if Samsung was copying anyone, it's Palm. And so was Apple with the icon arrangement.iPhone iOS4 GPS Data &gt;&gt; Cellular.Sherlock"I mentioned the other day about some interesting new GPS data stored within the iPhone's iOS4. Well I'm finally ready to talk a little more about it."This was in September 2010 - so when Pete Warden and Alasdair Allan said that other people knew about it, here's your evidence. Worth reading too for what he found out about the iPhone tracking methodology.E.U. to Review Mobile Operators' Policies on Web Access &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Referring to consumer complaints over blocking or throttling of certain types of mobile Internet use, Ms. Kroes, in her prepared remarks, said, 'The commission does not have evidence to conclude that these concerns are justified at this stage but should be borne in mind in a more exhaustive, fact-finding exercise.'"Net neutrality? Never heard of it.Who's Suing Who? A Cheat Sheet to the Mobile Patent Mess &gt;&gt; TechnologizerNice idea - render it as a "who plays who" square grid. Not sure about the icons though.Is Your iPhone Tracking &amp; Recording Your Location? &gt;&gt; Michael RawlinsYes, it is, but Rawlins points to some odd data points which don't map to locations he's been to. Likely these are cell towers that your phone connects to somehow; or efforts at triangulation from distant towers to nearer ones.Michigan: Police Search Cell Phones During Traffic Stops &gt;&gt; thenewspaper.com"The Michigan State Police have a high-tech mobile forensics device that can be used to extract information from cell phones belonging to motorists stopped for minor traffic violations. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Michigan last Wednesday demanded that state officials stop stonewalling freedom of information requests for information on the program."ACLU learned that the police had acquired the cell phone scanning devices and in August 2008 filed an official request for records on the program, including logs of how the devices were used. The state police responded by saying they would provide the information only in return for a payment of $544,680. The ACLU found the charge outrageous."Which it is. Plus the fact that it can slurp the data even from a password-protected phone in 90 seconds. That's surely search without warrant.Court Hears Arguments in Microsoft's Appeal of Patent Case - NYTimes.comInteresting summing-up of the arguments made by the two sides. i4i may have prevailed against Microsoft, which certainly has a hill to climb. But await the judgement.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday – although for work purposes it's Friday! Kind of!
Apple's quarterly earnings grew by 95% to $6bn (£3.65bn) and revenue by 83% to $24.7bn compared with the year-ago quarter, but sales of its iPad tablet stuttered to just 4.7m after a huge Christmas rush in the previous quarter.However, the number of iPhones sold, 18.6m, more than doubled from the 8.75m a year ago, and also maintained quarter-on-quarter growth from the 16.2m sold in the last three months of 2010, suggesting that demand for the company's phone remains strong and is still growing.Tim Cook, the chief operating officer, who is in chargewhile chief executive, Steve Jobs, is on medical leave, said the earthquake and tsunami in Japan would cut revenues by $200m in the current quarter but that there was no disruption at all to the company's supply chain after Apple moved quickly to secure it. "We don't expect any effects, but the situation remains unpredictable," he said.Of Jobs, Cook said: "We see him on a regular basis and he continues to be involved in major strategic decisions, and I know he wants to be back full time as soon as he can."He added that despite the numbers for iPads in the quarter just ended, present demand was "staggering" and that it was being rolled out to many more countries. "We sold every one that we could make."The company's vulnerability to seasonal demand, and the public's expectation that it would update its iPad early in the year, meant that revenues and profits were slightly lower than the previous quarter covering the Christmas period.However, Peter Oppenheimer, the chief financial officer, said the launch in mid-March of the revised iPad 2 had seen a huge boost in demand: "We're thrilled with its momentum," he said. "We sold every iPad 2 that we could make and would have liked to have more."The iPhone generated $12.3bn of revenue, up 126% on the year before, at an average selling price of $660, up from $620 a year ago, helped by rapid sales growth in the US of 155% as it started to be sold on Verizon, the largest mobile carrier in the country, along with AT&amp;T, which reported strong results earlier on Wednesday.Sales of the iPod music player, once the barnstorming driver of Apple's growth, continued to fall both in annual and quarterly comparisons, to 9m, down 17% year-on-year, having peaked in the Christmas period of 2008.The $6.40 per-share earnings figures beat professional analysts' estimates by nearly $1, 19% higher than forecasts of $5.37. Analysts had also expected that iPhone sales would barely budge compared to the previous quarter.Oppenheimer and Cook suggested that the iPad will see rocketing sales in the current quarter, despite the comparatively disappointing numbers in the quarter just ended. "Demand has been staggering," Cook said. "I'm still amazed that we're heavily backlogged. However, I'm extremely pleased with the manufacturing ramp. I'm confident that we can produce a large number of iPads in this quarter." He was unsure, however, whether that would be sufficient to meet demand.Apple's products are being challenged more broadly by products using Google's free Android operating system in both smartphones and tablets. In smartphones, Android is reckoned to have the largest share worldwide, though tablets struggle to compete with the iPad.Cook said that he felt "very, very good" about Apple's future products compared with Android, and added that "our business proposition is very strong – iPhone's integrated approach is materially better than Android's fragmented approach".Oppenheimer pointed to the large proportion of Fortune 500 companies testing the iPhone and iPad, saying this showed corporate acceptance of the devices.• This article was amended on 21 April 2011. The original referred to Fred Oppenheimer; his correct name is Peter Oppenheimer.
Havingtweaked its App Store chart algorithmsto take account of usage as well as downloads, Apple has sprung another surprise on iOS developers this week by starting to reject apps that use "incentivised app download" platforms, while at the same time suggesting its own iAd mobile advertising network may be a more suitable method.These services, run by startups including Tapjoy and Flurry, are used most heavily in iOS social games, where players are offered virtual currency or items that they'd otherwise have to pay for, in exchange for downloading another app or game. The developer of the latter pays a per-install fee to the middleman, which then shares those revenues with the developers of apps hosting the offers.These kind of incentives have been standard practice in the social games industry for some time, although not without controversies – in Tapjoy's former incarnation of Offerpal, it was one of the companies at the centre of tech blog TechCrunch's"ScamVille" campaignagainst offers that signed people up to premium-rate subscriptions.In recent months, incentivised app downloads have been increasingly popular for iOS developers who want to push their apps up the App Store charts. Now Apple has cracked down on the practice, with Tapjoyclaimingthat in rejecting updates to several apps using these services, Apple has cited clause 3.10 in its developer licence, which stipulates that developers must not "attempt to manipulate or cheat the user reviews or chart ranking in the App Store with fake or paid reviews, or any other inappropriate methods"."It seems there may be a new interpretation of the existing 3.10 clause, which is a bit surprising, as Tapjoy, AdMob, iAd, Flurry, W3i and others all power various forms of app install advertising," says Tapjoy in a statement, before going on to suggest that the ban is due to "misconceptions" around the pay-per-install model."We believe there are significant benefits to the advertiser (only pay for what you get), the publisher (monetise users who otherwise wouldn't pay), and perhaps most importantly to the users, who not only get to discover new, exciting applications, but receive what is essentially a coupon for ad-funded virtual currency inside one of their favorite apps."Tapjoy, its rivals and key developer clients are seeking meetings with Apple's senior developer relations executives to establish what the new interpretation of clause 3.10 is, and whether Apple will be flexible on it. It may seem like a lost cause, but there have been previous cases – a proposed ban on using certain kinds of game middleware for example – where Apple has backed down in the face of developer protest.One incentive not to do so in this case may be the fact that Apple has an inhouse service that offers an alternative to offer networks: iAd. The company's mobile ad network was originally pitched as a way for top-tier brands to launch slick interactive adverts within iOS apps, but it also has an offshoot called iAd for Developers."The iAd for Developers program is a great way for developers to promote their paid or free apps to millions of iPhone and iPod touch users around the world," explains itsofficial website. "Using this unique, cost-effective advertising program, you can reach the right audience to drive more downloads of your iOS 4 app. Getting started is easy. You only need to create the banner ads and we do the rest to get your iAd up and running."The perceived ban on incentivised download networks may be seen in a new light by developers who have received emails this week from Apple's iAd sales team, referring explicitly to the App Store chart algorithm changes, if not to the crackdown on offers specifically.Apps Blog has seen one email sent to a developer from an iAd sales exec, which reads: "I am sure you have been reading about how the ecosystem of how you get ranked is seemingly changing, and it seems as though there is more of a focus of engagement and quality which is something I would like to discuss with you. Driving these quality users and new unique users to your platform will certainly help with driving ranking, but also help on actually having people use the application for what it is intended."Killing incentivised app download networks while promoting iAd for Developers may well spark further criticism from developers, but with Apple due to announce its latest quarterly financials tonight, analyst questions in the ensuing conference call may yield further information on Apple's interpretation of clause 3.10.
Facebook could block content in some countries, a Washington lobbyist for the company has said, adding that it has faced uncomfortable positions over "too much, maybe, free speech".The comments come amid increasing speculation that the company plans to enter the Chinese market, probably in collaboration with a local partner."Maybe we will block content in some countries, but not others," Adam Conner told the Wall Street Journal (WSJ)."We are occasionally held in uncomfortable positions because now we're allowing too much, maybe, free speech in countries that haven't experienced it before."Asked whether Facebook stood by the remarks, a spokeswoman confirmed  Conner, 25, worked for the company but said she could not offer further comment.The company's position on user content is attracting renewed attention because of its perceived role in the uprisings in the Middle East – especially afterEgypt blocked social media sitesin an attempt to foil pro-democracy protests. Activist Wael Ghonim, asked what came after Tunisia and Egypt, replied: "Ask Facebook".Facebook is blocked in China, but Bloomberg reported this month thatit has held talks with potential partners about entering the market. It would have to comply with China's extensive internet censorship system to do so and would face strong competition from domestic rivals such as Kaixin and Renren.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg is thought to have been interested in the Chinese market for a long time, with rumours of an impending launch picking up when he visited China late last year and was pictured with Robin Li, CEO of search site Baidu. Chinese media claimed recently that Facebook has reached a deal to create a standalone China service, citing unnamed employees of the Beijing firm, but a Baidu spokesman declined to comment.Baidu dominates search services in China – with about two-thirds of the market – but is keen to expand its into other areas."Right now we're studying and learning about China but have made no decisions about if, or how, we will approach it," Debbie Frost, Facebook's director of international communications, told the WSJ.If Facebook established a service in China it would be legally required to hand user data to Chinese authorities.Bill Bishop, a digital media entrepreneur in Beijing, said: "Google said, 'We're not going to launch any services that require user information'. They could do that with search and maps and music. But Facebook has a problem that is more complicated by an order of magnitude."It is inevitable that to comply with Chinese laws they or their partner are going to have to turn over data. The day that happens they should expect a call from Congress."In 2007 Yahoo apologised to the families of two jailed Chinese journalists for turning over their email records, after a dramatic congressional hearing in which the firm was accused of "morally [being] pygmies". It had already handed control of its mainland operations to China's Alibaba.com, in which it had bought a 40% stake.Bishop said: "It is an incredibly mature, incredibly competitive market. People don't lack for social networking services. They will get a huge amount of grief overseas [if they come here] … Is it really worth the risk of significant brand damage and regulatory and political scrutiny overseas to be an also-ran?"
The seemingly straightforward act of purchasing a good or service is fraught with mystery. Economists have made their names defining minute subcategories of purchase motivations – consider, for example, the "positional good", that one buys because it is scarce and expensive, and so visibly owning it is a marker of your social status. Examples include fancy cars, designer clothes, and useless lumps of highly compressed carbon traditionally given as pledges of betrothal.The complexity is multiplied by purchases in the digital world. In the physical realm, there's real danger in taking a good without paying for it (you might be arrested and sent to jail); in the digital realm, that danger is much lower. So much lower, in fact, that the majority of media that changes hands online does so for free and without authorisation.This fact has occasioned much hand wringing, hair pulling, and legal manoeuvring, and a great deal of rhetoric about why the public "should" buy stuff they can readily get for free.This rhetoric is often muddy and confused, and at odds with the strategies deployed by the companies and individuals who employ it. For example, the ads shown before film exhibitions and DVDs warn that pirate DVDs are of poor quality and may not play back reliably. At the same time, the manufacturers of DVDs have been going to ever-greater lengths to degrade the quality of legitimate video purchases – lengthy, unskippable adverts; arbitrary geographic playback limitations; even the mandatory installation of "anti-copying" software that hijacks your PC to stop you making an unrestricted copy of the movie.If your strategy is to convince the public that the "real item" is reliable and the unauthorised ones are dodgy, then you must do everything in your power to increase the reliability of the real item, otherwise word will get around and the campaign will fail.In this article, I take a first cut at a taxonomy of "value propositions for the purchase of digital goods" – that is, reasons you should spend money on digital files that you can get for free – and of the market strategies that enhance or undermine each strategy. Different companies and products need different value propositions, but whatever your strategy is, your stated case for buying your products should be supported by those products. And if your sales strategy actively militates against your value proposition, you're doing it wrong.This list isn't comprehensive; it's a starting point. If you've got more value propositions, please add a comment …Buy this or you'll get in troubleThis is one of the canonical cases for going the legit route. Its credibility depends primarily on two factors: price (will the cost of getting caught be higher than the total savings from all the times you get away with it?) and perceived risk (are millions getting away with it and dozens getting into trouble for it?)Young people are poor candidates for this proposition: they don't have much money, so most prices are apt to be too high for them. They are also still developing the ability to perceive and measure risk accurately and are bombarded by urgent messages about the riskiness of practically everything they want to do, from having sex to taking drugs, so chucking in the risk of getting into trouble for unauthorised copying is unlikely to have much effect.What's more, young people are apt to believe they possess the technical skills to evade detection – they may be swapping files by synchronising hard drives with friends, pasting links into private social networking spaces, or taking other measures that keep them out of the authorities' watchful eyes.Buy this because it's the right thing to doWhen a record executive says: "stealing is wrong, end of story", this is the proposition being put to you. It's a simple, easy-to-absorb argument, and many find it compelling. Seizing the moral high ground is easy, holding it is harder. It's true that "you wouldn't steal a car" – but what if that car itself was stolen from a hardworking artist by a greedy entertainment exec and you could steal it back without getting caught?When I talk to file sharers about the ethics of downloading, they often raise the litany of high profile stories about how shabbily artists are treated by labels and studios, with specific reference to how little of the money from a sale goes to an artist. For example, labels infamously class paid-for downloads as "licences" to their customers (you haven't bought the music, you've just licensed it). However, the standard label deal with artists demands that they pay a 50% royalty on licences, as opposed to a mere 7% royalty on "sales". So when the labels account for these "licences" to their artists, they are conveniently reclassified as "sales" and six-sevenths of the money is trousered by the labels."It's the right thing to do" cuts both ways. Customers who have bought (or "licensed") music and films laden with digital and contractual restrictions may feel like their ethical obligation only extends to treating the vendor as well as the vendor treats them. If you've paid for a movie "rental" that expires 10 minutes before you finished watching it because you had to tend to the baby, you might feel you have the ethical right (if not the legal one) to torrent that movie and finish it off. Or if you've bought a movie once on DVD and you want to watch it while you're on the road, you might feel justified in downloading it. Licence payers who find themselves abroad and locked out of the BBC's iPlayer might feel like they've paid for the right to download the shows they've paid for from an unauthorised source.It's hard to argue that customers should be "fair" to sellers when the sellers are playing 'gotcha' games with the fine print and digital restrictions. What's more, "it's the right thing to do" isn't the same as "it's what the letter of the law demands". There's a widespread perception that the law has been cooked by the entertainment giants, and that they themselves only obey it selectively.Likewise, it's a little jarring and unconvincing to hear the entertainment companies who consistently argue that it's OK to show sex, violence, and alcohol and drug abuse to kids suddenly pitch themselves as guardians of public morality.Buy this because you're supporting something worthwhileThis is the proposition made by indie artists and it's one reason so many major entertainment companies hive off "indie" labels, imprints and brands. Supporting the arts feels genuinely good – knowing that your money is going to someone who made some work that moved you and entertained you. This may be the most powerful motivator of all, but it's also the trickiest.For this to be really effective, the customer needs to have a sense of the person or people behind the work. That means this proposition favours artists with highly visible, personal public profiles, and not every artist has it in them to hang out there in the world with their audience. Some people are just shy. Some are worse than shy – some artists have negative charisma, and every time they appear in public (physically or virtually), they reduce the business case for buying their works.The paradox of this proposition is that most high-profile artists got their profile through the good offices and extensive expenditures of a publisher, label, studio or other intermediary. But artists who are backed by these intermediaries are seen as less "worthwhile" than their independent counterparts – after all, the proposition is "support an artist," not "support a giant company that takes most of the money and gives some of it to an artist" (no matter how much the artist may value that arrangement and believe it to be a fair one).This proposition also loses its lustre when it is pitched by artists with glamorous, highly public lifestyles – "support this movie because the star only made $20m" lacks a certain persuasiveness. That's one reason that the anti-piracy ads shown in American cinemas often feature movie carpenters, electricians and make-up artists – working people who aren't best known as multi-millionaires. Unfortunately, these people aren't perceived as artists in the same way that actors and directors are perceived to be, and this undermines the proposition.Buy this because paying money will deliver high qualitySome bootlegs are unreliable or of poor quality. I once had a well meaning friend give me a pirate Rolling Stones cassette for my ninth birthday; the bootlegger saved money, squeezing the 45-minute album onto a 30-minute tape by fading out each song two-thirds of the way through. In some instances, this matters – you want what you acquire to be a faithful copy of the work you're after. But inferior packaging and labels are unlikely to bother most purchasers, who are likely to stick the media on a shelf and forget it, possibly ripping it first if it's especially good.But this pitch only works to the extent that the paid-for item is indeed of high quality. When anti-copying restrictions are added to media, it actually lowers their quality relative to the illegitimate item. I often hear from parents who download unauthorised cartoons for their kids because the DVDs come with long, unskippable (or difficult-to-skip) adverts, the worst of which deploy "pester power" tactics intended to get kids to nag their parents to buy something. As far as these parents are concerned, spending money gets them a product that much worse than the free version.Experienced gamers know that the commercial versions of games often come with licence checking routines that require you to have a constant, high-availability network connection in order to play the games you buy, even if they are single-player games.  Recently, Dragon Age: Origin was unavailable for a period of days to players – even though the game was installed on their computers, the company's licence server was down, and the games refused to launch.The worst cases of video game lockdown involve mandatory (and often sneaky) installation of software that interferes with CD or graphics card drivers, turning computers into bricks. Some popular games include "anti-cheating" spyware that has the power to examine, delete or send copies of every file on your hard drive to the company that made the game.But unauthorised, cracked versions of games sidestep all the problems with playability, privacy invasion, and disabling of PCs. And unlike the authorised games, these cracked versions are free – a bad way to convince gamers to spend their money instead of going the free route.Music companies have all but abandoned this route, but they did lasting damage to the reputation of their products through an escalating series of anti-copying measures that culminated with Sony-BMG intentionally shipping a "rootkit" on over six million CDs. The software would compromise your computer, leaving it vulnerable to other malicious software, and it violated many of the world's anti-hacking laws.Buy this because it is convenientAs Apple and Amazon have discovered, one-click purchasing is a marvellous proposition to put before a potential customer. Making it easier to go legit is a strategy that is applicable in every case I can think of.That means reasonable prices, slick payment processing, minimal additional measures (for example, requiring the use of "download managers" or anti-copying frameworks that are not required by the free unauthorised versions), and the same global, 24-7 availability that the free items enjoy.Unfortunately, this flies in the face of the traditional business practice of selling territorial licences for entertainment products.Every net user has experienced the frustration of trying to load a video or song, only to be confronted by a message saying that the authorised, legitimate version isn't available in your territory. Of course, the unauthorised, free versionisavailable, and frustration at this situation is an often cited reason for abandoning authorised markets and services.One potential mitigation strategy for territorial rights would be better coordination among sublicensors. Today, if you try to watch a TV clip from a UK computer, you'll get a note telling you that Channel 4 has the rights in the UK, with a link to C4's website – but not to the clip that you're trying to watch, which is usually impossible to locate. Re-engineering things so that visitors are seamlessly redirected to the correct local site for their media is a major challenge, but by not doing so, rights holders create a situation where the legit item is less convenient than the infringing one.This is also at odds with the voguish idea of selling off limited sets of rights at different prices: "buy the right to watch this once for X, upgrade to add a rewind button for Y, add Z and get the right to pause it while you pee!" While there has been limited acceptance for the idea of digital "rentals" that expire after a short period, the rest of these offers have been a bust in the market, and I don't expect they will ever catch on.Buy this because your devices won't play the unauthorised versionWhile most propositions have carrots, this one is all stick. It's primarily used by games console vendors, but also in Apple's iOS and a few other devices. These devices are sold with a lock built into them that can only be opened with a cryptographic key only given to companies that pay large sums for the right to sell their products to people who've bought the locked down devices.Though usually pitched as an anti-piracy technology, this is primarily ananti-competitivesystem, one that ensures that third parties stump up a fee to the device vendor. It's hard to articulate any value to the customer for these systems ("buy our gizmos and we'll make sure that all the stuff that runs on them is more expensive because we're taking a cut!") and governments around the world are taking a hard look at the laws that prohibit unlocking your own technology to run third party software.This works best in a marketplace with little or no competition: you can't really buy a games console that doesn't feature this sort of lock (though games companies get black eyes when they sue programmers who figure out how to unlock their devices, as Sony discovered with its lawsuit over a break to the Playstation 3). On the other hand, once competition comes to the market, customers and developers often perceive the value of switching to platforms that aren't optimised for rent seeking.What's more, a customer who owns multiple devices (a phone, a laptop and a games console) can often opt to download unauthorised media and play it on the less restrictive device.Buy this and you'll get more features than you would with the unauthorised versionThis is the inverse of the proposition above, and it's hard to pull off. In video games, it's access to a game server where you can meet other players – World of Warcraft, for example, isn't much fun on your own.With DVDs, this usually takes the form of the "additional material" disc, though the novelty of these wore off sometime in the first decade of this century. With music, it might be access to password-protected streams of a concert tour; with ebooks, it might be access to an online chat with the author.The thing these all have in common is that they add access to an ongoing (or time-bounded) service as a bonus for buying the fixed, finished product. Subscriptions are a lot harder to get for free than recorded media, since they can't be "copied" in the same way (though user names and passwords might be shared).Whenever we talk about how to sell digital stuff, we freely and unsystematically mix up value propositions and product designs. By matching strategies with propositions, we might be able to avoid stepping on our own toes.
Security researchers have discovered that Apple's iPhone keeps track of where you go – and saves every detail of it to a secret file on the device which is then copied to the owner's computer when the two are synchronised.The file contains the latitude and longitude of the phone's recorded coordinates along with a timestamp, meaning that anyone who stole the phone or the computer could discover details about the owner's movements using a simple program.For some phones, there could be almost a year's worth of data stored, as the recording of data seems to have started with Apple's iOS 4 update to the phone's operating system, released in June 2010."Apple has made it possible for almost anybody – a jealous spouse, a private detective – with access to your phone or computer to get detailed information about where you've been," said Pete Warden, one of the researchers.Only the iPhone records the user's location in this way, say Warden and Alasdair Allan, the data scientists who discovered the file and are presenting their findings at the Where 2.0 conference in San Francisco on Wednesday. "Alasdair has looked for similar tracking code in [Google's] Android phones and couldn't find any," said Warden. "We haven't come across any instances of other phone manufacturers doing this."Simon Davies, director of the pressure group Privacy International, said: "This is a worrying discovery. Location is one of the most sensitive elements in anyone's life – just think where people go in the evening. The existence of that data creates a real threat to privacy. The absence of notice to users or any control option can only stem from an ignorance about privacy at the design stage."Warden and Allan point out that the file is moved onto new devices when an old one is replaced: "Apple might have new features in mind that require a history of your location, but that's our specualtion. The fact that [the file] is transferred across [to a new iPhone or iPad] when you migrate is evidence that the data-gathering isn't accidental." But they said it does not seem to be transmitted to Apple itself.Map shows location data collected from an iPhone that had been used in the southwest of EnglandAlthough mobile networks already record phones' locations, it is only available to the police and other recognised organisations following a court order under the Regulation of Investigatory Power Act. Standard phones do not record location data.MPs in 2009 criticised the search engine giant Google for its "Latitude" system, which allowed people to enable their mobile to give out details of their location to trusted contacts. At the time MPs said that Latitude "could substantially endanger user privacy", but Google pointed out that users had to specifically choose to make their data available.The iPhone system, by contrast, appears to record the data whether or not the user agrees. Apple declined to comment on why the file is created or whether it can be disabled.Warden and Allan haveset up a web page which answers questions about the file, and created a simple downloadable application to let Apple users check for themselves what location data the phone is retaining. The Guardian has confirmed that 3G-enabled devices including the iPad also retain the data and copy it to the owner's computer.If someone were to steal an iPhone and "jailbreak" it, giving them direct access to the files it contains, they could extract the location database directly. Alternatively, anyone with direct access to a user's computer could run the application and see a visualisation of their movements. Encrypting data on the computer is one way to protect against it, though that still leaves the file on the phone.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at the security company Sophos, said: "If the data isn't required for anything, then it shouldn't store the location. And it doesn't need to keep an archive on your machine of where you've been." He suggested that Apple might be hoping that it would yield data for future mobile advertising targeted by location, although he added: "I tend to subscribe to cockup rather than conspiracy on things like this – I don't think Apple is really trying to monitor where users are."The data inside the file containing the location and time information. This is used to plot the map aboveThe location file came to light when Warden and Allan were looking for a source of mobile data. "We'd been discussing doing a visualisation of mobile data, and while Alasdair was researching into what was available, he discovered this file. At first we weren't sure how much data was there, but after we dug further and visualised the extracted data, it became clear that there was a scary amount of detail on our movements," Warden said.They have blogged about their discovery atO'Reilly's Radar site, noting that "why this data is stored and how Apple intends to use it — or not — are important questions that need to be explored."The pair of data scientists have collaborated on a number of data visualisations, including amap of radiation levels in Japan for The Guardian. They are developing aData Science Toolkitfor dealing with location data.Davies said that the discovery of the file indicated that Apple had failed to take users' privacy seriously.Apple can legitimately claim that it has permission to collect the data: near the end of the 15,200-wordterms and conditions for its iTunes program, used to synchronise with iPhones, iPods and iPads, is an 86-word paragraph about "location-based services".It says that "Apple and our partners and licensees may collect, use, and share precise location data, including the real-time geographic location of your Apple computer or device. This location data is collected anonymously in a form that does not personally identify you and is used by Apple and our partners and licensees to provide and improve location-based products and services. For example, we may share geographic location with application providers when you opt in to their location services."
Apple's next-generation iPhone will have a faster processor and will begin shipping in September, according to three people with direct knowledge of the company's supply chain.The production of the new iPhone will start in July or August and the smartphone will look largely similar to the iPhone 4, one of the sources told Reuters.The iPhone – introduced in 2007 with the touchscreen, on-demand application template now adopted by its rivals – remains the gold standard in the booming smartphone market.Reports on the timeline of the new iPhone launch vary, though it is largely expected that Apple will likely refresh its iPhone 4 later this year. It was introduced in June 2010 by chief executive Steve Jobs and shipped in the same month.The timing would mean a delay from the usual 12-month refresh cycle for the iPhone since its introduction in 2007, when new versions have been shown off at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. That is presently scheduled for 6-10 June.The sources declined to be identified because the plans for the new iPhone were not yet public. An Apple spokeswoman in Hong Kong was not available for comment.The iPhone is one of Apple's most successful products, with more than 16 million sold in the last quarter of 2010. It accounted for more than a third of the company's sales in the quarter.Apple sources many of its components from Taiwan-based suppliers, many are expected to benefit from a rise in sales as some of them rely on the US company for about 20-40% of their business, said Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Securities."For some suppliers, Apple is their cash cow, or their bread and butter," Chen said. "With all these versions being launched so frequently, it will be the so-called low-margin suppliers, such as those that assemble the phones, who will benefit the most."Suppliers to the new iPhone include camera module maker Largan Precision, touchscreen panel maker Wintek Corp and case maker Foxconn Technology, two of the people said.The companies would begin production either in July or August before shipping components to Hon Hai Precision Industry, flagship of Foxconn, for assembly, they said. Officials at Largan, Wintek and Foxconn declined to comment.On Wednesday, Largan's Taipei-listed shares ended up 3.7%, Hon Hai rose 4.3% and Foxconn rose 6.6%, outpacing the benchmark Taiex share index's 2% advance.Apple, a big purchaser of touchscreen displays and flash memory, is also dependent on Japan for some of its key components, sparking concern that the disruption due to the crisis there may hurt its gross margins.But other reports have suggested itmoved quickly after the earthquakein March to secure supplies from other sources.Apple is expected to report another spectacular quarter on Wednesday evening, tempered by growing caution over how supply constraints will squeeze margins and restrain iPhone and iPad sales. Early estimates suggest it will have sold 18m iPhones and between 4m and 7m iPads in the quarter.
