"Chinese computer maker Lenovo Group Ltd will lay off about 5% of its global workforce as part of a restructuring the company expects will save it $250 million. The layoff of 1,000 full-time employees out of its 21,400 workers worldwide will occur over the next six months to a year," reportsAP.Lenovo took over IBM's PC division, which meant it got a head office in Purchase, New York, close to IBM's headquarters, and 1,820 workers on IBM's campus in Research Triangle Park in the Raleigh-Durham area, North Carolina. Lenovo is moving the people from New York to a new office in Morrisville, near Raleigh. The ThinkPad operations will be consolidated there, while the desktop operations will be consolidated in China.Lenovo (formerly called Legend) is the world's third largest PC manufacturer, after Dell and HP/Compaq. It's now run by William J Amelio, who last worked for Dell in Round Rock, Texas, but spent 18 years at IBM.
"Microsoft began a $500 million marketing campaign yesterday to stir enthusiasm among corporate customers for its new products and grab business from I.B.M., its biggest rival in the business technology market," reportsThe New York Times, referring to yesterdays talk by Steve Ballmer, among other things.Microsoft's marketing drive and its strategic assault on I.B.M. comes as it prepares to roll out a series of new products in the second half of this year, led by Windows Vista and Office 2007. The company is positioning the new desktop offerings as a kind of dashboard for managing businesses, especially when linked to other new Microsoft programs for worker communications and collaboration, searching company databases, business intelligence and customer relationship management.This is a reference to products likeMicrosoft Office Live Communications Server,Sharepoint Portal Server,Team Foundation ServerandSQL Server Accelerator for Business Intelligence, which are far too frightening to mention in a newspaper. Later, the story says:The campaign began yesterday with eight-page advertisements in The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and other newspapers. The $500 million to be spent over the next year will include ads on television, newspapers, magazines and online, and for Microsoft-sponsored events.
It's almost the weekend! Happy St. Patrick's day, folks.
You've been asked to explain videogames to someone who has never heard of them - perhaps an elderly relative, or an alien, or someone who gets out too much. Whatever. The thing is, you can only select three titles to illustrate your lesson. What do you chose?I don't mean the three 'best' videogames. You need to broadly define what videogames are and the types of experience they offer. Your choices need to encapsulate the whole industry.Go on, give it a go.Here are mine...GTA: San AndreasPacks a lot of genre activity into one handy game. Shooting, exploring, mission-based and free-roaming elements, a bit of driving. Its nihilistic approach to life seems to sum up a lot of what videogames are about.TetrisTo show the abstract side of videogaming - the fact that games do not always require a setting or a narrative, that they can work on an entirely logical level.SingStar: EightiesA completely different type of experience, in which the gamer becomes the centre of attention rather than the screen, and the game itself is just there as a tool - a part of a night in with friends.
Portable gaming has always been a bit of a problem for the UK specialist media. Dedicated Game Boy magazines have never really worked while mobile games remain something of a mystery to most mags (with the exception of Games Master, which has a dedicated mobile section).This week, however, a group of six veteran UK games journalists has launched a new site dedicated to all forms of handheld gaming.Pocket Gameris aimed squarely at a mainstream audience and seamlessly includes mobile gaming alongside DS and PSP. It's a neatly presented site, rejecting the dense, cluttered design of US giants like Gamespot. I just like the fact that it'll review UK mobile titles - previously I had to check out Wireless Gaming Review, which was always exhaustive and up-to-date but naturally favoured US releases.The writers have pretty strong credentials, too - Joao Sanches, Owain Bennallack, Jon Jordan and Jez Bridgeman are all Ex-Edge magazine, inhabiting the publication at various points between 1996 and 2004. Hopefully, this will mean a fare few Japanese import PSP and DS reviews alongside the UK fare - although I suppose this won't reside well with the site's inclusive ethos.I asked Owain if they had plans to support WAP as well as the custom browsers likely to find their way into the Sony and Nintendo machines - a vital element of communicating to a handheld gaming audience, I reckon. He told me there were plans to support mini-browsers in the near future - apparently the news line down the centre of the page is exactly the same width as the PSP screen...It will be interesting to see if the casual portable gamer can be tempted into regularly using a news and reviews site. The mobile entertainment industry - desperate for avenues to publicise its wares - will no doubt be watching with bated breath.
The great day finally happened yesterday - sadly, not my long-awaited kickabout withMatt Le Tissier- asOblivion360 code arrived. You wouldn't believe the PR smokescreen around this title with super strict instructions about what can be written before next Friday's release. As if they think I would spoil it for you lot. So, after four hours play last night, here are my initial thoughts.Graphics? Yes, it looks as good as it doesin screenshots, with a huge draw distance on the landscapes. I haven't spent too long out in the wild yet but pop-up is rare, and although grass and heather isn't always visible from a distance it doesn't overly detract from the illusion. Is this the prettiest virtual world yet? I think so.The game itself is more welcoming thanMorrowind- admittedly not hard - but the lack of signposting and hand-holding will shock a lot of console players. I'm not spoiling anything to say that the first part of the game is set in a dungeon. This tutorial section is nicely paced and gives you the absolute basic info you need. But even then there is a lot of learning involved - particularly the necessity for fastidious inventory management. Used to picking up everything you come across in a game? You won't be here.And then there are the stats. The game does a fairly good job of hiding these from you at the start but it isn't long until you need to spend time learning what does what. Players who are used to the clear and relatively simplistic stat and skill system in the likes of WoW will find Oblivion a much more obtuse beast, at least initially. Obviously this greater depth rewards the player in the long term. But this is one game - gasp - where the manual is a necessity.The character creation section is marvellously anal - it's easy to spend an hour fiddling around with your character's cheekbones or nose tilt. This may be "next-gen" but the facial graphics still have that familiar zombie feel to them - maybe we'll have to wait till next-next gen for a truly realistic videogame face. Despite this, there is ample opportunity to create the character you want.The voice acting is decent enough so far and I haven't had enough NPC interaction to fully appreciate the AI. I did try and steal a horse though, and was soon caught by the local guard.So far the only negatives have been minor. For example the olde-world font used throughout is a little difficult to read on a standard-def TV. The biggest annoyance is the "loading area" text that pops up when exploring the wilderness. There is no noticeable pause or obvious change to the scenery but it jars the beautiful illusion that the graphics create.The biggest attraction is undoubtedly the scope of this game. I've only been playing a few hours and I've already had a couple of "Hyrule Field" moments, where you realise the sheer magnitude of what lays before you. Oblivion clearly isn't for the faint-hearted or those with attention-deficit disorder but my initial impressions are very positive. Looks like I better go and finally buy that hi-def TV this weekend...
Some of the fiercest opponents to the videogames industry in the USA have received a confirmatory nod from the government to go ahead with an enormous study examining the effects media (not just games) has on young children. Senators Hilary Rodham Clinton, Joseph Liebermann and Dick Durbin received clearance from the Senate to finance a systematic study of electronic media, organised and conducted by the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (a strange place to put consumption of media). As the article onCNetexplains,The advocacy group Citizens Against Government Waste deemed Lieberman its "porker of the month" shortly after the measure was first introduced, criticizing him for spending taxpayer money on "redundant studies" already undertaken by groups like the Kaiser Family Foundation and the American Academy of Pediatrics.Perhaps the research is redundant, but as far as I can see there has been no definitive conclusion reached by a preponderance of the studies conducted on media violence to date, and so therefore another study won't hurt either side. While some may see this as evidence for or against a particular position, the reasons that the research has not been conclusive have plagued media consumption literature since television and radio were the contemporary pariahs: media is consumed in a context; it is not consumed in a vacuum. We still do not know what ratio effect context and media have on behaviour.While I have my concerns that this is spearheaded by the anti-games legislators, I do have faith that another study into this area by such a credible scientific body will simply provide more evidence one way or another, so we can move on and start dealing with the results.viaVariety's EEG News
The British price comparison websiteuSwitchwas sold today to the US media group EW Scripps for &#163;210m.The move is the latest foray by mainstream media companies into the new media world.News Corporation last year spent more than $1bn (&#163;574m) on new media acquisitions, with purchases including Intermix (the owner of MySpace - the fifth most popular site on the internet), the sports website owner Scout, and IGN Entertainment, the owner of the website Gamespy. Last year ITV bought the Friends Reunited website for &#163;170m.Uswitch's founders, a group of private investors, management and staff all stand to make a windfall from the deal.Lord Milford Haven's trust, which holds a 45% stake in uSwitch will be the biggest beneficiary of the sale. It stands to make &#163;100m, while management and staff, with a stake of 9%, should get about &#163;18.9m.Founded in 2000, uSwitch is an online service that helps consumers compare rates on gas, electricity, home phone, digital television, broadband, credit cards, and secured and unsecured personal loans.Half of uSwitch's business now comes from the financial services sector, although it is know mainly for its information on energy companies.The company also ownsUpMyStreet, a local community information website. USwitch, which is free to consumers, makes most of its money from commissions paid by participating service providers. A commission is collected each time a consumer changes companies.For 2006, uSwitch is expected to make profits of &#163;6m to &#163;9m on revenue of over &#163;23m.Uswitch's senior management team, including the chief executive, Andrew Salmon, will continue to lead the company after the acquisition by Scripps."Comparison shopping for essential home services is already popular with consumers, but there is still ample room for growth," Mr Salmon said.Karen Darby, the chief executive of a rival company, SimplySwitch, said the high price of uSwitch came as no surprise."The industry has grown significantly in recent years. Suppliers now see us as a cost effective and volume channel, while consumers benefit from a free service which saves them both time and money," she said.Scripps, an owner of regional US papers such as the Rocky Mountain News, last year bought Shopzilla, a US product comparison website.Based in Los Angeles, Shopzilla is expanding across Europe with offices in the UK and websites in the UK, France and Germany."The addition of uSwitch to our portfolio of interactive businesses, including Shopzilla, is intended to position Scripps to take full advantage of the rapid growth of online comparison shopping for both products and essential home services," said Kenneth Lowe, the chief executive of Scripps.
Getting ready for Friday...
In case you haven't bought your newspaper yet, today's Guardian Technology section has a couple of videogame-relevant elements. There's alookat Microsoft's curious Origami handheld mini-tablet PC, a sort of hybrid PDA/digital media player with obvious gaming possibilities. And right next to it there's mecriticisingpublishers for their lack-lustre retro collections. For you iPodophiles, Charles Arthurdiscussesrumours concerning a new generation of Apple's wonder gadget, this time with a touch screen interface...
Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer is in New York today to do awebcastevent:Before a gathering of hundreds of business customers in New York, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer outlines the company's vision for how software helps enable people to drive the modern business. Called "People Ready," this business vision is the foundation for a series of new solutions in new and existing categories that Microsoft will bring to market later this year.No idea what it means, but Microsoft thinks it's important as we got a couple of invitations to go (and our man in New York might have gone if he wasn't in Houston). We already have Vista and Office 12 betas, so maybe it's the new Desktop Deployment features being added to the Software Assurance scam^h^h^h scheme ... but that sounds unlikely. Windows for SUVs? Anyone been prebriefed?Update: Ballmer is speaking now.... about "empowering people through software". Sounds familiar.... Chris Caposella is doing a 20-minute demo of Microsoft Office technology (including presence information) and Groove.... Tommy Hilfiger introduces his CIO, Eric Singleton.... (Ballmer is wearing a Hilfiger tie.) Chris Caposella starts a demo ofbusiness intelligence.... Tim Huval, CIO of Bank of America... also wants a Hilfiger tie. Ballmer says: "People people people." It's over. Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.I hope not too many people had to get out of bed for that. On the good side, they could easily have slept through it.
Butterfat.net has produced a Google Maps mashup with a box: paste in your email header and it willplot a tracerouteshowing the servers used on a Google map of North America. Unfortunately, butterfat didn't include maps of Europe etc, so if you scross across the pond, the push pins appear on a blank grey space....Note: "It only takes the last 4 or so servers and is limited by hostip's ability to provide a lat/long coordinate for the given IP."Butterfat'sGoogle map of unprotected/open camera streams, however, does cover the whole world....
"How silly is the Web 2.0 hype getting? You tell us! Here's a quick quiz...we looked in 30Boxes and analyzed 37Signals that led us to come up with the 43Things below. So without further ado, can you decide...Web 2.0 or Star Wars Character?"The scoring is funny even if you don't finish the quiz.Also, Paul Graham has written something more serious onStartup names.
A developer interview normally goes something like this. Turn up, chat to PR (if available, otherwise receptionist) meet head dev guy, chat about game and marvel at high level of caffeine-inspired dedication on display. But having an interview delayed because the developer is having his photo taken with the preceding journalist? Nah, never happened. Until yesterday that is, but then Shigeru Miyamoto isn't your average game creator. His mightily impressive CV - Mario, Zelda, Pikmin (hey, I liked it) - means he is revered by gamers of a certain age who grew up playing his seminal titles. My only other meeting with him was about five years ago on a roundtable discussion in Japan. The abiding memory is of a swarm of US journalists getting their copies of Ocarina of Time signed. Again, not something that normally happens in an interview. The interview was supposed to be part of the general Animal Crossing promotional push, but Miyamoto was happy to chat about far wider issues. Lovely.Do you feel that Nintendo has been late in getting involved in online gaming?I've been involved in looking at online gaming for a while now. We are responsible to the shareholders in the company so everything we do has to make sense financially. Until recently we have felt that we couldn't make money out of online gaming. It has been very difficult for online games to become an authentic business in this industry.But there has to be an interesting aspect to online gaming to make it worthwhile. I am a game designer myself and what I want to do is make a variety of new games. If we have an online game I would have to spend all my time looking after one game. There are a lot of hurdles to be crossed to run an online game but we have fixed some of these, such as ease of connection and security. Now that the Nintendo wi-fi service has done so well we are ready to develop it further.How important is it to widen the market behind gaming's core audience?We need to widen the appeal of gaming to include more of the general public as it is hard to sustain the current audience. There is a big line separating gamers and non-gamers. We are trying to create games that excite everyone. From the hardware side we want to create an easy interface so people can say, "this I can touch". We designed the DS with this concept in mind. When we advertise the DS we never call it an advanced version of the Game Boy Advance but rather a new entertainment gadget. Our mission right now is to find subjects that will appeal to general people and create a new market. (at this point, Miyamoto asks me what I had for dinner two nights ago. Thrown? You betcha.) This question is how we advertise Brain Training in Japan and has helped us appeal to more people. Our research on Nintendogs has shown that many players are females in their 20s. What we are seeing is a lot of different people who never used to play games are playing on the Nintendo DS. Unfortunately we are running short of DS to sell!Was redesign of the DS a belated recognition that how a product looks is as important as what it does? Can you explain the thinking behind the redesign?The main aim was to make it much more portable. This is the upgraded and more gorgeous version of the DS. We have made it lighter and the screen is adjustable and brighter. Portability was the most important factor.How different is it creating games now compared to when you started out?When we started our mission was to create some new entertainment within the limited machinery available. Game and Watch is a good example, with a LCD screen. All you could think about were the tiny dots. Which ones can be displayed, which ones erased. So within those limitations we had to think about how we could entertain people. Today our ability to express ourselves is much bigger and wider. There are so many different functionalities we can chose from now and we can express ourselves easier. But how we are going to express ourselves is going to be more and more important to make the difference between each game.Sony and Microsoft are focussing on the technical capabilities of their consoles, such as power and graphics. Nintendo's focus seems to be away from this now. Can you explain the thinking behind this?In the very beginning we were confined by the technology and it restricted how we could express ourselves. That has changed now, but we think that games can't be improved by just focussing on the graphics which is the direction that most of the industry has been heading. Nintendo is very unique, we are an entertainment company. For a long time now we have been concerned by the direction of the industry. Our competitors are talking about beefed-up graphics and better technology. We could fight in that area but we think it is not necessary and we would rather focus on what Nintendo can do uniquely. We want to get a balance between powerful CPU's or beautiful graphics and making the technology comfortable and appealing. We created the DS and Revolution with this philosophy and concept in mind.2005 was a poor year for game sales generally. Do you think consumers are bored with sequels and the same-old titles?It's not necessarily that people are getting tired of videogames per se but the problem the industry faces is that it is creating titles that are similar to other ones. Platform holders usually say we have this great number of titles available but what really matters is variety of titles. Customers are more interested in variety and quality then straight quantity. Too many game creators listen to requests from existing gamers who simply want beefed-up versions of existing games. Also, shareholders may be worried about financing games that are different as they are seen as too risky. A lot of creators have lost the ability to create something new. But at Nintendo we are unique as we create new and innovative hardware. You don't always need big budgets. Look at Brain Training, which has been a great success and didn't cost much to create. One of my aims is to let game creators know that they shouldn't feel constricted by budget. If you have a good idea, we have the money.Do you have any comments on the PlayStation 3 announcement?Any announcement about PS3 will affect Nintendo. But we don't see it as a competition between the two consoles, although the customers always do. It depends on what expectations people have of the PS3 and Revolution. Sony has taken a long time to create their machine but it is obvious that the direction we (Nintendo) are taking is different to the PS3.And that was that. I didn't get time to ask some of your more specific questions or more details of the Revolution (all will be revealed at E3). Miyamoto's business card may say Senior Managing Director but I got the impression he still enjoys creating games as much as he ever did. Or maybe he had had too much coffee, either way the industry could do with more like him.
I have downloaded and run a free registry cleaning program from registryoptimizer.com, which claims to have found 450 faults that need urgent fixing. Should I pay $50 for the upgrade to solve a problem I didn't know I had? John UnderhillI don't like this approach: while registryoptimizer.com looks OK, it's a marketing technique used by scammers. In any case, Windows registry cleaning is something best done gently, and there are two free programs that will do the job: Microsoft's RegClean 4.1a and Jouni Vuorio's superiorRegcleaner. You can download the Microsoft program fromwww.majorgeeks.com/download458.html.Backchat: My apologies: last week I referred to "Jouni Vuorio's superior RegCleaner" as a free program, but it has been superseded by a paid-for version. You can still download RegCleaner 4.3.0.780, the "last freeware version," fromA+ Freeware. However, it doesn't run correctly under a fully updated version of Windows XP SP2. Here, if I install it then double-click the RegCleanr.exe file in Windows Explorer, the program does not show up. If I open Windows Task Manager and close down its (running) process, then double-click the file again, it does.When John Collier could not find the free version on Vuorio's site, he says: "I bought a copy of RegSupreme 1.3 for £7.37. It is very effective and good value: one licence covers all the computers in our house." David Williams reports that after "a long discussion on Community Feedback, the general verdict is to use RegScrubXP, which is freeware from Lexun. I have used it for six months without problems." Sadly, the author has shut down the Lexun Designs site (www.lexundesigns.com) for personal reasons, so it's now abandonware.There are links to more registry cleaners athttp://lists.thedatalist.com/pages/Registry_Cleaners.htm, including the TweakNow RegCleaner, which is free for non-commercial use. However, Microsoft's RegClean (unsupported) and CCleaner (www.ccleaner.com) - which I've recommended for other purposes - do more than enough for most needs.
I have been considering buying an iPod, but the operating system on my home computer is Windows Millennium Edition. Is there a means of circumventing the incompatibility problem? Caroline SmythMany have tried, but I wouldn't recommend buying an iPod to use with Me. You could upgrade to Windows XP, which can run Apple's iTunes software. However, the cheapest and probably best solution is to buy an alternative player, of which there are many. Again, check that the software for any player you buy still supports DOS-based versions of Windows, though this is a shrinking market and won't last forever.You will be not be able to use Apple's iTunes Music Store. If you plan to use an alternative such as Napster 2.0, check that you will be able to transfer songs to your portable player: it's not guaranteed. As mentioned before, I think it's better in the long run to rip your own CDs without any restrictive copy protection.
Apple's Mac OS X has a wonderful shareware program calledLaunchBar, which provides an intuitive way to find information and run applications. Is there a Windows XP program that works the same way? Simon PughQuick answer: the closest thing isAppRocket. If you want to explore alternatives that do similar things in sometimes different ways, there are several free alternatives, includingColibri,RUNit,Find and Run Robot, and probably many more I've never heard of.
I have inherited an Apple G4 PowerBook with a partitioned hard drive, which was set up to run Windows and Mac OS. I have deleted Windows and installed Tiger, but can't figure out how to get rid of the partition without deleting the hard drive and starting from scratch. Stuart BlackMicromat's newDiskStudiowould appear to do the job, but I have not tried it. However, you will have to do a back up anyway, so starting from scratch would be cheaper and not much slower.
I have just accidentally emptied our Recycle Bin, which contained a file I wanted to keep. Is this file lost forever, or is there a way of finding it? Mark PeacockIt's probably gone forever: if you have been using your PC, the file sectors have probably been overwritten. You could try an undelete utility, but if possible, download it using a different PC, then install it on/run it from a floppy disk or thumbdrive. Otherwise the undelete program could overwrite the file you are trying to save. This is an argument for downloading an undelete utility when you don't think you'll ever need one. You could tryRestoration, which runs from any drive without installation, but I'm open to suggestions.
Video posted at YouTube byantidentite"Contest has been won - updates to follow shortly,"says Colin Nederkoorn's site. Seephotos.For details of how it's done, see theWiki.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday March 20 2006In the article below, we said that the XBox 360 comes with HD-DVD technology. The games console is not yet fitted with the HD-DVD system, but Microsoft has said it will make a HD-DVD drive for it and plans to sell this device later this year.Teenagers, footballers and adults who should know better face a potentially long and boring summer: the spring launch of the PlayStation 3 has been postponed until November, Sony announced yesterday.The delay is the latest skirmish not only in the video games battle between Sony and Microsoft but also in the fight to determine which type of technology will revolutionise home entertainment and supersede DVD.Sony is developing the Blu-ray drive for the PS3 but has had to postpone its spring launch because it is still trying to finalise the technical specifications for its expensive new console. Toshiba's rival HD-DVD system now has a huge head start, with Microsoft already using the technology in its new generation Xbox 360.The tussle between the two technologies has been compared to the way VHS triumphed over Betamax in the 1980s. The system that finally wins is expected to be used by far more than just video game addicts. Like the Xbox 360, Sony's PS3 will become a home entertainment console: the same size as a laptop and compatible with standard and high definition televisions, it will also have the capacity for high-speed net connections."I'd like to apologise for the delay," said Ken Kutaragi, Sony's head of video games, in Tokyo. "I have been cautious because many people in various areas are banking on the potential of next-generation DVD."Blu-ray discs are a high-definition alternative to the DVDs used for games and films on the PS2 console. Sony claims they have far greater storage capacity and "robust" security.Powered by a chip significantly faster than the Intel Pentium 4 used in PCs and game consoles, PS3 will be "backwards compatible", meaning it can be used to play games from PlayStation and the PS2.No price has yet been set for the PS3 and analysts fear the cost of the Blu-ray technology could make it prohibitively expensive. Research by Merrill Lynch analysts last month said the cost of each PS3 unit was approaching &pound;500, more than double the current retail price of the Xbox 360. Crucially, the HD-DVD technology in the Xbox 360 - launched last December - has now been given a further seven months to establish a stranglehold on the global games market.David Wilson, PlayStation's head of PR in the UK, said fans should not be disappointed by news of the November launch. "Most people assumed that spring 2006 was for a domestic Japanese launch and historically Europe has always been the last to receive Japanese technology. I think it is actually good news that we are attempting a simultaneous launch so people don't resent the fact that other territories have it first. I think people have been positively surprised that it will be out before Christmas."But the delay of its flagship product is still seen as a huge setback for Sony's profits and brand image as it struggles to mount a recovery after several years of poor earnings. The company announced the decision after the close of the Tokyo stock exchange but it caused ripples in Europe, where the biggest video games retailer Game's shares fell 5% in London.
Did you catch much media coverage of the PS3 announcement yesterday or this morning? I thought The Mirror was being optimistic when it reported that the machine would be 'priced at just under £300'. However, the Sun, clearly unpurturbed by reports that stand-alone Blu-ray players will probably retail ataround £700, hastoldits readers:"Sony is still keeping the price a secret - although it is expected to cost around £250 - a similar amount to its fiercest rival, Microsoft's Xbox 360."Iwas too embarrasseddidn't have time to check out The Daily Star and unfortunately their website seems totally unnavigable via Safari. I did notice, however, that for a cover story, they've gone for 'I got drunk... and woke up in Africa.' I wish I'd bought it now.Anyway, the Sun delves hastily into the nitty-gritty of the PS3's tech specs while The Mirror says that it will have 'broadband, digital photo storage and video chat'. Forget the revolutionary Cell processor or entirely new High Definition media drive then...
As I mentioned inlast week's column, I think that the traditional media needs a few far-out thinkers to help interactive entertainment realise its full potential in the entertainment landscape. Thankfully, it seems I'm singing on the hymn sheet as a few big-wigs in Los Angeles.I mentioned theJames Cameron MMOG/movie experimentwhich was first brought to my attention by the ladies atWonderland. Now it seems there's another.Sponghas a story about aRon Howard-conceived project which aims to integrate the sociability, interactivity and content creation essential for the success of so many Massively Multiplayer Online Games with a reality TV series. Before the words "Reality" and "TV" force you to go drown yourself in the closest bucket of water, this may be the cross-over which acts as the harbinger for a new form of media entertainment.From the article:X Quest, for those who haven't heard of the game/show concept before, really does promise to be something wholly and entirely new - a massively multiplayer game that will be simultaneously developed with the reality TV show of the same name, according to the story in the latest issue of The Hollywood Reporter.Due to launch in 2007, the MMOG and the TV show will intertwine and feed into each other's worlds - the game impacting the TV show, and vice-versa....Players in the game will be able to interact with the reality TV stars from the show, with the best X Quest gamers on board to star in the subsequent seasons of X Quest.Oh, now that is exciting. That's much more interactive than sending a text message toEurovision.For those purists out there who fear the destruction of game property at the hands of ignorant non-game media types, the development is being spearheaded byAlex Seropian, founder of Halo creatorsBungie Studiosand Stubbs the Zombie creatorsWideload Games.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..What price information?Last week's launch of our campaign to stop government agencies charging for data collected with taxpayers' money drew a huge response, almost all backing the idea. Charles Arthur and Michael Cross report. A dedicated campaign site athttp://www.freeourdata.org.ukhas now been set up/.Microsoft's PC for big pocketsAn ultra-mobile PC at an affordable price - but will it go the way of the Tablet PC? Microsoft believes not. Jack Schofield reports.Alarm bells ring as music downloads go mobileWith wireless song sharing on the horizon, the record industry is keen to avoid the tracks of its internet tears and cash in this time. Natalie Hanman reports.Orkut angels delight in fightBrazilian internet vigilantes trying to root out online criminals could end up making matters worse. Tom Phillips reports.Web designers still failing disabled peopleBroken links, disabled back buttons, the Flash intro - everybody has a web bugbear. But now there's clear guidance for web designers, writes John Coutts.The poetic beauty of technical simplicityThe world of word-processing and spreadsheets could be facing seismic changes following Google's purchase last week of Writely.com, a free online wordprocessor, says Victor Keegan.Disposable world of movies ripe for subscription serviceThe web is abuzz with fresh rumours that Apple will release a video iPod with a four-inch touch screen, says Charles Arthur.TechnobileIf the industry got its act together, all gadgets that used the same power could have the same-shaped plug, says Dave Bush.Why does this industry think retro games Pong?Eagle-eyed gamers may have noted the release of several retro collections recently, writes Keith Stuart. But why's there nothing comparable with DVDs' deleted scenes in them?Newly Asked QuestionsWhy won't Vista support EFI?If you understand the question, you probably know there isn't a good answer, beyond: "Microsoft decided not to."How can a space satellite track Ebola?By doing what satellites do well: tracking changes in landscape such as rainfall, vegetation cover, water, height, dust and temperature.What else did we learn this week?About The Museum of Modern Betas, Writely and Skype..Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. And visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.GadgetsCanon Digital Wireless Ixus | Logitech Bluetooth headphones | Tesco's VoIP phoneRead this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town to be considered for publication.
Why is it that an American company - Google - has made it easier to create maps of the UK that merge data together than the UK's own mapping agency? Why do so many companies that want to get into the mapping market in the UK discover the government-backed agency that should be their data provider is often also a competitor?The answer is that the data that we pay to have collected (through our taxes), and which is then used by organisations such as the Ordnance Survey, is not freely available for re-use by UK citizens. We, and the companies that could benefit from its use, are forced to pay for it - putting a brake on the information economy.The campaign launched here last week to Free Our Data (http://tinyurl.com/s33cq) aims to end that asymmetrical setup, and oblige the data collectors to remain taxpayer-funded, and to provide data for free re-use. It brought an avalanche of responses, almost every one of which backed the idea. (We were also asked how one could follow the campaign, and sign up for it. There is now a dedicated website -www.freeourdata.org.uk- which should, in time, become a resource for the campaign.)But there are moves afoot within the European Union to entrench the concept that geographical data, in particular, should become the "property" of the government mapping agencies by which it is collected, and that they should be able to charge uncapped amounts for providing it to citizens. Known as the Inspire Directive, the scheme has already garnered a campaign site opposing it, at publicgeodata.org: "The Directive talks a lot about public authorities sharing data with each other. Many local government agencies have a lot of uses for geodata - managing voting processes, land use development planning, management of waste services, parks services etc - a monopoly pricing policy on the data they need will have a serious financial impact on them. Businesses and citizens whose lives are affected by spatial data services every day, have had no voice in the creation of Inspire," the site's owners argue.The popularity of Google's Maps system (maps.google.co.uk) demonstrates that there is a huge desire to combine geographic data with other data to produce maps that could contribute to reduced road congestion, or useful flood risk data from the Environment Agency or weather data from the Meteorological Office. While those organisations do provide a limited view of their data, they do not provide what anyone trying to synthesise a new dataset from two sources - that is, make a "mashup" (see Jack Schofield's article athttp://tinyurl.com/e3fdq) - wants: an applications programming interface (API) that offers a seamless interface to the underlying data.An American developer, Kevin Werbach, made this point recently (athttp://tinyurl.com/ha9pb): "eBay, Amazon, and Google: three mega-success stories of the dotcom era. What do they have in common? All of them aggressively open up their technical interfaces, allowing other sites to plug into them, or projecting themselves out to the rest of the Web ... the new paradigm of commerce and business relationships is syndication. Open up your core assets and turn them into a platform; don't hide behind high walls and expect everyone to come to you."Yet hiding behind high walls is precisely what government-owned agencies (where government is the sole shareholder, and thus the determiner of its corporate strategy) are obliged to do under the "trading fund" regime. This forces organisations like the OS to try to bring in as much revenues from selling their data to other organisations as possible, and pay it back to the Treasury. As long as revenues exceed spending, the government is happy. But are users?Alastair Rutherford, in Glasgow, contacted us about his site,www.gtraffic.info, created using Google Maps. "It displays a number of free UK traffic information feeds on a Google Maps interface, including BCC data and Traffic Wales motorway cams. Basically this site represents the sort of thing which could not be accomplished without Google supplying the map control and the map data."There is no reason that the developer community in the UK could not devise a similar free web-based mapping solution except ... we have no access to the road map data which, as you point out, we have effectively already paid for." (The Highways Agency limits access to data from the road network.) Ironically, Google Maps' UK data is, the Ordnance Survey pointed out this week, derived from OS data, licensed by a company Tele Atlas. But the precision of the data is limited.By contrast, the OS spends just &pound;105.7m annually (about &pound;2 per person) to collect data that is correct to roughly 1 centimetre horizontally, and within two metres vertically. That seems a small sum compared to the potential benefits of creating far more detailed - and advertising-free - maps than Google can offer.LoopholeSometimes, the intellectual property walls are absurd. One correspondent (requesting anonymity) noted that an international arrangement means that weather data is shared for free between national weather agencies. Thus a Birmingham-based company found it was more economic to set up an office in San Francisco and get the UK weather data under US Freedom of Information laws from the US weather service and then pass it back to the Birmingham head office. (The weather services subsequently closed that loophole.)The problems that were described again and again were high costs, and fears of legal retribution if the illegal use of data were discovered. One contact (who preferred that we withheld his name) described trying to get data feeds for a startup company aiming to provide vehicle directions. "Tele Atlas wanted about &pound;30,000 for the UK data at a basic scale, and we could not let [their] data out of our hands at all. MapPoint (the Microsoft geo-location service) wanted a huge number per transaction - about &pound;1 per routing transaction or something. Orange provides geospatial positioning, by triangulating their tower cells against their routing tables. This tells them where a mobile phone is. They wanted &pound;500 per month and a per-transaction charge."Those proved unfeasible, and the respondent had to resort to an unlicensed use of the data from another source (carrying the risk of prosecution for breaking Crown Copyright if discovered).John Farrie, who develops add-on scenery for Microsoft Flight Simulator - used by thousands of people - noted: "This issue impacts everyone in consumer-level flight sim, from the freeware add-on developers forced to use OS data surreptitiously (or naively) because there is no other practical source of data, to the commercial developers like myself who are unable to offer users what would be simply stunning add-ons because of the current situation and the users who are derived from the pleasures of enjoying scenery made from data they have probably paid for many times over."Michael Nicholson, managing director of Intelligent Addressing Ltd - which would of course benefit from the freeing of data - commented: "Government in the UK seems to have no understanding of the effect of its trading fund regime, a concept which has very few parallels elsewhere in the world. As your article rightly states, any financial benefit it brings to Treasury is a miasma which is more than counter-balanced by the suppression of private-sector innovation and enterprise."A spokesman for the Ordnance Survey said that the question of how the organisation is funded is properly one for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, not the OS itself. But as Robert Barr of Manchester University noted, the fact that the OS has not moved completely to a commercial footing may, perversely, be a benefit: "Ordnance Survey has had its accounts qualified for a number of years because it refuses to value its database. This benefits all users of mapping because, if the Auditor General and the Treasury succeeded in quantifying the value of the database, Ordnance Survey would have to provide a return on that value and prices would rise, effectively double taxing all their maps and data. So, in effect, OS only charges for current services, not the taxpayers' asset."Our argument is that we, as taxpayers, would be willing to pay for the services, while keeping the asset as our own.The campaign has only just begun, but already we're discovering the strange shapes that this copyright law is bending our economy into. Learn more and contribute more atwww.freeourdata.org.uktoday and in the coming weeks.What the 'Information Asset Register' containsPublic-sector information falls into two categories: published and unpublished. The former ranges from freely available official statistics on the economy and social trends from the Office for National Statistics, to commercial products available from state-owned trading funds such as Ordnance Survey.Most of government's treasures, however, lurk deep inside the IT systems of individual departments and agencies. The government's Office for Public Sector Information, part of the Cabinet Office, has begun compiling an "Information Asset Register" atwww.opsi.gov.uk.The register concentrates on unpublished resources including databases, old sets of files, and recent electronic files. Individual departments are responsible for creating their own registers, which they are supposed to maintain on their own web sites.However just because a set of unpublished information is posted on an information asset register does not mean it is available to users. There are three categories of user rights: "available", which means information may be republished commercially; "limited", which means information may be viewed but not reproduced; and "classified", which means it is available only to government officials. A day spent browsing the register gives the impression that most entries fall into the last category. Gems listed on the information asset register include:&#183;Rights of way. The Planning Inspectorate's Rights of Way Database, containing information updated daily since 1996. Rights: Classified&#183;NHS patients' data. The General Practice Research Database, published by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, is the world's largest computerised database of anonymised patient data from GPs. It is updated daily by some 370 contributing general practices. Rights: Classified&#183;A database of applications for costs in planning appeals, updated daily since 1995. Rights: Classified&#183;Road traffic data. The Automatic Traffic Data Collection database contains hourly counts of vehicles disaggregated by lane and type of vehicle recorded continuously at 130 sites in England, Wales and Scotland. Rights: Limited&#183;Health research register. The Research Findings electronic Register (ReFeR) provides prompt sight of quality assured information on research findings that emerge from completed projects, for which the Department of Health has a responsibility for content. Rights: Available&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
&#183;Because "beta" is the Web 2.0 version of the 1990s "Under Construction" page, there's a "Museum of Modern Betas" athttp://momb.socio-kybernetics.net/. Be prepared for a lot of browsing - there's about 70 pages of them.&#183;Google bought Writely, the online word processor ... and coincidentally paid $90m to settle a click-fraud class action lawsuit, where advertisers complained about being charged when their ads were clicked either by competitors or machines.&#183;Novell claimed it has redefined the desktop with the launch of its next-generation SuSE Linux Enterprise Desktop operating system, "the first fully supported enterprise desktop to deliver OpenOffice.org 2.0".&#183;Lycos has unveiled a "human" search engine athttp://iq.lycos.co.uk/,saying: "Basically, it combines the best bits of del.ico.us and Yahoo! Answers with tagging and RSS."&#183;At the CeBit computer trade show, Kingston Technology, Western Digital and Asetek combined to unveil the Dream Machine: a PC with VapoChill and WaterChill cooling that runs a standard 3.8GHz Intel Pentium 4 processor at a blistering 5.46GHz.&#183;Silver Surfers' Day has now become Silver Surfer Week, and will be held from May 22-26. Seewww.silversurfer.org.uk.&#183;1&amp;1 Internet Ltd has launched a BlackBerry-style "push" email service called 1&amp;1 MS Exchange. It works with phones that run Windows Mobile 5, and Symbian phones with RoadSync software, and costs &pound;5.99 plus VAT per month.&#183;Skype has announced Skype for Business (skype.biz), aimed at small businesses. It includes an enhanced Skype for Business Control Panel (which used to be called Skype Groups).&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you understand the question, you probably know there isn't a good answer, beyond: "Microsoft decided not to." EFI is Intel's Extensible Firmware Interface, introduced in 2003 to replace the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) boot chip that first arrived in the IBM PC in 1981. The BIOS chip loads the essential instructions for the PC, which gets the PC's hardware up and running so it can go on to load an operating system; but over its life BIOS has become increasingly complex. EFI will do the same job - but starts afresh with the aim of making the startup faster and more reliable.With the Intel Platform Innovation Framework for EFI (sic), there was another reason for intransigence: Intel didn't support processors from rival chip manufacturer AMD. Intel fixed this problem last summer by giving the specification to the Unified EFI Forum (www.uefi.org), which includes AMD: EFI is dead, long live UEFI. The new spec was announced in January.Normally this would be of no interest, except to PC designers. However, when Apple signed up to use Intel chips, it also adopted EFI. It didn't need to provide BIOS support, or the Compatibility Support Module (CSM) for backwards compatibility, because Intel-based Macs don't have a BIOS. This creates a problem for people who want to run Windows XP, because XP looks for a BIOS chip, and does not support EFI as standard. (It can be added, using code from Insyde Software.)People like me, who hoped to run Windows on Intel-based Macs, therefore had their hopes dashed ... but wait: Microsoft was providing EFI support in Vista. All we had to do was wait for Vista!Not so fast. During a panel at the recent Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco, Microsoft development manager Andrew Ritz dropped a bombshell: EFI support was being dropped from Vista. Or at least delayed for a "subsequent release of Windows client". Users who want to run Windows on MacIntel machines may have to wait for Intel's new 64-bit microarchitecture (the Merom, Crusoe, Woodcrest chips) to appear later this year. Macs will then go back to being 64-bit systems, and the 64-bit versions of Windows already support EFI.There's no obvious reason for Microsoft to drop EFI from Vista: the company loves selling copies of Windows to Mac owners, and offers Virtual PC emulation software to run it on PowerPC-based Macs. It's more money in the bank.The only people who might lose out would be PC manufacturers. If lots of people wanted to run both Mac OS X and Windows natively on the same box, MacIntel sales would grow and PC sales would shrink. But if a PC maker quietly twisted Microsoft's arm, we'll probably never know ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Privacy campaigners in the US hailed a victory of sorts for internet search engine Google yesterday after a court case focusing on demands from the Bush administration for access to its data appeared to swing in Google's favour.The White House had served a subpoena on several web search giants demanding data on billions of search requests and website addresses as part of its defence of an online pornography law.But a US district judge in San Jose, California, indicated repeatedly on Tuesday that he shared Google's concerns about privacy, and he did not want to create the impression government could keep track of individuals searching the internet.Although Judge James Ware said he would probably ask the search engine to turn over some of its records, it is highly unlikely the Bush administration will see more than a sliver of Google's vast data trove."The judge is clearly quite sensitive to the privacy issues that are raised by this," said Barton Carter, a communications and law tutor at Boston University, adding that it seemed the judge would give the government much less than it wanted.Judge Ware may rule within days on how much data Google must share. But it was clear yesterday the administration will not be granted a week of search requests, which would have numbered in the billions, and a million web addresses.Earlier on Tuesday the department of justice said it had scaled back its demand to a random sampling of 5,000 search requests, and 50,000 website addresses contained in the Google archive.The struggle between Google and the Bush administration, played out at a time of heightened sensitivities after a domestic wiretapping scandal, has been seen as a test case for privacy safeguards in the age of the internet."It is the leading search company in the world, and the implications for Google if the government is able to routinely make these requests would have a big impact on business and internet privacy," said Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Centre.The administration demanded the data as part of an unrelated lawsuit involving online pornography. Justice department lawyers argue the search records demonstrate how easy it is for children to circumvent internet filters.The administration did not ask for information that would identify individual internet users, or their internet protocol addresses. Some search giants including Yahoo!, Microsoft and AOL, complied, handing the administration billions of internet search records.Google alone has fought the subpoena, arguing the demand violates the privacy of its users, and could expose trade secrets about the operations of its search engine.
So, I've just got my lovely new electronics gadget. What's the first thing I have to do? Find another space among the 13-amp, three-pin sockets under my desk where I can plug in the charger brick - you know, the anonymous black plastic thing with three mains pins and a long lead with a connector that's (almost always) a small metal and black plastic cylinder with a hole in it.The next task, if I were organised, would be to put a label at the end of the lead so I could tell it apart from the others. But I'm not that organised. I usually get it right and so far I've not blown anything up - but there's always time. Eventually, the brick will end up along with the other 50 I've kept in the cupboard, just in case.So far I have 26 mains sockets, on five six-way extenders, underneath and around my desk, almost all of which have these charger bricks in them. (OK, two are my computer and monitor plugged in with a normal plug).And when I go on holiday, the most important thing to pack is a couple of these blocks of sockets, so I can recharge the gadgets while we're away. Even in England I normally want to plug in more chargers than there are sockets. Maybe it's me, but I like to plug in the mobile phones, cameras, satellite navigation systems, DVD players and iPods overnight as a matter of routine. And there are never enough sockets in a normal hotel room.Why does it have to be like this? Am I the only one who has noticed? Why can't the standards organisations and manufacturers get their act together and define a low-voltage standard?There are standards for all sorts of other things, why not this? With a standard, all the gadgets that used the same amount of low power could have the same shaped plug. There could be two or three different plugs for different power requirements. None of them would be a cylinder with a hole, and you would know that if you could get the plug into the gadget it would recharge it.Enterprising manufacturers could then produce a single supply with multiple leads, and gadget manufacturers could stop providing us with yet another brick. Instead of my five mains extenders I'd have a neat unit on the desk, with a set of short leads, and if they fitted into the gadget I'd know they would happily recharge it. Hotels and holiday homes would regard these as standard fittings and I'd never have to worry about taking the charger with me again.Or maybe I should just find a label.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Was the Mac hack a hit or myth?Re "Can you hack a Mac in 30 minutes?" (Newly asked questions, March 9). Quote: "Except ... the box's owner has not confirmed it happened." Here's your confirmation. It happened. And the bug isn't going to be reported to Apple or the community. Nothing has changed.RM, Sweden (operator of the box)&#183;One curious aspect concerns the example you mentioned at the ShmooCon hacker conference. Reports of what happened were vague, but if somebody had compromised a security expert's PowerBook, then the perpetrator knows they succeeded and did so without being detected. It seems unlikely in the extreme that they wouldn't have done the same thing again in the following months. I think the absence of any further attacks suggests that either we weren't told the whole story, or else it's a myth.Alan Taylor&#183;In a month we've had a virus that could only replicate itself after rounds of debugging by journalists, a Bluetooth virus that wasn't because it was just a proof of concept and as I understand had as much to do with Bluetooth as anything Mac specific. Now we have a hack that isn't, more of a hoax really. All this just after supposedly the most dangerous computer virus to ever hit Windows, which gave users just enough time to buy a copy of Norton Antivirus before it activated. Call me a conspiracy theorist but I feel manipulated.Simon Tyrrell, Hanwell, LondonTake noteMichael Patten should ignore Jack Schofield's remarks on notebooks (Ask Jack, March 9). I have used one as a desktop (with regular excursions) for six years, and find the ergonomics superior to a conventional machine. Everything is under your hands, and there's none of the "nodding duck" business, looking up and down to the screen.J Oldaker, NuneatonChoice languageI'm surprised Java was omitted from the response to John Whitehead's question about programming languages (Ask Jack, March 9). It is the language of choice for many, if not most, real-world applications; is available for just about any machine; and is free. The Eclipse development environment (also free) is rich and powerful, and the combined, everything-you-need installation is way smaller than Visual Studio.Phil Shotton, Bolney&#183;John Whitehead says he would like to learn a programming language. I would recommend one of the Open University's Java courses, such as M255 "Object-Oriented Programming with Java" or M257 "Putting Java to Work". Course materials include a full Java development environment for Windows, such as Borland JBuilder, and Whitehead will have a tutor for nine months.Dr David Harper, CambridgeInstant recordMy DVD recorder takes 30 seconds to read the disk from power-up and will instantly record. VHS has no idea what is on the tapeKeith Scott, LincolnDigital defenceSteve Bolton complains that "the biggest scam with digital music downloads is that the companies do not reveal the bit-rates used" (Letters and blogs, March 9). At Pristine Audio Direct we clearly state how our MP3s are encoded. We also provide lengthy free samples of our material, and do not employ copy protection systems on our MP3s or CDs.Andrew Rose, SARL Pristine Audio, Le Bourg, FranceStrip teaseIn TechnologyGuardian, the "tech" cartoon strip was on Fortran. I am one of the few (sad) people who work with the huge amount of legacy scientific Fortran code, and the code snippets in the cartoon were not Fortran - more like C.Dr Tom Oldfield, Cambridge
The web is abuzz with fresh rumours that Apple will release a video iPod with a four-inch touch screen that will be used as the beachhead for an iTunes Movie Download service - perhaps to be introduced as soon as next month.As usual, rumour is all that we have. Last week the rumour-mongers' hopes rose briefly with the appearance of a survey asking whether people would like a subscription film service from Apple. It turned out to be run by a completely separate company, Starz Entertainment, which is interested in getting Apple to be a partner in its Vongo film download service. As Alec Guinness' character said in Star Wars Episode IV, it was as if millions of voices cried out ...People seem to want Apple to do this, as if it would be some sort of world first. Yet film subscriptions aren't new. Anyone subscribing to Sky or the NTL/ Telewest packages almost certainly gets films as part of the deal. And you can join Amazon or any of a dozen DVD rental services: a monthly subscription gets films delivered to your door.So why the excitement about the possibility of another company pitching into the film subscription market with something that's bound to be slow in delivery compared to cable or satellite, with lower quality, and probably costing more per film? There is no logical answer. "It would mean I could take films with me and watch them on my iPod," some would reply. That's true but it would be cheaper (and you'd get a bigger screen) if you bought a portable DVD player and joined a postal subscription service.But the lack of logical answers doesn't mean there aren't any answers. First, it's Apple and so some people want it, even if they're not sure why. Apple-lovers, or iPod-lovers, are in sufficient abundance that any product that Apple does not offer (a PDA, mobile phone - the Rokr was Motorola's, remember - or tablet PC) becomes something it might offer. So people vacuum up any scrap of evidence that might suggest product X is indeed coming. Well, it's something to blog about on a wet Friday morning.What's really interesting is that so many people who have said for so long that they wouldn't join a music subscription service are interested in a film subscription service. I think there's definitely more potential for the latter. People like to be able to call on the music they like at any time. Music bears repetition, even improves with it; that's part of its charm. I've heard Blur's Parklife - which my computer claims is the most-listened-to song of my 8,000-strong library - more than 30 times, and I still enjoy it.I can't imagine watching any film, nor even any music video, that many times and still liking it. Bizarrely, our instinct leads us to treat films as more, not less, disposable than songs, even though their costs are astronomically higher.That means that a subscription service - where you don't retain what you download, but replace it with new things - could work in film.Amazon, whose name always seems to swirl around in these rumours (the other week it was "about" to launch a form of music download or subscription service? Still nothing) could do so, and at last - as Jack Schofield pointed out on the Technology blog - make some proper use of the Internet Movie Database (imdb.com) which it bought back in the 1990s, when, if I recall correctly, dinosaurs roamed the earth or at least answered IT helplines.All that Apple and Amazon then have to do is push the films down the line to you. At which point, they will face the problem: do you do big files, for a better picture? Or small ones, for a faster download? While they ponder, Amazon can keep its DVD rental service going. And Apple can keep selling music.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Eagle-eyed gamers may have noted the release of several retro collections recently. Just before Christmas we had Classics Collections from Sega and Capcom as well as Taito Legends and the Namco Museum Battle Collection. This year will see Taito Legends 2, Capcom's Power Stone collection for PlayStation Portable and probably a few more from regular archive plunderers Sega and Namco.You have to remain vigilant, though, as these packages are often quietly, almost disdainfully, slipped on to the shelves by publishers who really don't seem to know what to do with them. There is a vague awareness that people like old games - the rise of online emulation programs such as the exhaustive Mame (multi-arcade machine emulator) has taught them that.But there is no real understanding of the audience. As a result, retro collections are often half-heartedly produced with eccentric inclusions, mystifying exclusions, and game code that seems to have been ported across by slap-dash novices content with sluggish, blurry visuals and muffled soundtracks. As for extras, you'll be lucky to get a few scrappy pieces of "artwork" and the odd soundtrack tune.This approach couldn't be more at odds with the tactics of the movie and music businesses for whom lavish collectors editions and digital remasters have become essential cash cows. Nostalgics are treated with empathy and insight because indulging them makes perfect economic sense. No matter how many commentaries, documentaries and deleted scenes you stuff on to a re-released DVD, it's still cheaper than making a new movie. Reminiscence is raw profit.Why hasn't the videogame industry learned to exploit its heritage? Perhaps it is something to do with the relentless march of the business, the overriding emphasis on improving graphical quality.Videogames age differently from other media, too - you can digitally enhance a movie or album from 1973 so that it seems like it was produced yesterday. You can't do that with Pong. The technology and the gameplay content are inextricably entwined.But this isn't the only reason. Videogames are yet to garner the mainstream respect or academic dotage enjoyed by music and films. For the past 20 years, gamers have been a cultural underclass, left to document the history of their hobby more or less alone. Hence, the best collections of videogame ephemera are gathered and exhibited by fans - go towww.arcadeflyers.netfor a brilliant collection of coin-operated artwork. Or go to Google video (http://video.google.com) and see how many people are posting clips of vintage videogame television ads (try searching for Sega, Colecovision or Atari).Why don't these fascinating artefacts make it on to retro videogame collections?In the end, it's about shame. The industry is embarrassed by its past, knows it has always fallen short of its promises, and it has never and will never deliver the "ultimate gaming experience" because the technology that could deliver that experience with even more visual panache is always a couple of years away. Retro collections are, therefore, grudgingly produced only to stop the gaps in a slender release schedule.To videogame publishers, the past isn't just a foreign country, it's a strange and distant alien planet teeming with scary beasts. Moore's law makes grateful amnesiacs of them all.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The world of word-processing and spreadsheets could be facing seismic changes following Google's purchase last week ofWritely.com, a free online wordprocessor. Microsoft's Word and Excel have about 95% of the market for word processing and spreadsheets. The introduction of fresh competition could persuade many users of the attractions of alternatives that are not only free but simpler and more versatile than the complex products on offer. For corporate users it is more difficult as they are heavily locked into Microsoft and may worry about potential online security problems.But for individuals and small businesses it will be a breath of fresh air. Instead of writing something and keeping a copy on their hard disks before emailing it, they will be able to work online on pages stored on a server somewhere. They can then access it and continue their work from any computer or internet cafe with web access. The traditional paradigm is being inverted: your hard disk could become the back-up for your main data stored online.I have been dipping into writely.com andnumsum.com, a free online spreadsheet. Both enable people to work by themselves or collaboratively on a project with users elsewhere. You can restrict access to named users or open them to the public where, in the case of Num Sum spreadsheets, they can be given a rating in the same way that photos and videos are on social sites such asFlickr.com.Num Sum provides basic spreadsheet functions - all I need, since 95% of Excel is above my pay grade. The main question mark is over longevity. The stuff I worked on 100 days ago is still there but one needs to have confidence that such sites will still be there in five years' time (though obviously you are protected if you keep copies on a hard disk or use the storage of a Gmail account). The downside is that the small print of the terms you must agree to (as with many similar sites) reserves the right to "modify or terminate the Service for any reason, without notice".A fascinating product on the horizon is from the venerable Dan Bricklin, who is feted as the inventor in 1979 of the first spreadsheet - VisiCalc - which turned the personal computer from a hobby into a business tool. His new baby, wikiCalc (www.softwaregarden.com/wkcalpha/), is, in his words, not a spreadsheet but "combines some of the ease of authoring and multi-person edit ability of a wiki with the familiar formatting and data organising metaphor of a spreadsheet". It goes into beta soon.Writely has all the basic things you look for in a wordprocessor, including spell-checker, 18 fonts, plus functions such as the easy insertion of links to the internet, an automatic "save" function every minute or so, and the ability to tag it, send it to your blog or publish it. Above all, it hasn't the complexity of Word. I have been using Gmail as a basic word processor (while using Writely as a word counter) but there doesn't seem much point now that Google has bought Writely and, hopefully, given it longevity (though it is temporarily closed to new entrants).Another simple web site iswriteboard.com, which is too basic to be called a word processor but enables people by themselves or in collaboration with others, to write documents with a minimum of formatting. It is genuinely simple and will find favour with some.Charles Lamb once told the poet Coleridge to "cultivate simplicity" - sage advice that is evident in many of the features being added to web sites and mobile phones, including the 2.0, or new generation, services. People are no longer happy to have to search through a complicated manual to understand mobile phones or word processing. Most people no longer worry what is under the bonnet of their cars, they just drive them. So it should be with computers and the web. On the evidence of services appearing on the web, the age of simplicity may be about to dawn.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Cleaning upI have downloaded and run a free registry cleaning program fromregistryoptimizer.com, which claims to have found 450 faults that need urgent fixing. Should I pay $50 for the upgrade to solve a problem I didn't know I had?John UnderhillJack Schofield replies:I don't like this approach: while registryoptimizer.com looks OK, it's a marketing technique used by scammers. In any case, Windows registry cleaning is something best done gently, and there are two free programs that will do the job: Microsoft's RegClean 4.1a and Jouni Vuorio's superior Regcleaner (www.jv16.org). You can download the Microsoft program fromwww.majorgeeks.com/download458.html.iPod or not?I have been considering buying an iPod, but the operating system on my home computer is Windows Millennium Edition. Is there a means of circumventing the incompatibility problem?Caroline SmythJS:Many have tried, but I wouldn't recommend buying an iPod to use with Me. You could upgrade to Windows XP, which can run Apple's iTunes software. However, the cheapest and probably best solution is to buy an alternative player, of which there are many. Again, check that the software for any player you buy still supports DOS-based versions of Windows, though this is a shrinking market and won't last forever.You will be unable to use Apple's iTunes Music Store. If you plan to use an alternative such as Napster 2.0, check that you will be able to transfer songs to your portable player: it's not guaranteed. As mentioned before, it's better in the long run to rip your own CDs without any restrictive copy protection.Launch hereApple's Mac OS X has a wonderful shareware program called LaunchBar (www.obdev.at), which provides an intuitive way to find information and run applications. Is there a Windows XP program that works the same way?Simon PughJS:Quick answer: the closest thing is AppRocket (www.candylabs.com/approcket/). If you want to explore alternatives that do similar things in sometimes different ways, there are several free alternatives, including Colibri (http://colibri.leetspeak.org), RUNit (http://tinyurl.com/htpd4), Find and Run Robot (http://tinyurl.com/des32), and probably many more I've never heard of.Mac driveI have inherited an Apple G4 Powerbook with a partitioned hard drive, which was set up to run Windows and Mac OS. I have deleted Windows and installed Tiger, but can't figure out how to get rid of the partition without deleting the hard drive and starting from scratch.Stuart BlackJS:Micromat's new DiskStudio (http://tinyurl.com/f3ma6) would appear to do the job. However, you will have to do a back up anyway, so starting from scratch would be cheaper and not much slower.Lost fileI have just accidentally emptied our Recycle Bin, which contained a file I wanted to keep. Is this file lost forever, or is there a way of finding it?Mark PeacockJS:It's probably gone forever: if you have been using your PC, the file sectors have probably been overwritten. You could try an undelete utility, but if possible, download it using a different PC, then install it on/run it from a floppy disk or thumbdrive. Otherwise the undelete program could overwrite the file you are trying to save. This is an argument for downloading an undelete utility when you don't think you'll ever need one. You could try Restoration (www.snapfiles.com/get/restoration.html), which runs from any drive without installation, but I'm open to suggestions.BackchatColin Dowse's website was blacklisted and removed from Google, and I suggested he emailedhelp@google.comwith the Subject line "reinclusion request" with a brief description of the problem. Google has referred me to a blog entry by the employee I mentioned last week, Matt Cutts, called Filing a reinclusion request (http://tinyurl.com/g2jf4). This says the procedure has changed "from an email address to a web form. The best location to go [to] iswww.google.com/support/bin/request.py. You can select 'I'm a webmaster inquiring about my website' and then select 'Why my site disappeared from the search results or dropped in ranking'. Click Continue, and on the page that shows up, make sure to type 'Reinclusion Request' in the Subject line of the resulting form." The basic question - How can you find out what, if anything, you've done wrong? - remains unanswered. It seems you can't.Michael Patten asked if he should replace his desktop PC with another desktop, or switch to a notebook. Ralph Averbuch points out that he can buy a notebook PC and use it with his existing desktop keyboard, screen and mouse, as well as on the move. This provides the best of both worlds.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dionis is a single, non-smoking Judas Priest fan who loves his pets and speaks three languages. He plays the drums and his online friends say he is much loved.He is also part of a group of Brazilian vigilantes who go by the name of the "Anjos do Orkut" - "Angels of Orkut" - and say their aim is to exterminate online criminals. Members see themselves as guardian angels of the internet - hackers rooting out child pornographers and racists from the community network Orkut, part of Google's $101bn (&pound;70bn) empire."When I started to navigate [on Orkut] I was shocked by so much child pornography," the group's leader, Observer, said in a recent interview with a Brazilian magazine. "I came up with the idea of trying to put an end to this rubbish."Yet the angels are coming under fire, accused of fuelling internet crime in Brazil and destroying crucial evidence against those who distribute child pornography.Although Orkut is virtually unknown in Europe, its growth in Brazil has been explosive. About 76% of its 3 million registered members declare themselves Brazilian, according to the site's statistics. Analysts believe about 40% of Brazil's 12.2 million home internet users use Orkut.Orkut Buyukkokten designed the community to connect people across the globe. But internet regulators believe Orkut has become a hotbed for online crime and the distribution of child pornography, connecting criminals rather than friends.For prospective online vigilantes there is no shortage of targets on Orkut. Many of the communities denounced on the various angel sites contain messages from self-professed Nazis who describe their passions as "Klu Klux Klan and Adolf Hitler". Communities with names like "I hate blacks" and "Bring back lynching" abound, while federal police say traffickers use the site to distribute drugs. Explicit child pornography is also widespread."People who use Orkut are practically anonymous," said Thiago Tavares, the president of Safernet, a collective of lawyers and computer experts who monitor online human rights abuses in Brazil. Criminals view Orkut as a "lawless society".In theory, the angels were supposed to combat this, denouncing and eradicating "enemy sites". "I invade groups ... dedicated to the sexual exploitation of children [and] torture of animals," said Observer, who carries out most of his attacks at night.But the increasing polemic surrounding Brazil's internet justiceiros suggests there may be more to the angels than first meets the eye. Tavares believes that instead of countering online crime, the angels are making the problem worse.Tavares says the angels are educating a new generation of internet "crackers" in how to commit online fraud.Angels use Orkut to advertise their interest in training would-be recruits. "We are against everything that is evil and we invade communities and delete their creators," reads one recent posting."If you want to learn how to hack, just add me [to your contacts list] and we'll teach you how to ban once and for all the evil from our Orkut," it goes on."They are training people in how to copy pages and perform 'phishing scams' - the techniques used by gangs who siphon money from bank accounts," said Tavares.Experts also fear that by deleting illegal pages, the angels are contributing to the impunity that surrounds criminals who exploit Orkut. "They think the justice system [in Brazil] is slow, but all they are doing is making it even slower," said Marcos Marques, from the Sao Paulo-based organisation HackerTeen, which trains teenagers in the arts of legal hacking.Representatives summonedCampaigners have become so worried that last Friday, representatives of Google in Sao Paulo were summoned before Brazil's attorney general, accused of not doing enough to curb Orkut abusers. Authorities said they would seek warrants allowing them access to information about hundreds of suspects."Google has done absolutely nothing [to stop the spread of crime on Orkut]," said Tavares, a law professor at the Catholic University of Bahia.Representatives of Google in Brazil said its staff did investigate accusations of crime on Orkut. "The spirit of Orkut is about sharing and our policies clearly state we do not want unlawful, threatening or otherwise objectionable content on Orkut," it said in a statement.But, with angels such as Dionis multiplying across Brazil and anti-angel groups springing up in retaliation, experts say the situation has become a virtual civil war. "I don't know exactly what the consequences will be," said Tavares. "But the tendency is for it to get worse."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's enough to leave record-label executives trembling: researchers in Sweden are developing an application that could allow music to be sent wirelessly from one mobile device to another. It's a concept that threatens content owners' rights and, especially, revenue, just as illicit internet file sharing does.The Push!Music prototype being developed at the Future Applications Lab at the Viktoria Institute in Sweden is a mobile, peer-to-peer (P2P) music-listening and sharing application that runs on Wi-Fi-enabled devices. It allows users to "push" music to others in the area. In effect, you are opening your mobile music collection to others. It's a digital rights management migraine in the making. "There is no reason why P2P will not exist on mobiles - it existed on the internet," says Thomas Husson, a mobile analyst at Jupiter Research.Bluetooth, which allows content such as music to be wirelessly exchanged, is already a popular mobile-phone function with many uses, some less savoury than others. Happy slapping - when a person or group hits an unsuspecting victim as an accomplice films it - has been virally passed between mobiles using Bluetooth.The speed and ease with which such content spreads is astounding. Yet mobile operators claim they are not responsible for what their customers exchange. "There is good technology [but] some are using it for criminal purposes," says Simon Dyson, senior analyst at Informa. "I don't think there's anything mobile companies can do to prevent it. Because Bluetooth has so many uses, and so many applications use Bluetooth, it's not feasible to stop shipping handsets that use it."While Push!Music insists the project's aim is not to create an illegal way to share files, the mobile and music industries risk missing out on a lucrative market if they are not prepared for wireless song-swapping. "They want to get it right from the start to avoid the problems with file sharing," says Dyson. "They see it as a real money maker."However, as the Mobile Music 2005 report by the analysts Informa Telecoms and Media concludes, getting the process right is proving a challenge. In just seven years, mobile music - from ringtones to full-track downloads - has grown into a business worth $5.5bn (&pound;3.2bn). Many analysts believe that within five years, the mobile could replace the iPod as the most popular digital music device. But that can happen only if issues such as compatibility, licensing, pricing and digital rights management are resolved.The runaway success has been ringtones, which accounted for 89% of global mobile music revenues last year. By contrast, full-length music downloads contributed 1%; that's $4,912.7m from ringtones and just $65.1m from full-track downloads.Hot competitionCompetition to be the best in providing full-track mobile downloads is hotting up, as talent, trusted branding and technology combine to create the most popular device, such as SonyEricsson's Walkman phone and the Rokr mobile from Motorola and Apple. Operators have been busy, too: Vodafone launched full-track downloads in November 2004 as a flagship element of its 3G services, boasting 1m downloads by the end of February 2005.So the industry is ready, but is the public? Why should they bother buying mobile music when internet downloads are faster, cheaper and easier to navigate? Mobile music does offer some advantages. First, it satisfies the impulse buyer. A consumer could hear a song they like, use their handset to identify it through technology provided by companies such as Shazam and buy the song immediately.Second, music downloads offer the opportunity for bundling offers, allowing consumers to buy a ringtone, wallpaper, ringback tone and video tone along with a full-track purchase; teenagers, a target market, love the mobile's element of personalisation and bundles provide this in one easy, mobile move.Third, "dual download" systems could capitalise on the popularity of ringtones: if you buy a full-track download on your mobile, you also get it sent to your email or online account. "The two aren't going to be separate," says Dyson. "The internet has taken off in terms of music but the mobile is catching up. In Japan, mobile downloads are more popular than internet downloads."There's no need to worry about your mobile signal cutting out in a tunnel: if you have downloaded the track to your mobile, it will work like an MP3 player. Only streaming will be affected by a lack of reception or if you lose reception while downloading.But even if consumers start downloading songs to their mobiles en masse, how do you prevent them sharing them illegally? After all, it only takes one person with a PC and a Bluetooth-enabled MP3-playing phone to start a P2P nightmare. Record labels have suffered a huge loss of revenue because of their tardy reaction to file sharing. Since the first monophonic ringtones in 1998, DRM has been applied to ensure files cannot be spontaneously copied as easily as on the internet.Reward offersThe Open Mobile Alliance has released two sets of DRM specifications, the second of which, OMA DRM 2.0, came out in February 2004. But it is so complex, manufacturers are still testing it. When ready, it will allow sophisticated subscription and streaming models; the ability to prevent a track being forwarded to another device; and "superdistribution", a viral marketing tool that allows users to send a track to a friend, who can play a 30-second clip. If the friend buys a licence for the full track, the original user is rewarded.Orange looks as though it will be first to launch OMA2 in handsets in the UK later this year. Francis Keeling, the commercial director of new media and digital services at the record label Universal Music UK, praises the format's superior security: "Mobile piracy is a threat but the big difference between the P2P threat now and five years ago is there are many legitimate services providing good browse-and-buy alternatives across PC and mobile."EMI hopes to deter mobile music users from acting illegally by promoting legal downloads. It recently undertook a trial with Nokia in Finland where, in the controlled environment of a coffee shop, consumers could stream songs and music-related content. In the UK, it promoted Coldplay's album X&amp;Y by offering streaming content at railway stations.But content isn't the only component of success. Apple's success with the iPod and the iTunes Music Store lies in its style and simplicity. The mobile music industry needs to make the legal experience of Bluetoothing music user-friendly and fairly priced, so those seeking music won't try to do it illegally. But as Torsti Tenhunen, the head of sales and marketing at Nokia Ventures Organisation, concedes: "If a user is transferring a song that is not DRM-protected, then there is nothing we can do."Instead, content holders must accept a certain amount of revenue is always going to be lost. "Most handset manufacturers are aware users rip their CD collection from the PC to the phone and share it," says Husson. "The question here is more, 'how long are mobile operators going to subsidise those phones?' The answer is: 'As long as the mobile remains an acquisition tool'. And the number of music phones sold is increasing dramatically."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Image concious IxusCameras with Wi-Fi have been launched by Nikon and Kodak, but the Canon Digital Wireless Ixus (&pound;320) marks the manufacturer's first foray into this market. It is a compact camera with a fair selection of features that takes quality five megapixel images, features a 3x optical zoom and sports a two-inch LCD monitor. The Wi-Fi means that once the fiddly software is installed on a Windows XP PC (it isn't Mac-compatible), users can transfer snaps to their computer. It comes with an adapter, so images can be sent wirelessly to a Pictbridge-enabled Canon printer. But there is no instant emailing facility, like the Kodak EasyShare One, and the camera uses the slow 802.11b wireless format (rather than the speedier 802.11g) so it takes about seven seconds to transfer a five megapixel image. Battery life isn't great but, overall, this is a quality compact snapper.Logitech lets you cut looseOne day Apple will get around to delivering an integrated wireless headset system for its iPods. Until then, if you want to cut the cable you'll need third-party offerings like this model from Logitech (&pound;100). The headphones are easy to set up, with the rather large adapter slotting into the top of the Apple player. They also work as billed and you can wander many feet away from the player and keep listening. However, the headphones are not adjustable and are uncomfortable. Sound quality, while better than some rivals, is still way behind quality wired phones. Also, unlike Plantronics Pulsar 590A, the Logitech phones won't team up with your Bluetooth phone to let you make and receive phone calls. They are probably worth the money, but bear in mind that more sophisticated wireless headphones are not far off.Now you're talking, TescoBaked beans, check, toilet rolls, check, VoIP phone!? Designed to compete with Skype and rivals, the Tesco Internet Phone (&pound;19.97) consists of a handset that plugs into a PC via USB, and software that enables users to make and receive calls via the phone and through their PC's microphone/speakers. It is simple to set up, and within 10 minutes I was chatting away. Where the phone falls flat is in its call quality. Tesco might claim its compression system gives its calls an edge over rivals, but to these ears, the fizz and crackle of most VoIP phones is still there. Tesco also can't compete with Skype on fees, with calls to landlines costing 2p per minute (Skype is less than a penny). However, as calls to mobiles are just 10p per minute - better value than Tesco's rivals - it could be worth a punt.
People like portable gadgets, and Microsoft hopes they'll like a device that packs much of the power of a desktop PC, with all the multimedia capabilities of a portable MP3 and movie player, plus the convenience of a PDA with W-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, into a device that will fit into a handbag or large pocket. We have seen such ultra-mobile PCs before, but Microsoft claims these new machines are easy to operate with the world's most popular pointing device - your finger - and will be available at relatively affordable prices.That's the thinking behind the Origami Project, which saw the first handful of machines unveiled by five manufacturers, including Korea's Samsung and Taiwan's AsusTek, last week. Of course, these are not Microsoft devices. The design, manufacturing, distribution and pricing of Origami UMPCs are down to the manufacturers, as with all PCs. But Microsoft is trying to create what could ultimately be a new mass-market platform for devices based on Microsoft's Tablet PC and Vista versions of Windows.Otto Berkes, director of the Origami Project, writes: "My ultra-mobile PC incubation efforts included building hardware and software prototypes and testing the overall feasibility of the idea. And importantly, getting other people on board with the general concept both inside and outside the company. Building a new type of PC requires broad industry collaboration for new hardware, new product designs, and new software to come together as one critical mass to create a new type of PC experience."Several more sophisticated UMPCs are already on the market, including Motion Computing's LS800 Tablet PC (www.motioncomputing.com), the OQO model 01+ (www.oqo.com) and DualCor's cPC (www.dualcor.com). But Mika Krammer, director of Windows client mobility at Microsoft in Redmond, Seattle, says Microsoft has tried to make Origami machines cheaper and easier to use. The most obvious innovation is the TouchPack software bundle, which sits on top of Windows. TouchPack provides a simplified interface that is modified for finger operation and optimised for a seven-inch screen. It also includes a program launcher (not wholly dissimilar to the Media Center version of XP), DialKeys (an onscreen keyboard for typing with two thumbs), and an extra game: Sudoku. To get the starting price down to about $500-$600 (&pound;286-&pound;344), Krammer says Microsoft has focused on "using components that are already available ", such as the seven-inch screen used in portable DVD players. "Now we have this [base machine], we can innovate with different sizes, more powerful processors, extended battery life ... It's a balancing game," she says.Origami UMPCs will generally measure about 6 x 9 inches, be about an inch thick, and weigh less than 2lbs. The screen resolution starts at 800 x 480, which may be zoomable to 1024 x 600. Memory slots for SDIO, CompactFlash etc provide extra storage and can be used to transfer photos and movies from other devices.Built-in cameras, microphones and stereo speakers make some Origami UMPCs useful for creating podcasts, and for video conferencing. USB and VGA ports mean they can also be used with standard desktop keyboards and screens.The main drawback with early examples looks like being the limited battery life: about two to three hours. Microsoft wants all-day use, but at the moment, the chips and batteries cost too much.For Microsoft, this isn't a product launch, it's the first step of a staged platform introduction that will play out over five years. But whether there will ever be a mass market is questionable. Pocket-sized PCs such as the Poqet and the Atari Portfolio were launched in the late 1980s, but never sold in great numbers. Tablet PCs have done worse, with a string of failures that started with the first DOS-based GridPad launched in 1989. Microsoft's Windows XP-based Tablet PC platform, launched in 2002, has failed to take the tablet format beyond its niche in specialised businesses. Why should a mini-Tablet PC like the Origami be different?Michael Gartenberg, an analyst with Jupiter Research, thinks the platform has some potential because of its new "10-inch user interface", and the price. He thinks the multimedia/fun elements, combined with note-taking capabilities, could make it appeal to students. The ability to run full Windows applications on the road could appeal to business users who don't want to lug a larger notebook PC around. There are also "the enthusiasts who can use this as not a second, but likely a third PC". This could be enough to sustain the version 1 product, he says.Product has legsI don't think many buyers will stump up the cash without getting their hands on a device, so I asked Fortun&eacute; Alexander, the trading director for hardware for the Dixons-owned PC World computer superstores. He said: "It's early days, but we are interested in the product, and we think it has legs. We have had success with ultraportables in the past [with small notebook PCs, PDAs such as HP's iPaq range, and smartphones such as the iJam], and we think we will be able to sell these successfully when they hit the market."Ubiquitous networking - Wi-Fi, WiMax, 3G etc - would make something like the Origami much more attractive. Alexander says that German users are going to be offered notebook PCs with embedded 3G sims for &pound;1, if they sign up for two-year contracts, and UMPCs are not far off some smartphone prices. Get an Origami for &pound;1, with a contract? It's a thought.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
By doing what satellites do well - tracking the changes in landscape such as rainfall, vegetation cover, water, height, dust and temperature - to identify the climatic conditions that help epidemic hosts such as Ebola haemorrhagic fever and meningitis to spread.The Epidemio project, funded by the European Space Agency and started in January 2004, has just reported back - and created some converts."I was negative about the role satellites could play in addressing epidemics, but now I am positive," said Penelope Vernatsou of the Swiss Tropical Institute in Switzerland.The Epidemio project combined satellite data such as water levels, forest over and height from ESA's Envisat with field results on the presence of Ebola and meningitis cases.It began with a study of Ebola (which can cause runaway internal and external bleeding in humans and apes) in Congo and Gabon, in the hope of spotting particular environmental characteristics associated with infected sites.Ebola poses a particular problem because its "reservoir" - the animal that can be infected without showing symptoms - remains unknown, but must lie somewhere in the deeper jungle. The Epidemio project managed to link the epidemic spread with dryness and drought.Knowing that means officials could in future warn people in villages that are at increased risk.Ghislain Moussavou, of the International Centre for Medical Research (CIRMF), based in Gabon, said: "Because there are no medicines to prevent or cure Ebola, predictions and prevention are necessary."But she hopes that, in time, it may be feasible to pinpoint the origins of Ebola epidemics from space, rather than trying to trudge through 4000 square kilometres of jungle in the hope of finding an animal that acts as the virus's reservoir. By narrowing down the possible sources, a more directed search would be possible, in which researchers could take blood samples from animals to see if they are asymptomatic carriers of the disease.Dry conditions favour the spread of meningitis, which inflames the brain and spinal cord lining. ESA has thus started providing "dust maps" for high-risk areas to help set up early warning systems.Christelle Barbey of Silogic, in France, showed that dust maps do correspond with a heightened risk of meningitis.Though the Epidemio project finishes next month, other projects are already growing from it, including one that will try to confirm the onset of malaria epidemics from predictions made from satellite data.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
How utterly un-Xbox is this? Veteran developer Rare has got together with US TV production company 4Kids Entertainment to produce a cross-media family entertainment 'property' named, Viva Piñata. Set in a 'vibrant world of living piñata animals', the concept consists of an animated TV series to be shown on FOX this Autumn, and an Xbox 360 videogame. As Microsoft's press release explains:"Set to release this holiday season worldwide, Viva Piñata is a customizable, social and spontaneous game that invites players of all ages and skills to explore an immersive world where they are challenged to create and maintain a living garden ecosystem that grows in real time. Beginning with a few basic tools, players build and take control of their environment to attract and host more than 60 species of wild piñata, utilizing hundreds of customizable elements to create their very own distinctively unique thriving paradise."There will also be community and trading elements on Xbox Live.It sounds like a kiddie-friendly cross between Pokemon and Harvest Moon, but Microsoft seem keen to push this as a family game, 'enjoyable for everyone - from kids to adults'. Whatever, it's a really quite baffling change of pace for Xbox 360, unless it turns out that one of the Piñata pets is actually a shadowy stealth operative. Or a fast car.There's a websitehere.
For a run down of what Sony said during its press conference this morning, check theJoystiqsite. Most of the info comes from IGN reports, but the IGN coverage is inabout 15 different posts, startinghere. If you read Japanese, it's atWatch impress, which is worth a visit because it has pics of the slides (see above).Briefly, the Sony strategy is to copy what Microsoft has done with the Xbox 360 -- a global almost simultaneous launch -- but with fewer units to meet what I expect to be much greater demand. (On our Gamesblog, Keith Stuart reckons it's2 million units.) Sony will also attempt to repeat the success of Xbox Live with a service from Sony Online Entertainment.Any real news? The PS3 will require a 60GB hard drive, so there presumably won't be any lower-price packs as there are with the Xbox 360. The 60GB drive will also be able to store movies (home media play) and support Linux. Final PS3 dev kits "will be shipping out to production houses in June," giving them four or five months to complete their games. Finally, Sony willnotcut the price of the PS2 -- which is hardly surprising since they won't be able to meet demand for the PS3.According toGamesReports(unconfirmed): "As for price, Sony has said the unit will not cost less than 50,000.00 JP YEN. This equates to $425.607 USD. Oh boy."Comment: The info on dev kits means Sony has known for some time that it was never going to make a spring launch.
"Can you sniff out the presence of spyware on a Web site? Can you tell when a download is about to bombard your PC with spyware or adware? Take SiteAdvisor's inauguralSpyware Quiz, and find out if you're a High Risk User or a Safety Guru when it comes to detecting the presence of nasty downloads. No matter how Web savvy you think you are, there's a very good chance you'll be fooled by at least some of the sites we show on our quiz," says theSiteAdvisor blog.Comment: This is well worth a go, though it takes a while because you have to check each site picture separately to see what they are like. And if you can beat my score of 7 out of 8, I'm sure you will be able to tell me which one I got wrong ;-)Ulterior motives dept:SiteAdvisoris promoting an IE toolbar that tells you whether or not Web sites are safe. Theproduct FAQsays: "We're developing premium versions of our software to be sold on a subscription basis. The current trial version of our software is available free of charge. Since Web sites can't pay for ratings, you can be sure that our ratings are objective and uniformly applied." I have not tried it.
Chat-time.
Well, Sony certainly confoundedmyexpectations by revealing that it will launch PS3 with around two million units... for a global roll-out. Once you've recovered from that (and stopped surfing round videogame retailers to see if any are taking pre-orders yet - Ebay here we come...), Joystiq.com has asnappy timelineof this morning's fateful press coneference, in which Kutaragi made the following revelations:1. PS3 will be 100% backwards compatible 2. It will 'require' a 60GB HDD, but there's no word on whether this will be included with all units or whether there'll be some kind of crazy two-tier packaging system a la Xbox 360 3. PS3 will boast improved community elements and a free online service - although again there's some ambiguity here. It's not clear whether the full service will be free, or just a basic service - like Xbox Live Silver.1up.com has morehere.
"Eurotech's wearable WWPC [Wrist-Worn Personal Computer] means user-centric ubiquitous computing: contents can be shared and services accessed anywhere thanks to the integrated GPS receiver and wireless extended infrastructure,"says its Web site.This 200g device runs either Linux or Windows CE, and is aimed at industrial and commercial use.Engadget says it's it ismerely a concept for now.As someone remarks onSlashdot: "Now you can have the best Leela costume ever!"
After the interest generated in my lastpostabout clothing label/ARG company edoc Laundry, I contacted the company to see what they had to say about their novel approach to playing with fabric. Spokeswoman Connie Sung kindly put me through to co-founder and interaction director Elan Lee, who answered all of my pressing questions about games, fabric and branding.What is edoc Laundry?edoc laundryis the world's first interactive apparel line. Each garment in the edoc range has a secret hidden in the graphics, stitching, ink, or fabric that, when deciphered, can be entered into a website to unlock a fragment of a murder mystery.What was the magical moment when you arrived at the idea?The three founding members of the company are Shane Small, me, and Dawne Weisman. The idea grew out of the combination of our talents and experiences. Jordan Weisman, Dawne's husband, and I pioneered what's now called Alternate Reality Games back in 2001 with a project we did for Steven Spielberg's movie, AI. We learned a lot about what we call deconstructed narratives, where you tell a story by taking it all apart and challenging the audience to put it all back together again. Shane's background is in fashion design and marketing in South Africa and he and Dawne were working together at Wizkids Games when the three of us started brainstorming about how fashion has always really been a communications medium. The magic moment really came when we decided to push clothes even farther into the realm of story telling.Do you align yourselves more closely with artists or game-makers?We are primarily a clothing company. Ultimately, if the clothes don't look and feel great, we've failed. We love the secret codes and the hidden story, but they're really just frosting on the cake (or gravy on the meat, depending on which meal is closer as you read this...and yes, dessert counts as a meal.) Each garment in the line is of the highest possible quality. Double layered fabrics, custom embroidery, wrap-around prints, foiling, and unique finishes make every item in our line something we'd each be proud to wear even if the shirts were not each a key to saving an innocent young woman from a crazed murderer, hell-bent on destroying everything good and pure in his wake.How will you stop power-players from purchasing all of the clothing and winning the game?We stay up nights worrying about the terrible scenario in which customers who normally make very modest investments in games or fashion, get so engaged with our product and narrative that they feel compelled to run out and empty the edoc inventories of their local retailers forcing us to create more garments, and continue our company. So far the only solution we've come up with is biting our nails and mentally plotting their demise. (We'll keep you posted on how that goes.)How much planning goes into something like this?We've been in pre-production for about a year. The first shirts hit store shelves this month.What eventualities have you all planned for?Global Thermal Nuclear War. We've dug a bunker large enough to accommodate all our employees except one. We've found this to be an excellent way to increase employee motivation and productivity. Also, we're hoping to be around for a few more seasons as our story is structured much like a TV show. Each season, when we release a new line of clothing, we also release a new season of our story. At the end of each season our main story arc comes to a conclusion, but will also introduce a few cliff hangers to keep you coming back for the next installment. (it's like HBO on your shirt!)How much control have you allowed yourselves to give over to the players?We've set up several online forums for the players to directly participate with and influence the story. These forums blend seamlessly into the fiction, and are themselves scattered with clues to solving the mystery. As players use the forums to contribute to the fiction, we will adopt and incorporate the best bits and tweak our story in accordance with the creativity of the community.Why clothing?We believe strongly that clothing is a key communication tool in our culture. What we wear can say more about who we are than a biography stapled to our foreheads. (I dare you to prove me wrong.) We wanted to see if we could squeeze that communication channel a bit harder to get more out of the tube. No one has ever used clothing to tell a story, and we felt the overwhelming urge to step up.What's the endgame?If all goes well, there doesn't have to be one. It's true that, like a good TV show, each narrative arc will come to a satisfying conclusion at the end of each season, but we hope to be able to keep making clothes and finding creative ways to tell our story indefinitely.What role will ARGs play in the entertainment spaces of the future?ARGs are just in their infancy. I've been building ARGs for six years now, and I still don't quite know what they are or where they're going. We have a lovely idea of what the movie version of our story looks like, but it feels like we're still building the movie screen, and trying to figure out how big it should be, what color works best, and whether or not to make it tasty when licked. We think we can tell a story through clothing. If that works, a lot of people are going to have to start rethinking about the definition of a tee shirt.
Google News will publish fake press releases, as 15-year old New Jersey student Tom Vendetta has demonstrated. The story ishere....Comment: Tom's blog athttp://tomvendetta.be/is worth a read, especially hisI am Sorrypost. He writes: "I geuss all my dreams and hopes of getting a job at Google have officially been demolished."
Ken Kutaragi has confounded expectations by promising a simultaneous launch across the major territories. But this raises some pretty fundamental questions. For starters, given the difficulties Microsoft had in supplying a world market with its Xbox 360 console, how will Sony cope with such enormous demand when its hardware is much more complex? There are two elements of the architecture that have never been mass-produced: the Blu-ray drive and the Cell processor. Blu-ray hasn't even been finalised as a standard yet - the relevant parties are still to agree on the security encryption arrangements, although of course, this won't hold up actual production as security encryption is part of the firmware and could be uploaded later.So, has production begun? Well, we know that key developers are still waiting for final spec PS3 dev kits, which suggests the machine's innards are yet to be finalised. However, lets assume the manufacturing process cranked into motion at the start of the year. That leaves Sony ten months to manufacture enough PS3 consoles to meet worldwide demand - or at least to see them through til Christmas. On previous evidence, that'll be around 10 million units (three each for Japan, the US and Europe, plus one extra for sundry other territories). So, Sony's factories will need to be producing a million consoles a month. That's 50,000 a day. That's a lot of machines.Sony must be extremely confident, though. It has stalled on making official comment for several weeks, clearly unwilling to jump in early with reassurances that would later prove unrealistic. And of course, we know that Microsoft's attempt at a global Xbox 360 launch with too few units was frustrating to both retailers and gamers. Most shops were unable to stock the machine with anything approaching regularity until several weeks afterwards. Lessons must have been learned from this.One thing's for sure, Sony aren't giving anything more away. Sony Computer Entertainment Europe issued a short press release this morning, quoting President and CEO, David Reeves:"We are absolutely delighted that we will be able to bring PS3 to gamers in Europe and Australia before Christmas. This is an exciting first for Europe, and is a huge endorsement and vote of confidence in the strength of the European market and its importance globally"I approached SCEE to see if I could have a word with president of Worldwide Studios, Phil Harrison, but was told that he won't be making any further comment on the announcements. The next time he'll be speaking about PS3 will be in his keynote at GDC next week. Sadly, I won't be there with my spurious manufacturing figures and calculator...UPDATE:AS you may have noticed over onTechnology Blog, Reuters hasposted a storyin which Kutaragi states that Sony plans to initially produce 1 million PS3 units a month for a total of 6 million units in the business year ending March 2007. "This may not seem like much, but it's more than the initial capacity for PlayStation 2," he said.
It's been obvious for months that Sony wasn't going to release the PlayStation 3 this spring, as it claimed, and now it has finally admitted it. AsReuters reports: "Sony Corp. said on Wednesday it would delay the release of its new PlayStation 3 video game console until early November because development of some of the technology was behind schedule."Unfortunately, Sony has made an even more stupid decision: it's going to copy Microsoft's worldwide launch of the Xbox 360. Reuters says Sony plans to launch "almost simultaneously in Japan, North America and Europe in time for the key holiday season."You can understand why. Sony will be a year behind the Xbox 360, and the longer it leaves it, the worse the PS3 is going to look in comparison. However, Sony cannot make enough machines to meet worldwide demand.From Reuters: "Kutaragi said Sony planned to initially produce 1 million PS3 units a month for a total of 6 million units in the business year ending March 2007."Now 1 million units a month isthe same rate of production as the Xbox 360. Microsoft's contract manufacturers fell shy of that because of component shortages, but the same thing could well happen to Sony's. Either way, over the first three or four months, there will be roughly as many PS3s made as Xbox 360s.But how about demand? Let's say the PlayStation fan base is roughly five times as big as the Xbox fan base. If so, there could be five times as many people competing for roughly the same amount of stock. So the shortage of PS3's will be five times bigger. These are ball park figures so you can make up your own numbers, but if you thought the Xbox 360 launch was a mess, the PS3 looks like being dramatically worse.Then there's the price, which Sony has not announced. "Analysts expect the PS3 to cost about $500," says Reuters. If that's true, Sony will lose hundreds of dollars on every unit. (Merrill Lynch reckons the parts alone cost Sony $800, without the manufacturing, distribution and advertising costs, or dealer profits. Even if ML's numbers are out by 100%, Sony will still be losing money.)Given Sony's financial performance, with the PS2 in decline, is the company going to sell $1,000 consoles for $500 when PlayStation fans are almost fighting in the streets for them? If so, you know what to do: order your pallet of PlayStation 3 consoles as soon as possible, and prepare to sell them on eBay....Meanwhile, there's a bit of a problem for games studios, especially the ones with no Xbox 360 developments. According to Reuters:KBC analyst Hiroshi Kamide said the delay of the PS3 has negative implications for Japanese software developers, many of whom rely on PlayStation's popularity to drive revenues. "There's nothing in the first half of the year, and the install base in the second half will be so small it will have no material impact for earnings at all," he said. "This is going to be a horrendous year."But it's not all bad news. In the run up to Christmas, tens of millions of parents will go shopping for consoles for their kids. They won't be able to get a PS3, and most of them won't be able to go home empty-handed. This should give a fantastic boost to sales of the Xbox 360 and especially the Nintendo Revolution, assuming that makes it out in time at a reasonable price.See also, below:PS3 for Christmas? Bandai says spring is impossibleMerrill Lynch prices PlayStation 3 parts at $800Sony's PS3 release date in questionSony could lose $1 billion on the PS3Hands-on with the PlayStation 3 dev kitA 2007 launch for PS3?Sony chief warns PS3 will be "expensive"
Just back from the Miyamoto interview and here was his response when I asked him what he thought about today's PlayStation 3 announcement."Any announcement about PS3 will affect Nintendo. But we don't see it as a competition between the two consoles, although the customers always do. It depends on what expectations people have of the PS3 and Revolution. Sony have taken a long time to create their machine but it is obvious that the direction we (Nintendo) are taking is different to the PS3."I will get the rest of the interview up later today.
