The Atlantic sea-floor is one of the few places where the information superhighway lives up to its name. The optical fibres that carry internet and phone traffic between the US and the UK might lie at the bottom of the sea, but they really are the fast lane of the web. Text, images and movies zip along these connections at the kind of speeds that, if we could access them at home or in the office, might justify some of the internet hype. But by the time data reaches our monitors, the highway is more like a muddy track.As the internet gets more sophisticated, so the need for faster connections grows. Home users and the coming generations of mobile phones will consume bandwidth like never before. Work out a way to extendthe high-speed connections of the internet backbone into our homes and you'll find yourself very wealthy.For home users, the highway stops with your local internet service provider (ISP). Big ISPs have a huge broadband connection to the backbone of optical fibres that sends internet data around the world. But home users connecting to ISPs use a link built for something totally different - the copper   wires designed to carry our voices around telephone networks.Copper wires carry digital signals just as well as analogue telephone conversations, but they're not up to shipping the kind of digital content that we want out of the internet. You can do some clever things - BT's new OpenWorld service uses ADSL technology to increase connections speeds by roughly tenfold - but fundamentally there is only so much bandwidth you can squeeze out of a metal wire.Start doing the sums and it is clear that copper is not the way forward. ADSL offers 512kbps to about 6Mbps, a big improvement on the 56kbps most home users currently have. But high-quality full-screen moving images will need more like 30Mbps, leaving ADSL up to 10 times too slow. Cable modems, the main alternative to ADSL for home users, do not offer significantly more speed.ADSL and cable might be the only way to improve your access right now, but over the other side of the pond, companies are pouring billions into what many believe is the only system capable of satisfying our need for bandwidth. After years of dithering, the US telecommunications   giants are starting to extend the optical fibres that form the backbone of the internet to the "last mile" services that connect local ISPs to homes.Piping optical fibre into homes isn't a new idea, but home use of the internet looks set to justify the huge costs of installing such connections. US phone company BellSouth trialled a video-on-demand system more than 10 years ago. Consumers liked it, but not enough for them to want to pay to dig up the roads to install it.A decade later, the internet could make all the difference. Soaring home use and the promise of mobile web appliances vastly superior to today's Wap phones have persuaded a slew of telecommunications companies to get out the pneumatic drills and start laying new optical fibre networks.Here in the UK, broadband access remains the preserve   of universities - which have their own dedicated network - and companies able to afford the huge fees charged for megabyte per second T1 connections. And if the cost of fibre networks puts investors off for as long as it did in the US, the frustration of home internet use could be with us for several years to come.In the meantime, UK companies may look instead to some of the more imaginative solutions being touted by smaller US outfits. TeraBeam, for example, has reasoned that laying fibre to carry light is unnecessary; light can travel happily through air without a guiding cable. The company plans to install an optical transmitter on a suitably high building in Seattle and beam signals straight through the windows of nearby offices. The &#163;18,000 a month subscription fee means it will be available to business users only, but those lucky few will enjoy a 1 gigabyte per second connection.Home users are more likely to benefit from a range of schemes to construct what US businesses call "high towers". In the case of the collaboration between Nasa and AeroVironment, the "tower" is actually a solar-powered pilotless plane that circles endlessly above cities. Named   Helios, the plane acts like an extremely tall radio mast, capable of avoiding hills and buildings and beaming signals straight onto receivers on the roofs of houses.Helios has already made its first flight, but more work is needed on the solar cells and the batteries to power it at night before it can start full service.A lower-tech but perhaps more feasible high-tower solution is offered by old-fashioned airships. The Sky Station International consortium plans to build a fleet of 250 airships in Italy, the first of which should be airborne by 2002.Once afloat it will hover   21km above cities and, according to the company, deliver 10Mbps connections - roughly 200 times faster than most current home links.Whether these schemes will work remains to be seen. What is not in doubt is that our hunger for bandwidth will continue to grow, as content becomes increasingly sophisticated, delivering everything from live football to bedtime stories.Give home users faster connections and watching movies on the web might become enjoyable. And once we want to watch movies on the net, someone, somewhere will find a way of getting the bandwidth into our houses to make it possible.&#149;   Jim Giles works on the Wellcome Wing project at the Science Museum in London
Stephen King, the author, took umbrage last week when the internet-only serialisation of his new horror novel, The Plant, attracted only 41,000 customers on its first day instead of 500,000 as he had hoped for.The rest of the world can rejoice in the underlying message: it will be a long time, if at all, before the web puts the printed word out of business. The web is brilliant for getting information fast. But the more we do it, the more we appreciate the pleasure of reading a novel in a relaxed   way or browsing (true browsing, not its electronic counterfeit) through a magazine or newspaper.The publisher of Wired, the US magazine which reports on the culture of the web, once received an email from someone who had read the entire contents of the magazine online and felt guilty about it. He wanted to pay the company, but the publisher replied: "If you can read all the contents of Wired online, you deserve to have it free."If you ever have any doubts about this, go into your local W H Smith and look at the   computer and internet magazines: big, fat, expensive and eagerly bought by the people most used to working online.Even the internet magazines dedicated to web life that can be much more efficiently read online - because they contain hypertext links   - are read offline. And that includes a hefty tome called UK.Directory whose 260 pages consist almost entirely of web addresses: perfect, you would have thought, for reading on the web - but no, the geeks prefer to read it in magazine format.Another subject tailor-made for the web is planning to get married. The internet has lots of sites offering to do everything from planning dresses to organising the catering and presents list.Has this put bridal magazines out of business yet? Not quite. According to Guinness   World Records, a recent Brides magazine had a world record 1,080 pages of advertising to accompany 190 pages of editorial.According to a report by Christopher Gasson on Britain's publishing industry, (Bookseller Publications), it is possible that more will be published on the web during the next three years than has been published in print since the invention of the printing press 600 years ago.Yet the book market, far from being destroyed, is still expanding (helped, it must be said, by online sales companies   such asAmazon.com). The same is true of the print machinery industry. While sales of conventional presses used to print products like books and labelling will go up by a modest 1% to 2%, the growth of internet-related printing is expected to grow by 15% annually for at least the next five years. No one talks much these days about the death of paper.Some newspapers have lost readers to the web but this is mainly the sort of person who dipped into the paper rather than read it for pleasure. The web is great for eclectic reading, sampling or receiving breaking news - which is why Wap (wireless application protocol) phones will be a big carrier of news (and goodness knows what else) in future.Newspaper people still presume it is written somewhere in cyberspace on tablets of code that recruitment advertising will sooner or later migrate to the web. It might - but there are signs that the principle of opposite effect may be working here as well.Just as new technology   newspapers failed to oust traditional ones (because they saw the apocalypse ahead and took remedial action), so traditional newspapers are fighting back against the internet.They are selling advertisements across several different platforms - web, internet phones and multiple sections of the newspaper - to provide blanket cross-media coverage.They are also realising that the people who responded to job ads in the newspapers weren't necessarily looking for a job at the time - so - they would not have been using web   search engines in the first place.Internet start ups are starting to fall by the wayside- Clickmango is the latest. This is partly because they misunderstood the nature of the net but partly also because old economy companies realised their underlying strengths - like branding, delivery and knowing their markets. To them, the web is an extra way of selling goods; to web start ups, it is all they have got.Just as old economy companies have been reclaiming territory, so old media companies are beginning to devour the new medium by   embracing its core strengths. The possibilities offered to newspapers and magazines by web phones, for instance, are awesome.The underlying strengths of the printed media may change when a really user friendly electronic book is devised or, more likely, when electronic paper arrives. This will look like a newspaper and read like paper but the print will arrive by wireless and the whole page folded into your pocket. It will then be left to linguistic philosophers to decide whether this is a case of new media triumphing - or old media adapting once again.
When Robin Downs signed up forBreathe'sunmetered internet access deal, Breathe Freely, he thought it would save him a fortune.For a one-off payment of &#163;50, Robin - a systems consultant based in the West Midlands - could surf the net whenever and for as long as he wanted. Breathe Freely's free 24/7 internet service, one of a rash of new unmetered access deals announced in April and May this year, would mean he would have no worries about racking up those giant phone bills every UK-based net user dreads.Or so he thought. Last week, three months after signing up to Breathe's offer, he was unceremoniously disconnected from the service provider's unmetered offering. The reason? He was using it too much.Around 500 other "heavy users" found they, too, were no longer breathing freely.Their disappointment was mirrored by thousands of surfers using different ISPs around the country who - while not actually thrown off their services - were suffering woeful levels of service.Breathe, founded by Martin Dawes Telecommunications and backed by &#163;20m from Chase Capital Partners, 3i and US Flatiron Partners, had invoked a clause in its terms and conditions allowing it to disconnect anyone who "puts our ability to supply the service at risk".But at least Downs and his fellow "heavy breathers" had enjoyed some kind of service - albeit briefly. Rhys Tucker, from Cardiff, is one of many NTL users who were looking forward to similar savings way back in March, when the cable giant promised: "From 17 April 2000, you'll be able to surf the internet free of charge!" Tucker is still waiting, along with thousands of other net users, for the vital CD-rom to arrive in the post, so he can get connected.By the end of last week the Advertising Standards Authority had received 144 complaints aboutNTL'sadvertising of the service, and it has launched a formal investigation. NTL, if nothing else, can at least claim the dubious honour of the highest ever number of complaints over matters of fact in an advertisement, notching up nearly double last year's record.Meanwhile, across the   country, net users signed up to other unmetered ISPs are struggling with engaged tones, slow service and technical cock-ups.LineOne has announced it is pulling the plug on its unmetered access from the end of September, provoking a frosty letter from its trade association, the Internet Service Providers' Association, asking it to explain its actions.Virgin.Netabandoned plans to unveil its own flat-rate service last month. Even BT's own ISP, BTInternet, has drawn complaints over its level of service, especially on weekday evenings.The ISPs' long summer of discontent started in a blaze of hype in March.AltaVistaannounced it would launch a new form of internet access which would give users free calls to the net. The company did not actually deliver until the very end of June - but that did not stop several other ISPs launching competing offers almost straight away.On the horizon was a deal, brokered by telecoms watchdog Oftel, which would force BT to offer the means to provide unmetered internet access at wholesale prices. With BT dragging its heels, that is only beginning to happen, meaning the ISPs are left paying users' phone bills. Some ISPs feel that is a price they are not willing to pay.At Breathe Freely, however, it appears to have simply been a question of capacity - or lack of it. The company decided it wanted to skim off the most internet-use   intensive - and expensive - 1% of its users."We got it wrong," admits Sean Gardner, chief operating officer of Breathe, trying to explain why Robin Downs and around 500 other users were cut off. "When we launched Breathe Freely we were among the first unmetered ISPs, and there was no forward visibility as to what the usage patterns would be."Looking over the first three months of the service, we found that 1% of the users were causing real problems for the rest. Had it been half of the user base, we would have had problems, but doing this was the right thing for the majority."But why could Breathe, with its high-profile financial backing and big-budget advertising campaign, not simply invest in its infrastructure to provide a decent service to all its users? Gardner says the technology which they opted for at launch was, remarkably, not scaleable to meet demand. Breathe Freely will relaunch this month, he says, with more flexible technology in place.Meanwhile, he says, the company has learnt a lot about users' voracious appetites for the internet when they are not paying by the minute for a connection."The research company, Durlacher, predicted a three-fold increase in a user's internet use when they got unmetered access. Our experience pointed to an increase of six to 10 times previous usage. We just could   not predict that," says Gardner. He says one user somehow managed to clock up 29 hours of usage in one day by setting up an ISDN-style connection."There were also several businesses using the service," he adds, "and we had made it clear this offer was not for business users."But Downs insists that he was not abusing Breathe Freely before he was cut off, using it mainly in the evenings and then largely only for internet chats with friends living abroad. "They say they have a small proportion of users on for a long time," he says. "But, statistically, that is always going to be the case - you're going to get people who use it a lot, and those who do not use it at all."Downs is now challenging   the validity of the clause in Breathe's contract that says users can be disconnected if their level of use puts the service at risk.He is also angry he got no warning that his levels of use were considered abnormal. "At no point have I had problems getting on to Breathe," he adds. "I've not been hearing the engaged tone - it didn't appear line capacity was an issue."Over at NTL, consumer public relations manager Jacqueline Aldridge says it, too, has been caught out by demand. It has been limiting the number of CDs issued to preserve the quality of their   service (although Online readers who have managed to get CDs have complained about engaged tones, downed email services and sluggish responses from NTLworld)."There has been very high demand for the service so we have been managing distribution of discs," she says. "Obviously, there are very frustrated and disappointed customers, because they are keen to get the service as soon as possible."We're sending out discs now very rapidly to people in the queue, and everyone who signed up before the end of May should get their disc before the end of August. Anyone who signed up after that is being told exactly how long they will have to wait."Most people who are using the service are really liking it. Just because it is a free service doesn't mean you shouldn't be able to get connected, or have the service collapse under the weight of people using it. We want to make sure that, for the people who are using it, it's a really high quality experience."For would-be NTLworld user Rhys Tucker that isn't the point: he feels the email he was sent in March promised him free internet access in mid-April, and NTL's failure to deliver that has cost him money in charges made to NTL's standard, metered service. He is now pursuing a claim against NTL in Cardiff county court in an attempt to recoup those charges."I'm really annoyed by it all," he says. "What really gets me is that they can promise free internet access and then just not honour that commitment. They promised existing customers would have priority, but that doesn't seemed to have happened at all."The problems some ISPs are facing with unmetered access are not deterring their rivals - this week ic24 announced plans to extend its free hours online to weekday evenings. The company's marketing director, Jill Playle, has even lambasted other ISPs for deceiving consumers and taken a lie detector test in an attempt to prove her company's "after eight" deal is really free.It is, but the company's offering is still restricted, running only for four hours a night during the week, and users get cut off after one hour to discourage loitering.So is unconditional, quality unmetered internet access ever going to come to pass? Telecoms analyst Tim Johnson of Ovum, an IT research house, says that the arrival of a new bulk-buying arrangement with BT (see panel) will make it much easier for ISPs to offer flat-rate access 24 hours a day, by fixing their costs.The new system, he says, has proven technically difficult to implement, and has taken BT and some ISPs by surprise. But, he adds, "when they do get round to it, it will change the whole scene."In 12 months' time," he promises, "fixed rate access will be what everyone is doing, as a matter of course."Can we turn this telecoms fiasco into Friaco?So far, unmetered access has been a fiasco. Aside from problems with quality, even signing up to an unmetered ISP has been complicated by demands to switch phone companies, and install special software that forces you to look at advertisements.These problems stem from the struggle ISPs face to recoup their costs from unmetered access. They are effectively having to pay users' phone bills by the minute, while being paid only a flat fee, if anything, by the user. They are unable to buy connections in bulk   from BT, whose only flat rate product - Surftime - is dismissed by many as too expensive and too complicated to administer.There is some hope, however. BT has been told by the telecoms regulator, Oftel, that it must offer a new solution for ISPs wanting to offer unmetered access. That solution is called Friaco - for flat rate internet access call origination. Friaco could have a dramatic effect on the way Britain accesses the internet. According to the Campaign for Unmetered Telecommunications (Cut),   "always-on" Friaco connections could cost ISPs as little as &#163;60 a year per user, which works out at 60 to 80% less than BT Surftime.That is low enough to keep subscriptions low, or even free.Friaco was supposed to be available from June 1, but continued haggling between BT and ISPs means it has been delayed.Negotiations are continuing between ISPs and BT over how the costs will be split, but it is expected that we will begin to see the first Friaco services in the last three months of this year.And that means, finally, we could be surfing on a flat rate in time for Christmas.Cut's Erol Ziya says that, while this summer's problems might create short-term scepticism about unmetered offers, in the long term "it will take off"."It is the only sensible way to use the internet," he says."Things will settle down, and there will be a range of providers at a range of prices and quality."There is a market for pay by the minute, but that will become the niche it always should have been."
Bigsave.com, the online department store owned by Hong Kong-based financier Jim Mellon, has shelved plans for a stock market flotation that was to have valued the business at &#163;300m.Ian Wilson, Bigsave's chief executive, said the decision had been informed by tough market conditions, which continue to punish hi-tech stocks. The company will re-examine plans to join the market at the end of year."We had been looking at the second quarter of this year for a flotation but the market conditions are not right," he said. "We are not experiencing any difficulties raising private financing because we are meeting our performance targets so there is no need to rush."Bigsave's stated aim is to reach profitability by 2002. The company has raised $22m (&#163;14.7m) in private investment so far from backers including Equitable Life, Friends Provident and a string of wealthy individuals.Its latest initiative is the launch of a nightly Bigsave-branded show on digital home shopping channel Ideal World.Mr Mellon has been a late convert to the internet but has adopted the faith with some vigour. In March he rebranded his investment vehicle Regent Pacific as iRegent.com, reflecting the weight of money going into internet stocks. One of his most profitable investments has been a 45% stake in Korea Online a profitable web-based insurance company. He owns 60% of Bigsave.The British tax exile, however, is better known in this country for leading the attack that spelt the end for Hambros, the merchant bank.Bigsave claims to have between 40,000 and 50,000 hits a day and offers a wide range of goods from electrical goods, to children's toys, books and CDs. The company's board includes former Kingfisher director Nigel Whittaker.Mr Wilson said the Bigsave TV home shopping programme was illustrative of the way e-tailers would need to develop. "This is quite clearly a key initiative for us," he said. "It is about doing what the consumer wants and if the consumer would like to buy through the TV then we will provide the service."
Spinal TapsterWhile a certain heavy metal band - yes, you know the one! - seems to have some kind of problem with MP3s, archetypal headbangers Spinal Tap, thankfully, do not, especially when they are looking for ways to promote the September re-release of their film This Is Spinal Tap. You can go to the newTapster siteand download the free MP3 of their comeback single, Back from the Dead. While there, why not download some more free MP3s of music "inspired by, ripped off from and dedicated to Spinal Tap". The press release notes: "This will be far more controversial than Napster, really," said Tap's Nigel Tufnel. Bassist Derek Smalls added: "We' re not unnecessarily concerned about intellectual property - this isn't about Harvard, Yale or Oxford."Rude bitsIf the appeal of saccharine electronic postcards with those horrible tinkly computerised music tracks has just about worn off by now, how about going for a mix of naughty bits and atoms instead? Atwww.moonpig.comyou can use the web to send a proper paper card for &#163;1.99 plus P&amp;P, which they'll print out and sign for you. Of course there   are clean cards there too, but we liked being able to choose from categories such as Beer and Beaujolais, Lavatorial, and Rumpy Pumpy. Extra bonus feature: a "naughty filter" lets you look at (or avoid) all the dirty-joke cards.Top of the flopsLost Musicalsis a UK-based site that lovingly chronicles all those painful flops and failures that fleetingly graced the West End and Broadway stages. Moby Dick, the musical, is among them, but you can read the playbills for others or keep an eye on promising failures in the Flopwatch section of the site.Pop chartsFactoid and pie graph fans will like thePopulation Reference Bureau, which has every imaginable type of statistic relating to population for 221 countries. The subsection on the European region brings up details on world refugee populations, women's lives, the high death rate among Russian men, and more.Apocamon nowMany parents already consider Pokemon monsters to be a plague, so the existence of Apocalypse Monsters, or Apocamon, may come as no surprise. See them in full colour and read all about each    one atApocamon, the Final Judgement. A drop-down menu encyclopedia lets you "find out their powers, their missions, and which segments of humanity they intend to destroy". If you doubt the authenticity of   Apokemon, note that the site's contents are copyright 80AD to St John the Divine.Money talksPolitical activism is alive and well on the web, even for billionaires. They are getting organised for the US presidential election at billionaires for Bush or Gorewww.billionairesforbushorgore.com"because inequality is not growing fast enough". To further their ends, they offer a price/performance analysis of the presidential candidates, and invite visitors to participate in the ultimate posh protest, the Million Billionaire March. If you prefer to rebel at home, the site also offers a section full of useful chants and slogans. "Take to your cell phones, take to your faxes, Join the fight to end all taxes!"Happy eatersFinding vegetarian-friendly restaurants can be tough, but it is especially hard for travelling veggie lovers. Globetrotting vegetarians might want to check out theHappy Cow, which offers a listing of more than 1,600 vegetarian restaurants all around the world.Boo hooReports of the death of the net economy may be exaggerated. But there is a certain grim fascination in watching things go wrong, and sites are springing up to follow the death throes of assorted dot.coms. Best known iswww.fuckedcompany.com, "the dot com deadpool", which relishes kicking 'em while they're down. More mainstream is Bubble Economy atwww.bubbleeconomy.com("prepare for the pop"), which   tracks the business pundits as they voice their internet angst.Jargon watchWordSpyis a word-a-day site dedicated to recently coined words or words that are staging a comeback but used in new ways. It has a random word generator and an archive, or you can subscribe to a daily mailing list. The site also has a Tech WordSpy section.New and notedFollow Macmillan Cancer relief's two-week bike-ride across Mongolia from your armchair atwww.everyoneswelcome.com; generate your own Corrs and U2 lyrics atwww.p45.net; and search for services five minutes from any motorway junction atwww.5minutesaway.co.uk.Six of the bestNapster replacementsHomebrew versionwww.gnutella.comScour daily downloadswww.scour.comPay and playwww.mp3.comFree MP3 a daywww.emusic.com/promo/yahooSearch herewww.listen.comSpinal Tap rules!www.tapster.com
Lastminute.com, the internet shopping service co-founded by Martha-Lane Fox and Brent Hoberman, made a loss of £9.3m in
the last three months, the group said today.The figure, recorded for the quarter-year to June 30, compares to a loss of £1.1m for the same period last year. 
However the group, which sells holidays and gifts online, said it had seen a set of "strong" results. 
It added that the current quarter-year had begun with July being "significantly the strongest" trading month the company had
experienced.Lastminute said its subscriber numbers across Europe had jumped by 50% to 2.1m while the number of items sold over its
service grew by 21% to 90,500. 
The group, which floated on the London stock market in March, has been in the spotlight after its shares, which leapt following the
flotation, quickly fell below their issue price leaving investors nursing a big loss.
Call for helpDo you know of free UK-based internet call waiting software similar toBuzme.com,Callwave.com,Whoisit.com, etc?J Owen Skinnerowen_skinner@4unet.co.ukJack Schofield replies:The UK has trailed when it comes to services that answer the phone while users are online,    apart from BT's answering service (not free). In the absence of American services such asBuzMe,CallwaveandWhoisit, we haveOnLine Call Manager, which was launched late last year. OCM will let you play a message asking people to call back, divert the call to a mobile phone or fixed line, or record voicemail. If callers are also online using a "voice over IP" (internet protocol) system, you can even talk to them. But if you know of any alternative UK services, let me know.Password problemPreviously, I could save the password of all my dial-up connections to the internet. Recently I had some problems and re-installed Windows. Now I can't save the password of any dial-up connection. Is there a place where you have to set Windows to allow you to save passwords?David J. Petersendjp@netvigator.comJS:This is such a common problem that I'm amazed it   hasn't come up before. Unfortunately the solution may not be simple, as there are at least 10 possible solutions such as re-installing dial-up networking, renaming or deleting password (.pwl) files, and simply making another connection for the service (My Computer|Dial-Up Networking|Make New Connection).Changing the Windows Password file, using Start|Settings|Control Panel, may help but probably will not. However, you can try. Double-click the Passwords icon, select User Profiles, and click the button that says Users can customise their preferences. Restart Windows as requested and when asked for a password, leave that field blank but click OK.Microsoft's online Knowledge Base provides several more alternative solutions athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/q148/9/25.asp.Other KB articles that may be useful include Q135197 (Damaged Password List File Does Not Save Passwords) and Q137361 (Save Password Check Box Is Unavailable). You can get to these fromhttp://support.microsoft.com.Incidentally, Microsoft now offers a friendly 26 year old "software agent" (not a real person) and "student of life" called Maxwell to help users with queries. Unlike me, he is dumber than he looks. Ask Maxwell is athttp://support.microsoft.com/support.Mail triggerMy inquiry concerns the automatic triggering of a web connection that comes with email from Amazon.com and others. Even if I am trying to delete it before it can act, it beats me to the punch and starts an internet connection. As my computer dials 10 times, I have to stop it 10 times. At least with double-glazing salesmen, we can just put the phone down.Charlie Gillettcgillett@oval.demon.co.ukJS:The simple solution is to start Internet Explorer, select Tools and then Internet Options. This will pop up a tabbed dialogue box. Choose the Connections tab and click the radio button to select: Never dial a connection. Finally, click OK to close the dialogue box. The drawback is that when you do want to go online you will have to start the connection manually, eg by double-clicking an icon on the Windows desktop and clicking Connect.If you don't have an icon to click, create one by going to the DUN (Dial-Up Networking) Folder - as above - and attempting to drag the icon for your connection (eg Demon Internet) on to the desktop. Windows will create one for you.Driver, he saidWe have a whole raft of Microsoft products running under Windows 98 and they   all run perfectly except Publisher 2000 which crashes frequently.There is a two in three chance of getting an "illegal operation" message. Under "details" it says "general protection fault in module 3DFX16V3.DRV at 0008:00000258". Is there a cure?Walter Kingwalter@dart-sensors.comJS:The error message is telling you there is a problem with the 3DFX video card driver software. Try installing a new driver downloaded fromwww.3dfx.comor, if that doesn't work, try using a Microsoft graphics driver from your Windows CD.Icon do itWhen shutting down my PC with Windows 95 I must have touched something that made all my file, inbox, Recycle bin and short cut icons go into what looks like a negative with very little colour.The Start menu icons have a white square behind them with broken images. They all work still but because of the smudged effect are sometimes difficult to pick out, although the lettering is still readable. Can you help?Mike PearsonMpearson@surfree.co.ukJS:This is a known problem, though not a common one. The icons are stored in a cache file called ShellIconCache, which saves getting them from individual programs each time they're needed.Your cache may be damaged. If you delete it, Windows will create a new one automatically.ShellIconCache is a hidden file in the Windows folder. To see it, go the View menu in Windows Explorer, select Options, and then click Show All Files and OK. Finally, reboot your PC.Microsoft recommends restarting Windows 95 or 98 in Safe mode before deleting ShellIconCache.If that doesn't solve the problem on its own, there's the riskier approach of changing the Registry. After taking a back-up copy of the Registry (always a good idea), go to the Start menu and select Run. Type in regedit and press enter.Go down the tree to HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\ Windows\CurrentVersion\ explorer and add "Max Cached Icons"= "2048"Then restart your computer.However, don't mess with the Registry if you're not sure what you're doing.
The European Commission said it raided several German publishers and Austrian media retail chain Libro yesterday in an investigation into alleged collusion against internet booksellers.EC inspectors visited Verlagsgruppe Bertelsmann in Munich, Aufbau-Verlag in Berlin, book wholesalers KNO and K&amp;V in Stuttgart and the German book trade association in Frankfurt, as well as Libro's headquarters near Vienna, an EC spokesman said.The inquiry potentially has major implications for the future of internet book sales in the two countries and beyond and follows a bitter dispute with the Brussels authorities that seemed to have been resolved earlier this year.The EC said the aim was to investigate allegations of collusion between the publishers and wholesalers to boycott internet booksellers that undercut fixed book prices through cross-border sales to consumers in Germany.
Telecom firms fight US billA group representing 45 European telecoms firms yesterday backed EU efforts to stop draft US legislation that would restrict overseas companies entering the US market.On Tuesday, the European commission launched its own attack on the measure, proposed by US senator Ernest Hollings, which could block Deutsche Telekom's takeover of US mobile phone firm Voice-Stream Wireless.Mr Hollings' legislation would close a loophole permitting acquisitions of US telecoms firms by foreign companies that are more than 25% state-owned, as is Deutsche Telekom.Brown rebuked for late replyGordon Brown was rebuked by the Commons treasury committee yesterday for taking two months to reply to its report rejecting his appointment of Christopher Allsopp to the Bank of England's monetary policy committee.In its report in May, which is non-binding, the committee cast doubt on whether Mr Allsopp had the skills to take part in MPC meetings. But Mr Brown's reply, dated July 28, says Mr Allsopp "fully satisfies the criteria" for appointment to the MPC.Property prices seen as highA study released yesterday showed that four out of 10 people in Britain think homes in their area are overvalued, despite Tuesday's figures from Nationwide offering further evidence that the house price boom is over. The study of 960 people for property website Asserta Home showed that 41% of respondents thought properties in their area were overvalued. This figure rose to 61% in London and the south. In contrast, in the Midlands it was 40%, while in the north it was just 24%.New Deal leads to frustrationLong-term unemployed who are motivated to find work are frustrated by the government's flagship New Deal programme, according to a new report today. But the scheme has been helpful for those with low expectations, research by the office for national statistics found. A third group of unemployed people was cynical about government programmes and resented any compulsion to take part, said the report.Telefonica chief clearedSpanish stock market regulators yesterday cleared former Telefonica chairman Juan Villalonga in an insider trading investigation that helped force his resignation last week. The national securities market commission said that Villalonga's 1998 dealings in Telefonica stock options "do not constitute sufficient indications to justify the initiation of a sanctioning procedure for improper use of privileged information."
The Irish internet security company Baltimore Technologies, said yesterday that a surge in sales is likely to help move it into profit earlier than expected.For the second successive quarter, results from the Dublin-based firm beat market expectations and forced analysts to revise their forecasts. Chief executive Fran Rooney said good sales outside the European market was driving the growth."We're very happy in that sales in all our markets are growing very fast but we've been surprised by the speed of our progress internationally," he said. "A few months ago we would have predicted that our sales split would roughly be 40% in Europe, 40% in US and 20% in Asia, but now I'd say it'll be more like 35%, 35% and 30%."Europe now accounts for 40% of sales, with the US contributing 26% and Asia Pacific 34%.Revenues for the three months to June 30 were 22% higher than the previous year at &#163;16.3m, and 70% up on the previous quarter. Losses widened year on year from &#163;9m to &#163;13.4m, but Baltimore insiders indicated that losses had probably peaked by now and would go down in the next quarter.Analysts believe that the company will break even by the first quarter of 2002, but are raising their revenue forecasts for this financial year by around 10% to &#163;66m.Shares in Baltimore, which were ejected from the FTSE 100 index at the last quarterly review following the downturn in the value of technology stocks, climbed 47p to 694p.Recent acquisitions in Japan and the US are already making a healthy contribution to group revenues, and Balti more was actively considering other deals, said Mr Rooney."We will continue to keep an eye on our own industry for potential consolidation candidates," he said, adding that Baltimore was particularly interested in increasing its presence in the healthcare, payments systems and electrical appliance markets."We look at targets based on three criteria: market access, technology access and industry consolidation," he said.Mr Rooney refused to say which companies he was targeting but analysts said that if Baltimore's share price remained resilient it could go for a merger with one of its largest US rivals.They said one possible target is Entrust Technologies in the US, which last month saw its shares plunge more than 50% after warning that second-quarter earnings will be much lower than expected. It is valued at around $1.5bn (&#163;1bn).
2B or not 2B has been the crunch question exercising the minds of Europe's most powerful industry regulators in the past few months and the moment of truth is drawing near.Trillions of pounds are at stake and the European commission has until Monday to make a ruling which is expected to set a global regulatory precedent for the future of business-to-business (B2B) internet marketplaces.The EC is considering MyAircraft.com, a joint venture between some of the aerospace industry's biggest players who want to trade spare parts and engines over the net. The rationale is that it will allow participating companies to slash costs by pooling their purchasing or selling power to achieve critical mass. Middlemen will be cut out and, in theory, pricing and transaction costs will be transparent and lower.There is just one problem. Regulators on both sides of the Atlantic have expressed concern that the concept might give rise to price-fixing cartels. The industry players are so big and their collaboration is, to say the least, slightly unusual.Business-to-business e-commerce is forecast to generate more than &#163;4 trillion by 2005 making retail e-commerce look relatively paltry by comparison. It accounts for four-fifths of global e-commerce and a disparate collection of industries is rushing to join B2B exchanges to cut costs.In the motor industry a B2B exchange, Covisint, has emerged. A joint venture between Ford, General Motors, DaimlerChrysler and Renault/Nissan, it aims to become not just the main way the car makers' suppliers sell their wares to the big three but eventually the preferred venue for suppliers to trade with their partners.The commodities marketplace is going online in the form of the Intercontinental Exchange. The venture intends to offer a variety of metals from August, and in the fourth quarter plans to start oil-based derivatives such as swaps - contracts in the difference between a product's prompt price and the price of a forward traded month.In many cases, some industries have more than one exchange on offer and the idea is that there will come a time when it makes sense for these to link up into a seamless virtual global marketplace. The boundaries between different market players will inevitably become blurred, and regulators in Brussels and Washington are unsure how to deal with this unsettling phenomenon.In the case of MyAircraft.com, Honeywell International, United Technologies and i2 Technologies have banded together. The aviation industry says it expects to conduct a quarter of its business over the net within a year and it spends &#163;270bn annually on spare parts and engines.Boeing, BAE Systems, Lockheed Martin and Raytheon have announced that they plan to do the same thing. Their exchange, Exostar, will be up and running in September and its money-making potential is huge.The four companies do business with 37,000 suppliers and almost every nation's government, and have a combined annual procurement budget of more than &#163;50bn. Ominously, its chief executive has admitted that its activities will over lap with MyAircraft.com and has said that the two exchanges will be connected and might eventually even merge.Regulators might need more time to assess the problems posed by B2B deals, but MyAircraft.com will be the first real opportunity for Brussels to wade into the debate.It can opt to approve the deal or initiate a four-month inquiry. Investigations often throw up specific problems which can only be remedied by the companies concerned making certain concessions. The EC will have to tread carefully, because Washington and a host of other industries which plan to create their own exchanges will be watching closely.EC spokeswoman Amelia Torres explains: "One potential violation of competition rules would be if the companies that enter into online exchange platform deals were to exchange price or other sensitive information, because that would be a cartel and we would not authorise it."The competition commissioner, Mario Monti, has in recent times shown a willingness to play hardball in the field of mergers and acquisitions. He will be aware that his US counterparts are also looking into B2B exchanges. The US federal trade commission is considering whether it should approve Covisint. Making sure that companies abide by the EU's competition rules and do not abuse their dominant position to squeeze out competitors is the one area of competence where the EC wields real power, and Mr Monti will want to get it right.B2B marketplaces are said to be so important for the future of e-commerce that he is likely to come under enormous pressure from his colleagues and others not to do anything to stifle its progress. That may prove a difficult balance to strike.
I could be making my name on the internet right now. All I need is a bright idea and I can live the Great Internet Dream - that my startup website becomes the best in the field and millions will surf a path to my door. Kudos, fame, interviews in Time magazine, profiles in the FT... all around the corner, just as soon as I have a brilliant idea.While awaiting inspiration, I had a look for other sites that have done the same. There are quite a few. Although the corporate giants such as Microsoft, the BBC, CNN and AOL Time Warner have a massive web presence, some of the smaller non-profit sites have the reputation that is infinitely more powerful on the net.Best known is theDrudge Report, which reached international prominence when it broke the story of President Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky. Matt Drudge started by relaying anonymous Hollywood gossip, and, as his reputation and contacts list grew, he moved into all types of news - his was the first US news source to publish the story of Princess Diana's death. It is unpleasant to read and often strident, but it does get the news out.Many other sites have achieved success in the same    way, although not to the same government-shaking extent.Ain't It Cool Newsis simply one person's website consisting mainly of film reviews not very well presented - but, like the Drudge Report, it has access. Its reputation has brought it prominence in a continual virtuous circle. The more people you reach, the more people contribute rumours, gossip, reviews or whatever to your site; as your site gets better content, its reputation grows and more people visit. Reputation is all: David Lisk of Northern Ireland has, for some reason, built an amateur list atwww.airdisasters.co.ukof every civilian air crash in history. Such is its deserved popularity that after last week's Concorde crash in Paris it almost collapsed under the visitor load.Oddly, although the internet started life as a network connecting research institutions, very little independent science information is available. Oddly, because science depends on the full and free exchange of information: the isolated scientist is rare beyond the shores of Doctor Moreau's Island or the grounds of Castle Frankenstein. But publication in a peer-reviewed journal is the scientific mark of quality, and publishing on the internet    rather than in the scientific mainstream is viewed as unnatural, the province of fringe scientists, charlatans and flat-earthers (see the Flat Earth Society atwww.flat-earth.org; but possibly they are not entirely serious).Non-specialist independent sites do exist, generally run in the authors' spare time. One exmple isHow Stuff Works, whose author was forced by sheer pressure of readership to transform it into a commercial company.ScienceNet, a charity devoted to answering science questions from the public - it has a telephone equivalent, Science Line - and aPieceOfUswww.apieceofus.org.ukare still non-commercial, probably thanks to large pools of volunteer authors.The contrast between scientists and technologists couldn't be greater. The net was created mainly for scientists, but largely by first-generation computer hackers. The first bulletin board services (a means of posting messages and replies for a selected readership) were set up by programmers for programmers. They exchanged technical hints, clever shortcuts, jokes that only a hacker could find funny and the first Frequently   Asked Questions lists.Everyone profits from a well-maintained FAQ list; and, more often than not, programmers, like any other profession - doctors, lawyers, politicians, soldiers, even journalists - feel more in common with their competing opposite numbers than with their distant employers. Thus there are whole libraries of shareware and freeware: programs that are open for anyone to use (trywww.freewarefiles.com). There are many websites that exist solely to provide tips on constructing websites, such asWebmonkey, and, of course, numberless FAQ sites on everything from the care and feeding of your petAfrican clawed frogsto building your owntelescope.Every hobby, however obscure, has a home somewhere in cyberspace: the Eddie Stobart lorry spotters' club is atwww.lorryspotting.com- and compared with some of the other hobby sites out there, lorry spotting is mainstream.Although it makes no commercial sense, the co-operative culture of the internet has survived the explosive dotcommercialisation of the 1990s - better, in fact, as some veteran Net users remark, than many of the dotcoms themselves. Will it last? It is still growing as the internet grows, and showing few signs of dying out. New co-operative projects are announced all the time, and attract thousands of volunteers. So perhaps it will survive after all.
Eyes have itOlympus has unveiled the latest incarnation of its Eye-Trek multimedia glasses, the   FMD-700. Unlike its predecessor the new model features VGA and SVGA interfaces for easy connection to a PC.So if you fancy playing games, or even working on Microsoft Excel on what Olympus claims is the   equivalent of a 52inch screen now is your chance.The company claims the new Eye-Treks are capable of better picture quality than the original version thanks to a tweak called Optical Super Resolution.Olympus has also entered into an alliance with Polaroid to manufacture hybrid digital cameras that have the ability to make instant Polaroid prints. The first model, the Camedia C-211, goes on sale in the US in October for $799. No news yet on a UK launch.  (AN)Cheaper MeMicrosoft UK plans to sell Windows Millennium Edition or Me for half price for the rest of this year. Users upgrading from Windows 98    or Windows 98 Second Edition (SE) should be able to get the new version for about &#163;39.99. This may reflect the fact that Me is not noticeably different from SE, and most of the new bits can be downloaded free from the Microsoft web site.  However, users upgrading from Windows 95 will be asked for the usual &#163;79.99 or less, while the handful buying a new retail copy will be stung for up to &#163;149.99. Windows Me is expected to reach the shops on September 14, almost three months    after the code was completed.Gadget questSome readers have had difficulties finding two of the summer gadgets featured in Online last month.  The Mosquito Cure can be found atwww.edgeco.comor 001 800 732 9976 (and some airlines also have it in their in-flight sales magazines). Teksta the robot dog is available from Vivid Imaginations (01702 200660), or Hamleys in London.
At a lossTwo games industry giants revealed financial losses last week. Sony Corporation lost   88.29 billion yen ($810m) in the year's second quarter on sales that grew by 5.4% or 1.56 trillion yen ($14.3bn). However, the company made an operating profit of 33.74 billion yen ($309m) before taking a 101 billion yen ($926m) write-off on movie projects following a change in US accounting rules.Electronic Arts, the world's biggest independent games company, lost $42.3m in the quarter, as sales slumped to $154.8m from $186.1m in the same quarter last year. Larry Probst, EA's chairman and   chief executive officer, said: "The first quarter was a challenging period, as we entered the seasonally slow summer prior to the introduction of PlayStation 2".Both companies are investing heavily in developing games for the PS2, to be launched in the UK on October 26. The date for pre-ordering the machines has been put back to September 7.In trainingMicrosoft hopes to repeat the success of its long-running    flight simulator with theMicrosoft Train Simulator.It will preview the title tomorrow at the National Train Show, a model railway exhibition in San Jose, California. However, it won't be launched until next spring.The program offers six simulations including the Flying Scotsman, the Venice-Simplon Orient Express, Amtrak in the US, and Odakyu Electric Railway in Japan.The MS Train Simulator is    being developed byKuju Entertainmentin Surrey, England.Xbox on trackRobbie Bach, senior vice president of Microsoft's games division, told an annual meeting of financial analysts that the Xbox games console "will be the biggest launch Microsoft has ever done". The 18-month marketing blitz will cost $500,000. "You can't do this half-hearted. It's a long-term investment and one we take very seriously."BIG LeagueBattletop.com, which launched the Korean Internet Game League (KIGL) and the American Internet Game League (AIGL), is now planning a British Internet Game League (BIGL). It will be launched at a tournament at the Millennium Dome in London on September 9. The first prize is &#163;15,000. The winner will compete in the World Cyber Game Challenge in Seoul, Korea on October 15, for a $200,000.
Any favourite websites?TheFinancial Timesis one, as isTornado Insider. I also go toRed Herringfor all the latest on the industry.Are you happy with the way the net is regulating itself?It's still pretty anarchic and there are still a lot of poor sites, useless information and anyone can pretty much do what they like. So I think I would like to see a bit more regulation. I also see taxation ahead, although it will be very difficult for governments to work out a successful way of taxing the net.Are any of the new platforms having any impact?I don't think that Wap (wireless application protocol) has had a terrific impact yet but it's all set to be the most significant platform for accessing the net over the next year. I think it needs a more advanced distribution system. GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) will make a tremendous difference, as will third generation technologies when you'll be able to transmit video images to a mobile phone screen.Is e-commerce having any effect on conventional commerce?I think it's denting it very slightly in certain areas. Even though e-commerce revenues are set to quadruple in Europe over the next three to four years, more than 50% of net users in the UK still do not buy anything online! Surprisingly, the biggest area for online shopping is groceries and women, who are the biggest online shoppers for groceries, but comprise a fairly small proportion of internet usersWhere do you see e-commerce going?I think it's clearly growing in certain areas like travel, computer software and hardware, videos and CDs but there will be fewer players. The larger retailers and high street brand names will continue to do well offline but they will do better than the pure play internet brands as and when they decide to go online. They'll have a much better-known and trusted brand.Do we suffer from too much information?Many of the online news and information sites are not always very focused. It's often not very clear what they're offering, for whom and why.Are you a fan of gadgets?No, not really. However, I am technically literate.Is the internet community any less prone to sexism?I think the problem starts when many women feel that the internet is about IT, which it isn't. I commented some time back that I do not receive enough requests for investment from women. Many women maybe don't have enough confidence to submit a business plan but also feel they have to have an understanding of technical issues or technical skills which they absolutely don't need to have. All they have to be able to do is articulate what they would like the customers to do on the site, what services they'd like to provide and what options they'd like to give. A systems development company would then help them put it all together.
Some mothers do have 'emI was surfing the net when I came across my son Douglas's column (Online, July 27).I'm sure Dougie is right to worry about new computer users, and how some software is unreliable. And he's sweet to expect about an "endless string of phone calls" from me "at all hours" as I struggle with my new computer. In fact, I found it all quite simple. And, do you know, I'm not alone. An Age Concern survey in May found that 81% of elderly people found it easy to use a computer, and that one in four of us spend more time at the PC than watching television.I'm sure you'll get some nasty letters misinterpreting Douglas's concern for little old me, and suggesting that he was being somehow sexist or patronising, so I thought I'd set the record straight.Mrs Rushkoff  c/o Colin Wilsoncwilson@lasa.org.ukDouglas Rushkoff's article was extremely patronising to women. I thought this kind of writing was now extinct! I am a fiftysomething mother of two and am the computer expert in my family, closely followed by my daughters and a long way behind, my husband.Jane Trimmertrimmer@btinternet.comLess power to the PCDouglas Rushkoff's mother's present certainly embodies a universal problem. I had two years of software misery with Windows95 and now have OS 9. Mac is better in two respects: it goes wrong less often and it guides you sometimes when it goes wrong. It is easier to get out of Mac troubles than W95 troubles.But why do we need this unreliability at all? I have had a Psion 5 since it came on to the market. It is a workhorse for all the usual applications and it never goes wrong. So why can't we have a bigger   computer with Epoc as the platform? If someone would design and produce it, surely Psion would license the system out?Jeffrey Bossdoresh@pop3.poptel.org.ukOnline replies:Psion does make such a machine! It's the Series 7 - &#163;634.95 including VAT. Details atwww.psion.com.Douglas Rushkoff is right. Computers have got worse. A friend recently asked me a similar question because she wanted a word processor (no net access, no email - just a word processor).My first word processor sat on a low density floppy disk, and ran on a Mac with 2Mb of memory - it didn't have more menu options than the space shuttle, and it didn't go around indenting paragraphs on its own initiative.A cumbersome G3'd internet beast would have her on the phone on a regular basis (as well as crashing regularly, for no apparent reason). PCs are a usability nightmare. So we're going to buy a nice old Mac, one that doesn't crash (mine never used to), one that "opens", "saves" and "prints" and maybe even spellchecks.Philip Windwood100745@altavista.comBrowser bluesI agree with Anthony Cunningham (Feedback, July 27). It is frustrating when pages display correctly in Internet Explorer but not in other browsers. But I feel he is shooting at the wrong target.It is unrealistic to expect web developers to support legacy browsers. Why, for example, should web developers code for browsers that don't support frames? Sadly, there is no such thing as "standard html (hypertext mark-up language)"; there is "Netscape html", and there is "Microsoft html".The only real solution is to restrict oneself to the minimal subset of html. A better solution would be to enforce tight standardisation on html and require web developers to conform to this standard.Brian Marsdenbrian.marsden@cheshiredatasystems.co.ukLords a leapingGeorge Kitchin's letter (Feedback, July 27) seems to make a good case for abolishing the House of Lords! Technology is moving too fast for their lordships and they cannot even keep up by reading the   newspapers. If they can do no better than say that a digital original cannot attract copyright, they can never have heard of music CDs, digital throughout, with all the attendant fuss over piracy from the record companies.Surely, whether the original is a photograph, or a piece of music, it is the originality of the creator that attracts the copyright, not its specific presentation.Michael Mannmichaelmann@cwcom.netDead lossIn his review of Dead Or Alive 2 (Online, July 27), Steven Poole piously regrets the "soft-porn trappings of heaving breasts and flashing knickers" in a product aimed at 12-year-old boys.But in mitigation, he becomes quite lyrical in describing its "highly refined beat-'em-up mechanics", enthusing about the "patina of_ grace (lent) to the frenetic punching and kicking" _ which "flow together with beautiful freedom" as fighters are hurled through (stained-glass) windows, slammed up against walls and the "the illusion of solid, crunching contact is unmatched".Well, that's all right then!Jack TreagusManchesterBad systemJack Schofield (Online, July 27) describes how the London Stock Exchange problems in April were because "overnight computer processing took longer than expected". From what I understand, the problem was caused by the fact that they had to repeat their overnight processing because erroneous data entered the system.Many computer professionals must have been astonished at this. The designers of the system seemed to have ignored two fundamental principles: that data should be validated on its earliest entry into the system, and that regular checkpoints should be taken, maybe at hourly intervals, so that if anything goes wrong, the run can be restarted without having to go back to square one.What is as true now as it has always been with computer systems, is that, while you must be prepared for all eventualities, there is always the obscure problem that nobody thought of.Chris Jagerchrisjager@cwcom.net
Porsche comes to shoveNeed for Speed: Porsche 2000Sony PlayStation 	&#163;29.99 Electronic Arts		****Let the wind ruffle your hair in more than 70 (74) different models of Porsche! Take a thrill-packed ride through more than 50 (52) years of motoring history! Race friends or computer opponents on more than one (three) racetracks!All the exclamation marks in the world can't disguise the fact that Porsche 2000 is, at heart, just another driving game. But at least this one does exactly what it says on the tin.Apart from a few invisible walls, the graphics are about    as good as you'd expect for the PlayStation. The performances of the models, from the 356 No 1 to the 996 Turbo, vary    noticeably (although not too noticeably, obviously: EA would never dare suggest that any Porsche ever handled less   than brilliantly).And if the number of tracks is less than impressive, the number of things you can do on them boggles the mind.Test-drive your Porsche, race your Porsche, repair, repaint or customise your Porsche, take your Porsche out for a Sunday afternoon pootle.You'll probably even spend a disproportionate amount of time watching your Porsche spin round in a vacuum on the "select car" screen. But the thing that's thrumming under Porsche 2000's bonnet is its Evolution mode, a sort of 50-year tournament in which progress through races is ingeniously married up with a trawl through the German manufacturer's back catalogue.As PlayStation drivers go, then, this is the, er, Porsche of them. But if you want a blonde with shades to caress your knee while you drive, you'll have to fork out an extra &#163;39,965 for a real one.  (AB)Little things please Little mindsStuart Little: Big City AdventuresWindows 95/98	 &#163;19.99 Hasbro Interactive	***If you liked the film, you will like the game. It has much the same look, albeit with simplified graphics, the same voices, and the five mini-games are based on scenes from the film.Playing Stuart Little, a white mouse with humanoid tendencies, you can steer a yacht across a pond, drive a   little red sportster, and play miniature golf.Of course, if you liked the film then you are probably aged between four and 10, and the game is pitched at the middle of that market. It is probably too hard for four year olds and far too trivial for anyone in their teens, but six-to-eights should find it a tough but achievable challenge.Switching a train around some complicated tracks, picking up flags on the way, will make even older players think hard. Indeed, this is the one mini-game that might be considered to have some   educational value.The program does offer lots of verbal encouragement, and while there's no multi-user play, high-score tables encourage competition.I'm doubtful about the game's longevity. Children love repetition but it could have offered a lot more variety. Given the work that has gone into the graphics and sound, it should have been easy to add more tracks and more scenarios. As it is, the program's quality is savagely undercut by the lack of quantity.Still, it could have been a lot worse, as the Stuart Little websiteswww.stuartlittle.comandwww.stuartlittlemovie.co.ukshow only too well.  (JS)Die Hard hardly comes aliveDie Hard Trilogy 2: Viva Las VegasPC CD Rom 	&#163;29.99 Fox Interactive	*Some people see laziness as a virtue. After all, isn't the world better off with remote controls and delivered pizzas? The developers of Die Hard Trilogy 2 obviously think so, as this is the laziest console-to-PC conversion since the last Final Fantasy game.Things go wrong from the start. There is no install option - that's right, it all runs off the CD, a bit like the PlayStation. Then the game itself allows you to save your progress only at the end of a level, a feature commonly found in, you've guessed it, console games.Not that you'll be playing long enough to care, as the three mini-games that make up Die Hard Trilogy 2 would fail to impress even the biggest Bruce Willis   aficionado.First up is the laughable third-person section that sees you shooting wildly at rioting jail inmates while the camera sways drunkenly behind you. The game's console roots are more than evident, with horrendously low-res models and a constant fog that restricts vision to a few feet ahead.Fog is used by necessity in many console games, which can't cope with extended draw-distances, but in a PC game - and one that requires a 3D-accelerator card to run at that - it is unforgivable.This pea-souper reappears in the vehicle section, although since this level involves driving a car that handles like a dustcart around a cardboard looking city, you'll probably be too bored to notice.And, by the time you comprehend that the best part of the game is a Time Crisis-style shooting section complete with sluggish mouse aiming, you'll have thrown the CD out of the window.Shocking.  (GH)
Here is a dilemma few executives have to face: your company has just been bought for a few billion dollars by AT&amp;T and the American telecoms firm offers you several million to stay. Then Bill Gates calls up and asks you to be the chief operating officer for Microsoft. Oh, and some venture capitalists want you to play chief executive for a couple of college kids with a bright idea they are backing to the tune of $2m (&#163;1.3m).That Jim Barksdale chose the last option and became chief of Netscape is now the stuff of internet folklore. But it also says a lot about the palpable atmosphere of the e-revolution that gripped corporate America between 1994 and 1998.Those four years will be seen as the golden era of the net entrepreneur, when anyone with a sprinkling of foresight, dynamism, funding and a decent business idea could become rich more rapidly than virtually any other time in history.It was a time when the bricks and mortar world had not woken up to the opportunities and threats of the medium. The technology companies that had spent the 1970s and 1980s kitting out the US with computer hardware and software were slow off the mark in recognising the impact of the e-revolution. The result was the emergence of an unlikely band of heroes: 33-year-old marketing consultant Jeff Bezos of Amazon; computer sales manager Bob Davis, 35, of Lycos; E-Bay's Pierre Omidyar, a 25-year-old software designer; college students Jerry Yang at Yahoo! and Excite's Joe Kraus. I spent the last three months of 1999 interviewing them to see what made them tick and how they broke the rules.Their varying degrees of success owed much to being first to market. By the   time the rest of the US and Europe had woken up at the end of the decade, many of the new firms were established. With sophisticated venture capital backing from Silicon Valley, their moves to the public markets saw them swept up in dot.com euphoria, allowing them to go on a shopping spree for rival upstarts using their highly valued share paper.As the early web firms were addressing the business to consumer market, size was of the essence. The low prices they promised consumers meant that the scale of their business had to be enormous, with the marketing, advertising and staff budgets to match.As spending rocketed the river of red ink threatened to turn into a deluge. The losses among the 12 entrepreneurs amounted to more than $4bn in 1999. Accumulated, their losses run nearer $20bn. What struck me during my conversations was how much guts it takes to run a business where profits are a dim and distant prospect, where your business model is unproven and your monthly burn rate - that is, the amount of expenditure of income - threatens to run out of control.Take Jay Walker of Priceline. His idea for consumers to name their own prices for airline tickets was rejected by the industry. Undeterred, Walker launched his service anyway, subsidising each passenger by an average of $30. His perseverance eventually brought the airlines into partnership, but the self-belief he demonstrated over several difficult months of huge losses was astounding.There are some significant reasons why the likes of Walker are unlikely to be seen again. The internet is no longer virgin territory. Its pervasiveness in the west is reflected in the strategies of all big businesses and most others beside.   Every organisation now has an e-strategy, indeed, a number have reinvented themselves around the medium. The result is that the opportunity for individual entrepreneurs to make their mark on companies such as Amazon and Yahoo! have been reduced to around zero.The technology sector has been caught out once and is determined not to be so again. Companies such as Microsoft, Oracle, Compaq, Intel and Cisco are pouring billions into internet start-ups. This so-called greenhouse strategy ensures they stay close to events on the ground - and always with an option to buy out their targets. The chances of a Bezos or Yang emerging unscathed through the network of venture capital firms established by the hi-tech sector is difficult to imagine.Finally, internet businesses are moving into an era where their lengthening track record means they can be analysed alongside conventional companies. This has led to a correction in valuations and has made venture capital - which was so easy to come by in the mid-1990s - more difficult to obtain.If Jim Barksdale were making his choice in 2000, one wonders which he would opt for - AT&amp;T, Microsoft or Netscape? My guess would be he would take the first flight to Helsinki and listen to the venture capitalists there. The internet revolution has moved east, and Scandinavia is the new frontier.&#149;  Christopher Price's book, The Internet Entrepeneurs, &#163;13, is published by Pearson Education
DNA Sciences, a Californian start-up, is introducing a website this week which will recruit DNA donors to help find genes that cause disease.The company - which has James D Watson, a discoverer of the DNA double helix, as a director and James Clark, Netscape's founder, as an investor - hopes to get 50,000 to 100,000 people to contribute to its "gene trust" by appealing to their altruism. "The knowledge we gain from the gene trust has the potential to change medicine for ever," says a message on the site, DNA.com. "But we can't do it without your help."The new effort reflects a big change taking place in genetics. Studies to link genes to disease are involving far more people than before. While such studies promise big medical advances, collection of genetic data on such a scale is raising ethical and privacy issues, particularly that genetic information could be used to deny people or their family members insurance or employment."It is essentially being developed and hitting the spotlight without a sense of rules, ethics and social norms," said Janlori Goldman, director of the health privacy project at Georgetown University.With the recent unravelling of the human genome, scientists are cataloguing hundreds of thousands of differences in the genetic make-up of different individuals.Working out which genes contribute to disease could help in developing drugs. Instead of the current practice of one drug fits all, patients might have their genes tested to see which drug would work best for them.But to get to that point scientists must first determine which of hundreds of thousands of genetic variations contribute to which disease or to the effectiveness of a particular drug. That will require "disease association studies" - surveying many people to find statistical correlations.In the past, scientists usually found disease-causing genes by studying a few families or an isolated village with high prevalence of a disease. Such genes have often been linked to rare inherited diseases in which a defect in a single gene is at fault.But that technique is becoming less effective, said Neil J Risch, professor of genetics at Stanford University. The diseases of most interest to drug companies and the public health, he said, are common ones such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes, Alzheimer's and schizophrenia. It is believed many genes contribute to such diseases with each one having a small effect. To find these genes, hundreds or thousands of patients might be needed."This is not going to happen in some esoteric studies with a couple of families here and there," said Mihael Polymeropoulos, a vice-president of Novartis, the Swiss drug company. "We're going to need lots of people."Just how many is a matter of   debate. Some sceptics say the statistical links might be too weak to detect. "It's a blind leap of faith that this approach is going to work at all," said Joseph D Terwilliger, an assistant professor at Columbia University's genome centre.Others say that even if the technique works in some situations, knowing the gene is often not enough to develop a drug. "You're asking why someone gets a disease, not what to do about it," said William A Haseltine, chief ex ecutive of Human Genome Sciences. He said there were many instances, such as cystic fibrosis, in which the gene has long been known but there is still no effective treatment.Yet Glaxo Wellcome says it has already found genes associated with migraine, psoriasis, diabetes and Parkinson's disease. Genset, a French company specialising in studies on diverse populations, says it has found genes linked to prostate cancer and schizophrenia.DNA Sciences is just one of   the new companies preparing studies. Two had initial public stock offerings in the past two weeks: deCODE Genetics, which is making a database using medical records and DNA samples from most of Iceland's 275,000 people, and Gemini Genomics, a British company that has DNA samples and extensive medical records from thousands of pairs of twins.Framingham Genomic Medicine was formed in June by Boston University and venture capitalists to analyse data from a project that has collected data and DNA samples from thousands of people in Framingham, Massachusetts.The Baltic state of Estonia plans a genetic database of nearly all its 1.4m citizens.Genomics Collaborative, a private company in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has a network of 250 doctors with the goal of getting as many as a million patients. It recently signed an agreement with Ameripath, which performs pathology services for 170 hos pitals and analyses nearly 3m biopsies a year. Under the agreement, hundreds of thousands of tissue samples will go into a bank for genetic studies.The companies all say they obtain the informed consent of patients to have their DNA used and that they operate under the scrutiny of institutional review boards or ethics committees. They also say they "anonymise" the information.But critics say hackers could access patients' identities, and assurances that data will not be sold to others such as insurance companies are not ironclad. Questions have already arisen about the ethics of deriving private profit from the Framingham data, which was collected in a federally financed project. DeCODE's activities in Iceland have also provoked controversy.Kari Stefansson, chief executive of deCODE, argues that privacy advocates are slowing progress. "It is considered by some a right to deny science the ability to use information about us to help future generations," he said at a public forum on medical privacy recently.He and others involved in such companies say many people are happy to help search for cures for diseases from which they or their descendants might suffer.Under DNA Sciences' programme, volunteers answer online questionnaires about their medical history and that of their family. The firm will then send someone to homes or offices to collect blood samples. Healtheon/WebMD, the medical website, owns a stake in DNA Sciences and will be used to help recruit patients.Donors will not be paid. There have been controversies   arising from doctors or companies profiting from a diagnostic test or cell line developed from a patient's tissue without compensating the patient. But in this case, the companies say, huge statistical studies are being done in which the contribution of any one patient is insignificant.Experts see two potential problems with DNA Sciences' approach. One is that volunteers' description of their medical histories might not be accurate. "There's garbage in and garbage out," said Jonathan M Rothberg, chairman and chief executive of Curagen, a company looking for disease genes. He said the company used data from Gemini Genomics because the twins in that database had undergone hours of standardised medical tests.The second problem is that the people recruited by DNA Sciences might be too heterogeneous. Although large numbers are needed, there is still some advantage to relatively homogeneous populations such as Iceland's.But DNA Sciences and some others say a broader population is better. "That gene might be great for Iceland but it's not the gene for New York City, and we sell far more drugs in New York City than Iceland," said Allen D Roses, international director of genetics for Glaxo Wellcome.Another obstacle is cost: about $1 to test one patient for one variation of a single letter in the genetic code. Scientists have already found hundreds of thousands of variations, known as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Testing 100,000 SNPs in 1,000 patients would cost $100m.copyright: New York Times
Redstone Telecom, which provides voice services to small and medium sized businesses, said yesterday that it wanted to acquire an internet service provider after buying data groupFastnetfor &#163;40m.Graham Cove, Redstone chief executive said the company wanted to turn itself into a one-stop shop for its clients.The aim is to offer a full range of services before the break-up of BT's monopoly over the local telephone network next year.Mr Cove said any deal to acquire an internet service provider would focus on a specialist business to business company and the deal was likely be in the same price range as the Fastnet acquisition. He stressed, however, that nothing was on the table."Redstone wants a dominant share of the broadband access market for small and medium sized businesses providing voice, data and internet," Mr Cove said."The Fastnet deal really strengthens our offering - by taking us into the data markets in a big way. There will be more acquisitions as we work toward the bigger picture."Redstone leases a backbone network across Britain from Fibrenet and has websites in 40 cities.The company is now laying new cable from those points to local BT exchanges and will be able to take over the so-called last mile to customers' doorsteps once the market is open for competition.Redstone plans to deploy DSL technology on BT's network which upgrades old copper wires for broadband use.A rights issue last month raised &#163;1,251m to fund the development of Redstone's network. Redstone also announced yesterday that it had secured a &#163;50m credit facility through investment bank UBS Warburg.Shares in Redstone climbed 4p to 252.5p but are still some way off their peak of 954p in February.
SonyandNTT DoCoMo, the two front runners in Japan's race to conquer the internet, joined forces yesterday to develop a service that combines their two hit products: the PlayStation console and the i-mode cell phone.Although details of the alliance remain sketchy, the combination of these leading products is expected to strengthen the companies' global position in the fast growing and converging sectors of video game entertainment and mobile telecommunications.Both fields are seen as doorways into the internet, which has until now been largely dominated by American computer and software companies.In signing a memorandum of understanding yesterday, Sony and DoCoMo agreed to create a new entertainment network from this winter that will allow consumers to play PlayStation2 games on i-mode mobile phones.This will entail the development of a new cable to link the two pieces of hardware and encourage software designers to develop new products that can be used on the PlayStation2 - which is primarily intended for connection with a television - and the far smaller screen of an i-mode phone."The initial new service will enable i-mode users to play games with mobile phones   outside and also play the same game with PlayStation at home," a DoCoMo spokesman said.Although the range of the new service is likely to be limited at first by the slow connection speed and weak graphics power of the narrowband i-mode, the two partners predict that two technological developments will create new opportunities.DoCoMo has tied up with Sun Microsystems to introduce a java-compatible i-mode system this autumn which will ensure much smoother moving images.Next May, the company plans to start the world's first wideband mobile system. The W-CDMA will overtake PC modems in terms of speed and allow the transmission of complex sound and audio files needed for games."With broadband wireless technology, specifically DoCoMo's W-CDMA, there will be the possibility of more enriched game content," said Ken Kutaragi, president of Sony Computer Entertainment. "The W-CDMA standard provides the best mobile network environment that we can imagine. I think this unique Japanese mobile phone culture will also welcomed overseas."The two partners already dominate their respective markets in Japan and are looking to expand globally.DoCoMo's i-mode, which offers continuous and low-priced access to the web, has   attracted more than 9.5m subscribers since itintroduction in February 1999, making it the world's most successful mobile internet service.Keiji Tachikawa, the company's president, recently told reporters that i-mode was on    course to sign up 17m users by the end of next year. The company, which has a 2 trillion yen (&#163;12.5bn) budget to snap up shares in overseas partners, is also believed to be on the verge of an alliance with America Online, which would give it a   huge global lead in terms of content provision.Yesterday's deal with Sony aims at adding to this head start. Sony's PlayStation is the world's favourite game console, having sold more than 77m units.
The trend for websites to cultivate "communities" of users has led internet service provider WorldOnline and weddings portal Confetti.co.uk to call in specialist Liv4now.com.The two companies have signed contracts to take Liv4now's Neo1, a product that claims to increase loyalty and site "stickiness", as well as providing insights into customer behaviour.Liv4Now will provide and manage both sites' online communities to ensure they are regularly used and that any abusive language is filtered out.Liv4now began as a youth-focused community site but Serena Doshi and Ewan McLeod, who founded Liv4now in November last year, said success in building a loyal membership base had persuaded them to offer their expertise to other websites."Community management is like gardening - there is a need to seed, feed and weed," Ms Doshi said. "Communities which are not actively managed quickly show signs of neglect. Those that are effectively managed help businesses achieve their objectives by providing valuable customer insight."Neo1 manages communities for women's portal Handbag.com, music network Worldpop.com and online stockbroker Selftrade.co.uk.
Telecoms group Thus suffered the ignominy of its shares plunging to an all-time low yesterday after the company painted a bleak earnings outlook for the year.Shares in Thus hit 152p before they recovered to end the day down 67p at 153.5p. The company listed last November at 360p when 49.9% of the company was spun off from Scottish Power.Thus blamed the widening of its first quarter operating loss from &#163;4.6m to &#163;18m on the number of its residential internet customers switching to competitors such as BT's Surftime.It said Thus's interactive services division, which offers products such as telephone competitions, had also suffered from the fierce rivalry.Thus's investment in expanding its national network of data and telecoms services   to businesses also led to the greater operating loss.Chief executive Bill Allan said Thus's revenue growth in the second quarter would be similar to the 6% increase to &#163;50.6m in the past three months.Mr Allan also said that Thus earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation would be negative for the full year with annual revenues "materially below" last year.Thus derives 73% of its revenues from its business customers where the company is focusing its interests on providing web hosting, internet, telecom and data services.
Rising demand for net-enabled mobile phones should revive the fortunes of electronics companyFiltronicafter it posted a pre-tax loss of &#163;3.9m, according to its chairman.Shares in the company, which makes electronic components for mobile handsets and military weapons, rose 40p to 887.5p as house broker Cazenove &amp; Co said it expected the company to report a pre-tax profit of &#163;15m in 2001.The company delivered a &#163;12.5m pre-tax profit in 1999.Filtronic's 2000 earnings suffered a slowdown because of reduced component sales in its wireless infrastructure division because of product launch delays at big US customers Motorola and Lucent.Earnings were also dragged into the red by the growing interest bill Filtronic has on a $170m high-yield debt which matures in December 2005.Sales in the year rose 18.7% to &#163;222.3m. The company has   five divisions of which the largest two, wireless infrastructure and cellular handset products, account for 85% of the group's turnover.Filtronic expects the growth in third generation mobile phones in the next few years and its strong position in internal antennas for mobiles to drive profit growth.Professor David Rhodes, executive chairman of Filtronic, said: "The growth prospects of our new business areas, together with those of the more established businesses, give the board great confidence that Filtronic will provide its shareholders with outstanding and sustainable growth."The group's &#163;30m spend on opening its semiconductor factory in Newton Aycliffe, Co Durham, is also expected to drive growth in the next 12 months as the company begins to announce contract wins. Analysts said semiconductor business had not been factored in to current valuations.Filtronic's share price has fallen from more than &#163;23 in February.
The future ofCharlotte-street.com, the high profile women's portal backed by the publisher of the Daily Mail, is in doubt after it emerged that the newspaper group is working on another female focused site namedYou.co.ukThe venture is expected to be based on the Mail on Sunday's successful You supplement, and is supported by Paul Dacre, editor- in- chief of the Daily Mail and executive director of its publisher, Daily Mail &amp; General Trust.The shake-up of Charlottestreet.com comes less than a year after its launch, when DMGT committed an estimated &#163;10m to the project.DMGT's net division, Associated News Media, remains committed to the Charlottestreet.com brand, insisted marketing director Christine Woodman last night. But she said it was unclear at this stage as to where it will fit into the group's future strategy."We are taking a step back and looking at Charlottestreet as it is," she said. "It has been hugely successful in many areas, particularly as a community. However, we are looking closely at the way we target 29 to 45-year-old women. Nothing has been decided yet." She refused to comment, however, on You.co.uk.Several newspaper groups have experienced difficulties trying to take their brands and content online without cannibalising too much of their existing - and cash generative - newspaper sales.Last week News International, publisher of the Sun and the Times, restructured its new media division making around 30 staff redundant and casting a shadow over the future of some its online brands.It is thought executives at ANM are planning a "soft" launch of You.co.uk for September, followed by a full launch and multimillion-pound advertising campaign in October.One DMGT insider said: "Dacre is throwing money at this. It must succeed." Ted Verity, one of Mr Dacre's most trusted lieutenants, is understood to be heading up the initiative, which will be aimed at 30-45 year old women.It is thought You.co.uk will be based on the editorial floor of the Daily Mail's head office in Kensington, London, and centred on an 18-hours a day women-focused news service.
Rival telecom operators could be offering high-speed internet services on BT's local loop as early as next year after telecommunications watchdog Oftel laid out draft guidelines yesterday for the former state-owned monopoly to open up its service to competition.Oftel had initially placed a deadline onBTto have its local loop service unbundled by July, 2001. However, yesterday Oftel said BT should be ready  to take orders from September from other operators who want to install their equipment in BT's exchanges and use BT's lines to provide high speed services to customers."Oftel expects progressive roll-out with unbundled loops available in volume by the middle of next year," the telecoms regulator said in a statement.BT's network is being upgraded with digital subscriber line services that will permit high-speed internet access and video-on-demand facilities.Oftel has estimated it should only take BT four months to accommodate an initial operator on one of its loops and then four weeks for subsequent competitors.The draft ruling from Oftel also warned BT that it must not give undue preference to its own business against other operators.It said BT must ensure that other operators are able to compete on the same terms as BT, namely in pricing, when delivering high bandwidth services. BT must also show   that set prices are derived from costs.Oftel is still consulting with the telecoms industry on the draft guidelines. Other telecom operators have voiced dismay at what has been described as BT dragging its feet over the opening-up of its local loop to competition.Unbundling will allow BT's competitors to install technology at its exchanges that will transform copper wires into fast internet pipelines.It will give them greater flexibility to compete with BT's own ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) connections, which BT expects to start installing for home users in October and November.Oftel's latest announcement, and BT's delay in launching ADSL, means the former monopoly's head start in ADSL is fast shrinking.Sir Iain Vallance, BT chairman, has said July, 2001 is the earliest feasible date for opening up BT's local loop for the use of other service providers.The European Commission, however, has proposed a draft ruling that all members unbundle their local networks by year end.As a result some operators, like Energis and Colt, have said they may consider a joint industry legal action against BT if it fails to comply with such an EC ruling.Ade Ajibulu of telecoms consultants Analysys, was sceptical that the Oftel's draft guidelines for unbundling the local loop could be enforced."There's a general problem of unequal knowledge," Mr   Ajibulu said. "If you are another telecoms operator, you don't know the quality &#91;of line&#93; that BT is providing to its own &#91;businesses&#93; compared with the quality of the copper line you have, making it very difficult to do anything."He said the market would have to be carefully monitored by Oftel."The incumbent operators try to protect what they see as their best interests and this makes the process of unbundling quite difficult for their competitors."
Fresh doubts about conducting business over the internet were raised last night after an apparent security breach forced Barclays to shut down its online banking service.The bank, which says it is the country's largest internet bank with more than 1.2m customers, was last night scrambling to restore confidence in its service after customers complained they were able to access other customers' accounts in cyberspace.While the shutdown once again raised questions about the safety of handling finances online, it also added further embarrassment to the bank which has been battling to restore its reputation after a series of public relations disasters.These have ranged from the public outcry over the pay package awarded to chief executive, Matt Barrett, to the bank's insensitivity in closing rural branches and its insistence on charging customers for cash machine withdrawals.A clumsily-timed advertising campaign, fronted by Hollywood stars such as Anthony Hopkins, emphasising the bank's size added to its publicity woes.The latest problem was described by Barclays as "unacceptable" and the bank said it followed an upgrade to its online services carried out over the weekend.Four customers, out of 85,000 who have used the online service since the weekend's upgrade, complained that they could see other cus tomers' accounts when they logged on."Barclays views this compromise in the security and integrity of its online service as unacceptable - security of customer information is paramount," the bank said.The shutdown to the online service took place at 3.30pm and was expected to last for four hours while the bank reinstalled the old system."The new service will not be rereleased until we are satisfied that this particular issue has been rectified," Barclays said.The bank posted a message, timed at 3.30pm, on its website for customers trying to log on, which read: "We apologise for the temporary withdrawal of the online banking service and for any inconvenience this may cause. We are currently working on restoring online banking - the service will be available within the next few hours".Barclays, which is due to publish its profits figures for the first six months of the year later this week, joins a growing list of major financial services providers to experience embarrassing problems with their much-heralded internet services.Halifax was forced to delay its new telephone-cum-internet bank, Intelligent Finance, just one day before it was due to open to customers after becoming concerned that the system would falter under the potential volume of business.A new internet bank launched by Abbey National, branded Cahoot, was also crippled by difficulties during the week of its launch when its   website was put out of action for several hours by a surge in demand.While neither of these incidents appear to involve security, the potential for damaging breaches was highlighted in July when Powergen, the gas and electricity supplier, was forced to contact 2,500 of its customers after their bank account details appeared on its internet site.None of these issues have helped to improve the public's perception of banking on the internet, a channel many of the major financial services would like their customers to adopt for the most basic transactions because it cuts costs and frees up branches for more complicated and profitable transactions such as selling mortgages.A survey by Henrion, Ludlow and Schmidt, a brand consultancy, has found that just 8% of men and 6% of women would choose an online bank over one with a traditional high street presence.    A spokeswoman for the National Consumer Council (NCC), which has been campaigning for better internet security, said the latest mishap at Barclays proved the issue should be taken more seriously by financial groups.Anna Bradley, director of the NCC, said: "Our research shows that trust is a serious concern for consumers."Today's problems at Barclays further undermine consumer confidence and until providers such as Barclays address the problems of security, privacy and customer service, e-commerce will not take off."
On Friday the Queen graciously gave her assent to the Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill after it was fast-tracked through parliament with the agreement of the two main parties. So the RIP bill is now the RIP Act, yet another piece of legislation which will prevent journalists from operating freely in the public interest.On the face of it, the act was proposed for the best of reasons: to ensure that the formidable array of the authorities' investigatory powers accord with human rights. Unless   there is good reason, our communications cannot be monitored.But what amounts to a good reason? Terrorism, drug-dealing, serious crime, tax evasion and that greatest of catch-alls: the national interest. There lies the problem. What the government and its various authorities - whether police, customs and excise or security services - regard as the national interest is all too often about the state's interest rather than the public good.I'll come back to that. Let's consider the main threat faced by newspapers from the draconian powers of this act. Emails, now the most used   form of communication between journalists, and between them and their contacts and sources, are no longer safe.From this day on, without our knowledge, the authorities can intercept our messages. They will know who said what to whom about what well before the information can be published. Indeed, by having that knowledge in advance they may well be able to take measures to prevent its publication.This isn't far-fetched. A good example occurred recently when the renegade MI5 officer David Shayler emailed the Observer and the   Guardian. When the police - claiming to be acting in the national interest - tried to compel the papers to hand over the emails, the request was refused.A judge ordered the papers to comply, a ruling that was overturned by the court of appeal in a masterly judgment by Lord Justice Judge which stressed the rights of a free press to investigate matters on behalf of the public without compromising its informants.If the RIP Act had been on the statute book at the time, that case would never have reached court because the police would have used the act's powers to obtain the emails secretly regardless of such rights.It wouldn't have helped if the emails had been encrypted. Under the new act, the authorities can demand the key to any encrypted message.In other words, the RIP Act makes all traffic over the internet in Britain available to the state if a body, however flimsy its suspicion, decides to apply for the right to intercept emails.Nor will the authorities need a legal warrant to do so. Interception will require only the home secretary's approval while the monitoring of traffic can be "self-authorised" by whoever decides it is necessary. Demands for someone to provide an encryption key can be authorised by a customs and excise official, a chief constable, a magistrate, a judge or the home secretary.The passing of the RIP Act denies everyone the freedom, and the privacy, we thought the internet had provided. It robs journalists and   their sources - including that most potent and essential of tipsters, the whistle-blower - of their rights and, quite possibly, threatens their liberty.Despite significant concessions made during the passage of the bill, it is still badly conceived and may well prove counter-productive. Internet experts believe that users will soon employ a range of esoteric "privacy tools", enabling them to camouflage emails and hide files, to avoid compliance.In what appears to have been panic at the growth of the internet and the freedom enjoyed by its users, the British government has accorded itself powers which no other western country has dared to take.Yet this, remember, is the government that came to power crowing about its commitment to end secrecy.Instead its record has been a disgrace. Jack Straw last week finally announced that the Home Office will consult media bodies to ensure that future legislation which does "impact on press and media reporting" does not create "unintended restrictions".What a cheek. The sound of the stable door being closed long after the horses have bolted is deafening. So far we have seen a milksop freedom of information proposal, a worrying data protection act, a thoughtless youth and criminal evidence act, a potentially harmful terrorism act and a restrictive local government act.Now comes the RIP Act. Consultation is supposed to happen before, Mr Straw, not afterwards.The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIP)What is it?Originated by Jack Straw, RIP sets out the government's plans to allow official surveillance of internet traffic. Published in February 2000, it passed through the Lords in July and becomes law in October.The government line?RIP gives police and security services new powers to monitor and intercept emails and websites, channels through which online criminals, terrorists, paedophiles and pornographers have traditionally been able to communicate.Some data on computers, such as child pornography, is often encrypted. The bill makes it illegal to refuse a police request to decrypt data.All security service warrants for data interception will require prior government approval, bringing the UK into line with other EU surveillance measures.The anti-government line?The cost and maintenance of necessary surveillance equipment will be passed on to the internet user, threatening e-commerce in Britain and billions in lost business.Every UK internet service provider will be responsible for the installation of remote-controlled black boxes relaying all data passing through its computers to a special monitoring centre in MI5's HQ, the Government Technical Assistance Centre.Unlike telephone tapping, which can be specified, RIP allows the government to monitor all UK internet traffic - sites downloaded, address books, emails, discussion groups and chat rooms - without a warrant, which could be considered a contravention of the privacy requirements of the European convention on human rights. There are two-year sentences for forgetting passwords, and for failing to surrender or losing keys used to encrypt communications data. The burden of proof is reversed from the prosecution to the defence.Then there are five-year sentences for telling anyone that you have been served with an order to surrender encryption keys or hand over encrypted material in "plaintext" form. The RIP bill can justifiably be called a   total infringement of civil liberties. From October, no one in the UK will be able to feel free from government surveillance.International precedents?Only Russia, Singapore and Malaysia have similar laws. There is nothing comparable in the US. A recent Irish law makes it illegal for government to access commercial encryption keys. France has relaxed controls on domestic encryption, while Germany is opposed to restrictions on citizens' use of encryption.
The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIP)What is it?Originated by Jack Straw, RIP sets out the government's plans to allow official surveillance of internet traffic. Published in February 2000, it passed through the Lords in July and becomes law in October.The government line?RIP gives police and security services new powers to monitor and intercept emails and websites, channels through which online criminals, terrorists, paedophiles and pornographers have traditionally been able to communicate.Some data on computers, such as child pornography, is often encrypted. The bill makes it illegal to refuse a police request to decrypt data.All security service warrants for data interception will require prior government approval, bringing the UK into line with other EU surveillance measures.The anti-government line?The cost and maintenance of necessary surveillance equipment will be passed on to the internet user, threatening e-commerce in Britain and billions in lost business.Every UK internet service provider will be responsible for the installation of remote-controlled black boxes relaying all data passing through its computers to a special monitoring centre in MI5's HQ, the Government Technical Assistance Centre.Unlike telephone tapping, which can be specified, RIP allows the government to monitor all UK internet traffic - sites downloaded, address books, emails, discussion groups and chat rooms - without a warrant, which could be considered a contra vention of the privacy requirements of the European convention on human rights. There are two-year sentences for forgetting passwords, and for failing to surrender or losing keys used to encrypt communications data. The burden of proof is reversed from the prosecution to the defence.Then there are five-year sentences for telling anyone that you have been served with an order to surrender encryption keys or hand over encrypted material in "plaintext" form. The RIP bill can justifiably be called a   total infringement of civil liberties. From October, no one in the UK will be able to feel free from government surveillance.International precedents?Only Russia, Singapore and Malaysia have similar laws. There is nothing comparable in the US. A recent Irish law makes it illegal for government to access commercial encryption keys. France has relaxed controls on domestic encryption, while Germany is opposed to restrictions on citizens' use of encryption.
He is the self-appointed watchdog of the US media, the man who Bob Woodward once called, "the foremost serious journalistic entrepreneur of our times". His name is Steve Brill, he is the founder and former editor of Brill's Content - one-time scourge of corporate media - and now he is a fully-fledged media owner in his own right.Last month, Brill started what many new media commentators regard as one of the most exciting e-commerce launches in the US this year.Contentville.comis a massive e-publisher, selling content culled from books, magazines, transcripts and legal documents. It even claims every dissertation written for a PhD degree in the US since 1861.The site is a pay-to-download electronic archive. Magazine articles are sold for $2.95 (&#163;2), while a dissertation (in electronic form) costs around $50 (&#163;33). The site sells books too, selected by a string of carefully chosen bookshops and by a weighty editorial team which includes such luminaries as Harold Bloom and the playwright Wendy Wasserman.But only a week into its launch the $120m (&#163;80m) company found itself embroiled in a bitter dispute. And for once, Brill found himself up against thousands of disgruntled freelance writers rather than the media higher-ups that he usually tackles in his magazine Brill's Content.The writers are complaining that their work is being sold on his new site without their prior consent. What rubs salt in the wound is that Brill has always sold himself as a guardian of the little fella. And besides, all he had to do was ask.Brill launched Brill's Content in 1998 and it rapidly gathered a reputation for being a brash magazine that prided itself on whistle-blowing its way through the US media. Brill had cut his teeth 20 years earlier as founder of the first court TV service in the US, before moving on to found   the magazines American Lawyer and Consumer Reports.So when he announced, back in February, that he was to form a partnership with some of the biggest names in the US media, many pundits reacted with surprise and even scorn. How could a media watchdog be of any use if it was in the lap of the corporations it was set to guard against?Brill's partners include NBC, CBS (who gained 35% equity in Contentville in return for $40m (&#163;26m) worth of advertising and promotions over a three-year period) and Ebsco, a company which provides magazine subscription services and databases of archive content. In other words, the very companies that Brill's Content is famous for monitoring. It was as if Private Eye had cut a deal with Rupert Murdoch and begun selling edited highlights of Hansard at a couple of pounds a throw.As Matt Welch of the Online Journalism Review points out: "He &#91;Brill&#93; will benefit materially from every positive book or magazine review he publishes, and his right to cover one of the most important media issues of the day... is hopelessly compromised."Immediately, Brill announced that he was stepping down as as editor-in-chief of the magazine, turning those duties over to David Kuhn, who had joined the company last autumn from Talk magazine. Kuhn will edit both sites and Brill will remain as chairman and CEO of Brill Media Holdings - the company which oversees Brill's Content and Contentville. But he has insisted he will keep the two entities separate.Writing in Media Life magazine, Jeff Bercovici noted: "It's almost as though, by appointing a single editor-in-chief for both ventures and announcing plans to share staffs and stories, he's intentionally stirring up controversy."But the trouble really started in the week after the launch. A number of online writing lists began to receive complaints from disgruntled freelancers claiming that they had found their articles available on Contentville. One writer, Catherine Dold, discovered that an article she had written in 1993 was for sale on the site. She believes that she retains copyright and has said that she was never contacted by Contentville or the article's original publishers.Dold immediately posted a warning on the online-writers list atcontent-exchange.com. She said: "Big surprise. Several articles I wrote for Discover are being offered for sale on Contentville. I hold the copyright to these, no question... I suggest everyone do a search on your name at this site."She quickly found out she was not alone. Freelance writers across the US began complaining to the National Writers Union (NWU) that their work was available on the website without prior permission being granted. The authors claim that they still own the copyright to the material and have contracts to prove it. What's more, a number of the writers claim to have contacted the website and informed them of the infringement. None has received an initial reply and none of the work has been removed.The NWU immediately posted an email alert, warning its members that: "There could literally be thousands whose work is being used illegally" on Brill's new site.Then, a letter addressed to Steve Brill, by NWU president Jonathan Tasini, claimed that several of its members who retain copyright reported to Contentville that their work was being used without permission.Contentville responded by stating   that more than a million articles are offered on its site legitimately, under a contract with the magazine archive company Ebsco.Contentville's website states that: "Except for materials in the public domain, all of the content of Contentville.com is the property of Contentville.com or its content suppliers and is protected by copyright laws..." The site also claims that it "will block access to and/or remove any material that it believes in good faith to be copyrighted".Obviously embarrassed by the criticism, Brill responded on the Poynter Institute's media news website (www.poynter.org/medianews/letters.htm) claiming that his company had bought the articles in good faith and was "keeping exact records of each article that we sell so that we can pay whoever the appropriate copyright owner is".He added: "I don't think we should be cast as the bad guy here for trying to create a market for this stuff - and for getting that process started   by going to those who are promising that they own it."But the mess was not confined to small-time freelances either, it was reported last week that Associated Press is investigating after one of its business writers found AP stories in the Contentville archives. The New York newspaper the Village Voice has also complained that its own archive material is being sold on the site.Some analysts have suggested that what Brill wants to do is ditch Brill's Content, a magazine that has never made a profit, and concentrate on the e-publishers. Both Brill and Kuhn have denied this. But the kind of publicity generated by the ugly mess over writers' copyright will hardly inspire confidence in an ailing magazine.The NWU is confident that the row can be resolved and cites a similar recent dispute with another pay-to-download site,www.mercurycenter.com. Also, the union offers a similar service of its own - the Publication Rights Clearing House - which it is urging sites like Contentville to adopt.But David Wallis, a New York-based writer who is planning to launch an elite freelancers' agency, told the Village Voice that he sees Brill's attempt at reconciliation with the NWU as a "dodge," and a reaction to the "terrible publicity and backlash" of last week. Wallis says: "As a media watchdog, Steve Brill has rabies."It is perhaps worth remembering what Brill's Content was meant to be about. In what amounts to a mission statement on the original Brill's Content website, Brill wrote: "It's time to hold journalists accountable. It's time we embarrass them into doing their jobs the way they're supposed to - with integrity, honesty, fairness and accuracy." Catherine Dold and the freelancers on the online discussion list might well be musing on those words and wondering, while they patiently wait for their cheques to arrive, just what happened to Steve Brill?
I come from a Guardian house. My parents have read the Guardian six days a week - resting only on Sundays to pick up the Observer - for at least 20 years. It's always been a loyalty based on familiarity and the feeling that ownership of their paper is worth more than the money paid for it.At first glance, net users seem the exact opposite. It's the rule of publishing online: users are promiscuous. If they can't find what they want with you, they'll look elsewhere. And, unlike newspapers, it's spectacularly easy to do that - they're only one click away from the opposition. So, if you can't get them to come back regularly, the chances are that someone else will. It takes quite a lot to get someone to change their daily paper. It only takes one missed story or a slow download to get fed up with a favourite site.That's down to the nature of the web. If ever there was a medium which instilled an "everything now" attitude, it's the internet. Justifiably, users get resentful if a site they've taken the trouble to go to has a page which is slow to download or is missing something they want. But, just as cars encourage people to cram more journeys into their day, the faster the net, the more people want - immediately.Size matters, too. A research paper published last week bysearchenginewatch.com, a Dakota-based site, found that the web is around 500 times larger than the maps provided by the best and most popular search engines. There are now more than 550bn documents stored on the web. Incidentally, that is also the best indication of the growth of the web - Lycos only indexed 54,000 pages in mid-1994.According to the report, all the net search engines combined only index about 1bn pages, which means that if you're a user looking for a very specific page, you're increasingly likely to go to a bookmarked site where you know you're most likely to find what you want. So, creating a site where users feel comfortably at home is vital.That feeling of being at home was reflected in a strange phone conversation I had recently. The call was from a user asking permission to alter the topic of a talk thread on our site.This was strange only because the talk areas are the one part of our site where users are most in charge. They control the context and the conversations within certain limits, ie no racism, sexism, homophobia or abuse. Simply working on a site gives you no more power than the average user - and you become a party host, rather than a performer. And any power that exists in the ability to delete or alter a conversation is tempered by the fact that if there's one thing that annoys the hell out of net users it's the idea of censorship. Maybe it's just plain easier than writing a letter - while the Guardian newspaper receives about 1,000 letters a week, the Guardian Unlimited site talkboards get more than 10,000 postings.And that self-policing works. Just as you wouldn't walk into a party of like-minded people and shout abuse at them, talk users generally don't, either. Who wants to be embarrassed in front of people you're trying to impress?It's a strange sort of ownership that the web brings. When home secretary Jack Straw went online for an hour, we had more than 500 questions, many from people who would be too embarrassed to stand up and ask something at a public meeting. But, because users had mailed their questions in, they expected them to be answered - with none of the cynicism that might be expected from the net generation, they displayed a touching faith in the simple democracy of the medium. If you bother to send in a message, then someone has to reply, don't they?However, there's a big difference between knowing who makes up your audience and wildly aiming a site at a pre-existing community and hoping you can get it online.A survey I like quoting comes from California research firm Cheskin Research, which looked at the burgeoning numbers of Hispanic Americans going online. Now the marketing people who come up with dodgy business plans would probably have us believe that Hispanic Americans want their own sites and special portals such as Quepasa.com.But the report found that, actually, Hispanic users are just like everyone else. They would rather use the big-name sites such as Yahoo! or Alta Vista to find specific things, such as movies or news.Which just illustrates the madness of trying to create sites that appeal to a particular community. Why, for example, would a woman go to a specific women's site rather than a site where she could just get what she wanted?People hate being told what they want to do, after all.&#149; Simon Rogers is deputy editor of Guardian Unlimited
The BBC's free rein to offer services over the internet is being challenged by a member of the select committee on culture, media and sport.Julie Kirkbride MP has tabled a series of questions for culture secretary Chris Smith, asking him to state whether boundaries exist to limit the BBC's online ventures. She is particularly concerned about the effect on commercial operators competing against the corporation."I would like to know what is   and what isn't in the BBC's remit," she said. "At the moment it seems to be about how the governors feel on the day when they wake up and whatever Chris Smith decides to act on - both of which are indeterminate. They just haven't thought these issues through."What we have is this old thing called the BBC which sits very uneasily amid the changes in the media and no one has really thought what role it should now have. It is a very grey area."The challenge comes at a time when the BBC has begun   ramping up its involvement in the internet, encouraged by the huge success of its award winning News Online site.Last month it launched a dedicated sports website and has plans for arts, lifestyle and local city and county sites.It has received stiff criticism from the private sector which claims the BBC brand is stifling competition.A decision by the BBC governors has, however, called a halt to the corporation giving away free content to mobile phone networks after intense lobbying by rival news provider ITN.   "I'm extremely concerned that the BBC is seeking to operate like a business with the taxpayers' money," Miss Kirkbride added. "They are spending the licence fee on the internet and giving content away free to commercial operators often without the cognisance of the public."A BBC spokesman said the corporation is "pretty much four square behind the idea that there is room for a public service broadcaster to be on the internet."Four questions were tabled by Miss Kirkbride last week.   However, they have yet to be answered.She has asked for a 1998 agreement struck between Mr Smith and BBC Online on its activities to be published, whether that agreement permits the distribution of content to commercial operators free of charge and at what date his department was informed of the mobile phone plans. She also asks when he will begin a review of BBC Online.
The ubiquitous symbol of internet era communications, the @ sign used in email addresses, is actually a 500 year old invention of Italian merchants, a Rome academic has revealed.Giorgio Stabile, a professor of the history of science at La Sapienza University, claims to have stumbled on the earliest known example of the symbol's use, as an indication of a measure of weight or volume.He said the @ sign represented an amphora, a measure of capacity based on the terracotta jars used to transport grain and liquid in the ancient Mediterranean world.The first known instance of its use, he said, occurred in a letter written by a Florentine merchant on May 4, 1536.Sent from Seville to Rome by a trader called Francesco Lapi, the document describes the arrival in Spain of three ships bearing treasure from Latin America."There, an amphora of wine, which is one thirtieth of a barrel, is worth 70 or 80 ducats," Mr Lapi informs his correspondent, representing the amphora with the now familiar symbol of an "a" wrapped in its own tail.The Spanish word for the @ sign,  arroba , also indicates a   weight or measure, which was equivalent, at the end of the 16th century, to 11.3kg (25 lb) or 22.7 litres (six gallons)."Until now no one knew that the @ sign derived from this symbol, which was developed by Italian traders in a mercantile script they created between the middle ages and the renaissance," Prof Stabile said.   "The loop around the 'a' is typical of that merchant script."The professor unearthed the ancient symbol in the course of research for a visual history of the 20th century, to be published by the Treccani Encyclopedia.He said the sign, known to modern Italian cybernauts as  la chiocciola (the snail), had made its way along trade routes to northern Europe where it took on its contemporary accountancy meaning: "at the price of".Having hopped on to English typewriter keyboards in the early 20th century, it was selected as a rarely used symbol to separate user names   from domain addresses by the American internet engineer Ray Tomlinson.Prof Stabile believes that Italian banks may possess even earlier documents bearing the symbol lying forgotten in their archives."The oldest example could be of great value. It could be used for publicity purposes and to enhance the prestige of the institution that owned it," he said.Internet users of various tongues have adopted metaphors ranging from an elephant's trunk to a monkey's tail and even a cinnamon roll to describe the now ubiquitous squiggle.The inventors of the "snail" would doubtless be proud to learn that they were the progenitors of such a successful sign, also known, somewhat unromantically in English, as "commercial at"."No symbol is born of chance. This one has represented the entire history of navigation on the oceans and has now come to typify travel in cyberspace," Prof Stabile said."Venice is the maritime city that continued to use the amphora weight unit the longest, but Florence is the foremost city of banking. The race is on to see who has the oldest document."
Toby Rowland and Robert Norton, the founders ofclickmango, are in discussions with venture capital firm Atlas Ventures to manage new internet investments despite the winding down of their natural health products e-tailer.Mr Rowland, son of the late tycoon Tiny Rowland, and Mr Norton, announced plans to close clickmango this month after it failed to secure a second round of funding.Clickmango was seeking bridging finance of &#163;300,000 for the company to continue operation into the autumn. Both entrepreneurs said the decision to wind up clickmango was made while the company had enough cash to pay creditors and its 20 employees. The funding for dotcom companies has dried up   with market scepticism about the ability of fledgling dotcoms to deliver returns.Analysts have cited an oversupply of e-tailers and the lack of clear revenue projections as reasons for the collapse of companies like up-market fashion retailer Boo.com. Even long-established internet booksellerAmazon.comhas watched its share price crash from $100 to near $30 recently, reflecting the disillusionment among investors.Lastminute.com, the online travel retailer and financial services company Interactive Investor International have also watched their stock prices plunge since listing.Mr Rowland, 31, said that clickmango was in discussions with several "white knights" to take over the company's operation. Clickmango stunned the City last September when it secured &#163;3m in funding in a record eight days.The rapid speed with which the internet start-up was able to raise funds was attributed to the experience of Mr Norton, former business development director at America Online, and Mr Rowland's background.Clickmango was trading in a competitive market with several other natural health care websites, including large rivalThinkNatural.com, which is backed by venture capitalist Amadeus, and recently recruited retail group Kingfisher as an investor.Clickmango was selling about &#163;2,000 in health care products a week since the website was launched in April. It never released details of its customer numbers. "We decided the right course of action was to wind the business up in an orderly fashion without jeopardising outstanding creditors," Mr Norton, 28, said."We've some options with Atlas who have offered to back us in future ventures but right now it's a period of reflection and to recharge our batteries."Mr Rowland added: "I think we want to get the next venture trading for longer than three months."Joanna Lumley, who played Patsy Stone in the television series Absolutely Fabulous, was one of the high profile shareholders in clickmango. Ms Lumley is understood to have owned some 2% of the company after she agreed to become its figurehead.A variety of experts, including a holistic veterinarian, were also on the clickmango website while other stars were going to provide "insights" into alternative and holistic medicine.Ms Lumley's contract with clickmango was a two-year deal with a break clause after one year and a share of the company.Lord Rothschild's private family trust was another investor in the group. clickmango sells products ranging from herbal teas, vitamins and natural health remedies.
The internet has apparently made bucketloads of clever young people into millionaires. We hope a Rools partnership with a couple of teenage entrepreneurs, Nick Bell and Robbie Hodgekiss atTeenfront.com, will lead them to riches. We can exclusively reveal that Rools has completed an investment in a portal for teenagers that has been developed by Nick and Robbie, both aged 16.The site was launched in 1998 and for two years acted as a low-key bulletin board, providing links to other sites and cheat information for video games. It is now a fairly comprehensive portal and   looks as professional as many sites where large sums of money have been spent on development, offering a range of services from an advice column to product reviews and horoscopes. It has also developed links to leading online services.Until now, it has not actively pursued revenue streams, but has attracted the attention of several advertisers wishing to target the youth market.And all this has been achieved on a budget of hundreds of pounds rather than thousands and with relatively limited time. All of the work has been done after school, at weekends or during the holidays. The individuals behind it are impressive - one started his first internet site when he was 12 - and they have a great understanding of the internet and powerful business brains.The market for online services for teenagers is frenzied, with the launch of a number of big players such as MyKindaPlace, Wowgo   and Swizzle. Drawing from the existing business to business and business to consumer abbreviations, the sector has developed its own acronym - B2T for business to teenagers.The sector is crowded, but lacks a reasonable sized player that is for teenagers by teenagers (T2T perhaps). We came across Teenfront during some market research on teenage portals. The site appeared well designed and well organised, but what attracted us most was the net work of regular teenage contributors. It demonstrates a natural understanding of the teenage market - although we're not convinced that all young people are as keen on Dire Straits as Nick and Robbie are.The site's closeness to its audience is the most important element of the partnership. Teenfront gives us a direct insight into teenagers and helps us develop a service that is most relevant to them - after all, none of us is as young as we used to be.   Nick and Robbie face the challenge of developing the site and translating a serious hobby into a larger enterprise. They plan to continue working on Teenfront while studying for A-levels and, after that, at university. Bill Gates started Microsoft as a university student, so these guys have a head start.Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are the co-founders ofRools.coma service that enables teenagers to buy online without a credit card.
Claranet, the UK's largest independent Internet Service Provider, is poised to move parts of its telecoms infrastructure abroad to protect the communications traffic of its blue chip clients from potential vetting by the security services.The threat of vetting comes from the Government's Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Bill, which is expected to become law later this year after passing its House of Lords committee   stage last week.Claranet's decision is likely to set a precedent for other corporate-focused ISPs.The Lords introduced a number of amendments to the Bill, but Steve Rawlinson, Claranet's systems manager, said these were insufficient to dispel the worries of some its larger clients that their communication systems might be compromised.'A small but significant number of our largest customers, which include several financial institutions, have   expressed concerns about the RIP Bill to us,' Rawlinson said. 'If it goes through in its current form, we will look to relocate some of our services overseas.'We've already developed the technology to move them abroad very easily. We will offer our UK customers the opportunity to locate them &#91;their data services&#93; outside the UK.'Claranet, which has more than 350,000 users in Britain, is the highest-profile ISP looking to make such a move.   UUnet, Poptel, the Co-operative Internet Service Provider, and GreenNet are considering the idea, too. Others have indicated that they are sympathetic to those looking abroad.Demon Internet, owned by Thus (formerly Scottish Telecom) recently stated: 'We've already seen betting organisations move their Web servers offshore to enjoy offering tax- free betting... How many reasons do we want to give our innovators and entrepreneurs to move   out of the country?'Similarly, PSINet, the Internet solutions company which claims to work with a quarter of the world's biggest firms, has said: 'If the Bill is passed, PSINet will have to seriously reconsider whether the UK is an appropriate place for electronic commerce at all.'Alexander Hazell, the company's lawyer, said: 'There is secondary legislation to come in draft stages that we will need to see before making a decision. The devil is in the   detail.'Some commentators have suggested that the ISPs were simply trying to scare the Government into axing large chunks of the Bill. But Rawlinson insisted: 'People need to understand how easy it is to achieve. It's a very straightforward cost-free exercise.As well as the perceived threat to the UK's burgeoning e-commerce sector - viewed by the Government as crucial to the country's future prosperity - ISPs are angry that they may have to pay some of   the costs of implementing the law - which the British Chamber of Commerce fears could total &#163;60 million a year.Other industry observers fear even worse drawbacks. 'I think it will have a much bigger effect on those companies looking to set up European data centres,' said Tim Pearson, a member of the Internet Service Providers' Association council. 'This is a reason not to do it over here. You won't see these people packing their bags.'
Last week a Californian judge granted the Blue Meanies of the Recording Industry Association of America an injunction shutting down theNapstersite for the time being. This decision will no doubt come as a great relief to the moguls running the organised racket known as the music industry. After months of defensive warfare they have plugged the hole in the dyke. Trebles all round?Er, no. To see why, you have to understand the technology. Napster turns your computer into a specialised kind of server. If you had MP3 music files that you were willing to share, you registered them with Napster's database. Thousands of others have done the same with the result that if you wanted a particular track by, say, Elton John, the database would tell you which computers had it. If any of them happened to be connected to the net at the time, then your Napster program requested a copy and the holding machine dispatched it to you.It's called 'peer-to-peer' networking and it has spread like wildfire, much to the fury of the record industry, which sued Napster on the grounds that most MP3 files are pirated and that the company encourages copyright violation by pointing to the locations of bootleg audio. Napster mounted a vigorous defence but has lost the first skirmish of the legal war.Nobody knows how the case will pan out in the end but, in a sense, it doesn't matter because the peer- to-peer genie (like the MP3 genie) is out of the bottle. The Achilles' heel of Napster was that it needed a central database, which presented the RIAA with a fixed target at which to aim. But already there are other distributed storage systems likeGnutellaand   Freenet which file stuff all over the net and yet can still retrieve it at will. Not even the record companies are up to the challenge of these fiendish new schemes.Peer-to-peer networking is significant for several reasons. The first is that the files that are being shared don't have to be bootleg audio recordings - or even MP3 files. They can be any kind of file - including ones that Jack Straw &amp; Co don't want you to see.Second, the precipitous spread of the technology refutes the general assumptions of the media industry about their customers - that they are essentially passive zombies who are only interested in consuming the pap that Time Warner &amp; Co want to push at them. What Napster shows is that if you give people technology for sharing and communicating then they will use it.But perhaps the most important aspect of the Napster phenomenon is what it reveals about the future of broadband technology. The   film, television and music industries believe that the huge increases in bandwidth that are in the offing will mainly benefit content providers - by which they mean them. What, after all, would Joe Public want with a fat pipe to the net, other than to consume video on demand?Actually, Joe Public quite fancies broadband technology because he is already generating quite a lot of content himself which he wishes to share but is prevented by the prohibitive upload times imposed by ye olde telephone line.Where is this home-grown content coming from? The multimedia lip curls in contempt at the thought of ordinary people originating anything worth transmitting. The answer, however, lies in your local Dixons, Comet or John Lewis store, where people are buying digital still and video cameras and minidisc recorders in very large numbers. These devices produce huge files - a 2.4 mega pixel portrait of baby Johnny, say, or a 50 megabyte video of the kids inhaling jelly at the school fair - which, in an ideal world, one would like to send to Grandma as an email attachment. For ideal, read broadband.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
A huge internet pornography empire set up by a group of Edinburgh University graduates who boasted of their ability to evade the law has been closed down by the authorities in Antigua.A week after The Observer revealed how they were exploiting Antigua's offshore banking regime to rake in a fortune from a stable of slickly produced hardcore sex sites, the founders of the Rhino Corporation have been deported as undesirables by the Caribbean island's government, which is now moving to forfeit the company's considerable, ill-gotten assets.For almost three years, the three men and one woman behind Rhino stayed one step ahead of the law as they steadily grew to become major players in the overcrowded world of internet pornography.With all their profits being paid into Rhino's offshore bank accounts in Antigua, the group carried out all their day-to-day financial transactions using company credit cards in an attempt to keep police off their scent. They had also changed their names, operating under the assumed identities of Amber, Jason and Mark Rhino, and DragonKing.The Observer can now reveal their real identities. Amber is Rebecca Thomas from Henley-on-Thames; Jason Rhino is Jason Freeman, from Amersham; and Mark Rhino is Mark Corti, from London.The three met at Edinburgh and, after graduating, set up Rhino in 1998 along with the fourth member, DragonKing, an American national called Vincent Head. He has now been returned to the United States where he faces prosecution for criminal offences carried out in New York. In the wake of The Observer's disclosures last week, it emerged that he was wanted by the US authorities on felony charges and was the subject of an extradition warrant.The three Britons will not face further prosecution in Antigua after being deported, but police in this country may be keen to talk to them. When Rhino went into business in Edinburgh, it tried to get round Britain's strict obscenity laws by using webspace rented from US hosting companies specialising in porn sites.The operation came to the attention of police, however, and the group was put under surveillance. Detectives believed they were posting pornographic material on to their sites from this country, which would have come under the criminal offence of handling and distributing obscene materials. But the group ducked out of sight and shifted their operation to Antigua just before Edinburgh officers moved in.  In a move which infuriated police, the four placed a picture of themselves lounging on a white Caribbean beach, beers in hand, on one of their promotional sites.As a result, the sudden and spectacular demise of Rhino has delighted British officers. 'This is a spectacular result,' one senior source told The Observer. 'They thought they could make us look like monkeys and they thought they had made themselves invincible and now they are finding out how wrong they were.'The Antiguan authorities are now in the process of closing down Rhino's stable of 10 hardcore sites, whose titles ranged from 'Wives Exposed' to 'Dirty Teens', a site run by Thomas that specialised in material involving young girls. The company also made a fortune, under the name Flash Cash, by sponsoring smaller porn operations to get their users to subscribe to Rhino's sites.Rhino was so proud of its ability to exploit Antigua's offshore laws that it recently launched an internet service for budding entrepreneurs hoping to follow in its footsteps. For a fee of £1,700, offshore corporations could be set up online from anywhere in the world.To promote the service, Rhino painted a picture of Antigua as a haven for tax evaders and pornographers. It claimed that the island's regulatory regime was so lax that owners of offshore companies could mask their identities, move assets around under the noses of the tax authorities and render themselves virtually immune from prosecution. It also claimed that the island did not have stringent obscenity laws.  But the misleading and inaccurate claims incensed Antigua's government, and ultimately led to the Rhino empire's downfall. Investigators from the Financial Intelligence Unit, set up to prevent offshore companies being used for international moneylaundering, placed Rhino under surveillance before raiding its base in the capital St John's early last Tuesday.In a letter to The Observer, Ron Sanders, Antigua's high commissioner in London, said Rhino's 'highly inaccurate' information had damaged the reputation of the island's offshore industry.'Owners of offshore corporations cannot mask their identities and are not immune from prosecution. Both our International Business Corporation Act and our Money Laundering (Prevention) Act require the beneficial owners of corporations to be verified and records of their identity maintained.'Successful prosecutions have been carried out on several offshore corporations that have been involved in fraud and there has been full co-operation with the UK, the USA, Belgium, Switzerland and Canada in bringing criminals to justice.'He added: 'While Rhino also claimed that we do not have stringent obscenity laws, they are now painfully aware of the inaccuracy of their information... Effectively, Rhino Corporation's websites are no longer operational and their business licence will be revoked under our laws pending further legal action.'Trueheart Smith, the island's police commissioner, said: 'We are very, very glad to see the back of these people. They are not the type of people we want on the island and we hope the British authorities will consider taking action against them.'stuart.millar@observer.co.uk
Internet shopping may become an increasingly risky proposition as the shake-out in internet businesses gets under way.Online shoppers need to be aware of the risk that they could buy products from companies that go out of business before the items are delivered.There have already been collapses, the most prominent being that of Boo.com. Established internet operations which fail to make profits are likely to be taken over - perhaps even by off-line competitors - rather than go bust. But smaller operations that cannot secure financing are likely to go to the wall.Concerns over the security of credit-card transactions deter many people from purchasing on the internet. But according to Ajay Patel, prin ciple lawyer for the Consumers' Association, if you are using the net to shop, the best protection against losing out to a collapsing business is to buy with a credit card. Under the Consumer Credit Act, that card operator is liable if the goods you order are not delivered.Accountant KPMG, which handled the liquidation of Boo.com, says any customers owed money - most creditors were businesses - were directed towards their card companies.Patel stresses the importance of using a credit card, rather than debit card, as the latter are not covered by the legislation. Despite the generous protection offered by credit cards, however, there have been disputes over refunds, particularly regarding purchases overseas. Card companies generally pay up   and Barclaycard, the largest operator, says it views internet purchases as 'business as usual'. But Patel says there may be disagreements. Since internet shoppers can buy from anywhere with relative ease, it may be unwise to be too complacent about assuming a card will protect you regardless of where, and from whom, you're buying. Net shoppers should also note that the protection applies only to purchases of &#163;100 or more and Patel says it is a matter of dispute whether this limit applies to individual items or to several simultaneous transactions with one organisation together worth &#163;100 or more.A second step towards protecting yourself is to check whether the company you are buying from has a policy of not debiting your account    until after the goods have been dispatched. Robert Coles, head of information security at accountant KPMG, recommends deal ing with well-known, established names, which include the online operations of high street retailers.Patel points out, however, that if you are a creditor of a collapsed online company your rights, while the same as if dealing with a collapsed offline organisation, are minimal.'They are pretty poor when it comes to getting your hands on some cash, he says. 'As an unsecured creditor, you have to stand in line after creditors such as the Inland Revenue and the banks. If there is anything left after that, you get your share from the person dealing with the insolvency.'Another line of defence is to look for membership of a recognised trade organisa tion that operates a compensation scheme, or accreditation by a consumer protection organisation. None are are likely to give a guarantee of solvency, however.Webtrust, run by the Institute of Chartered Accountants, involves an audit by a firm of accountants, aimed at assessing the strength and reputability of an organisation.The Consumers' Association also operates an accreditation scheme, called Which? Web Trader. And yet another scheme, Trust UK, has been set up, with DTI backing, to vet the various codes.If this sounds all too complicated, you could of course just do your shopping on the high street.
If you have just returned from sunnier climes, the chances are that one of the first things you'll want to do is send off your holiday snaps for developing.When you pick up the prints, you will then perform a ritual repeated up and down the land at this time of year. It goes as follows: step one: moan about how many of the photos are a) out of focus or b) have the 'red eye' effect, which makes everyone look like the living dead; step two: question whether taking 23 shots of the inside of your apartment was really necessary; step three: wish you had removed the lens cap on several occasions; and, step four: return to the store to obtain the few reprints you think are good enough to send to friends and family. A palaver.But this post-holiday ritual may not last much longer. A raft of online 'e-photo' firms are competing via the internet to process your photographs, and save you time and money.The e-photo industry which, inevitably, started life in the US, works like this. You send off your film in a freepost envelope obtained via the web or from a store. The e-photo company then scans the photos and emails you a web address where you can look at the snaps.You choose the ones you want printed and email them to friends so that they can order their own copies. The company then posts the prints and the negatives.Most firms in this field scan the films free, and charge only for the prints you order. There are various degrees of privacy, so users   can if they wish bar other people from looking at their photographs.And, because all the online technology allows for interactivity, you can do lots of clever things, such as compile albums of your snaps, choose different borders and captions and, in some cases, touch up the photos to get rid of, say, that annoying red eye. Customers can also have their snaps printed on to everything from T-shirts to mouse pads to mugs.'This will be the biggest event in the photographic print industry since the launch of 35mm film,' said Ernie Gilburd of easyMemories.com, an e-photo firm soon to be launched in the UK.Well Gilburd, who until recently headed Minit UK, the firm which owns SupaSnaps, would say that wouldn't he? However, he does join a long list of very big names who are betting on the same hunch.In the US, Jim Clark, founder of Netscape, has backedShutterfly.com, which is owned by internet investment giant CMGi; the sector's second-largest firm,ememories.com, is supported by the likes of Goldman Sachs, Disney and George Soros. Jim Barksdale, Netscape's former chief executive, is an investor in ofoto.com, the third-largest e-photo business.Now the giant of film processors is interested. Last week Kodak, which in 1999 had sales of more than $14 billion and can't afford to see its market dominance threatened, took a stake in ememories to complement its earlier investment insnapfish.com.In the UK Boots, which processes twice as many films as its nearest rival, will launch its own e -photo service,bootsphoto.com, within the next two weeks. Photo-Me International, the company behind the booths at train stations is also launching a service.Evangelists for the new industry point to synergies between the internet and photography. 'This sort of service uses a real internet business model,' said Cameron Crockett, a founder of ideaShed, the internet incubator behind easyMemories. 'It's visual and it's light. It's easy for people to see and the service is   available to everyone.' easyMemories claims its processing prices will be cheaper than in the high street. Crockett believes the business is adaptable to digitising and distributing both audio and video footage.So how big is the e-photo industry going to be? Wildly conflicting estimates show just how immature this industry is. According to analysts at Infotrends Technology Group, sales of prints developed by online firms will be worth more than $2.5 billion in 2005, compared with $20 million last year. Lyra, the photography research firm, suggests that in Asia and the Pacific Rim e-photo services will be worth nearly $650m in 2002.Crockett argues that the internet will expand the photography market. 'When APS technology &#91;the new sort of film which makes it easier to index your prints&#93; came out, the number of reprints as a percentage of sales went up. With these new e-photo services, in just three clicks everybody's got the index to your photos.'Similarly, he believes that the rise in the number of digital cameras will not threaten the e-photo firms: they will   still make their money from printing the snaps, even if they no longer have to process them.In fact companies such as Zing.com, the market leader, are working with hardware partners to create digital cam eras with built-in modems which link directly to the web.But the revenues generated by the e-photo firms tell only part of the story. One of    their strengths is their sites' 'stickiness' - meaning they draw in visitors on a regular basis. This helps to build communities of internet users united around common interests, which in turn attract more visitors as the word   spreads. And, where there are communities, there is the chance to sell them things, creating other earnings streams from e-commerce and advertising.'It's the Hotmail model - uniting users around a common interest. It allows for viral marketing,' Crockett said.According to technology market research firm PC Data Online, in April the top five e-photo websites in the US attracted nearly 7.5 million users - 10 per cent of the country's internet population. Infotrends says the figure for the whole year will total nearly 100 million.For this reason the big portal sites have started offering their own online photo ser vices. America Online has its You've Got Pictures service in the US (although not in Europe at the moment), while Yahoo! has struck an alliance with Shutterfly.One online community site, PhotoPoint.com, even went as far as to offer a fortune to the winner of its 'Million-Dollar Moment' competition, a move which generated huge publicity for the company in the US.More public relations stunts are inevitable in the coming months as the e-photo companies - of which there are now scores - attempt to grab more market share.Many of them are unlikely to survive. Lydia Loizides, an analyst with Jupiter Communications, was quoted in  Upside Magazine, a technology publication, as saying that the sector is: 'fickle, promotion-intensive and can't make money'.Crockett agrees that there will be some sort of a shake out. 'In the US there are a considerable number of players. It makes sense for there to be only a few &#91;e-photo firms&#93; in the long term,' he says.Given the signs of an impending cull, some of the e-photo firms may not remain so snap-happy for long.
Things on the web are definitely not what they used to be: tighter restrictions are starting to bite, with more court cases and further legal restrictions pending against alleged transgressors of the new e-commerce hierarchy. Last week,Napster(the MP3 music download site) was dragged into further litigation with the music industry, whilescour.com, a free film site, was served with a writ by the Motion Picture Association of America for alleged copyright infringement. Sega is also preparing to take legal action against free download sites.Even those once-elusive hackers are ending up before the beak. Jon Johansen, the Norwegian teen idol of the hacking fraternity, was recently interrogated by Norwegian authorities and may soon have to testify in a US court case over a DVD-descrambling program he wrote. So revered is Johansen there is awebpagedevoted to him.Not even the first instalment of Stephen King's latest e-book can cheer things up. Although the book went live at www.stephenking.com on Monday, the author is waiting to see how sales develop before he bothers to finish it. King's sales ploy works thus: you can download the novel for free but you must send a dollar to King once you have read it. If fewer than 75% of readers cough up, however, King will not pen The End. Some of his more hardcore (and weirdest) fans could get very upset with the non-payers. Keep the sandbags handy.  One success story has been theChannel 4 websitewith its new series Big Brother, a show which monitors contestants in a locked and secret location around the clock for nine weeks through webcams and CCTV. The site registered 100,000 visitors per hour on the first day and then crashed. Across the pond, things are much the same, with Big Brother and its sister programme, Survivor, proving equally huge. The same goes for those websites for addicts (survivorsucks.comandBigBrotherBlows.com) who hate the show but cannot quite live without it. Sadly, the owners of the shows could live without the websites, threatening legal action over illegal feeds.   If it all sounds a tad too depressing, then turn towww.kama-sooty.co.uk, where (yep, you guessed it), Sooty, Sweep and Soo are pictured in kama sutra positions. Those who had a fond affection for Sweep should avoid this hugely popular site: revelations about what the cuddly ones have been getting up   to with the lovely Soo may force   you to write him out of the will. It remains unclear if their current   handler intends to sue. Or should that be Soo?
They are words that dare not speak their name in America, especially among the thrusting young bucks   of dot.com land. But failure and pessimism are enjoying a renaissance not seen since the Dark Ages. New webzinefailuremag.comtakes an in-depth (and tongue-in-cheek) look at this nasty notion, listing events and business deals that infamously went awry. Last week's edition looked at Kellogg's doomed venture to sell cereal and milk in the same packet. Tasty. The site also sports a nifty catalogue of failure, dubbed the Flophouse, and even has its own souvenir shop -   failure T-shirts, mugs etc. Better still, failuremag's philosophy seeks to turn the notion of success on its head, by reinterpreting triumphs, such as the Frankish victory over the Arabs at the Battle of Poitiers in AD732, which, it claims, may have set the Renaissance back about 750 years.Follow failuremag by poring overwww.BubbleEconomy.com, a cynical but intelligent site warning optimists (day traders and small investors) about just how big and scary the bubble has blown. Sticking rigidly to its philosophy and motto, "Prepare for the Pop", it provides a rundown of the latest mergers, buyouts and inflated stocks to give some "perspective on how manic the mania" has become. With sections such as "worthless press release of the day", "investment potholes" and "advice to avoid", the site is worth a look, if only to make you think twice about investing.     One bright spark aiming to tweak the twin nasal hair of doom and gloom is exploiting the new entertainment medium to boost the old one. Yes, you guessed it, the village fete has gone online atwww.welfordfete.org. Quaint little Welford, five miles from Stratford-upon-Avon, is there in all its web glory informing visitors of its impending fete on August bank holiday, complete with maypole, traditional tombolas, traction engines, military vehicles and face painting. A word of warning: there is no bouncy castle.Seen any good websites lately? If so write tothe.editor@guardian.co.uk"
News International has broken up its new media division, making dozens of staff redundant. Rupert Murdoch's company is thought now to be ready to abandonFiredUp.com, its high profile online entertainment auction brand.It is understood that around 30 staff have either been made redundant or left voluntarily after the closure of News Networks, News International's net division, run by Mr Murdoch's son in law Alasdair MacLeod.Most were working on FiredUp.com, the auction site launched last year with an expensive television advertising campaign fronted by actor Bruce Willis. The others came from jobs site revolver.com.News Networks was set up at the start of this year and given responsibility for the online editions of the Sun, News of the World, Page3.com, the Times and the Sunday Times. Control of those sites is being returned to the individual newspapers.Susan Boster, a senior executive with responsibility for managing NI's growing stable of new media investments and coordinating alliances with parent company News Corporation, has left the group. Other executives are understood to be working their notices.Remaining staff, who were   told about the changes earlier this week, are unsure about the full extent of the reorganisation.News International last night refused to comment. Ms Boster and Mr MacLeod could not be reached for comment.However, an internal memo from NI chief executive Les Hinton, seen by the Guardian, says that News Network, which was only set up at the start of this year, was being merged with News International Ventures, the reader-offer and brand extensions business, to create New Commercial Ventures (NCV).It will be headed by FiredUp.com general manager Brett Miller, with Alex Stitt, a director of News International Ventures, acting as his deputy.FiredUp.com has struggled to find its niche in the fiercely competitive online auction market while NI as a group has had difficulty transferring the commercial success of its core newspapers like the Sun and the Times, into the online arena.In common with many   newspaper groups it has been looking for a way to take its brands online without cannibalising too much of its existing, and cash generative, newspaper sales.CurrantBun.com, a free internet service provider linked with the Sun, was set up last year, quickly rebranded Bun.com and then after a heavy television advertising campaign sold to pan-European ISP World Online for an undisclosed sum.Lineone, an ISP and portal, was started in partnership with BT but NI pulled out and several of Lineone's technical team departed for the BBC. Lineone's media partner is now United News &amp; Media.In March, webzine theregister.co.uk got hold of a leaked NI memo from Mr MacLeod that suggested that employee morale at the new-media company was low and employees were dissatisfied with management.Mr Hinton has previously emphasised the importance of digital media to NI. In May, while outlining a series of new divisions aimed at accelerating development of NI's digital franchise, he said: "News Network has been the catalyst in developing an expertise and culture which we can now adopt throughout the company to take full advantage of the potential presented by the new economy."
Shares in Amazon.com fell as much as 17.5% yesterday as Wall Street, disappointed with the online retailer's latest earnings report, lost patience with the company.Investment houses downgraded Amazon's stock yesterday after Lehman Brothers downgraded it Wednesday.Despite beating Wall Street's estimates for overall losses by two cents per share, the company disappointed analysts Wednesday with lower than expected sales. And while the company's book, video and music divisions were profitable, growth was lower than expected as well.Because of the downgrades and a mixed financial picture, Amazon.com shares hit their lowest point since November 1998. The shares dropped more than $6 (&#163;4) per share before recovering to close at   $31.375, down $4.688 on the New York stock exchange.While many analysts remained bullish about the company's long-term prospects, its short-term outlook is not as good, especially with the holiday spending season coming. Amazon is expected to spend about $140m in capital in the second half of this year, in part to gear up for Christmas."While we are optimistic that &#91;Amazon.com&#93; will successfully improve... over the next several quarters and that it will continue to dominate the online retail space, these near-term issues will likely keep the stock from outperforming the market," wrote Lehman Brothers analyst Holly Becker, who downgraded the stock from "buy" to "neutral".SG Cowan analyst Scott Reamer, in downgrading Amazon.com from "strong buy" to   "buy", noted that Amazon.com missed its own sales projections for the first time, but took comfort from the way the company became more efficient to compensate for it.
MusicianStinghas lost a case at an international panel to evict the holder of the net address "sting.com", becoming the first celebrity to suffer such a defeat, United Nations arbitrators said yesterday.The singer filed the case in June at the Geneva-basedWorld Intellectual Property Organisation(Wipo) against Michael Urvan of Marietta, Georgia, US, who had been the first to register the address as an internet domain.But Wipo, which runs an arbitration system that evicts cybersquatters or net users registering famous names in the hope of making a quick buck, ruled against the pop star, saying he was unable to prove the name had been registered in bad faith.As domain names have become more valuable a market has emerged for opportunists to grab addresses simply by being there first. The fast-track arbitration system of Wipo, the UN copyright and intellectual property agency, allows firms and individuals to avoid costly legal action in cases where mischief is the obvious motive or serious money is at stake. Firms that have won back their names from alleged cybersquatters through Wipo so far includeChristian Dior,Deutsche Bank,MicrosoftandNike. Wipo has also ruled in favour of celebrities including allowing actorJulia Robertsto evict cybersquatters. It has said plaintiffs had common law trademark rights.But in the case of Sting a Wipo panel said that he had failed to prove bad faith or present any evidence that he had registered the name as a trademark.Sting's lawyers claimed the holder of the site had offered to sell the name for $25,000, but they failed to show any proof and Mr Urvan denied it, a Wipo statement said. Mr Urvan told the panel he had acquired the domain name five years ago in good faith."The complainant has not satisfied this panel that the respondent registered and is using the domain name in bad faith," the panel said.The panel also ruled that the name Sting was a common word, and quoted from Webster's Dictionary to that effect. Reflecting growing confidence in the Wipo online arbitration system, 817 cases have been filed since its creation last December resulting in 316 rulings; 81% have led to the eviction of the cybersquatter.
In a ruling with immeasurable consequences for the uses of the internet, a San Francisco judge yesterday granted a temporary injunction to the music industry to prevent the internet firm Napster from distributing and copying music.Napster has claimed that the ruling could put it out of business and will have ramifications for the whole industry.Judge Marilyn Hall Patel granted the temporary injunction sought by the Recording Industry Association of America that will prevent Napster from making copyrighted music available on the internet until a full trial is held.She told a packed federal court that the plaintiffs had established a "strong likelihood of success" in the forthcoming trial and might suffer "irreparable" damage if Napster continued to distribute free music over the internet.The judge portrayed Napster's attitude as "piracy be damned... piracy was pretty much uppermost in their minds. &#91;It was&#93; 'Free music for the people'!"She said that Napster's claims about wanting to assist unknown bands were not its reason for operating. The court heard of exchanges between Napster executives referring to "bringing about the death of the CD" and making Tower Records "obsolete". She said it was clear that piracy was its purpose.The judge added that the claims that an injunction would put Napster out of business was "like becoming an orphan by your own hand and then throwing yourself at the mercy of the court because you're an orphan".She suggested that it should be possible for Napster to come up with a way of supervising and policing the distribution of copyrighted music. There were, said the judge "plenty of those minds in Silicon Valley" capable of devising suitable software.Earlier, attorney Russ Frackman, for the music industry, said: "This is the most egregious case of copyright infringement that has ever existed." He said that 14,000 recordings were downloaded every minute, around 20m a day. Of these, around 90% were copyrighted. Napster has said that it anticipates 70m users by the end of this year, the court heard.For Napster, attorney David Boies said his client had not had any substantial adverse effect on the market. Another Napster attorney, Daniel Johnson, said: "You cannot put the genie back in the bottle."In the space of nine months, Napster, which is based in the Bay Area, has changed the pattern of distributing music. It acts as a clearing house directing users towards computers where songs can be downloaded and swapped.The record industry has objected to this operation on the grounds that an estimated 20m people have been "song-swapping" via Napster and that this has cost the industry $300m (&#163;200m) in lost sales. The industry argued the company was facilitating this loss of revenue to artists.In May 9 in San Francisco, Judge Patel rejected Napster's claims that it was protected from the illegal actions of its users.Napster has subsequently argued that the personal copying of music via the internet is protected by federal law in the same way that it is not illegal to tape-record music.The industry claims that there is a great difference between, for instance, the loan of a CD so that a friend can copy it and the placing of that music on the internet so that the world can copy it.Interest in the case had been heightened by the band Metallica filing its own suit against Napster, accusing the company of stealing its music.The band's drummer, Lars Ulrich, told a Senate committee that "it's like... one of those contests where you get turned loose in a store for five minutes and get to keep everything you can load into your shopping cart".Despite the ruling, the general belief within the world of e-commerce is that it will not be possible to reverse what Napster has achieved.
Born in a student bedroom, Napster appears to have died in a courtroom. Yesterday Chief Judge Marilyn Patel of US district court in San Francisco ordered the year-old start-up to close down its website by Friday night and concluded users gain from making copies using Napster by getting music free they might normally pay for.In the judge's own words Napster had "created a monster".The music industry certainly thought so. In court, its lawyers claimed Napster would have 70m users within six months adding that 14,000 songs were being downloaded every minute.The Recording Industry Association of America trained its sights on the service after stars discovered that their tracks were being traded openly on the internet. Madonna was one high-profile "victim". Her record company threatened legal action after the title track from Madonna's new album Music - which is not due to come out until the autumn - appeared on Napster's site.Rock group Metallica also went to court and sued for copyright infringement and racketeering. In May the group successfully blocked more than 300,000 fans from using the MP3 site after handing in their names to Napster's US headquarters.Metallica's drummer Lars Ulrich yesterday said his band was "elated" by the judge's verdict. "Sharing is such a warm, cuddly, friendly word. This is not sharing, it's duplicating."That is not Napster's view. In court, it cited the US supreme court's 1984 decision that Sony was not guilty of contributory copyright violation with its Betamax videocassette recorder, in part because the device was "capable of substantial noninfringing uses".The web has been carefully monitoring Napster's fate and many claim that it is the law that will eventually have to give in - not the internet sites. "Intellectual property law has long been strained by technological advances," said Dave Phillips, chief executive at iCrunch - which offers legal digital downloads."In the twenties and thirties, when recorded music first appeared, performing rights artists organisations tried to shut them down because they feared they would displace live performances."Napster is talking tough and plans to appeal. But whatever its fate, experts agree it has changed the industry forever. Scattered around the web are Napster's successors - Scour Exchange, iMesh and CuteMX all use similar technologies - pointing users to computers where songs in MP3 files can be downloaded.Eric Scheirer, online music analyst at Forrester Research, said: "This will be the end of Napster the company if this is the way the trial is going to finish but the Napster technology will live on."  
Looming on the horizon are bigger threats - systems which are decentralised and do not keep servers that can be shut down with injunctions.The decision is likely to have no effect on Gnutella, FreeNet and other decentralised technologies where song files are traded directly among a constantly changing group of computer users.What is worse for the entrenched entertainment industry is that Scour Exchange, iMesh and CuteMX can be used to search for audio, video and images. Gnutella and Freenet are "file agnostic" and can be used to share all file types. Also lurking on the web is a program called Wrapster which allows any file to be disguised as an MP3 file and transmitted via Napster.The music industry may have won the battle with Napster - but it is already conceding defeat to the net. EMI have already put some of its back catalogue on the net; Sony will later this year start selling digital downloads on its site for $3.49 a track and BMG will be offering four different MP3 players on the web.Nick King, a former Virgin Music Group director who runs music and video etailer Boxman, said: "I think it is only a matter of time before the digital music business takes over the entire music industry."
Shares in online retailer Amazon.com fell sharply yesterday as investors lost patience after a second-quarter revenue shortfall.Shares in Amazon, which is seen as a bellwether for the entire online retailing sector, fell in heavy trade on Nasdaq."It was a disappointing quarter, leading some we spoke with to say the conference call 'was like attending a wake'," Dain Rauscher Wessels analyst George Sutton told clients. "It was painful to listen to this top-tier internet brand admit it does have issues maintaining its growth, given its size."Mr Sutton, who maintained a "buy-aggressive" rating for Amazon, lowered his price target to $50 (&#163;33) from $85.On Wednesday, Amazon reported that second-quarter revenues rose to $578m, short of the $600m some analysts had hoped for, even as the company posted a quarterly loss that beat Wall Street's per share estimate by two cents.Amazon had an initial target for 90% revenue growth. The results reported by the company on Wednesday showed only 84% revenue growth.It was the latest in a string of bad news for the company. This week, its share price dropped 10% after its president Joseph Galli abruptly quit, its stock was downgraded by two analysts ahead of earnings and its website crashed.Amazon said, for its second quarter to June 30 it recorded a pro forma net loss of $115.7m, or 33 cents per share, excluding special items, against a loss of $82.7m, or 26 cents a share, in the same period last year.The company was expected to lose 35 cents a share, according to the consensus analyst estimate compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks brokerage estimates.Amazon stock has fallen from a 52-week high of $113 set in December.
Have you ever sat through a turgid half hour of humourless   television and thought to yourself, I could write a better sitcom with my eyes closed, one hand behind my back and a colony of vicious drone ants living in my underwear? Have you?Well, of course you have. And if you've ever had a go at writing your own comedic masterpiece, you'll have found that it's a whole lot harder than it looks. Characterisation, pacing, timing and - above all - being hilarious is tough.   The internet is not an obvious place to look for help in writing a sitcom.Being funny is, after all, a creative process, not something that can be searched for or bought on an auction site. Or so I thought, until I took a long hard look at my own half-written pilot episode. It had decent characterisation and reasonable plot development but - at the end of it all - not a single funny line.In desperation, I headed to the web and discovered a wealth of resources.The Write Stuffis the official website of the BBC's comedy script unit, which receives between 1,200 and 1,500 scripts each year.It is essential reading: the writers' guidelines tell you everything you need to know about submitting your script, including formatting pages, tips on concepts and, importantly, what the Beeb is really looking for in a sitcom.   At the other end of the scale is www.hahabonk.com, a website that develops and produces original animated sketches and sitcoms. They are actively looking for new concepts and scripts for online animated short films - the only criterion, they say, is that "it has to make us laugh".Unfortunately, most   production companies aren't very good at supplying online submission details for would-be sitcom writers. This is where insider contacts and friends of friends come into their own but, of course, you're just starting out, so you don't have any industry chums.Fear not, there are ways around this: theUK Sitcom Writing Listis an online discussion forum for sitcom writers. Recent topics include Steve Coogan's new production company and tips on how to behave when meeting the new ITV head of comedy, Sioned William. A great place for advice, discussion and insider information.Another excellent site   with a community feel isSituations Vacant, which "works with new writers and performers to devise, develop and test on stage sitcoms and comedy concepts for television and radio". It also organises London-based sitcom trials (next show in September), has an archive of original scripts and supplies a comprehensive top 10 of sitcom dos and don'ts.If it's advice you're after, don't miss out on Sitcom Writinghttp://members.aol.com/dsimon9874. It features interviews with professional comedians, tips on how to structure your sitcom and sample sketches from Smack The Pony.Another invaluable resource is Writing for Performancewww.kelly.mcmail.com. This is the most comprehensive sitcom site I've seen, offering an excellent guide to sitcom basics, transcripts of interviews with television producers, and contact details for 20 comedy production companies.If you're not sure that your script is ready to be sent to a producer, the Screenwriters' Workshop atwww.lsw.org.ukmay be the place for you. It has links to writing groups and offers a professional, paid-for, script evaluation service. If you think you'd benefit from taking an online course, take a look atTV Comedy College. For £100 you can buy six foundation units in comedy writing, taught by three experienced sitcom writers with impressive pedigrees. (A free sample module is available on request.)Finally, when you're working on your script and the words just won't flow, pay a visit to Tom's Comedy Quotes athttp://tomsquotes.amhosting.net. This has inspirational quotes by the bucketful from those greats of the sitcom world, Cheers and Seinfeld. Another good   place for kick-starting your creative juice pump is theTV Comedy Database, which has cast, production and episode details for more than 600 British sitcoms.  Browsing through these programmes can be both depressing and invigorating.The chances of you coming up with something even half as wonderful as Fawlty Towers on your first attempt are extremely slim. But at least you'll be able to manage something funnier than Heartburn Hotel and Up Rising (two of the direst sitcoms it has ever been my misfortune to endure) simply by persuading a city gent to fall into a manhole when distracted by an attractive young lady. Oh, my sides.
Net numbersBango.net, a start-up in Cambridge, thinks the web would be easier to use if sites had numbers instead of words for addresses - and for    people using mobile phones and other primitive devices, or foreign languages, this could well be true. Bango is giving a million numbers away atwww.bango.net. However, you have to hand over a valid email address, and the number link must be used at least once a month.US viewsAmerica's PBS public broadcasting network has a new site with a thematic approach:American Photography: A Century of Images. Kodak sponsorship has    enabled PBS to build a bigger site than usual but the pictures are still too small. Other new PBS sites continue the theme of presenting the American Experience Online. These includeConey IslandandMr Miami Beach, produced with WGBH in Boston.Ask OJYou've asked Jeeves and perhaps beseeched theInternet Oracle: nowAsk OJ, for a price. The former American football star found not guilty of murdering his wife Nicole Brown Simpson and restaurant waiter Ron Goldman is scheduled to hold his first live session online today. The website, run by the company behind the all-female VoyeurDorm, charges $7.95 for access or $9.95 on the day of this "Historic Event".War diaryWhat happened day by day during four critical months in 1940? The answer is now being revealed on theBattle of Britain History site, where the RAF is publishing the complete Fighter Command Operational Diaries for the first time. The site also includes background information and a regrettably small picture gallery from which the plane above is taken.World beatThe World Entertainment Network is webcasting the Womad USA world music festival from Seattle (July 28-30). A trailer promoting some of the artists involved is at Wen's site,www.wen.com.Pilger onlineJohn Pilger will be chatting on the web on Monday to mark the expansion and relaunch of the Carlton TV website devoted to his work. The site offers about 100 video clips and all the award-winning reporter's recent articles:www.carlton.com/pilger.Spot onThe Spot On controller lets you put together sequences of sites and navigate them with a VCR-style on-screen controller. If you regularly trawl through a series of sites, Spot On preloads pages automatically, so pressing the forward button is as quick as pressing the back button. The control software for Microsoft Windows and Internet Explorer can be found atwww.spoton.com.The X factorVirgin.Net has opened an official website for X-Men atwww.virgin.net/x-men, the Twentieth Century Fox film which will be released in the UK on August 18. The site has interviews with Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellan, and the creator of the original comic, Stan Lee. While Virgin's mutant design may have usability problems, it is a lot less horrible than the official American site atwww.x-men-the-movie.com.New and notedBritain's championship-winning coxless rowers, preparing for the Sydney Olympics, now have a website atwww.coxless4.com.Marie Stopes Internationalreckons its redesigned site is the first where visitors can book an abortion online. Timotei, the shampoo, is being promoted with a "viral marketing campaign based on e-cards atwww.timotei-naturebursts.co.uk.Mensa International, the society for people who can pass IQ tests, has opened "the world's first global ideas factory" for inventors and entrepreneurs atwww.mensaiqcapital.com.Wap watchBy Victor KeeganTo use your Wap (wireless application protocol) phone to locate the nearest off licence or filling station try http://offramp.co.ukJob searching is a natural for Wap, and http://mmm.closecom.com specialises in telecommunications jobs.Now http://wap.foxkids.co.uk has news and entertainment for kids on the move - with interactivity promised later.Frustrated with not being able to connect to Wap sites? The online bible at http://wap.mobible.org/may give the solace needed.Six of the bestFree stuffUK phone callswww.pc2call.comSMS messageswww.breathe.comFaxeswww.efax.comVoicemailwww.voizmail.comComputer gameswww.freeloader.comMusic fileswww.mp3.com&#149; Sites suggested by Computeractive magazine.
