This week's Best Apps post for new Android apps covers 20 releases from the last week alone. Heady times for Google-powered devices.The list doesn't include games, as they get their own separate post:this week's selectionincluded Android titles like Angry Birds Star Wars, Curiosity, Air Patriots, Army of Darkness: Defense and League of Heroes.iOS apps also get their own post, which can befound here this week. Windows Phone has a monthly roundup – thelatest one is here.On with this week's Android apps:Boots Christmas (Free)Retailer Boots has launched a dedicated Christmas app, with details of its festive gifts lineup, and the option to filter them by price, category and the likely recipient. Users can create Gift Lists which can then be sent to Boots' website, and the app also ties into the retailer's Video Gift Tags, for recording personal video messages to be attached to real presents.Best of Britain - Days Out (£2.99)Publisher Archant has rounded up 101 heritage sites from around Britain for this tourism app, from Stonehenge to Balmoral. It's a 164-page digital book with search features, and the option to save pages or the guide for offline access when on your travels.Goodnight Moon (£1.89)US firm Loud Crow Interactive makes exceedingly good children's book-apps, with Goodnight Moon its latest release on Android (and iOS). It's based on a 65-year-old print book about a bunny going to bed, with interactivity, photography features and the ability to play nice with seven and 10-inch tablets as well as smartphones.Echofon (Free)Twitter app Echofon is still in beta on Android, so you won't find it on the Google Play store – the link above takes you to UberMedia's latest build. It's shaping up as a slick alternative to the official Twitter app, with features for power users as well as newcomers to microblogging.If I Ran The Circus (£2.49)This is the latest Dr. Seuss book-app to be released by Oceanhouse Media for Android, focusing on the imaginary Circus McGurkus. The original Seussian artwork is complemented by voice narration, and – common to all the publisher's Dr. Seuss apps – words that zoom up when a picture is touched, to aid early readers.Angry Commuters (Free)This app comes from Imperial College London as part of a research trial into commuting in the capital. The idea: download the app, then use it to file a report on your commuting journeys: how happy and relaxed you feel (or not), as well as the conditions of the bus, tube, train or other method of public transport. The results will be published early in 2013, and you get a personalised report on your journeys if you take part.Blockbuster Magazine (Free)The UK arm of video-rental chain Blockbuster has its own print magazine, but now it's gone digital. That includes Android, where the free app promises monthly news, reviews, interviews and previews of DVDs and games.Audio Glow Live Wallpaper (£0.62)There are shedloads of live wallpapers available for Android smartphones and, while most of them are unappealing, Audio Glow has the makings of a good one: a glowing music visualizer that bases its visuals on whatever music (or app sound) is playing at the time.Unsocial (Free)Don't be fooled by the name: Unsocial is a very social app, and one focused on business. It aims to connect you with relevant work contacts in the same area as you, hooking you up with messaging. There's also a focus on conferences, though: helping identify the attendees who you haven't met yet, but who may be most relevant to your work.Wrike – Project Management (Free)Now for something more serious (with fewer rhymes): project management on the go. That's what Wrike is about on desktop computers, and now it has an Android app for use "whether you are at a meeting, in an airport or on vacation in Haiti". The app is free for existing users of Wrike.TasKarou Launcher Overlay (Free)This is more about personal productivity on Android tablets: a multitasking launcher overlay that promises to make it quicker to flick between apps, rather than using the default Android controls. Probably good for freeing up regular seconds of funtime on that Haitian vacation...PopAR Planets3D (Free)This is an augmented reality app, part of a series from PopAR Toys designed to work with its range of printed books, cards or simply $1 bills (yes, if you're using in the UK, you may need to hunt down one of those). The idea: more than 22 3D pop-out planets, spaceships and pieces of planet scenery, superimposed on the real world.Mobento (Free)Armed with the slogan "educational videos to go", Mobento is aggregating educational videos from the likes of Stanford, Yale, TED, Nasa and Khan Academy, sorting them by category (computers, climate change etc) with the option to stream or download them. I'm wondering what some of the sources will make of the downloading element, mind.AeroPad (£2.92)Now, this is specialist in the sense that it's made by an aircraft pilot for other aircraft pilots to use in the cockpit. In its iOS incarnation it's won praise from specialist media, and now it's on Android, optimised for tablets and designed to display PDFs, as well as the pilot's own notes.Bo's Bedtime Story (£0.80)Developer Heppi has a series of children's apps on Android starring Bo, a cute cartoon giraffe. This is the latest, based around Bo's bedtime routine with 10 interactive scenes. The idea is presumably that it will get your kids in the mood for sleepytime (as opposed to in the mood for demanding another go on Angry Birds or they'll scream and scream). Well, it's worth a try, and the app does look well-crafted.Snipbase (Free)Snipbase isn't actually a native Android app, but rather a mobile browser site that's been optimised for Android devices. It's all about shopping lists, but rather than being lists of text, they're made up of photos. Its developer hopes people will find picture-based lists for supermarkets, birthdays and to-do tasks faster and easier to use than words.Glorious Flavour Map (Free)It's early days for Glorious Flavour Map, but there's a good idea there: mapping "interesting, tasty, unique and inspirational tastes" around the world, then letting app users browse those near their current location when looking for a decent nosh-up.ConnectMyRide (Free)This app's in beta for the moment, with a suitably 2012 slogan: "Connect your Car to the Cloud!" What that means is a bit more down-to-earth: tracking your car travel. Distance, duration, fuel usage, CO2 emission and other stats. There are also social features: "Allow friends to follow your trip in real time..."HookHunt (Free)I'm guessing this is more aimed at the US, for hunters and fishers to take on their trips and track their activities. "Capture what matters in the field and have it backed up securely even if you lose your phone," explains its Google Play listing. But there are also an array of tools: weather, barometer, tidal data and features designed to be used by groups travelling together.ASCII Fireworks Live Wallpaper (Free)Finally, something fun (albeit also something that's not hugely topical until just under a year's time). This live wallpaper offers a virtual fireworks display, presented using ASCII characters. Its developer says it'll play nice with Android tablets as well as smartphones too.That's our selection, but what new Android apps have you been using this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
Apple has come in for blistering criticism from judges at the court of appeal for its "lackadaisical" compliance with their order to publish newspaper adverts and website acknowledgements that Samsung did not infringe its registered designs for a tablet.Meanwhile, the company has quietly removed the Javascript code on its UK webpage thatkept hiddenthe acknowledgement "below the fold" of the site, no matter how big a screen it was viewed on.Thefull ruling of the court of appeal hearing on 1 Novembershows the judges to be furious at Apple's attempts to stall on the acknowledgements and its addition of "false and misleading" additions to the statement that Apple was originally to put up.The court also awarded costs against Apple on an indemnity basis, which works out more expensive than the standard form, "as a mark of the court's disapproval of a party's conduct, particularly in relation to its respect for an order of the court", according to the final judgment. "Apple's conduct warranted such an order," wrote Sir Robin Jacob, who led the panel of three judges sitting at the court of appeal.Gary Moss, head of EIP Legal, which specialises in intellectual property, said: "Reading beyond the legal language used, the court of appeal clearly thought that Apple were taking the piss."The original version of the acknowledgement received more than a million hits, but the judges said that Apple had not displayed it with sufficient prominence.The judges also said that Apple's attempt to assert a registered design – in effect, the appearance of a product – against Samsung has failed at every attempt, including in the UK, Germany and the US.In the judgment, Sir Robin said: "The order required publication 'in the earliest available issue' of the specified newspapers and magazines."I would have thought that self-evidently meant what it said – get the advertisements into each publication as soon as possible. What Apple chose to do as regards the newspapers and magazines was less than that."Sir Robin added: "[Apple's] vice president of worldwide marketing communications said he understood the approach to be adopted was 'to co-ordinate adverts across those publications in order to ensure the widest readership possible is exposed to the advert on the same day'."That apparently meant to Apple so far as the newspapers were concerned the same day, but not the magazines which had longer lead times. Apple accordingly arranged for 16 November for all the newspapers. I note in passing that it is not said that 16 November was the earliest possible date even for just all the newspapers. I would be surprised if it were, given that our order was made on 18 October. So there was self-evident non-compliance with the newspaper/magazine aspect of the publicity order."He added that the lack of compliance originally shown by Apple was "much more serious" – and it was that which led to the order last week requiring Apple to link to the acknowledgement on its front page.Sir Robin said Apple's statement was "calculated to produce huge confusion" when it contrasted the decision of high court judge Colin Birss with that of a US jury that awarded Apple a billion dollars in damages in a legal battle with Samsung. Sir Robin pointed out that the US jury agreed with Birss, saying that Samsung didn't infringe Apple's design patents around the iPad.Of the original version posted by Apple, Sir Robin said: "Instead of simply publishing the text as ordered, Apple broke it up, interspersing it with text of its own devising."That included comments originally made by Birss in the high court in July, when he decided that Samsung did not infringe Apple's registered design for the iPad, contrasting the American company's product as having "a cool design", but saying the Korean company's didn't. Though both companies could claim PR victories from the decision, Birss also ordered Apple to acknowledge the fact on its site.After months of legal wrangling, and a reprimand a fortnight ago by the three judges at the court of appeal, Apple added the acknowledgement to its site last week – but also incorporated code so that no matter how tall the browser page that the site was loaded in, the acknowledgement would always appear "below the fold".Now, the acknowledgement can be seen directly, although it still needs a very tall browser page, of more than 1,000 pixels, which is found on very few devices.Apple appealed Birss's ruling, but the company was turned down – and it was ordered to put the ruling on its site with a link on its home page. Apple originally asked for 14 days, but was given 48 hours – an amount the judges called "generous".In the written ruling, Sir Robin said: "For the reasons we gave (essentially because Apple had created much uncertainty in the market place) we thought it necessary to make a publicity order requiring Apple to disperse the fog of confusion it had created."He added a final warning: "I hope that the lack of integrity involved in this incident is entirely atypical of Apple."
Of course, it could all be a brilliant, self-referential prank. Peter Molyneux, the game designer famed for over-promising on his projects, promising a life-changing prize at the centre of his latest release. But already, Curiosity has become a phenomenon. Whatever people think, they are playing.For the uninitiated,Curiosityis a smartphone game designed by Molyenux and built at his new studio,22Cans. It's a massively multiplayer experiment, depicting a cube floating in virtual space. The cube is constructed from over 60 billion 'cube lets' which can be tapped away by gamers. The idea is for players to keep tapping away, removing tiles until they complete a layer; then the next layer becomes available. And then the next. And so on until one participant taps and roves the final piece, at which point they'll unlock a video explaining their prize. Only Molyneux and one other member of staff knows what it is.Launched on Tuesday, there are already hundreds of thousands of people taking part, tapping away at the cube's latest layer. Some are driven by a desire to see the prize, but most seem to just enjoy tapping, removing tiles and making pictures in the process. Some form words, there even appears to have been a Curiosity marriage proposal. It is a sort of collective work of art, as well as a meditation on compulsion. It is a strange cross between those online multiplayer magnetic letter games and Ian Bogost's social gaming critique Cow Clicker. It is, like everything Molyneux does, interesting and divisive.To find out more about Curiosity and its origins, we spoke to Molyneux, who talked to us after 36 hours without sleep and six cups of coffee.So, the obvious start, where did idea come from?Over the years you just pick up inspiration and ideas bubble away in my mind. I remembered a long time ago, Kit Williams hid a golden hare somewhere in Britain and wrote a book which was layered with clues about where the it was. This really fired my imagination, I read the book and it was way too cryptic for me to understand, but it seemed to fascinated people - it even got on the news. This thing was only worth five grand, but the mystery of where it was really touched a nerve with the public.And then I saw a TED talk given by JJ Abrams where he walked out on stage with a cardboard box that had a question mark drawn on the side. He explained that when he was a kid his grandfather had given him a locked box and said that there was something inside for him. But Abrams had chosen never to open it because he enjoyed the mystery. That all combined together with a further thought: here we are in a world where practically overnight a billion people have smartphones in their hands, and there isn't an experience that brings them together in a unique way. I put all of those together and that's how Curiosity was born. We also wanted to test some theories we had about motivation, we wanted to look at analytics, we anted to understand peoples' play styles. And it was born out of something I'd been thinking about: what would be an amazing thing for a single person to have? What would change their life?There seem to be two motivations: there's the desire to find the prize, but there is also something about tidying the cube. It's a vicious compulsion loop, isn't it?That's absolutely right. And it's fascinating how that changes. It was only Wednesday afternoon when the first layer was cleared and then we we're back to a blank slate again, but that slate is a little bit closer to the middle – people's  motivations of utter cooperation are going to start to change as we get closer to the middle. And on a blank slate, people can start drawing again. At the beginning, one person put the word love and immediately afterwards someone else wrote 'fuck'. Then someone else tried to change the word - it's completely self-policing and this is happening every 24 hours with the number of people on the cube.It's amazing and it's going to get a lot more amazing; we have been totally and utterly overwhelmed by the number of people trying to get on to the cube. I thought this was going to be a cosy experiment that a few people would be interested in. I thought maybe in the first week we'd have a couple of thousand people - we had that in the first ten minutes. We've now got hundreds of thousands of people all over the world, all tapping at the same time. All of our servers are really creaking at the seams - we're just upgrading them and uploading a solution so you can see people tapping in real-time beside you.There have been some server problems, it must have been quite a technical challenge to keep this going.Well, we have a problem in that, because we're such a small developer, these servers that maintain the cube, which are owned by Amazon, are very, very expensive. We have to be careful that we aren't being made bankrupt by our own success. None of us have slept for the last 36 hours just to keep things going. Providing I can keep intravenously injecting coffee into people's veins we should have a solution very soon now.After years of big Triple A projects, this seems to have been creatively liberating for you.You know what? This is the most amazing experience I've ever had. I've done something like 15 games and some of those have been great experiences, but the last 24 hours has been incredible. I mean, I've had to take myself off into a corner to just weep a few times. It's just an incredible sensation to put something so simple and so pure out there and to see the world interpreting and defining it. And the whole point is, if I can learn things from this for the big game we're working on, it will make that game far more likely to be successful and to be what I want it to be.I feel that all us game designers that who been making these Triple A games for decades, we need to go back to school, we need to think of ourselves as kids who don't know much. These smartphones are so different - the people who use them are different people than we've addressed before and that means we need to learn new rules and make totally new gaming experiences. Curiosity does show that there's new stuff to do, there are so many new things we can give to people on these devices which they've never seen before. The power to do that is here today - we need to be brave in how we approach that. And you haven't seen the surprise that's coming about why we want to link to your Facebook profiles; you might be curious about that. For the moment we're not showing anything. The first idea was to make it as pure as possible, but as the layers are revealed we're going to have some surprises going on.So is 22Cans a mobile games specialist?Nowadays, if you start saying we're only on this platform – whether it be mobile, console or browser – you're making a rod for your own back. You have to think the way consumers increasingly are thinking: the device I'm using is just another device, it's a window into my world. We are thinking that way. That said, all of our development currently is on mobile, thats our main focus. I think in the next few years we're going to have some might amazing experiences on those devices. I still love consoles, I still have my consoles - I haven't turned it on for three months, though. But I play more games than anyone, it's the first thing I do when I get up in the morning and its the last thing I do before going to bed. It's an exciting world – I'm the kid who just wants more, I want more of those experiences on my mobile device and I want them today.And surely you must be thinking about, ahem, monetisation?There are two sides to that. The first thought is, there may come a time when running Curiosity becomes prohibitively expensive - we're just a small start up and we have a finite amount of money to spend. We're independent at the moment, which means we're eating into our own money – that's nothing to worry about, but we've just got to be aware of it.The second thing is, as part of the experiment, we have the ability to turn on monetistaion, but i don't want to do that at the wrong time, I want to do that when we can learn something from it. We're not going to do it just to make money – although that's very nice, there's nothing strange about that; we're going to do it when we're ready to learn about it. One of the really exciting things, which we've pushed to next week, is when we start showing the world some of the analytics, some of the things we've learned from the cube, sharing the data we've got. And it's amazing, the amount of interesting behaviours… it's fascinating about what people are doing with their coins. Some are hoarding, some are spending them straight away. There's lots of interesting data. When we've done that, it might be time to think about some monetsiation.And it's facsinating that you're charging in-game currency to see the game stats. I like the idea even curiosity about the analytics is part of the game...We can adjust all those things dynamically, and there is more we can do on that side. There are some fascinating stats that we may charge more of those coins for. Information is as valuable as a chisel - and we can play with that to our heart's content.Has it been interesting to see the sorts of guesses people are making about what's at the centre of the cube?There are three categories of guesses. There are the joke guesses, the people who think there's going to be a dead cat in the middle, or me telling a joke – some ridiculous thing that the world would clearly just get very angry about. Then there are the, 'oh it's going to be £50,000 pounds' guesses. Those two put together make up 90% of the speculation.Then there are people who have been thinking a little bit more out of the box - if you pardon the pun. Some are thinking, okay, lets say Peter isn't lying, what could he possibly have that's so amazing to give away? There have been some interesting guess there, but I've got to be very careful even to comment on them. It's like when my son tries to get out of me what I've bought him for Christmas: he always ends up guessing just by what I don't respond to. My overwhelming urge is not to give anything away, because if people find out what's in the centre, it totally changes the experiment. In fact, it would be fascinating to run the experiment again with people knowing what's in the cube. I'm not saying we're going to do that!The whole point here, and the seed that JJ Abrams laid in my mind is, is the power of curiosity enough? What happens next? That dramatic construct is what has driven soap operas and serialised novels over the course of history. Mystery and curiosity are real motivators. But I have put clues out in the world already, and there are clues on most layers of the cube to prompt people to start thinking in the right way. You can expect some of those pretty soon.And on your website you suggest that there will be 22 experiments. When will we find out about the others?There will be an announcement on the next experiment very soon. Curiosity is out there and we're going to do quite a few experiments within that game. The first two layers will be pretty pure, but we'll introduce a few surprises as you go. It's a bit like playing pass the parcel: you want something in the layers to keep people interested. Then we've got another announcement soon, which is big, that'll be pretty interesting. There comes a point when the experiments will need to be more like products. As I said, we're a start up and unless some hugely charitable person wants to give us a wedge of cash, we're going to have to make money at some point!Have you received interest from outside the games industry about Curiosity? I mean, there's an element of conceptual art about it. Have any galleries been in touch?We're just getting those responses now; people have woken up to it. There are a few publishers who have approached us, a few companies have approached us about sponsoring surfaces of the cube, we've had a phone call from a museum about featuring a live footage installation. But the phone has been ringing a lot and we haven't been answering it - I've hardly dared go near my email. But it is amazing… it's amazing how people are reacting to it.
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps released this week on Apple's App Store, with another crop of 30 for you this week.As ever, the list doesn't include games, as they get their own separate post:this week's picksincluded iOS titles like Curiosity, Angry Birds Star Wars, My Little Pony – Friendship is Magic, The Hobbit, Madden NFL 13 Social and more.Android apps get their own separate post: this week'scan be found here. Windows Phone has a monthly roundup, with thelatest edition found here.On with this week's iOS selection.War Horse (£9.99)Michael Morpurgo's novel War Horse has already been turned into a film and play. Now it's an app too, produced by Touch Press (of The Elements fame), working with book publisher Egmont and film company Illuminations. It includes the novel, but also a timeline of the First World War for historical context, video interviews with historians and experts, and a full reading of the book by Morpurgo himself.iPadThe Big Issue (Free)The Big Issue has traditionally been sold by homeless and vulnerably housed people on the streets, but now it's going digital. That means a weekly edition delivered through its iOS app for £2.49 an issue. Bad news for vendors? The Big Issue explains that the app revenues will go into a "central pot from where it will be used to provide essential support for homeless men and women".iPhone / iPad123D Design (Free)There's a lot of excitement around 3D printing at the moment, and Autodesk's new iPad app plays right into it. The idea: "create amazing 3D printable designs, right on your iPad". That means choosing basic shapes, editing them and connecting them together to create 3D objects, then exporting them to the 123D design web and desktop apps, and actually printing them. If you have the kit. The app also shows off the creations of other users.iPadInsight Radio (Free)Digital station Insight Radio is apparently Europe's first radio station for blind and partially sighted people, part-funded by the Royal National Institute of Blind People. Now it's got an app which streams the station live, provides access to older shows and podcasts, and offers news for its community of listeners.iPhoneFox Now (Free)Fox Broadcasting has joined the second-screen bandwagon, with an app released in the US to help viewers "tap into the social conversation" around shows such as Glee, The Simpsons, New Girl and Family Guy. It's a Zeebox-like experience offering a mixture of social chatter and extra content related to whatever show is currently on: video clips, episode previews and recaps, and information on the stars.iPadTemple Run Comics (£0.69)Tens of millions of people are playing Temple Run on their smartphones and tablets, but now it's got a digital comic spinoff. Produced by Ape Entertainment, which has done a similar thing for the Pocket God game, it promises to fill in the backstory for Temple Run ("What are the temples? What are the secrets of the golden idols? What exactly are the demon monkey creatures?" with each issue set to cost 69p via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadMiffy at School (£1.99)You wouldn't catch Miffy messing about with demon monkeys in a temple. Dick Bruna's famous bunny is more focused on schoolwork in this new app, based on the book of the same name. It's the third Miffy app for iPad, offering a story with voice narration, a pair of mini-games, creative activities and the option to record up to three children (or parents, grandparents...) reading the story.iPadBoots Christmas (Free)UK retailer Boots has launched a standalone app for Christmas shoppers, offering info on potential gifts, and features to help shoppers narrow down the selection based on whether the recipient is a "natural beauty", "classy chick", "domestic goddess" or other categories. The app also ties into Boots' video gift tags – a new thing this year that lets gift-givers record video messages to attach to their physical presents.iPhoneDorothy Perkins (Free)High-street retailer Dorothy Perkins and the Kardashians... Together at last! Yes, Kim, Kourtney, Klaxon, Killahghostface and the other ones star in this app for Dorothy Perkins, with a competition to win a day in the life of the famous reality-show family. More usefully, the app enables customers to browse the DP collection, compile wishlists and actually buy clobber.iPhoneFlayvr (Free)Another week, another whizzy-looking photo/video sharing app jostling for attention on the App Store. This one has a twist though: rather than being just another Instagram wannabe, it's more focused on helping you organise the photos stored on your iPhone by date and event/experience, although sharing to Facebook, Twitter and Google+ is also included.iPhoneDesti - Bay Area Travel Guide (Free)iPad app Desti – only available in the US for now – is getting American tech blogs excited this week: "Siri for travel" seems to be the most common press reaction. What that means is an app providing travel recommendations, using natural language processing technology to respond to questions about "lodging, attractions or restaurants". For now, it covers Northern California only.iPadSo...Gabble (Free)Peter Gabriel has been one of the more tech-savvy musicians for a while now, and his new iPad app is intriguing. Released alongside a remastered version of his So album (which originally came out in 1986), it's a new way to explore the album's lyrics as animations and illustrations, while sharing favourite bits on Facebook and Twitter. One for fans, but pretty interesting.iPadIan Rush scrAppbook (Free)Talking of famous people from 1986... Former Liverpool star Ian Rush has released his own, ahem, "scrAppbook" celebrating his career: "the medals he won, the shirts he wore and swapped in the big games, the hat-trick balls he collected" and, judging from the screenshots, some comedy childhood mugshots too. Fans should expect lots of photos, audio, video and rotating boots. Trinity Mirror made the app, which requires an in-app purchase of £4.99 to unlock all the content.iPadTeam Sky - 21 Days To Glory App (Free)Talking of famous people with rotating boots... Bradley Wiggins is thankfully recovering from being knocked over by a van this week. Hopefully HarperCollins' new Team Sky app will cheer him up. It's a companion app for the publisher's celebratory Tour de France book, so you don't get the actual text, but you do get some photos, and the ability to point the app at the physical book to hear related recordings from Team Sky's podcasts.iPhone / iPadCloud Smart Meter (Free)There is no spurious way to link this to a Bradley Wiggins cycling app. Cloud Smart Meter is a very-serious business tool for anyone managing an Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud, providing analytics on the go. The idea being that its target audience of "CIOs, IT Managers, DevOps and other cloud users" can quickly check stats when not in front of a computer.iPhoneShutterstock (Free)More iPhone photography here, with a port of an app that was previously iPad-only. It's based on the Shutterstock stock-photos library, providing subscribers with an easy way to browse the photos using keywords and colour. They can then be cued up for downloading from a computer later.iPhoneBomber Command Memorial (£0.69)Just in time for Remembrance Sunday comes this iPhone app from the RAF Benevolent Fund, based on its memorial in central London. The app includes audio interviews with veterans, a guide to the Bomber Command Memorial itself, and a guide to various bomber aircraft. The proceeds will go towards the upkeep of the monument.iPhoneFayve (Free)Fayve is another US-only app getting Silicon Valley in a stir. It's a film and TV discovery app that aims to learn your preferences and then suggest suitable things to watch from Netflix, Hulu Plus, iTunes, YouTube, Amazon Instant Video and other US services. There are search tools to pinpoint specific shows and movies, social features, and the ability to look up films being shown at nearby cinemas. It's the work of Vulcan Technologies, the company of Microsoft co-founder Paul AlleniPadBBC iPudsey (Free)This year's second official Children in Need app has a creative angle: it wants people to "give pretty much anything a voice of its own". That means pointing the app at inanimate objects and shooting videos either with your own voice, or that of a celebrity – the latter cost 69p via in-app purchase, with the proceeds going to Children in Need. The BBC worked with agency Weapon7 on the app.iPhone / iPadAstronomy Photographer of the Year (£1.99)This app from book publisher HarperCollins is all about space: 90 photos taken from around the world for the Royal Observatory in Greenwich's Astronomy Photographer of the Year competition. Comments from the snappers and experts are included, as is the ability to share the pics on social networks.iPhone / iPadBloxy HD (£0.69)Stop us when Bloxy HD starts to sound familiar: a digital set of more than 50 colourful brick-types that fit together to make buildings, vehicles etc, accompanied by 14 "mini-figures" including knights, princesses... Yep, it's fair to say Bloxy HD has been inspired by Lego, but assuming the lawyers don't step in, it's an imaginative app that taps into children's creativity.iPadQuips (Free)Quips is a spin-off from social TV startup Miso, and wants to be "the best way to talk about TV". What that means is pretty clever: searching for a specific scene from a favourite show, scribbling your own caption for commentary, then sharing it with friends in the app, or via Facebook and Twitter.iPhoneSnipbase Photo Shopping List (Free)Shopping lists as photos rather than text? It sounds like a strange idea, but that's what the Snipbase app is all about, with its developer suggesting it's faster, smarter and more useful than traditional lists, whether supermarket shopping or compiling a wishlist for Christmas or birthdays.iPhoneFotopedia Italy (Free)This is another photography-focused app, but this time revolving around travel rather than shopping. Travel to a specific place, too: Italy. It pulls in images from the community on photographic website Fotopedia, while adding interactive maps, trip-planning features and social sharing.iPhone / iPadIf I Ran The Circus – Dr. Seuss (£2.49)There are dozens of Dr. Seuss books now available as apps, with If I Ran the Circus the latest to get the treatment from developer Oceanhouse Media. It's the colourful tale of the imaginary Circus McGurkus, with voice narration and words that zoom up and are spoken individually when pictures are touched, to aid young readers.iPhone / iPadPractical English Usage (£27.99)Effortlessly trumping the price of every other app in this weekly roundup put together, this app from Oxford University Press is based on its existing Practical English Usage book, offering more than 600 entries on questions about the English language's peculiarities.iPhone / iPadBackdraft (Free)"Think of Backdraft like a remote control for Twitter – or a 'tweemote'," suggests the App Store listing for this iPad app from Purdue University. Please don't think of it as a "tweemote". But do think of it as useful: it's an app that "enables you to write tweets in advance, and then release them while you are giving a presentation". Yep: livetweet YOUR OWN conference presentations. Which could be fun if you don't tell your audience how you're doing it.iPadNowThis News (Free)NowThis Media's new app promises "the latest scoops", but we're talking web-novelty scoops as well as hard news in this case, from the "top 5 worst on stage rockstar meltdowns" through to "Steve Jobs Tributes That Will Amaze You". If you love sites like Buzzfeed, you'll love it.iPhone / iPadA Christmas Carol (£1.49)British developer Secret Attic have their own characterful take on Charles Dickens' Christmas fable, aimed at 3-14 year-old children. Illustration, excerpts from the original text and voice narration are all included.iPhone / iPadFunny Faces Camera (Free)And finally... This may be a novelty, but there's something undeniably fun about it. The idea: silly sound effects triggered just before taking photos, with the aim of jolting subjects out of their standard photo-face expressions. You can also rate their success, for other users to see which ones work best.iPhoneThat's our selection, but what new iOS apps have you been using this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.This article was updated on 9 November to tweak the NowThis News entry, to reflect that itdoeshave hard news, not just novelty stories.
Some early users of the Touch Cover of Microsoft's Surface tablet say one of the edges splits to expose a wire just days after they starting using it.A number of users on the Surface Forums site havereported the problem, which has also been experienced by Tom Warren, a writer on the Verge website and Matthew Baxter-Reynolds, a Windows developer.The defect is identical in each case: the cover, which has an integral keyboard, begins to split at its seam where the device attaches magnetically to the main computer.Microsoft Surface Touch Cover, showing tear on edge. Photo: Tom Warren of The Verge. Used with permission.Microsoft did not respond to a request from The Guardian for information about how many reports there had been of the problem. Baxter-Reynolds was told to return his Touch Cover to Microsoft for a replacement, and Microsoft has been swapping faulty covers for users where it has retail stores.It's unclear whether the problems that people have encountered are due to a faulty batch or are a subtle problem that will become more apparent as more people use it for longer- but the fact that users in the US and the UK have reported the problem suggests that it is not isolated to a single manufacturing batch.Microsoft is expected to sell millions of the devices, though it has given no preliminary or forecast sales figures.Another Touch Cover where the edge has come away, exposing the wire. Photo: Matthew Baxter-Reynolds. Used with permission.The split seems to caused by mechanical stress on the cover. One poster on the Surface Forums spot commented:"I believe the seam can loosen easily if it's bent back and you let the Surface rest on your lap (for example, when you're reclining and reading something) - it's best to disconnect the keyboard when the Surface is being used in this scenario."However, as another user suggested, that suggests the cover is failing in its job as a lid for a device that is designed to be used as both a tablet and a laptop computer.The covers cost around $80, though there is no cost for swapping faulty covers.
Here we go, then, the madness has begun. It's been four years since the last full Grand Theft Auto release and in that time gaming has changed considerably. We've seen the seemingly irresistible rise of the military shooter, with Call of Duty usurping GTA as the biggest brand out there. We've seen the action adventure genre mutate along narrative cinematic lines, with Uncharted dominating the sector. Meanwhile, nothing, save the ridiculous Saint's Row 3 and the competent Sleeping Dogs, has truly challenged in the open-world action realm.It is, then, a weird and fascinating time for Grand Theft Auto to be returning. If the information splurged onto the internet from Game Informer magazine is anything to go by, it is the right time, and it is going to be a very interesting proposition.The big news: there are now three lead characters rather than a solitary controllable protagonist. Michael is the career bank robber, now living in luxury on a witness protection programme; Trevor is an inveterate drug user and low-life who worked with Michael back in the day; Franklin is a young kid from the southern suburbs of Los Santos, doing repo for Armenian luxury car dealers. Throughout the game, players will be able to swap control between each character, dropping in and out of their lives. In missions, the trio will often work together, each bringing different skills to the mix – and again, players can apparently switch between them, perhaps sniping from a distance or taking on the role of wheelman.It's likely this dissemination of the lead role will lead to a much more intricate story, the narrative somehow threading between the protagonists. We're also told that secondary characters from GTA IV and its two DLC chapters will make an appearance, though the likes of CJ and Tony from the GTA III era will not surface because they're no longer 'canon' in the HD era.Los Santos is huge. HUGE. Not only will we get the city itself – which is designed to resemble Los Angeles, of course – but we get the surrounding countryside. Astonishingly, Rockstar has even modelled the sea, so players will be able to go scuba diving. It's not clear yet whether that will just be a hobby or whether it will play a part in the mission structure, but it goes to show – excuse the pun – the depths the environmental artists have gone to. Hobbies would seem to be an important sideshow – players are able to partake in yoga, tennis, golf and jet-ski rides, as well as many other activities. Out in the wilderness, there will be dynamic encounters and side quests involving hitchhikers, broken down cars and other distractions – a set of systems borrowed from Red Dead, we guess. The big boast is that the world is bigger than GTA: San Andreas, Red Dead Redemption and GTA IV combined.Vehicle handling is being tweaked. There will be motorbikes, cars, mountain bikes, and various aircraft. Melee combat is getting a work over. The whole mobile phone system is back, but it's being updated and there will apparently be no romance for our leading men this time round.The message is, this game is massive and intricate, and Los Santos is now being viewed through a different prism than it was in GTA III: San Andreas. While that game riffed on the early nineties obsession with South Central LA gang culture, GTA V seems to be looking at LA as a whole, from the plush mansions of the rich and famous, to the broken dreams littering Hollywood boulevard (or Vinewood as the area is known here). But the criminal underworld is of course, a focus. It seems that there will be several major heists underpinning the story – a decision no doubt influenced by the critical adulation handed out to GTA IV's Three Leaf Clover mission.But it seems that, apart from some minor features and mechanics, this is all GTA V owes to its immediate predecessor. While GTA IV was criticised in some quarters for its downbeat atmosphere, its obsession with the depressing plight of Niko and his godforsaken cousin, number five is harking back to the sun, sea and seediness of the Vice City era. It would seem the title is a culmination of all that Rockstar has learned over the last four years – the scale or Red Dead, the sense of place in LA Noire, the downbeat balletic thrills of Max Payne III – applied to the milieu we all loved from GTA III.People do want to fly jet fighters over mountains; they do - like the Pixies - want  to drive their cars into the ocean. There are worries about the emphasis on environmental size, but Red Dead showed how a landscape can be brought alive, and it's likely Rockstar's San Diego studio (the creator of that Western epic) will have had a hand in GTA V – the publisher draws most of its teams into its main developments these days.It will also be intriguing to see how the structure of the game bends to accommodate three leads. Can an ensemble piece capture the imagination as well as a single story? Will we identify with the characters in the same way? Does identification matter in the GTA universe?It's good, though, isn't it, to be talking about a massive gaming 'franchise', and for it not to involve authentic military raids in the Middle East or alien monsters. The beauty of GTA is in its ability to show us a world that is both cinematic and almost real, almost tangible. And it looks like it might be fun – andfunny. The sun is up, the radio is on, there are jobs to do. Grand Theft Auto is back.
The real challenge, the true satisfaction of Football Manager (and Championship Manager before it) is nothing to do with Chelsea or Manchester United. It is not about maintaining the dominance of a major Premiership side. It is about taking a tiny minnow from the bottom of the FA pyramid to the very heights of European success. Until you have lead Dagenham &amp; Redbridge to a Champions League final against Milan you haven't truly played the game.With that in mind, our final selection of Football Manager 13 transfer targets is for those brave souls operating at League Two and non-league levels. Once again, Sports Interactive's own football analyst Tom Davidson has done the scouting, and any of these 10 professionals will lift your side on those cold away fixtures in York.League Two/Non-LeagueJason Banton (attacking midfielder (right/left)"Banton has played at youth level for teams such as Arsenal, Tottenham and Liverpool and has still got some decent stats that should make him a good winger in the future."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£650-1.3k per week.Francis Jeffers (striker)"Everyone remembers when Jeffers was meant to be England's next great striker after his £8m move to Arsenal at the turn of the millennium. Sadly, his career didn't quite pan out as planned but he is still a very good striker and would be an absolutely brilliant signing at League Two level."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£1.8k-3k per week.Neil Etheridge (goalkeeper, Fulham)"Etheridge has the potential to be a very good Football League goalkeeper and you should look to get him in early to maximise his potential. He'd be a sound choice between the sticks in League Two."Transfer fee:£12-20kWage demands:£1k-1.9k per week.Steven Old (centre-back)At non-league level you're going to have to be very clever when it comes to managing your budget. Old will help you do that: he's in his peak years, fairly cheap wage demands and good all-round stats. You won't be able to find a better centre-back at this level.Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£1k-2k per week.Vincent Péricard (striker)"Péricard had extended spells at Portsmouth and Stoke in the last 10 years ,but is still under 30 years old. His high heading and strength stats make him the perfect target man at this level."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£700-1.5k per week.Romone Rose (striker, attacking midfielder (right, left))"Rose is a 22-year-old striker with good pace and finishing stats that should put him ahead of the competition in the Blue Square Premier. His wage demands are cheap so there is no reason to turn him down."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£825-1.4k per week.Chris Hall (striker)"Hall has good attributes for a striker at this level and shouldn't stretch the wage budget too much. He'd make a very good signing for any Blue Square North/South club."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£325-550 per weekLuke Holden (attacking midfielder (left))"Holden has a lot to offer Blue Square North/South teams; he couples decent acceleration and agility with good crossing and dribbling ability. He also has respectable creativity which is relatively rare at this level and should do well in the Blue Square Premier too."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£230-400 per week.Jordan Watson (left-back)"If you are a Blue Square North/South club and are lucky enough to have a bit of money to spend then Watson is the player for you. A promising young left-back with great pace who should be your starting left-back all the way into League Two."Transfer fee:£3-7kWage demands:£350-600 per week.Stephen Darville (right-back)"Sticking with the full-back positions, Darville would be a very good signing for any Blue Square North/South team in need of a right-back. His acceleration and natural fitness lend well to his attacking forays up the pitch and a good crossing stat means that he'll be pretty useful when he gets up there."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£550-1K
It's Friday, are you in love? Just referencing the worst Cure song ever there. Anyway, games!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team2.5bn mobile social network accounts &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansHe says:By my count there are:At least 14 mobile OTT services with over 50m usersAt least 20 with over 10m usersAround 2.5bn total user accountsThe chart below shows just the ones I found in an hour's searching, most of which have given a user number in the last 3 months or so...Skype isn't exclusively mobile, but it's big.Bit9 claims 100,000 Android apps are "over-permissioning" &gt;&gt; IT Security ProSecurity vendor Bit9 has released an analysis of more than 400,000 Android apps and found that almost a quarter of them were "over permissioning" - that is, they requested access to one or more smartphone or tablet functions that they should not normally need access to.In parallel with the analysis, the security vendor surveyed a 139 IT security decision makers responsible for the mobile policy of more than 400,000 employees.According to thereport(PDF), 26% of apps in the Google Play Store can access personal data such as contacts and email, whist 76% of businesses said they did not know which mobile apps access their networks."By clicking you agree that you have read the licence agreement."Why Windows 8 Mail doesn't offer push sync (3-account limit) &gt;&gt; Barbs Connected WorldI have been ranting and raving about not being able to configure my Office 365 hosted domain to be configured to let me pull down mail "as it arrives". It turns out that there is a three account limit. After three accounts are configured to get mail as it arrives in the Windows 8 Mail App, that choice is no longer offered when additional mail accounts are configured.Of course, you need to configure a Microsoft account to even get started and that gets the first slot (hotmail, outlook.com account, etc.) In my case, I configured my Microsoft accounts first, and then a Gmail account. When I got to configuring my vanity domains, I only could get PULL settings, of which every 15 minutes was the shortest interval.The "why" isn't actually answered. It seems to be "just because, OK?"Isaac Asimov - The Foundation Trilogy : audio &gt;&gt; Internet ArchiveGotta love the Internet Archive: an old BBC reading of Asimov's famous trilogy. In eight parts. (Don't ask us, it's a bad maths day.)Tablets beat out PCs on holiday shopping lists &gt;&gt; ComputerworldHoliday wish lists may deal another blow to the PC industry, according to a new survey.Asked if they'd rather receive a PC or a tablet as a holiday gift, 59% of respondents in a PriceGrabber survey opted for the tablet, the price comparison shopping site said.When asked which tablet or tablets they wanted, 63% of respondents said they want an iPad 3 or an iPad 4, while 24% said they're hoping for an iPad mini. (Apple's iPad launched in March is known as the iPad 3, and the latest tablet, the fourth-generation iPad released in in October, is commonly known as the iPad 4.)However, it's not all about Apple: 22% of those surveyed said they would like a Samsung Galaxy Note Tab while 20% said they are hoping for an Amazon Kindle Fire HD, according to PriceGrabber. Another 13% have Microsoft's new Surface tablet on their holiday wish list.Yes, those figures do add up to 142%. Multiple tablets? Not given: whether the number seeking PCs is more or less than last year. Nate Silver would have a seizure.Stuxnet Infected Chevron's IT Network &gt;&gt; WSJStuxnet, a sophisticated computer virus created by the United States and Israel, to spy on and attack Iran's nuclear enrichment facilities in Natanz also infected Chevron 's network in 2010, shortly after it escaped from its intended target.Chevron found Stuxnet in its systems after the malware was first reported in July 2010, said Mark Koelmel, general manager of the earth sciences department at Chevron. "I don't think the U.S. government even realized how far it had spread," he told CIO Journal. "I think the downside of what they did is going to be far worse than what they actually accomplished," he said.Unintended consequences.Skeu It!Skeuomorphism skeuered, hliariously.Twitter resetting user passwords after massive hijack attack &gt;&gt; Tweet SmarterIf you received an email that looks similar to the one below, it is probably NOT fake, and you need to reset the password on your account.If you want to be absolutely safe, instead of clicking the links in the email, instead open your browser and type in "twitter.com" and try to login. Twitter.com will then redirect you to change your password.Why I'm returning my iPad mini &gt;&gt; VentureBeatRocky Agrawal:After less than a week, I'm ready to return my iPad mini.I already have five tablets in my single-person household, including all three previous generations of iPads and a Google Nexus 7. I thought the mini would fill a small niche in my tablet needs, such as controlling my TiVo or Sonos system. So I bought the low-end 16GB Wi-Fi only iPad mini. I was wrong.Now read on.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Foxconn, the controversial Taiwanese manufacturer that has become one of the world's largest employers thanks to booming demand for the Apple products it assembles, is reportedly planning to open factories in the United States.With an 800,000 strong workforce largely based in mainland China, Foxconn is one of the businesses that has profited from the decline of western manufacturing. Now the firm is apparently planning to reverse the labour drain by opening American factories.As labour costs surge in its home market Foxconn has been looking overseas for opportunities, and sources have told Taiwanese trade publicationDigiTimesthat the company is evaluating cities including Detroit and Los Angeles.The news should cheer Barack Obama, who has promised to create 1 million new manufacturing jobs over the next four years. Foxconn will have to adapt its formula, however, because America does not have armies of workers willing to survive on a few hundred dollars a month and live in dormitories as its Chinese staff do.In Foxconn's huge assembly halls in China, iPhones and iPads are largely put together by human hands, with very little automation. In the US, sources say Foxconn will specialise in flatscreen TV sets, which are easier to assemble with the help of robots.Apple has for some time been planning to make an internet-connected television set, which would essentially combine a TV screen with a computer. If the work is contracted to Foxconn's rumoured new factories, the iTV would be the first Apple product made in the US for some years.The company declined to comment on its plans, but chairman Terry Gou revealed this week he was planning to invite dozens of American engineers to his factories in China to learn about manufacturing.Gou told a business meeting on Wednesday that he did not believe President Obama could succeed in moving production lines back to the US because Americans have outsourced those jobs for too long.But he hoped Americans could learn how factories are operated so they can return home to set up facilities with automated equipment. Gou said he was already in discussion with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology about establishing an exchange programme.Foxconn will have to adapt its working conditions to operate in the US market. Worker suicides, industrial accidents and riots have dogged its mainland China plants, which were recently discovered to be employing workers as young as 14. The scandals have proved a source of embarrassment for its largest client.Apple chief executive Tim Cook was prompted in January to appoint an external auditor, the Fair Labor Association, to evaluate conditions throughout its supply chain after a string of workers killed themselves and there was a lethal explosion at the company's Chengdu plant, thought to have been caused by combustible dust.Reforms undertaken as a result of the audits have led to rising costs at Foxconn, which also makes phones for Nokia and tablets for Amazon. The company has cut overtime hours and announced a near doubling of salaries in China in recent months, and is now looking abroad for opportunities.It already has eight factories in Brazil and in September signed a memorandum of co-operation with the São Paolo government to invest $14m building a technological industrial plant. And Foxconn is planning to establish a phone factory in Indonesia by the end of this year, having promised to invest up to $10bn in Indonesia within the next five to 10 years.Gou founded what is now Foxconn in 1974 with $7,500 (£4,624) borrowed from his mother. The company listed in Taipei in 1991, and its largest single plant in Shenzhen, China, employs hundreds of thousands of people.In its own GalaxyApple's iPhone 4S has been displaced as the world's bestselling smartphone by Samsung's Galaxy handset, in a sign that the Californian group's march to world domination may have been halted.Samsung shipped 18m Galaxy SIIIs in the third quarter of this year, according to research firm Strategy Analytics, outpacing the iPhone 4S which shifted 16.2m units. "It has become the world's bestselling smartphone model for the first time," said analyst Neil Shah.The upset could be temporary, with Apple's iPhone 5 expected to move into the top slot during the run-up to Christmas, but Apple's share price continued to fall on Thursday', hitting $545 (£341), a drop of more than 22% since its record high of $705.05 on the eve of the iPhone 5 launch in September.After the Apple maps fiasco and the departure of two executives, Scott Forstall and John Browett, investors are asking whether it has "jumped the shark" – the moment in Happy Days when the Fonz vaulted a shark on water-skis, which signalled the decline of the show.
Thousands of people and organisations have received emails from Twitter warning them that their account may have been hacked after a huge phishing attack on its users on Wednesday night.But the companyadmitted that it reset too many passwordsin an overzealous attempt to protect users.The company sent out emails telling account holders to reset their password, and warning them that they may have been hacked. Although the emails were genuine, many people thought that those were phishing emails too - and ignored them.Among the victims of the hack was the technology site Techcrunch, which has 2.5m followers, and tweeted a link which could have drawn more people into the hack.Some of the attempted hacks used phrases like "serious gossip" or "that video" or "saying bad things [about you]" with a link to a phishing or malware site.Twitter has not said how many accounts were hit. The company has more than 500m active users, and saw one of its busiest days ever on Tuesday when Barack Obama was relected US president.The valid emails begin "Twitter believes that your account may have been compromised by a website or service not associated with Twitter. We've reset your password to prevent others from accessing your account."However not everyone who received the emails may actually have been hacked. Twitter said it was sending out the emails to people who might have received direct messages - which aren't publicly visible - from other hacked users.  Clicking on the link can take the user to sites which will infect their machines, or which trick them into handing over their Twitter username and password - meaning that the cycle continues.However Twitter's new system for authorising third-party apps means that users should only ever give their username and password on the Twitter site itself; third-party apps have to request a "token" which can then be revoked by the user or Twitter. No third-party site that doesn't directly provide Twitter functionality should demand a password.
I have around £750 to buy an all-in-one desktop, preferably with Windows 8 and a touch screen. Any advice?Greg KeaneAn all-in-one PC is pretty much a laptop on a stick, with a separate (ideally wireless) keyboard and mouse. It should therefore be relatively simple to design an all-in-one, especially given the example of Apple's iMac models, which look terrific. Unfortunately, it's quite hard to do stylish touchscreen models at attractive prices.Laptop computers usually have screens up to 17.4in in size, after which they become very unwieldy. All-in-ones usually come in above 20in, and the most common screen sizes are now 23in and 27in.The first problem is that big flat screens are relatively expensive, and big touch-sensitive screens are even more expensive. This is particularly true of the five-point and 10-point capacitative touchscreens intended for use with Microsoft Windows 8. Although Windows 8 can be used with any standard monitor, five-point touch is the minimum with a touch-sensitive PC.Most of the ones designed for Windows 7 had two-point touchscreens, because you only need one point of contact to swipe a screen, and two for a pinch. (Two-point touchscreens still work with Windows 8.)Paul Butler, an expert on monitors and sales director at monitor specialist AOC, tells me that moving from a two-point touchscreen using an optical or infra-red system to a 10-point capacitative multi-touchscreen roughly doubles the price of the monitor. This goes some way towards explaining why your £750 might well have bought a good all-in-one PC running Windows 7, but presents problems when it comes to Windows 8.The situation is even worse if style is a consideration, which may be the case with all-in-one PCs. These are tidy PCs (fewer trailing wires) that can be used in a living room or student bedsit rather than being relegated to a home office. But it seems to me that most of the good looking all-in-ones are expensive while the cheaper ones tend to be clunky if not downright ugly.The all-in-one that comes closest to hitting your spec and budget is the HP Envy 23in TouchSmart PC (search for 23-d010ea), whichPC World is selling for £749. It's big but somewhat less clunky than average, and it has a decent quality 10-point multi-touch Full HD screen with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels.What looks like the same model with a 23in non-touchscreen and Windows 8 isonly £549.99. The 10-point capacitative multi-touch appears to add £200 to the price.The HP Envy 23in TouchSmart PC has a 2.9GHz dual-core Intel Pentium G645 processor, 4GB of memory, fast 500GB hard drive, DVD-RW optical drive, plus wireless keyboard and mouse. The memory can be expanded to 16GB but 4GB is enough for normal use.I thought thePentium G645would be the weak link but it's actually a new (Q3 2012) and pretty snappy chip running at 65W, and it scores a useful 6.7 on the Windows Experience Index benchmark. Its drawback is its weak graphics performance, scoring only 4.3. So, the G645 would be fine for general purpose computing and playing high-definition (1080p) movies, but not so good for games or graphics processing.If you want to spend a bit more, you can find the HP Envy 23in TouchSmart PC fitted with an Intel Core i3 or i5 processor. These have better built-in graphics.A less ponderous alternative, launched on 26 October, is the Asus ET2220 with a slightly smaller 21.5in 10-point multi-touch Full HD screen. This is either cheaper or more expensive, depending on your choice of processor. The Asus ET2220IUTI-B009K model with a 2.9GHz Intel Pentium G645, 4GB of memory, 1TB hard drive, DVD-RW, TV tuner, and card reader costs£699.99 from Amazon.co.uk, while the ET2220IUTI-B010K model with a 3.3GHz Intel Core i3-3220 processor and 6GB of memory costs£799.99.The ET2220 has a simpler design: the screen is propped up like a photo frame, or it can be wall-mounted. You could also use it as a part-time TV set, as the screen for a games console, or even as a giant tablet. AYouTube videomade by Asus Australia will give you a good idea of what it looks like.Finally, there's Dell's newInspiron One 23range. This is an iMac-style design with a central pillar stand, and not to be confused with the old Inspiron One 2305, 2320 etc machines, which had a little leg at each side of the screen.The entry-level Inspiron One 23 has the now familiar spec: 2.9GHz Pentium G645 processor, 4GB of memory, fast 500GB hard drive, DVD-RW optical drive, wireless keyboard and mouse. However, at £679, it's much cheaper than the equivalent 23in HP Envy TouchSmart, and it looks a lot smarter. (Translation: more like an iMac, though not quite up toXPS One 27standards.)The next model in the Inspiron One 23 range upgrades the processor to a 3.40GHz Intel Core i3-2130, doubles the hard drive storage to 1TB, and chucks in an AMD Radeon HD 7650 with 1GB of memory to soup up the graphics. This looks like a winner at£779.The fly in the ointment is that I haven't actually seen an Inspiron One 23, and a review inPC Pro magazinemarked it down heavily for the quality of the screen. Sasha Muller's dispiriting verdict was: "There's much to like about Dell's Inspiron One 23. It has plenty of power, and the understated design both looks and feels the part. However, the Dell's display is an unsightly blot on an otherwise able and fully featured all-in-one. With plenty of rivals soon to be vying for your cash, Dell's Inspiron One 23 just isn't good enough."This was an early review (dated 25 October) of "an early production sample" so it may not be representative. Dell usually sells good screens and two of the last three monitors I've bought have been Dell UltraSharp models. However, I'd still rather see an Inspiron One 23 before buying one. A sub-par screen isn't a problem with a desktop PC because you can easily change it or buy a replacement, but you can't do that with an all-in-one PC.Windows 8 has only just been launched on to the consumer market, so there may well be new all-in-ones on the way from leading manufacturers, and the general quality and consistency should improve as production lines are bedded down. Also, there may be new reviews of the Inspiron One 23 that either confirm or contradict PC Pro's view, and any reader who has bought one is invited to comment below.One nice all-in-one that I have seen is the Asus ET2320, which has an interesting double hinge so you can fold it down more-or-less flat for use as a tablet. This is out of your price range –£949.99 at PC World– but worth a look if you can find one in store.So it boils down to a tricky choice. You can probably see an HP Envy 23in TouchSmart PC in a shop, and decide whether it suits you or not, whereas the Asus ET2200 is only available from Amazon and the Inspiron One 23 only from Dell. Both of these look nicer that the HP, and both are better value, but they look different. One may suit you better than the other.
The hype is hard to believe. This game, says the hype, is going to be one of the all-time great things. Right up there in the top 10, ever. Maybe just behind the multiple orgasm, but somewhere in front of both the fresh bacon sandwich and the feeling of brand new socks. This, insists the hype, is the game the world's been waiting for: the war game to end all war games. It's hype that, surely, nothing could ever possibly live up to. Least of all a mere first-person shooting game. Right?For the few remaining uninitiated,Call of Duty: Black Ops II(Xbox 360 / PS3 / Wii U / PC) is the latest instalment of the biggest franchise in town. Its predecessor, Call of Duty: Black Ops, sold more than 23m copies, and the  sequel will be looking to eclipse it. For a franchise that began with three games set in the familiar history of the second world war, and made its name with the transition to modern warfare, Black Ops II, which fast-forwards the action to 2025, is a fairly radical departure from what came before.The story centres on the apocalyptic machinations of a messianic Nicaraguan super-terrorist, the mysterious Raul Menendez, and the attempts of troubled special forces badass David Mason – the son of the previous game's protagonist – to track him down, figure out his plan and stop him from unleashing his own personal brand of hell. Which, unfortunately for Mason, and very fortunately for us players, involves having to kill a few hundred people in various locations across the world, and, in flashback missions, across a sizeable chunk of the past 50 years. Plus a lot of other cool stuff besides – and not all of it violent.The second mission, for example, begins with Mason and his Navy SEAL buddy dropping from a helicopter to a jungle clifftop on a stormy night in Burma, and leaping off the cliffs in bat-like wing-suits to fly, through a series of lush ravines, to a ruined temple with a large mercenary army camped outside. That's not a cut-scene. That's how you, the player, begin the mission: flying.From there, the assault on the temple is a showcase of the futuristic setting's new tricks. Among them invisible enemies using cloaking devices disabled with EMP grenades, dog-like patrolling sentry drones, hackable heat-seeking cannons and the millimetre wave scanner, a rifle sight that shows the outline of enemies on the other side of walls.It's not just a load of new guns and gadgets either. The storytelling too has taken a bold leap forward. Where previous games were tightly plotted action blockbusters – cinematic but entirely on rails – Black Ops II offers the player choices with a real effect on future missions and the outcome of the campaign. If they'd been courting the pretentious gamer demographic, they could have called it Postmodern Warfare.Choice is also at the heart of the multiplayer experience, with the new Pick 10 create-a-class system, which ditches the old primary weapon, secondary weapon, grenades and three perks system in favour of the freedom – within limits – to stock up on perks and start with just one gun, or stock up on guns and start with fewer perks.The other major change is the shift to scorestreaks instead of killstreaks, a variation on Modern Warfare 3's system. Rather than calling in air support after carefully racking up kills, players are encouraged to get stuck in with objectives and work together. Capture enough flags and you could even, in theory, unlock a helicopter without firing a single shot. And of course it's not just helicopters: the long list of unlockable rewards includes handheld mini-guns, hovering machine gun drones, stealth bombers and the ever-popular pack of angry dogs.The multiplayer maps are the usual mix of bloodbath-friendly bottle-necks and wide open sniper's playgrounds, with a couple of early stand-outs. Cargo – a Singapore dockyard complete with moving crates on cranes – ensures guaranteed non-stop action, while Express – an LA bullet train station – has a nasty surprise in store for any player daft enough to loiter on the tracks when the ground starts rumbling.Factor in a bigger-than-ever return for the beloved Zombies survival mode, full, free access to the competitive Elite network, and new levels of customisation, variety and replayability, and Black Ops II may just about be bold and badass enough to live up to that impossible hype. Multiple orgasms better watch out.
Although vampires have been ever-present in movies and literature over the last century, the influence of Dracula and his blood-sucking brethren has been less obvious in games. While horror titles are common, zombies have usually been the 'go to' undead option, probably because their tendency to swarm brainlessly about the place makes them perfect bullet-fodder. Vampires meanwhile, have sort of sloped about in the shadows, their complex psychosexuality and figurative charm somehow lost on many game designers.But there have of course been some classic vampire games, many inspired directly by Bram Stoker's creation. Here are five of the best. Feel free to correct us on our choices!5. Dracula (1986, CRL)This reasonably atmospheric vampire adventure, loosely based on Stoker's novel, gained notoriety as the first  computer game to garner a '15' BBFC certificate - despite being mostly text-based. A clearly jumpy classification officer seems to have taken fright from the extremely blocky computer-generated images of skulls and  wooden stakes. CRL would go onto make similarly hokey text adventures based around the Wolfman and Frankenstein, resubmitting each for certification, hoping to grab yet more publicity.4. Darkstalkers series (1993 onwards, Capcom)Alongside the more famous Street Fighter series, Capcom also spent the nineties producing this range of horror-themed fighting games. The ghoulish roster of combatants has featured several vampires including Romanian traditionalist Demitri Maximoff as well as blue-tinged Chinese zombie vampire Hsien-Ko. The Darkstalker games were known for their beautiful visuals and superb animation, and a new instalment in the series, Darkstalkers Resurrection is due out on Xbox Live and PlayStation Network early next year, compiling elements of previous titles.3. Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver (1999, Crystal Dynamics)Co-designed by Amy Hennig who would go onto create the hugely successful Uncharted series, Soul Reaver featured ghostly blood-sucker Raziel who was tasked with saving his devastated kingdom from apocalyptic collapse. The engrossing action adventure took place in both the spirit and material realms with most of the puzzles requiring players to switch between the two. The game has since been re-released on the PlayStation Network  – but a proper next-gen sequel would be amazing. Pity the creator, Crystal Dynamics, is slightly too busy with its Tomb Raider series - whoever heard of that?2. Vampire - The Masquerade: Bloodlines (2004, Troika Games)Taking place in a contemporary Los Angeles, Troika's role-playing game allowed you to create your own novice vampire before hitting the streets, puncturing victims and carrying out blood-drenched missions for the city's vampire overlords. Possibly the most in-depth simulation of actually being a vampire. The game had an interesting Frenzy mechanic that kicked in when you sucked the veins of too many innocent victims, bringing in a soul-searching moral angle to the action.  Sadly, Troika closed in 2005, with lead designer Leonard Boyarsky going on to help create Diablo III.1. Castlevania series (1986 onwards, Konami)Of course Konami's brilliantly atmospheric series of scrolling platform adventures had to be in the top spot, not least because it plays on - and really understands - the Dracula mythos. Originating on the old Nintendo Entertainment System over 25 years ago, these works of gothic  splendour have constantly pitted members of the Belmont clan against Dracula and his menagerie of nocturnal monsters. My favourite instalment will always be the 1997 PlayStation title, Symphony of the Night, which added complexity and depth to the experience with its open-ended level design and huge inventory of weapons and power-ups.
It's time for our weekly roundup of new games for smartphones and tablets, this time covering iOS, Android and Windows Phone.The week's pick of new and notable games includes Peter Molyneux's mobile comeback, Angry Birds getting The Force, ponies, hobbits, rope-cutting, magic, knights and word puzzles. A good night in, you could say.Prices apply to the initial download, so when a game is "Free", it may well include in-app purchases. All prices are correct at the time of writing (8 November), but may have changed if you're reading this at a later date.Curiosity: What's Inside the Cube (Free)This is veteran games designer Peter Molyneux's big new idea for smaller screens: a giant virtual cube that players around the world are chipping away at, trying to discover "the life-changing secret" buried in its centre. Is it a good game? Is it even a game? That's being fiercely debated, but it's true that the actual chipping is rather moreish.Android / iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Star Wars (Price varies)You can readour full reviewfor an explanation of why Angry Birds Star Wars is the best Angry Birds game yet, but as a guide: it does a good job of integrating Star Wars characters and weapons, provides plenty of depth with its 120 available levels, and isn't over-aggressive with its in-app purchases.Android / iPhone / iPad / Windows PhoneMy Little Pony – Friendship is Magic (Free)If you've been keeping up with the 'bronies' phenomenon, you'll know that My Little Pony isn't just for young girls these days. That should be good news for Gameloft's official game, which sees you rebuilding the town of Ponyville, playing mini-games, and connecting to friends. It's a freemium game, which parents of younger fans should be aware of when downloading.iPhone / iPadThe Hobbit: Kingdoms of Middle-earth (Free)Peter Jackson's new Hobbit trilogy hasn't made it to cinemas yet, but there's a new game from social developer Kabam. It sees (in theory) thousands of players teaming up to drum the goblin hordes out of the Misty Mountains. Expect elves, dwarves, lots of diplomacy, and in-app purchases to fund your ambitions.iPhone / iPadMadden NFL 13 Social (Free)EA has already turned FIFA into a social mobile game, but now another of its big sporting franchises is following suit. Madden NFL 13 Social has been launched across Facebook and iOS, and sees you building a team and taking on friends, all based on real-world NFL players.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Space (£0.79)Windows Phone got two Angry Birds games this week, with Angry Birds Space finally making its way onto Microsoft's Marketplace. The game sees you firing birds through gravitational fields across 150 levels.Windows PhoneCut the Rope (£0.79)And here's one more huge mobile gaming brand making the leap onto Windows Phone. Cutesy monster Om Nom has brought his rope-cutting action to the Marketplace, with 300 physics-puzzle levels and the promise of "more to come".Windows PhoneWraithborne (£1.99)Describing itself as a "visceral whack'n'smash action-adventure", Wraithborne uses the Unreal Engine 3 to deliver spiffing graphics alongside its fantasy ("wraiths, goblins and werewolves stalk the lands...") plot. Your job is to kill as many as possible with spells and weapons, while exploring the landscape.iPhone / iPadMagic in Modern London (Free)Less a pure game (although that's its App Store category), and more a "GPS-triggered treasure hunt" around the capital city. This is based on a 1908 map of London, and a book by folklorist Edward Lovett. The game involves wandering around London looking for 64 of Lovett's amulets, while listening to audio readings, looking at images and reading the text.iPhoneOutlaw (Free)Atari is busily updating a number of its famous games from the late 1970s for the apps era, with Outlaw following Centipede Origins and Super Bunny Breakout onto iOS. This takes the Wild West theme of the original Outlaw game and runs with it: a variety of locations, weapons and a freemium pricing structure.iPhone / iPadAir Patriots (Free)Air Patriots is an inventive take on the line-drawing genre that made Flight Control such a hit: while planes figure here, it's as much a tower defence game than a copy of its predecessor. It's also the first mobile game from Amazon Game Studios – yes,thatAmazon – available on its Kindle Fire tablets, but also iOS and Android.Android / iPhone / iPadWreck-It Ralph (£0.69)Wreck-It Ralph is the new animated film from Disney, but it's also crashing onto the App Store in game form. In fact, there are three mini-games based on the movie to play here: fixing, blasting and climbing along with characters from the film.iPhone / iPadArmy of Darkness: Defense (Free)More tower defence here, but with less planes and more shambling undead monsters. Based on the famous movie from the Evil Dead trilogy, it sees you fending off 50 waves of zombies with the help of various characters from the film, with power-ups to help you stay unbitten.AndroidWorld at Arms (Free)It's a good week for app-based warmaking, with Gameloft joining the fray with its freemium strategy game World at Arms. It sees you building a base, training up troops and then battling other players from around the world, like a modern-warfare (as opposed to Modern Warfare) take on the currently-popular Clash of Clans.iPhone / iPadMensa Academy (£2.99)Square Enix's Mensa Academy game started life as a Wii, 3DS and PC title, but has now been ported to iOS. It promises more than 1,000 questions spread between numeracy, language, logic, memory and visual, with shades of Nintendo's famous Dr Kawashima in its tracking and testing features.iPhone / iPadStorm the Train (Free)More zombies here – a week without any new mobile games featuring zombies remains an unfeasible prospect – but they're joined by robots and ninjas, at least. The game sees you boarding a train to have at them all with a range of weaponry and gadgets, with virtual coins (and thus in-app purchases) fuelling the destruction.iPhone / iPadLeague of Heroes (Free)League of Heroes is a charming, social hack'n'slash adventure that sees you slashing (and hacking) your way through monster armies while earning coins, upgrading your character and connecting to Facebook friends.Android / iPhone / iPadWord Smack Free (Free)As elite iOS word-game players mull whether to ditch Words With Friends for Letterpress, Electronic Arts enters the fray with its own literate game, Word Smack. It involves trying to find as many five-letter words as possible over three rounds, playing against individual friends asynchronously.iPhone / iPadSwipe the Deck (£0.69)Here's another interesting puzzle game designed for online multiplayer action, this time splicing poker with match-three puzzles. Friends can be challenged through Facebook or Game Center, as you swipe to match pairs, straights and other cardy combos.iPhone / iPadPixel Twist (Free)This looks great fun: an Android version of an existing Flash web game called Coign of Vantage, which has been out on iOS for a while. Each level presents you with a cloud of pixels, which you have to rotate until you uncover an image. More a "zen exercise" than a pure game, but still good.AndroidThat's our selection, but what are you playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations, or provide feedback on the games we've chosen, by posting a comment.
David Cameron is testing a new custom-built "No 10 dashboard" web app on his iPad, which gives up-to-the minute data about the UK's economic and financial health, including GDP, bank lending, jobs and property data, as well as polling data and Twitter feeds.One person who has seen it describes its appearance as "like a cross between the data.gov.uk site and the [iPad-based] Flipboard app".If successful, access to the app – which can be viewed on any PC or tablet – could be rolled out across government to give senior ministers and officials real-time access to sensitive information.Cameron was reportedly eager to show off an early version of the app to President Obama at the G8 summit in May.The No. 10 Dashboard, as the app was called internally, has taken roughly a year to implement, at the urging of Rohan Silva, the prime minister's senior policy adviser. The Cabinet Office said it took "eight to ten weeks" to produce the latest build, which was completed less than a month ago.The app is hosted by the Government Digital Service (GDS) inside the Cabinet Office, and consists of a number of onscreen tiles, each of which can be selected to show more detail. One shows the latest growth figures and the FTSE index; one shows the prime minister's diary; one shows the content of a number of Twitter feeds, including the official No.10 feed; another shows the insights from a daily poll by the polling group YouGov; another shows property and jobs data supplied byAdzuna, a UK startup that provides inputs about the number of jobs which are then blended with data from the Office for National Statistics.Another tile shows regional economic data, while a final tile tracks the progress of key government initiatives such as the structural reform plan – the coalition's scheme to cut the deficit – and compares government spending against budget targets."There is no synopsis of last night's EastEnders in there yet, but it could be a future addition," remarked Andrew Hunter, co-founder ofAdzuna, who saw the app in action before it was handed over to Cameron. "The nuclear launch codes are definitely not in there, though."The new app has been described as 'a cross between the data.gov.uk site and the [iPad-based] Flipboard app'Hunter drew parallels with the data.gov.uk site, which has been redesigned to create "tiles" linking to data inside the site.The Cabinet Office has refused to disclose what language the app is programmed in, for fear hackers will try to break into it.Cameron's app was developed by a teamincluding Alice Newton, who says it was "built with the help of the prime minister".• Other countries have similar apps: the US has a publicly visible dashboard, calledIT Dashboard, which lets "federal agencies, industry, the general public and other stakeholders to view details of federal information technology investments", while Ireland's government has its ownIreland Stat pageoffering data about the economy, health, education, public safety, transport, environment and government.
Anewly announced e-reader called the beaglegenerated a lot of interest among readers, publishers and the technology-minded last month when txtr, the Berlin-based firm behind it, announced plans to sellthe devicefor just £8 (yes, really) – that's £61 less than the current entry-level Kindle. While the price certainly seems right, many bibliophiles wanted to know how well the beagle works for reading ebooks – and how it stacks up against the Kindle.Though the beagle won't be available in the UK until sometime in the first quarter of next year, I was given exclusive access to a prototype and, after only two days of use, I'm pleasantly surprised to report that the beagle seems like it could be truly disruptive to Amazon's Kindle leadership.The specsThe txtr beagle will come in a single cream/slate front-facing colour, with the option of four backplate colours (grapefruit, jade green, purple and turquoise). The model I tested had the jade green backplate. Its plastic moulded body feels surprisingly solid in the hand.The backplate comes in four coloursPhysically, the beagle is much smaller than the Kindle, with a 5in display versus the Kindle's 6in display, and is noticeably thinner along most of its body. It measures 140mm long by 105mm wide by 4.8mm deep. However, the thickness doesn't include the 14mm lip on the bottom, which houses two AAA batteries. The Kindle, by comparison, has dimensions of 165mm x 114mm x 9mm.DisplayThe screen is a 5in eight-level greyscale E-Ink display with a resolution of 800 x 600 pixels. That compares with the entry-level Kindle's 6in 16-level greyscale E-Ink display. Text on the Kindle looks darker because it has twice the greyscale of the beagle. However, both devices have an 800 x 600 pixel display, with the beagle's pixels crammed into a 5in screen versus the Kindle's 6in, giving the beagle a higher PPI (pixels per inch) density - 200 against the Kindle's 167 - resulting in sharper text.Txtr CEO Thomas Leliveld said that in building a budget e-reader, "the only thing you shouldn't compromise on is the display, because it's the only reason you buy it. I think we've created a product that's easy to use, it feels solid, it has the right weight and density, and the display is beautiful."WeightAnother area where the beagle beats the Kindle. Its 5in display means the beagle weighs in at 128g (with batteries) versus the Kindle's 170g. That's more than 20% lighter than the Kindle. Again, however, the reduced weight is mainly due to screen size.StorageThe beagle offers 4GB of internal sold-state storage. Part of that is for its OS, while the rest allows you to store up to five cached books. That does not compare very well to the Kindle's ability to store up to 1,400 books on its 4GB.The Kindle beats the beagle because although both support digital book formats (ePub for the beagle, AZW for the Kindle) and PDF documents, the beagle stores and displays ebooks and PDFs as highly rendered bitmaps - it's essentially a bitmap viewer. That can result in cleaner text and cover images, but also much larger file sizes per book.Battery lifeUnlike the Kindle (and most other e-readers) the beagle doesn't have a built-in battery. Instead it is powered by two AAA batteries housed along the rear of the device. This means there are no charging cables for the device (one less thing to lose). Txtr says a single pair of AAA batteries will let you read for one year without replacement, based on the average reader reading 12 to 15 books a year.From a specification standpoint, there are not many other ways to compare the two. The beagle eschews many of the features the Kindle has, such as Wi-Fi and optional 3G, or a wired connection of any kind. But the lack of connectivity options are why txtr costs so little.First impressionsI've been going around London with my beagle for two days now, and it's infinitely more pleasurable to carry than my Kindle. It fits easily into my jeans pocket. I like carrying a dedicated e-reader so I don't drain my iPhone's battery by reading books on my commute; but a Kindle/iPhone combo always felt like a lot to carry around. With the beagle, my load is noticeably smaller and lighter.There's an ergonomic ridge at the back to wrap your fingers roundI found the beagle to be more comfortable to hold than my Kindle. Part of this is due to its smaller size and lighter weight, but it is also thanks to that 14mm battery compartment at the back of the device. This lip gives you an ergonomic and comfortable ridge to wrap your fingers around. It makes grasping the beagle a lot easier than grasping a Kindle – especially while in bed. In the end, the AAA batteries turn out to be a plus.I didn't miss any of the Kindle's extras when reading on the beagle (I don't make a lot of notes or perform a lot of searches on the Kindle). What I did miss (but only once) was the lack of ability on the beagle to change the size of the font. And here we get to the one issue where some might have a problem.The tricky bitTxtr says the beagle was designed to be a "companion reader". The companion part comes in because every beagle requires the user to have a smartphone, whether an iPhone, Android, or Windows 8 phone. The beagle's only connection to the outside world (or other devices) is via Bluetooth. Book management, transfer, and even setting the font size is done through the free txtr app on your smartphone. According to the company, this leaves the beagle to do what it does best: displaying words for you to read.Once you've bought an ebook it shows up on the bookshelf of your txtr mobile app. You can also import unprotected Epub and PDF files from elsewhere into the app. From the app you select the ebooks you want to transfer to the beagle. The txtr smartphone app will convert the ebooks to bitmap images on the fly and simply beam them over Bluetooth to the beagle. Once on the beagle, the user selects their book and navigates through it using three simple hardware buttons.Since the beagle converts your ebook's pages to bitmap images on your smartphone before it sends them to your device, the font size you choose for the ebook on your phone is the one you are stuck with unless you want to change it on your smartphone and resync the book with your beagle. This isn't a big issue as most of us read ebooks at a fixed font size, so once you know the size of the font you like, you can set it in your txtr app on your smartphone.I didn't mind the beagle's five-book limit. I've never understood why people feel they need to carry 1,000-plus books around with them on their Kindle. Are they really reading that much? I read about 30 books a year, and never more than two at once. For me, the five-book limitation isn't an issue. I suspect a lot of people will feel the same way.Perhaps most importantly, I found the beagle's display easy to read. Its contrast was just fine for my eyes (though some people might prefer the 16-level grey scale display of the Kindle) and the text always appeared crisp. At first I thought I would find the 5in screen too small since I was used to the Kindle's 6in screen, but because – unlike the Kindle – the beagle displays no menu bar at the top of the page it doesn't feel as if it's an inch smaller.A one-stop shopLeliveld contends that most e-readers come with a lot of extra bells and whistles, such as push notifications for mail, text messages, even bundled ebook stores, that can distract from reading. The txtr beagle has no on-device distractions. When you first turn it on,  the splash screen displays the mantra "read | only" – something  increasingly hard to do in an age of always-connected e-readers, smartphones, Kindle Fires and iPads.But just because the beagle has a single function, that doesn't mean users have to go elsewhere for their content. Leliveld describes txtr as "a one-stop shop that provides the device, the store, and the content, including country-specific local content" thus offering a complete ebook ecosystem. Via the web or txtr app on your mobile device users can buy ebooks through thetxtr ebook store. The store currently has more than 700,000 titles (Amazon has 900,000) and is adding more all the time. Most of  the big titles and authors are already on the store, and ebook prices are generally comparable with Amazon's.The txtr store does offer one advantage over Amazon. Txtr's says its ebookstores are in more key international markets than the internet shopping giant's: ebooks are available in nine languages, and the txtr store is live in ten countries, including the UK, Germany, Spain, France, Italy, Denmark, Portugal, Poland, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the US. The company says additional international stores will roll out soon and is actively seeking developers and engineers to come work for the company in its Berlin offices.The cost, or why mobile carriers might love the beagleThe txtr beagle can be offered at such a low price because its cost will be subsidised by mobile carriers. The beagle itself won't be sold individually; you'll only be able to get one is by purchasing it when you sign up for a mobile phone contract on specific carriers. The beagle will be offered as an extra incentive for signing with the carrier (so when you go into, say, an EE or Vodafone store, you'll be offered a txtr beagle as a one-off £8 add-on to your contract), rather like offering a protective case or docking speaker system as an incentive.This is a plus for carriers, which will have an exclusive partnership with txtr, because any add-ons a carrier can give to potential customers (for free or at low cost) usually results in more subscribers and lower churn (customers jumping ship for another carrier). The carriers benefit not only from increased mobile subscribers, but also a cut of ebook sales through a txtr ebook platform that will be deployed specifically for that operator. Txtr says the average ebook reader spends £64 a year on ebooks. Even a small percentage of that could be an additional hefty revenue source for carriers looking to boost their income.Currently txtr is in talks with two UK carriers to offer the beagle in the first quarter of 2013; it declined to name which carriers it is negotiating with.Is it for you?If you already have a Kindle and like it, there is little reason to switch to the beagle. However, for many of us the only ereader we have is our smartphone - whose glossy, glaring displays aren't ideal for reading longer works (due to eye strain and also because their displays are battery-draining monsters).The beagle will allow for those who are on the fence about whether to spend the money on a dedicated e-reader to secure one cheaply. It will eliminate the price obstacle that buying an additional e-reader, like the Kindle, brings us. And price is a very high obstacle to adoption for any device – and any emerging digital medium, like ebooks.If you fall into that price-conscious category, the beagle is aimed squarely at you. And it succeeds, wildly. It's cheap, it offers a good reading experience, and if you find you're not using it a lot, you're only out £8. I can also see the beagle being huge with parents who want their kids to read ebooks but are worried they might close the book app on the iPad or the Kindle and start playing Angry Birds.The beagle could be a truly disruptive force in the ebook industry. If it catches on it could take some of the power away from Amazon and its Kindle ecosystem. But most importantly, it could give more power to the publishers by giving them another hot e-reader to get behind. More e-reader choices ultimately lead to better deals for publishers, authors and – in the end – readers.
Google's latest doodle celebrates the 165th birthday of Bram Stoker, the Irish novelist and short story writer best known as the creator of Dracula, despite writing 19 books.Born in Dublin in 1847, Stoker studied at Trinity College while working as a civil servant in Dublin Castle and moonlighting as a newspaper drama critic.He moved to London in 1878 with his new wife, Florence Balcombe, and became an administrator of the Irving Company at the Lyceum theatre.Stoker's first full-length book, written earlier in Dublin, was a piece on non-fiction entitled The Duties of Clerks of Petty Sessions in Ireland, and was followed by novels, lectures, short stories, articles, serials and a two-volume memoir of Irving.Dracula, his fifth novel, was published in 1897 after Stoker spent several years researching European folklore and mythological stories of vampires.He died in London in 1912 after suffering a number of strokes. One hundred years after Stoker's death, Dracula continues to fascinate and forms the basis for a film and literary industry based around vampires.A new edition, with an introduction by the Irish writer Colm Tóibín,was published this yearto mark the centenary of Stoker's death.
The latest title in the hugely successful Football Manager series was launched last week, and as ever, being able to operate in the transfer market is a key element to simulated management success. In part one we gave you 10 targets for managers operating at the Premiership level, today it's all about the Championship and League One.So, if you're struggling with Sheffield Wednesday or collapsing with Colchester, here are 10 players who may be able to turn around your virtual season. And once again, we're helped by Sports Interactive's football analyst, Tom Davidson. Over to you, Tom.Championship/League OneGlenn Whelan (central midfielder, Stoke)"Whelan would be a great signing in the Championship – in his peak, good all-round stats and has been capped 42 times for his country. He would shoreup the midfield which will be crucial to success in such a tight league."Transfer fee:£2m-£3.5mWage demands:£18k-£25k (all salary figures are per week)Marc-Antoine Fortune (striker, attacking midfielder (right), West Brom)"Fortune is a quick, strong centre-forward who has all the physicality required to succeed in the Championship. His age (31) means that his wage demands are slightly high but if your wage budget is high enough then you shouldn't pass up this opportunity."Transfer fee:£750k-£1mWage demands:£17k-£22kAnthony Wordsworth (central midfielder, left midfielder, Colchester United)"Wordsworth is versatile, talented and ready to make the step up to the Championship. There'll be a number of clubs after his signature but if you can sign him he'll be a cheap alternative to some other central midfielders."Transfer fee:£750k-£1mWage demands:£4k-£6kSteven Mouyokolo (centre-back, Wolves)"Mouyokolo is sitting in the Wolves reserves and you should look to take advantage of that fact by signing this good centre-back at a knockdown price. He has everything you'll need: good heading, tackling and marking and would relish the chance of first-team football."Transfer fee:£450k-£650kWage demands:£11k-£17kEric Lichaj (right-back, Aston Villa)"Lichaj is a pacy right-back with Premier League experience under his belt. He's also available on loan so would make an ideal signing for either bottom half Championship/top half League 1 sides."Transfer fee:£250k-£425kWage demands:£5k-£8.5kCristiano Zanetti (defensive midfielder, central midfielder)"It's always worth taking advantage of free transfers in Football Manager and Zanetti is one of the best free transfers available. He has numerous winners' medals in his collection and, aged 35, is not over the hill yet."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£3.5k-£5kSalaheddine Sbaï (left-back)"Another free transfer but Sbaï is not as well-known as Zanetti. He has been capped twice by Morocco though and at 26 is just entering his peak. He would be a very astute piece of business for any League 1 club."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£2.4k-£3.7kJunior Agogo (striker)"Agogo has played for some 14 clubs in his career but is currently unattached. He still knows how to find the back of the net and has retained the athleticism and strength that gave him the edge over defenders in his prime."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£1.8k-£3kMarcel Eger (centre-back)"Eger played for everyone's favourite German side St. Pauli for many years before moving to Brentford last season. His key defensive attributes are still up to scratch and he would add experience to any League 1 defence."Transfer fee:£0Wage demands:£2.2k-£3.6kLiam O'Neil (centre-back, West Brom)"O'Neil would be an ideal signing if you have a long-term plan for your club. He's already got decent stats in the right areas for a centre-back and is only 18. If you sign him early on then there's no reason why he can't be with you all the way to the Premier League."Transfer fee:£90k-£160kWage Demands:£625-£1.4k
Angry Birds. Star Wars. The very thought of these two global entertainment brands coming together was controversial when first announced, with plenty of critics suggesting the Star Wars brand was somehow being sullied by the association with a mobile game series that didn't exist five years ago.It was as if these critics hadn't watched The Phantom Menace, or had blocked out the vision of Darth Vader and Yoda plugging PC World and Vodafone in TV ads. If anything, an association with Angry Birds in 2012 is a step up for Star Wars, given its recent history.That said, scepticism about such a partnership is understandable: when the world's biggest entertainment brand ever meets the most popular brand of the mobile apps era, the danger is compromise: a game so hemmed in by brand guidelines that it forgets to be fun.The alternative, though, is a game that recaptures the thrill several generations of children felt when watching those first three Star Wars films, playing with the toys, or roaring round the garden pretending to be the Millennium Falcon.Can Angry Birds Star Wars sidestep the compromise and deliver the thrills? Yes it can. This is a treat for Star Wars fans and Angry Birds fans alike.The gamewill be available today(8 November) for iOS, Android and Windows Phone devices, as well as Mac, PC and Windows 8 (which I'm assuming means tablets running Microsoft's new OS too, like the Surface).Gameplay-wise, it's a mix of all the previous Angry Birds games to date, including the basic bird-slinging action of the first three games in the series, and the gravity-ruled planetary action of Angry Birds Space.The action shifts between classic and Space gameplay modesIt's essentially a Best Of compilation of Angry Birds so far, but with the Star Wars universe wrapped around it, starting with the TIE Fighters on the intro screen. Yes, with the proper sound.The initial Angry Birds Star Wars download includes 80 levels split equally between two worlds: Tatooine and the Death Star.A further 40 levels are available in a third world, Dagobah, if you choose to buy it for an in-app purchase of £1.49, but the game also teases an upcoming free update with a fourth world, Hoth. There is also a set of bonus levels starring C-3PO and R2-D2 birds to unlock.The gameplay is familiar Angry Birds - catapult birds to destroy all the pigs on a level, earning one, two or three stars depending how well you do it.Within the worlds, you segue smoothly between levels offering the two flavours of Angry Birds (Space and non-Space). For example, the Death Star world starts you in Space, then moves inside, then back out again for a final Death Star trench run.There are a number of other Star Wars additions. For example, a few levels into Tatooine, the red bird gets a light sabre, which you swing to destructive effect at any point during his flight by tapping the screen. He even has Luke Skywalker hair.Meanwhile, the yellow bird now shoots lasers - complete with authentic Star Wars sound effects - the black bird can use The Force to send objects shooting off with a tap, and there's a heavy Chewbacca bird to barrel through obstacles.The pigs? They dress as stormtroopers, Darth Vader and even get to hop in Tie-Fighters and fire lasers of their own.All this is more than just for show: it moves the Angry Birds gameplay on a notch, particularly when lasers are involved. Think thwacking laser beams with the light sabre in mid-air to hit hard-to-reach pigs, or dislodging laser-firing enemies so they end up shooting their own side.Rovio has also reworked its Mighty Eagle power-up: it's now the Mighty Falcon. When triggered, a Millennium Falcon flies onto the screen and lets loose with its lasers to (hopefully) reduce to dust a level that you've been struggling with.You have a finite number of Mighty Falcons to use, although Angry Birds Star Wars is pretty generous dishing more out as you progress through the game. You can also pay for them, though: from £1.49 for 20 through to £13.99 for 200.Charging for power-ups can be controversial, but Rovio handles its IAP well. I manage to progress through all 80 of the game's preloaded levels without needing to buy any Mighty Falcons (and I did use a few). If £1.49 for another 40 levels seems steep, you can choose to wait for the free Hoth update instead.The pigs get to dress up as stormtroopers and Darth VaderThere's a good 5-6 hours gameplay to be had working your way through the Tatooine, Death Star and Dagobah worlds by completing the levels with one, two or three stars.Then there are a fair few more hours in store if you go back to nail three stars on every level, as a lot of Angry Birds fans like to do. The iOS version builds in Apple's Game Center to compare friends' scores and in-game achievements.Angry Birds has been an app store phenomenon since fairly early in its life, and to some extent its popularity since has been self-fulfilling: it was at the top of the charts, so millions, then tens of millions, then hundreds of millions of people downloaded it.That's not the whole story though. Angry Birds Star Wars is a timely reminder that the series' billion-plus downloads is also down to strong word-of-mouth recommendations of a game that's accessible and addictive.It's also a reminder that developer Rovio continues to put a lot of effort and craft into Angry Birds as a game, rather than just a brand to be milked.So yes, there are new Angry Birds Star Wars plush toys and heaven knows how many other bits of merchandise, but the game is also an imaginative evolution of the core bird-slinging mechanic, just as Angry Birds Space was before it. Little touches - the new weapons - really do make a difference.Angry Birds Star Wars is the best Angry Birds game yet, and the best Star Wars spin-off in a long time. It's going to be big, and deservedly so.Pricing varies: Angry Birds Star Warscosts £0.69 for iPhone,£1.99 for iPad, and is available in afree ad-funded version for Android, as well as anad-free premium £1.99 version. TheWindows Phone versioncosts £0.79.
Here we are, and what about those Bhoys, eh?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Useless WebYou didn't actually have anything needed doing today, did you?Group-IB US: Zero-day vulnerability found in Adobe X &gt;&gt; Group-IBThe end price on this vulnerability on black market is approximately US$30,000 - $50,000. For now this flaw is distributed only in only small circles of the underground but it has the potential for much larger post-exloitation methods.Coming to an inbox near you soon?Twitter kills the Fail Whale, one tweet at a time &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAmong the millions of messages, photos and videos people sent on Twitter Tuesday night, there was one picture people didn't see: the company's Fail Whale, a once-famous icon that showed Twitter's Web site was down.Instead, Twitter shattered a number of records during the election as people, including the President Obama, took to the social network to share results, commentary and quote speeches.Handled about 43 times more tweets per second in 2008.Hundreds of Obamas and Romneys go to war in this ridiculous-looking mod &gt;&gt; KotakuThe mod, created by Reddit user matbitesdog, is used in Medieval II: Total War, and you can download it for laughshere.Enjoy the pics. Perhaps future elections could be fought like this too.Chart: Tablets cutting legs out from under regular PCs &gt;&gt; GeekWireTying the two trends together, here's the more interesting stat: In terms of unit sales, the tablet market is now nearly 32% the size of the traditional PC market -- the highest percentage on record. More and more people seem to be opting for tablets over similarly priced Windows notebooks.Free ebook: Introducing Windows 8: An Overview for IT Professionals (Preview Edition) &gt;&gt; bink.nuCould be useful.The Apple Haters' 7 stages of grief &gt;&gt; Farley's TumblrThe Apple haters' stages of grief go something like this:1) Predict failure of new Apple product2) Attribute early success of new Apple product to rabid fanbois affected by the reality distortion field3) Attribute longer term success of product to stupidity of consumers...This sound familiar to anyone?Hon Hai says iPhone 5 design leads to production delays &gt;&gt; WSJ.comA key supplier to Apple Inc. said Wednesday it is shipping "far fewer" new iPhones than the Cupertino, Calif., company has requested, because some quality standards still can't be met due to design-related production difficulties.Supply-chain problems have led to a long wait for the iPhone 5 since the device's late-September launch, analysts said. The scarcity of the phones has been weighing on Apple's share price as well, as investors are concerned Apple may not be able to meet consumer demand in the near future, weighing on its earnings.(Subscription required for more.)Chrome updated with Do Not Track protocol support, but leaves it turned off by default &gt;&gt; The VergeGoogle just released the latest stable version of Chrome, which finally includes support for the somewhat-controversial Do Not Track protocol. This makes Google the last major browser developer to support it, as Microsoft, Mozilla, Apple, and even Opera enabled it in their browsers some time ago. Google's chosen to have the option turned off by default, the opposite of Microsoft's default behavior in Internet Explorer 10.Nate Silver and data win the election &gt;&gt; Lane FillerSilver has been saying that President Barack Obama was a favorite to win this race for a quite a while, and he's been arguing of late that Mitt Romney's chances had evaporated to practically nothing. In return, he's been lambasted by a cohort of conservative columnists and "statisticians" who claim the polls are all wrong (yes, all of them), and Silver is a tool of a vast left-wing media conspiracy.Magnum of champagne for Mr Silver. The real lesson being thathard as it might be for charlatans, fortune tellers and political hacks of either party to believe, data always wins.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
What businesses does Android disrupt? The phrase floated out of a comment on the Technology blog earlier today, and it seemed an apposite one to examine, because the answers might not be what you would expect.Many people would react to the question by saying "Obvious, innit? Apple and Microsoft in the smartphone market." The logical extension of that thinking is that Android is aiming to disrupteveryrival offering in the smartphone market - not just Apple and Microsoft, but also RIM and Symbian (and Meego and Bada and Linux).And if you took the argument even further, you could suggest that Android aims to disrupt the entire smartphone market, the whole model. Android gives you the first truly ad-supported phone. The cost sunk into writing the software for the licence is amortised through Google's mobile ads (and to a much lesser extent through apps sold through its app store; but Google probably does better monetising the web than apps).The handset maker then makes the standard profit on selling the phone to the carrier, and the carrier makes the usual profit on selling to the customer - who defrays the cost of Android's development advert by advert.Microsoft, by contrast, gets the licence fee upfront from the handset maker (though in Nokia's case, money passes back and forth - Microsoft pays Nokia a very large marketing budget).Apple and RIM don't license at all; they make their profits on the handsets alone, and tie people into the devices through the services they offer.However I don't think that's right. I don't think Android is really disrupting the smartphone market. And the explanation for what it is disrupting goes some of the way, I think, to explaining how little headway it has made so far in the tablet market.Defining disruptionOf course it helps to define what "disruption" means. Toquote Wikipedia:A disruptive innovation is an innovation that helps create a new market and value network, and eventually goes on to disrupt an existing market and value network (over a few years or decades), displacing an earlier technology. The term is used in business and technology literature to describe innovations that improve a product or service in ways that the market does not expect, typically first by designing for a different set of consumers in the new market and later by lowering prices in the existing market.So if we use that as our guide, what is Android disrupting? I'd say that it'snone of the smartphone companiesper se.Is that defensible? Sure. RIM wasn't disrupted by Android; the iPhone did (and still is doing) that. You see very few stories about Android phones replacing BlackBerrys in enterprises; plenty, if you look, about iPhones replacing them. Part of that is because the iPhone has the hardware-level encryption that is demanded of an enterprise-grade smartphone. But it's also because the iPhone's touchscreen displaced the keyboard. See above: "displacing an earlier technology". Android is certainly helping deliver the coup de grace to RIM in the US consumer market, by offering an affordable alternative (some even with keyboards). But Android isn't the proximate cause of RIM's problems.In the same way, Symbian looked solid - and for a long time it was. But again, the iPhone showed the rest of the market that there was a viable alternative to the clunky menu-driven interface of Symbian. Android, again, provided the coup de grace.Microsoft's Windows Mobile? That was actually dying by the time the iPhone and certainly once Android came out. It was staggering under the weight of the different elements that corporate customers wanted. (More details in my book. I'll let you find it.) The iPhone provided the nudge that made Windows Mobile begin to waver; Android made it topple completely, and drove Microsoft to create Windows Phone.But Microsoft is still pretty determined to get back into the smartphone market - as is Nokia. RIM too isn't taking its fate lying down, and has many promises around BB10. The key thing to notice in all this is that Android hasn't taken away the potential for these other companies to compete: they can still build a model and the carriers are eager to see them offer their wares. The reason why Palm died wasn't because Android (or the iPhone) was fantastically better as a handset or an OS; Palm's WebOS was well-liked by its users and well-received by reviewers. But it didn't get enough carrier support and didn't have the volume of manufacturing that it needed to compete; the smartphone landscape had moved on in scale and requirements from the time when Palm had had a significant share (it peaked in the second quarter of 2008 at about 2% according to Gartner, which only started giving smartphone figures in the first quarter of 2007).Carrier-ing onSois Android disrupting the carrier element of the mobile phone business?No. If anything, Android has strengthened that side. Google wants as many carriers as possible to sell Android phones - that's how you get market share, and because the phones are ad-supported the more the better; it defrays the cost of software development faster. The business model for the carriers is exactly as it was before Android: sell a variety of phones from a variety of handset makers at a variety of prices. No disruption there.So what is Android disrupting? Two businesses:• featurephone handset makers; and• Google's desktop model.Both are intentional; Google's leaders take the (wise) view that if anyone should be disrupting their business, it's them.But for featurephone makers, the arrival of Android is bad news. It is, without a doubt, "an innovation that helps create a new market and value network, and eventually goes on to disrupt an existing market and value network (over a few years or decades), displacing an earlier technology". That's because Android drives the cost of an internet-enabled phone down towards zero - meaning that something which was previously a premium element in a featurephone (and so could be charged for) is now a commodity. That creates a dual problem for featurephone makers who want to compete with Android phones: potential buyers may come to expect it, but if they don't use Android then they have to develop their own software to provide that capability. And it probably won't be as good as Google's (because of the huge resources and time Google has put into it).So now, featurephone makers who want to compete with Android handsets have three problems: buyers expect internet connectivity, they aren't prepared to pay extra for it (because it's a commodity - all those Android handsets offer it) and they have big costs associated with developing their own interface.Faced with that, the sensible course is to go with Android. That's disruption. Here's what it's looking like:Featurephones v smartphones, total numbers, Q1 2007- Q2 2012. Source: Gartner.It's a good bet that without Android, smartphone growth would look nothing like that - especially because huge numbers of them are being sold in China at rock-bottom prices (compared to western prices). Android has enabled that.Horace Dediu has graphed the smartphone shares of various companies in this space.Clearly, having a smartphone-only business isn't a guarantee of good fortune (hello HTC and RIM). But of the others, only Samsung has been profitable during the course of that graph.You can see the disruption happening with companies that focus too heavily on featurephones: LG and Motorola have had a torrid time in the past few quarters because they have lagged in the smartphone space. Nokia is noticeable because such a large proportion of its sales (now) are in the featurephone space, though you could argue that the Asha range is semi-smart (using S40, which is internet-enabled, and apparently used for that in countries such as India).Even so, there's plenty of headroom left in the mobile phone space: even though Chinese buyers are snapping up cheap Android smartphones, there are still millions of phones being shipped every quarter that aren't smart, and so represent a target for Android's disruption.What's more, if Android drives featurephone makers out (or up, to make smartphones) then it isn't disrupting the smartphone space; it'screatingit. It's making the market for smartphones bigger, which creates spaces for players at all levels. Some might even have their own software stack, or use stacks built by other companies. So Android is not wiping out the smartphone space - even though it is taking a huge chunk of the existing one (about 75% of shipments, according to IDC and Gartner).And the arrival of smartphones is an indisputably good thing, as I've said before: getting the power of the internet, and apps, into everyone's hands means academic, financial and medical knowledge isn't limited by whether a book, bank or doctor can physically reach you. It can all come over the air.The other disruptionThe other disruption:Google's desktop business. Even though this is really solid, Google knows that mobile is where it's all going. The decision to buy Android, led by Andy Rubin, in 2005 was taken without reference to Eric Schmidt, then the chairman, because it was so clear to Larry Page that this was the way forward. Better to disrupt your business with something that will in the end be bigger (because the potential ownership of mobiles is every person on the planet; desktop or laptop computers, somewhat smaller). Again, Android - with its data-gathering system feeding into the ads that you get offered on searches and in some apps - is ideally suited to the task: it's bringing new technology to the space.Meanwhile, in the tablet marketAnd finally, one thing that Android isn't disrupting - and with the above in mind, it's clear why: the tablet space.Looking at the figures, Apple has had more than 50% of the market since the iPad went on sale in April 2010. Efforts by all sorts of companies to crack that haven't amounted to much so far; perhaps the arrival of the Nexus 10 and Nexus 7 will change that, although Amazon seems a bigger threat - except that the iPad mini's early sales seem to point to continuing dominance.So why isn't Android disrupting tablets? Because there wasn't anything there to disrupt. Unlike the mobile phone market, where there was an existing low-technology product for Android to come along and be better than - remember "displacing an earlier technology" in the definition above - there just hasn't been any such thing in the tablet market, because it's so young. Instead it has come down to a retail competition over prices, apps, distribution. There's no disruption going on within that market, because there's no pre-existing market to disrupt. Whatisbeing disrupted by tablets is the PC market, which is seeing the money and the life being sucked away. That's a key part of why Microsoft has pushed Windows 8 out to ARM and onto tablets: it's the tablet as a form factor that is the disruptor - not what OS it's running.
Football Manager 13 has been out for a week, and by now most early purchasers will be well into their first season. Perhaps you are guiding some plucky Division Two minnow slowly up the table, or maybe you have taken a foolhardy leap into the deep end, attempting to keep Manchester United at the top of the Premiership.Whatever level you're playing at, an early challenge is always ensuring that you make the right moves in the market. Every new manager naturally seeks to stamp their authority on a side with one brilliantly conceived swoop for the next Balotelli; but all too often you end up with the next Bosko Balaban – or even worse, the next Balotelli.So we asked FM developer Sports Interactive if it could recommend a few early season targets for us. It did better than that. The studio's football analyst Tom Davidson trawled through the vast database and plucked out 30 gems, representing all levels of the game.Here then is the first part of our indispensible FM 2013 transfer selection, complete with Davidson's comments and suggestions.Premier League targetsFalcao (striker, Atletico Madrid)"Falcao is probably the best natural striker in the world right now and would be an excellent signing for top  four Premier League clubs, provided you can afford the transfer fee."Transfer fee:Has a minimum fee release clause of £52m but could be got for around £45m.Wage demands:High but not outrageous, would probably ask for between £110k-150k (all wages are per week).Gareth Bale (left midfield, left wing-back, Tottenham)"Bale is versatile, pacy and has excellent technical attributes. He would be a great investment for the top four sides and represents good value for money as you wouldn't need to sign another left-sided player for a number of seasons."Transfer fee:Would probably be available for between £22m and £30m.Wage demands:He would ask for wages between £115k-150k.Alan Dzagoev (attacking midfielder, central midfielder, CSKA Moscow)"Dzagoev had an excellent tournament at Euro 2012 and is highly rated by scouts across Europe. He would suit a top half/mid-table Premier League side perfectly."Transfer fee:Surprisingly cheap, between £2m-5m.Wage demands:Also cheap, between £27k-37k.Mateo Kovacic (attacking midfielder, central midfielder, Dinamo Zagreb)"Kovacic is an emerging talent in Croatia and could easily turn out to be a great signing. From the same ilk as Luka Modric, he's only 18 and will need to be eased into the first team but he has all the required attributes to become a very good attacking midfielder."Transfer fee:Between £5.5m-7.5m.Wage demands:Between £10k-20k.Anderson (central midfielder, attacking midfielder, Manchester United)"Anderson has found himself out of favour at Old Trafford but is a very capable central midfielder. He would make an excellent addition to a mid-table/bottom half team and is still young with plenty of time to develop."Transfer fee:Anywhere between £3.5m-£5.5m.Wage demands:Between £30k-40k.Viktor Fischer (attacking midfielder (left), attacking midfielder (centre), striker, Ajax)"Fischer has a very impressive goalscoring record at youth level and is one of the famous Ajax academy's brightest prospects. He's going to be expensive if you go after him straight away so unless you're owned by a billionaire it's probably best to wait until the following summer."Transfer fee:Fairly expensive, between £10m-12m despite his deceptive value of £400k.Wage demands:Between £25k-30k.Michael Mancienne (Centre-back, Hamburg)"Mancienne is a talented defender who has represented England at under-21 level 30 times. He would be an excellent signing for mid-table sides and would favour a return home to England so shouldn't be too hard to sign."Transfer fee:Between £1.6m-2.3m.Wage demands:Between £35k-50k.Wilfried Zaha (Striker, Crystal Palace)"Zaha has been linked with moves to Man City, Arsenal and Liverpool already this season and would be an excellent addition to any team that can afford his transfer fee. He's only 19 and could easily go on to become one of the Premier League's best strikers."Transfer fee:Between £5m-8m.Wage demands:Between £15k-30k.Carlo Cudicini (goalkeeper, Tottenham)"Cudicini has found himself pushed down the order at Tottenham but he is still a keeper of good quality. At 38 he would only be a stop-gap signing but would provide stability at the back."Transfer fee:Between £50-100k.Wage demands:£24k-39k.Raul Albiol (centre-back, Real Madrid)"Albiol is an accomplished centre-back who has made regular appearances for world and European champions Spain. Madrid are willing to let him leave though and if you can beat off the likes of AC Milan, Napoli and Fiorentina, he will be a very wise investment."Transfer fee:£5m-7.75m.Wage demands:£40k-60k.Championship and League Division One targets will be published on 8 November
Every so often, the music industry gets sucked into a debate about whether the traditional album is dead, even if the murderer has varied down the years, from iTunes downloads to Spotify playlists.Taylor Swift's ability to sell 1.2m albums in a week in the US alone suggests that the album remains alive and kicking, so you won't catch me suggesting that apps are the next candidate to kill off long-players.It's more accurate to say there's some interesting experimentation going on around apps and albums that either mutate the traditional format, or act as digital marketing to promote it.Some examples from the last week show how. Former Mercury Prize winners The xxlaunched an Android and iOS appinviting fans to "immerse yourself" in their most recent album, Coexist.That means high-definition videos for every song – IF you already own it digitally – an interactive version of the album artwork, lyrics and the usual artist-app mix of news, tour-dates, ticketing and merchandise links. It's a companion app to the album, rather than a replacement for it.Elsewhere, Calvin Harris also has a new album out, 18 Months, which also has acompanion app for Android and iOS. This one streams the entire album in full, but with a twist: only while you dance.Well, move is more accurate: the app uses the device's accelerometer to detect the user's movement, and stops playing if you stop moving. A fun novelty, perhaps, but also one that nudges fans towards buying the album, even though it's available in full through the app.A third example, which isn't out yet, isDavid Gilmour In Concert, which will be released on iOS on 19 November with Android to follow. It's less an album, and more a live-concert DVD. In fact, it's a specific live-concert DVD from 2002, offering all that release's video and extras for a 2012-suitable price of £5.99.Then there's Lady Gaga, who revealed plans to turn her next album ARTPOP into an app earlier in 2012.Speaking to The Guardianlast weekend, Gaga's manager Troy Carter promised "chats, films for every song, extra music, Gaga-inspired games, fashion updates, magazines and more still in the works", while sugesting that "the idea of having an application is the future".Finally, another bunch of veterans – Crosby, Stills &amp; Nash – havelaunched CSN, which claims to be "the first subscription-based iPad app for a recording artist to be approved for sale in the Apple App Store".The app itself is free, providing a band biography and links to iTunes, social networks and the band's official site. But fans who pay £2.49 a month will get "exclusive content, updates and premium fan features".So, two examples of apps that promote the album – with and without full streams included – one example of an app repackaging existing DVD content, an upcoming app that becomes a supercharged version of the album, and another that aims to make money for a band through digital subscriptions.None of these apps represents a solution to the recorded music industry's problems over the last decade, and none of them will either kill or save the traditional album. They're just interesting, innovative experiments hinting at how apps might play a role in artists' careers going forward.
When a game is described by its creators as 'tweed-punk robo-horror', you immediately know, as Kate Bush sang in Cloudbusting, that something good is going to happen.Sir, You Are Being Huntedis just such a game. Developed by UK collective Big Robot, it's a sort of first-person stealth survival adventure set in a distopian version of the British countryside. Here, robots dressed at Victorian gentlemen are patrolling rural areas looking for 'sport' – and by 'sport' they mean 'stray humans to kill with guns'. You are a stray human.Currentlyon Kickstarterand set for release on PC and Mac in 2013, the game uses procedural generation to create a new landscape every time the player starts up. To survive, participants will need to run across rolling fields and through hedges and bramble bushes, attempting not to trigger the AI senses of their metallic pursuers. Dotted about the maps are deserted villages where vital supplies can be plundered. And while you're running, there are parts of a mysterious machine to locate – find them all and you can get off the island and escape what appears to be some sort of weird socio-technological experiment.Combining Hammer Horror and Sherlock Holmes with elements of the classic stealth game Thief, Sir, You Are Being Hunted is an ingenious concoction.  "It was just one of those ideas that emerged from conversation," explains studio founder and veteran games writer Jim Rossignol. "We knew that we wanted the next game to focus on our procedural landscape generation tech, but exactly what the landscape was, and what you were doing there wasn't clear. I knew I wanted it to be something desperate and scary, but without being straight-faced. Making it a sort of black comedy made sense".When the idea of robots and countryside finally did combine, the team had to find a way of creating believable British landscapes for the hunts to play out in. "The game is being made in the Unity development environment, so our procedural generation is built into existing Unity systems," says Rossignol. "That said, it's quite unlike existing terrain-making systems out there, because of the way it specifically layers on detail to make the world look like a wintery British landscape. It divides up an environment into cells, and then applies the terrain types we've created to each one. That gives us sea, and cliffs, and woods, and crop fields, all of which get framed with walls and hedges, in that typically British way."This technique comes from the clever mind of our digital artist, Tom Betts, who has been coding these systems for a long time. The system we're using is actually relatively simple compared to the more experimental 'Lodestone' tech we were working on last year, but it still shows the power of using procedural and generative systems to deal with one task. Level design that might take an individual hours, even using modern tools, takes us mere seconds".Procedurally generated landscapes have been around for a while, mostly facilitating the many 'rouguelike' RPG games that feature randomly generated dungeons. However, titles like Dwarf Fortress and Minecraft have brought the technique to a wider audience, and now more developers are becoming interested in discovering new forms of gameplay beyond conventional, highly linear mission-based structures.Another similar title, of course, is DayZ, the open-world zombie adventure which deals in a similar environment of horror, survival and avoidance. Rossignol acknowledges the comparison: "It sounds terrible to boast parallel development with Day Z, but we had started Sir before it appeared, and once we started playing Day Z - which we did daily for weeks - we were gasping at how much it was already doing the sort of stuff we were interested in."It shouldn't be too surprising, I suppose, as we love the Arma games, and James [Carey, lead designer] worked on Arma II, the game on which Day Z is based. Nevertheless there does seem to be a certain survival FPS zeitgeist, which I think we are part of, at least on a mechanistic and systemic design level. We also love Thief, and pulling off that sort of feel in an open environment is part of the challenge for us. Thematically, we've been inspired by old Sherlock Holmes movies, Dr Who, the writing in the Portal games, and plenty more besides".And there's certainly an audience for procedurally generated tweedy robot stealth. Big Robot's Kickstarter project started on 2 November and already the total is on £37,000, just short of the £40k target - with 25 days to go. "The reaction has been fantastic," says Rossignol. "As soon as we went on to Kickstarter we saw a flood of questions and suggestions, and we've been enjoying responding to these. Being pro-active is definitely the key to making Kickstarters lively and interesting. Constantly interacting with the community and updating with news, no matter how trivial, makes it clear how excited you are about the project, and I think the community responds to that. We're just getting started, even though we're already nearing our goal. We'll keep updating until the project is bright home".A look at the stretch goals section on the Kickstarter page reveals the tantalising prospect of multiplayer if funds get to a high enough level. And as lots of indie designers seem to be toying with the idea of supporting the Kickstarter-funded virtual reality headset, Oculus Rift, we wondered if Big Robot might be tempted to bring some extra immersion to its robo-Victorian environment? "Definitely," says Rossignol. "But we can't make any promises on having that working any time soon!"For now, keep checking the Kickstarter pages for updates. If you have ever dreamed of being pursued across a foggy English countryside by robots in deerstalkers, it's really the only place you need to be. Because something good, something dark, funny and eccentric, is going to happen here.
Here's a conundrum for any armchair games developers out there: how would you go about creating a new instalment in a franchise that both the fans and the owners of the IP in question want to stay as close to the last entry possible? In games, innovation and pushing the envelope are practically required, as well as expected. So how does a developer put their personal stamp on this kind of game?  In other words, how much innovation is there room for in the creative process, when the game one is working on is Halo 4?It's a question that must have kept the development dream team at 343 Industries up at night. As the first studio to have a crack at the Halo franchise since original developers Bungie jumped ship, 343 have a pretty tough checklist. They've been tasked with producing a game that moves the Halo franchise forward, while remaining true to the expectations of its fan base and its legacy. Oh, and since it's the new entry in the Xbox 360's FPS flagship franchise, it'd better sell by the lorryload too.So it's no surprise then, that at its core, Halo 4 looks and plays like any other Halo game. Master Chief – or the player's own customised Spartan troop in the co-op and competitive multiplayer modes – handles like a lissom athlete with the physical presence and power of a Mack Truck. Weapons give a satisfying kick when fired, and driving a vehicle is like piloting a particularly chunky marionette. The controls feel like they haven't been updated since the original entry; Halo 4 may take one or two cues from the current crop of shooters, but RB is still melee and zoom are activated by clicking in the right stick, rather than pulling the left trigger. If you've ever played (and loved) a Halo title, you'll be right at home here.Play for longer than an hour, however, and you'll begin to take in the changes 343 have made to the Halo universe – notably in the form of the Prometheans, the brand new enemies of Halo 4, who seem to be the result of some sort of horrific merging of human flesh and digital steel.The Prometheans are split between three unit types: Crawlers, Knights and Watchers. Crawlers are the grunt units – these four-legged horrors can cling to any surface and usually come armed with a pistol or machine gun, which augments their vicious melee attack. Knights are the bi-pedal units – they look like human skeletons encased in glowing carapace-like armour and they have a nasty habit of teleporting to safety when the player reduces their health significantly. Watchers are the most annoying of the bunch. These floating units not only rain down gunfire on the player, they drop shields in front of other units and warp in new ones if they aren't dispatched quickly.All three Promethean units have their own set of animations for players to learn in order to take advantage of the particular rhythm Halo has always offered as a shooter. They also helpfully drop weapons, which are variants of the pistol, machine gun, shotgun, sniper rifle and rocket launcher that players expect in an FPS. The Covenant forces, along with their requisite hardware and vehicles, have also returned, although for Halo 4 they seem to have left the Brute shocktroops at home.Halo 4 looks and feels a lot darker than previous instalments. When the player unloads on a Covenant enemy with a firearm, sprays of blue alien blood cake the walls and floor around the target and melee attacks hit home with an eye-watering 'crack'. The universe of Halo is still as vibrantly coloured as ever, but it contains more shadow pockets and sharp edges than before. Aliens no longer make adorable little 'Jawa'-like noises and hiss and snarl instead. Action set-pieces are filled with thundering gunfire and teeth-rattling explosions and a gritty atmosphere pervades throughout.Despite this, Halo 4 looks absolutely gorgeous. I can't speak about what goes into maintaining eye-popping visuals with zero frame-rate crawl, but 343 have pulled it off here. The characters and universe of Halo 4 have never looked better; each environment is imaginatively designed and painstakingly detailed and in some cut scenes, players will have to blink a couple of times before they realise what they're watching isn't video capture of real-life actors.As for the Campaign's plot, it heralds the return of the iconic Master Chief and his AI companion Cortana and… well, that's all I'm going to say about it. If you're a Halo fan, the less you know about the events of Halo 4 going in, the better a time you will have. If you're someone who doesn't really care about the space opera lore of this series, the good news is that the story will not impede your enjoyment of the Campaign Mode at all – and it carries more emotional heft than previous iterations. The level design is well implemented too and remains exciting throughout; the player is never under the impression they're simply gunning their way to another room of targets.The campaign on Easy or Normal difficulty is a six- to eight-hour affair – rather short by Halo's standards – but players who are after a real challenge are advised to play it through on Heroic and Legendary, as the gulf between difficulty settings is rather large. However, in spite of Master Chief's return, the main reason to pick up a copy of Halo 4 isn't its Campaign Mode. It is, instead, the game's Infinity Mode, which contains both Spartan Ops (the Four Player Co-op Mode) and War Games (the competitive Multiplayer Mode) – along with the improved Forge and Theatre tools.Spartan Ops at present contains the opening act for what is scheduled to be a series of story-based missions geared towards four-player co-op. The mode cranks the difficulty in line with however many players take part, and in the true spirit of co-op, the more friends you bring to the firefight, the more enjoyable it will be. There's even a decent story running through it, to boot; the plot picks up the threads of the single-player campaign and it hints at an explanation as to why blue and red-coloured Spartans are blasting the heck out of each other in the multiplayer. On the evidence of this first episode, it's a tonne to a tenner the rest of the mode's episodic DLC will be well worth paying for.War Games, however, is where Halo 4's true longevity lies. It's also the clearest and most credible claim the Halo franchise has made towards cementing its place at the forefront of the FPS genre. Yes, 343 Industries has taken some cues from the rest of the FPS field in terms of customisation of load-outs, emblems and visual representation of the player on the battlefield, but the whole shebang is shot through with Halo's DNA.To wit, players level up, spend points on weapon unlocks and toy with the appearance of their Spartan. It also has to be said that Halo 4 exists in a rather safe – albeit appealing – middle ground in the FPS online frag haven. Maps run the gamut from environments where taking the high ground and augmenting a team attack with vehicles is accommodated, to shotgun-friendly boiler rooms. The match types themselves are a mix of old and new; for my money Infinity Team Slayer is still the chaotic jewel in the Halo multiplayer's crown, but new match types like Regicide, in which participants target the player with the highest score, or Dominion – in which teams capture and then fortify bases – are well worth a look.Yet, what hasn't been lost – indeed, what has been augmented – is the almost Bacchanalian sense of freedom a player has once they're cut loose in the great multiplayer-nowhere world. Halo 4, more than any other shooter of recent memory, encourages players to take part in the often-intimidating prospect of competing online. If you're new to online shooters, this really is one of the best places to start.Thanks to the Spartan 'physics' you'll feel like a god going in. Not only that, you'll also be able to dive right back into the fight by hammering 'X' any time you're taken out, which will lighten the sensation of being clubbed by better players. Halo 4's main trump card is that it appeals to players across the skill spectrum: it may be a game that attracts elite eSports players but there's still a palpable sense of fun that pervades throughout. It's also the only shooter you can buy today, where you can ride a Mongoose up a Man-Cannon, hurtle through the air, crash into a Banshee and kill the player driving it, and then flatten two other players who were unfortunate enough to be in your landing zone.So with its strong multiplayer present and correct, Halo 4 remains true to the legacy of the first entry in this in videogame series. It also moves this franchise's lore forward through the Campaign Mode and provides what fans expect from a Halo title in how it looks and plays. This is all starting to sound a little clinical, so allow me to make my feelings clear about this game. Halo 4 is brilliant. If you've never played an entry in this series, this is as good a place to start as any and if you're a fan, rejoice; with 343 Industries Halo is in safe hands.Our review of Halo 4 is a little late because we wanted the chance to test the online element of the title on the public servers. The multiplayer experience is such an important part of this game, we were keen to ensure that we got a true indication of how it plays.
The story of Apple Incorporated is far from over. It is themost valuable companyin the world, by a large margin. Apple produces a range of exceptional and much loved products. It employs many of the most talented designers and engineers on the planet. But I think Apple has peaked and the story of the next few years will be one of a slow but real decline.Some background: I worked at Apple for four years in the late 1990s, as a software engineer and engineering manager. I joined during the disastrous reign of Gil Amelio, the desolate end of a desolate decade for the company. I was there when Steve Jobs returned and executed the most spectacular business turnaround of our lifetimes. I got to know Steve quite well and Apple really well. I've been rooting for them ever since. I'm an avid Mac user, though for mobile devices I prefer Android - I also worked at Google for five years.Signs and portentsWhy do I think Apple has passed its peak? There are a number of signs. The most visible recent one is theMaps debacle. Replacing Google Maps with an obviously inferior experience shows how much Apple has changed. Apple's success had been all about offering users the best possible experience; suddenly it is willing to give users a clearly worse experience to further its corporate interests - in this case its long-running dispute with Google. We might expect this sort of behaviour from Microsoft, but we don't expect it from Apple.Now, Apple has taken missteps before. Even under Jobs the company has launched failed products: in 2000 theCubedidn't set the world on fire; Apple's early forays into cloud services were embarrassing; iMovie 08 was a mistake. No company is perfect, but what's interesting is all of these were attempts to build better products and services for users, even if they failed. That's not what happened with Maps: Apple deliberately offered an inferior product, because its fight over Android was deemed more important than its users.Maps is the most obvious recent sign of changes at Apple, but there are other, more subtle, signs of a creative slowdown. The iPad 4 launched just six months after the iPad 3 with Retina Display. It doesn't improve substantially over the previous version, yet has managed to annoy users who just bought an iPad 3. This insipid update is not the sort of magical product launch on which Apple has built its reputation.Worse still, Apple's hyperbole is now getting a long way ahead of reality. Now, Steve was famous for his "reality distortion field". I saw it up close and personal, and it was amazing. But Steve knew that when he turned on the hype, he needed an outstanding product to back it up. The reason he could seemingly bend reality to his will was that products like the iMac, the iPod, the iPhone and the iPad really were exceptional, breakthrough products. Steve's showmanship was justified.Compare that to the launch of the latest revisions of the iPad and iPhone. They are accompanied by amazing levels of hype: "I don't think the level of invention has been matched by anything we've ever done", "This is the biggest thing to happen to iPhone since the iPhone". Don't get me wrong, the iPhone 5 is an excellent product; it's probably the best smartphone on the market right now. But it's only an incremental improvement over the iPhone 4S. The iPhone 5 is better, but it's really notthatmuch better, and iOS 6 has had some decidedlymixedreviews. But you wouldn't know that listening to the hype from Bob Mansfield, Tim Cook, Phil Schiller et al. The problem with over-hyping is that people notice, and over time it erodes their faith. There are only so many times you can be told that a relatively small increment is "the greatest thing ever in the history of everything ever" before you get jaded. Steve knew how to balance hype and product. Apple today seems much less adept at this.It's not just on the product side where there are signs of Apple slipping. While the recent departure of Scott Forstall has, rightly, garnered a lot of headlines, it's important not to overlook the fate of John Browett. He was in charge of Apple's retail stores - a vital component of Apple's success over the last decade. Browett was in position for just seven months andby all accountshe presided over a significant and ill-advised change in strategy, focussing on profit over customer care – another example of Apple putting its corporate needs ahead of its customers.It's baffling. Apple has a winning formula - perhaps the most successful business formula ever - yet it seems intent on changing it. The company has shifted away from Jobs's laser-like focus on building the best and most complete user experience, and started putting its interests way ahead of those of its users. It hasn't introduced a truly new product since the launch of the iPad nearly three years ago; instead it's making incremental and overhyped improvements to its current lines. In reality, these signs and portents are relatively small. Apple is still producing excellent products and for every Maps app, there's a great new iPad Mini or iPod Touch to brighten up the outlook. But, doesn't it all feel a little… flat?Structure mattersWhat's really interesting is why this is happening at Apple. The obvious change is the loss of Steve Jobs. Steve left Apple towards the end of 2011, and since then we've seen a number of missteps, all leading up to the recent executive reshuffle that left Forstall and Browett out in the cold.Most recent tech startups subscribe to the organisational philosophies embodied at Google: extremely open internal communications, flat management hierarchies, as much bottom-up decision making as possible and lots of collaboration amongst team members. Apple is the opposite. It's highly secretive, to the point of paranoia. It has many layers of management. Decisions are made at the top and rigidly enforced through micro-management and direction. Apple was built in Steve Jobs's image, and Steve was all about control - specifically, his direct control of everything at Apple.At Google, products are built by largely self-directed teams, so there is little consistency between them. Apple builds extremely integrated products, designing everything from the CPUs to the industrial design, the software, the marketing, even the stores in which they are sold. This results in extremely consistent and holistic products. But it relies on the person at the top having the vision and creativity to design the right products.Apple had Steve, the master product and marketing genius. He was the enforcer of Apple's quality and consistency. He used the advantages of a command-and-control organisation to amazing effect. He harnessed tens of thousands of employees to create his singular vision for the future of computing and communications. Through a combination of inspiration, fear and brilliance, he was able to transform the sad remnants of the Apple of 1996 into the greatest tech company of our time.But the organisational structure that allowed Steve to wield power so effectively is now a huge liability. No-one could fill Steve's shoes, though some have tried - notably Forstall. But not only has Tim Cook removed Forstall, he did so in the name of creating a more "collaborative" environment.Apple however is the opposite of the open, collaborative, slightly disorganised Google. It worked precisely because it was a dictatorship. But dictatorships without their dear leaders tend to fall to infighting, intrigue and inefficiency. This could be Apple's future.Where next?The story of Apple Inc. is far from over. The company is full of brilliant people, who believe in Steve's vision of Apple. It has almost unimaginablepiles of cashand generatesinsanely great profits. It produces outstanding computers, tablets and phones that peoplequeue upto buy. Apple is not about to go the way ofNokiaorRIM. It has also shown that it can turn around in the most dramatic of fashions. In 1996, Apple was two, maybe three years from being sold for a pittance and becomingyet another footnotein the history of personal computing. By 2002 it was well on its way to becoming the most dominant company in the world. What was done once, can be done again.But Apple has serious structural faults. The loss of Steve was devastating - the entire company was built around him and the mistakes we have seen since he left are entirely consistent with a very hierarchical organisation trying to find its way without its leader. I think in hindsight, we will see that Apple's peak of creativity, innovation and leadership was early 2012.After that, though the company will continue to see great success, will create amazing new products and will continue to make bucket loads of money, the pace will slacken, more mistakes will happen and it will not return to the levels of execution and brilliance we saw in the first decade of this millennium. I may be wrong. I hope I'm wrong.But something tells me I'm not.
Here we are - middle of the week. How is your panning out?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's design problems aren't skeuomorphic &gt;&gt; counternotionsIn the end, what's wrong with iOS isn't the dark linen behind the app icons at the bottom of the screen, but the fact that iOS ought to have much better inter-application management and navigation than users fiddling with tiny icons. I'm fairly sure most Apple users would gladly continue to use what are supposed to be skeuomorphically challenged Calendar or Notebook apps for another thousand years if Apple could only solve the far more vexing software problems of AppleID unification when using iTunes and App Store, or the performance and reliability of the same. And yet these are the twin sides of the same systems design problem: the display layer surfacing or hiding the power within or, increasingly, lack thereof.Well said.Accounts merged after name mix-up by Prudential &gt;&gt; BBC News"Yeah, just do a left join on firstname, surname, birthdate." (Thanks @mattgemmell on Twitter for the link.)Shipping the digital strategy &gt;&gt; Government Digital ServiceA quick glimpse behind the scenes at the GDS: it's Agile, it's using a variant of Markdown, and Github was key. Hope you don't think government is behind the times any more.Digital Landscape Research &gt;&gt; Cabinet OfficeThis independent research was conducted by 2CV to provide a comprehensive view of UK adults' use of the internet and of government information and transactional services online.Contains some fascinating nuggets.iOS vs. Android: impact of in-app purchases on revenue gap &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh hacks through the data from different sources, which disagrees really quite a lot:This really highlights how subjective app-related data can be and shows that we need to look at multiple perspectives before reaching a conclusion. However, if the revenue growth data is accurate, it does appear that the growth in in-app purchases has reduced the revenue gap between iOS and Google Play.(Thanks @hotsoup for the link)HTML5 mythbusting &gt;&gt; Mozilla Hacks Web developer blogSeeing that HTML5 is perfectly capable on Desktop to exceed in performance, from scrolling performance toanalyzing and changing video on the flyup torunning full 3D games at a very high frame rateand havehigh speed racing gameswe have to ask ourselves where the problem with its performance lies.The answer is hardware access. HTML5 applications are treated by mobile hardware developed for iOS and Android as second class citizens and don't get access to the parts that allow for peak performance. A web view in iOS is hindered by the operating system to perform as fast as a native App although it uses the same principles. On Android both Chrome andFirefox show how fast browsers can performwhereas the stock browser crawls along in comparison.The stock browser on Android reminds us of the Internet Explorer of the 90s which threatened to be set in stone for a long time and hinder the world wide web from evolving - the very reason Mozilla and Firefox came into existence.In essence HTML5 is a Formula 1 car that has to drive on a dirt road whilst dragging a lot of extra payload given to it by the operating system without a chance to work around that - for now.Of course, the reason why the browser doesn't get the same trusted access to the OS tends to be because its content isn't, well, trusted. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)"There's nothing you can do..." &gt;&gt; DilbertThis may have some computer manufacturers sweating. (Thanks @johnniegoat for the link.)Google Nexus 4 and Nexus 10 performance preview &gt;&gt; AnandtechIf you like graphics showing shorter and longer bars for benchmarks on a ton of devices on a load of tests, this is the page for you. Compares Google's new devices against a range of existing smartphones and tablets including the Samsung Galaxy S2 and S3, Motorola RAZR I, HTC One X, iPhone 4S and 5, iPad 3 and more.One on One: Google Android director on Nexus strategy &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comBrian Chen: So how does Google take advantage of the Motorola acquisition?John Lagerling: The way I understand it is, it's mostly about the patents, the way you can sort of disarm this huge attack against Android. We talked about prices. There are players in the industry who were unhappy about more competitive pricing for the consumers. They want to keep the prices high, they want to force the price to be so high that operators have to subsidize the devices very highly. That's not only the Cupertino guys but also for the guys up in Seattle. They want higher margins, they want to charge more for software.We simply believe there's a better way of doing it without extracting that much payment from end users, because there are other ways to drive revenues. Patents were used as a weapon to try to stop that evolution and scare people away from lower-cost alternatives. And I think with the Motorola acquisition we've shown we're able to put skin in the game and push back.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
This week on Tech Weekly with Aleks Krotoski and Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur, we meet Charles Davies, co-founder of the award winning tech start-up iGeolise, to discuss why time and not distance is important in providing travel information and building local applications.Aleks and Charles also discuss if Windows 8 is a pitch for the yummy-mummy market and home secretary Theresa May defends the Data and Communications Bill or the snooping bill as it makes its way through the legislative channels.Finally the Guardian's digital media correspondent Jemima Kiss drops in on the recent Decode conference in London where she discovers the future of retail tech.
Watch out, Google: if last month's search share loss carries on, then by February 2016 Microsoft's Bing will have overtaken you.For Google, the threat may not be colossal. Yet Experian, which owns the internet tracking company Hitwise, reports that in October for the first time in five years Google's search share in the UK dipped below 90%.That may not sound very big - and indeed the dip was tiny, to just 89.33% of all UK searches, compared to 90.74% in September, a fall of 1.41 percentage points. Microsoft's Bing - which has been a colossal moneypit for the company for years - meanwhile increased its share by 0.72 percentage points, to 4.71%. The rest of Google's loss mostly went to Yahoo, with a small amount going to Ask and to other sites.If Google keeps losing UK desktop search share at the same rate, by February 2016 Microsoft's Bing would have overtaken itExperian points out that the figure for Bing is a 2012 peak which has seen it raise its share of search by almost a percentage point in 2012. It's not much when your search engine is still pouring millions down the drain every quarter, but every little helps.The question is, why has Google dipped, and why has Bing improved, and why has only half the fall in Google gone to Bing?Experian tries to answer this by suggesting that the launch in October of Windows 8, where Bing is the default search engine, "may have gone some way to increasing Microsoft's market share".But Windows 8 was onlyofficially launched on 25 October, which hardly gives time for all those Windows 8 users to suddenly alter their behaviour from using Google to using Bing.In a statement, Experian Hitwise said: "Clearly, Google still maintains a huge competitive edge over the other search engines in the UK market. There are 18 times more searches conducted on Google Sites than on all the other search engines combined. However, this is encouraging news for Microsoft as bing once again starts to gain some momentum and traction in the UK search market."That shows the scale of the challenge for Microsoft and the others - but still doesn't answer what changed in October.One point to note is that the figures also include searches done from smartphones and tablets if they are hooked into Wi-Fi network (as Hitwise gathers anonymous data via ISPs about what sites are being queried).However, Google is the default search engine on virtually every smartphone and tablet too - apart from the BlackBerry PlayBook (Bing) and the Microsoft Surface (Bing again). However, the PlayBook has such a small installed base (fewer than 2m have shipped in its life since April 2011) that it couldn't have changed anything; and the Surface didn't start arriving in UK homes until the very end of October, and again wouldn't have shipped in sufficient numbers to make any difference.The arrival of Windows 8 devices this month, though, with their default search set to Bing, could have an effect for November - depending on whether users keep it as their default, or set it to Google.But what about Apple's new iOS 6, released in September, which brings Apple's new Maps, which don't use Google; it also brings the Siri functionality to the iPhone 5 and to some of the iPad devices. Could this make a difference?The precise wording of the release is that "The latest search stats show that 89.33% of all UK Internet searches were conducted on Google Sites." That's sites, not just the main search engine. Google Maps are part of Google sites, and people do searches there. If they update to iOS 6 and suddenly aren't doing searches on Google Maps - could that be it?No, says James Murray, digital insights manager at Experian: the data only comes from the sites such as google.com, google.co.uk and so on. So no, nothing to do with iOS and maps.What is it really, then?Murray says that the real key could be the way that people are now searching - often through social media sites. And which is the biggest social media site of the lot? Facebook. And which is the default search engine inside Facebook? That's right - Bing. "That could be part of it," says Murray. "People are looking these days for the best and most relevant search results. I think Bing, which has been a minor player, is starting to come to prominence. As it gains more traction I think we will see more searches coming from Bing."Does that mean he sees Bing accelerating its growth beyond just a percentage point or so per month? "As the market continues to grow, I think it will become more prominent, particularly as it consolidates with Bing," Murray says.OF course, the change that's really coming is the growth in mobile - which Experian Hitwise plans to start monitoring from January. Once we start to see those statistics it could be telling. Now, though, we - and Google - can only wait for the figures from November to see if this is a blip, or the start of a long-term trend.
A sweeping redesign of the government's seven biggest websites aims to save £1.2bn over the next three years – and further improvements to other department sites used for interaction with the public will save a further £1.7bn annually from 2015, according to Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude.Making the billion annual transactions between government, citizens and businesses "digital by default" will see accelerated savings, as more driving test bookings, tax payments and other government-related transactions go online, Maude said.Unveiling a sweeping new digital strategy to get those everyday transactions with government online, Maude said that £1.2bn could be saved in the next three years – and that the pace of saving would accelerate over time."Digital services are much more convenient because they can be accessed whenever you want them," said Maude. "They are also much more efficient, saving taxpayers' money and the user's time. Online transactions can be 20 times cheaper than by phone, 30 times cheaper than face-to-face, and up to 50 times cheaper than by post."Seven of the busiest government departments, including the Inland Revenue and Department of Work and Pensions, will be obliged to overhaul their websites to ensure that they offer the best possible experience for people who want to use them to access services.The government presently handles more than a billion transactions per year with citizens across 650 services – though those seven departments account for more than 90% of central government transactions. Those are the Inland Revenue, Department for Transport, Department of Work and Pensions, Department of Business, Information and Skills, Department of Environment, Farming and Rural Affairs, Ministry of Justice and the Home Office.All will be in the front line for active redesign to make them "digital by default" – even as other websites are shut down. In the past year the government has closed 74 "redundant" sites as it slimlines its web presence to focus on its remodelled gov.uk portal.But the drive to make such services digital could put many lower-paid groups who do not have internet access at a disadvantage. Current figures show that18% of adults "never or rarely"use the internet – although 77% of UK adults use the internet at least once a day. The data also show that 12% of adults are "offline and unwilling to get online".Maude said however that the changes were essential. Despite handling more than a billion transactions every year many of the 650 government services have no digital option – and the ones that are available need redesigns.The Cabinet Office also pointed to figures showing that in 2011 about 150m phone calls made to government services could have been avoided if the online service were better.The redesign will start with the seven Whitehall departments that handle the majority of central government transactions, and target the services which cope with more than 100,000 transactions annually for digital transformation.Any new or redesigned service introduced after April 2014 will also have to meet a new Digital by Default standard.Mike Bracken, executive director of the Government Digital Service, which last month produced the remodelled gov.uk site, said the strategy was "a truly digital document which reflects our ambitions and signals a clear roadmap for working with departments to help them achieve the goals set out in this strategy".The gov.uk site will become the central hub for corporate publication by all 24 central government departments by March 2013, and other agencies and "arm's length" bodies will follow by March 2014.The redesigned gov.uk – which took over from the Directgov site – has won plaudits in user testing for its ease of use, and the speed with which people could find the information they wanted, taking 80 seconds compared with 120 on Directgov, which it replaced.
If you grew up playing computer games in the early eighties, you will know Elite, the legendary space trading simulation written by two Cambridge university students, David Braben and Ian Bell. Now, Braben has announced that his studio, Frontier Developments, is working on a new title in the series, and is looking to raise £1.25m on the crowd-funding site, Kickstarter, to make it happen.In hisKickstarter pitch for the game, Braben explains that the original title took up less than 22k when it was released on the BBC Micro in 1984 – less memory than the average email message. His ambition is to replicate the unique experience of that first adventure, but with all the extra graphical and scale possibilities modern hardware offers. Set for release on PC in 2014, players will be able to fight and trade their way across several galaxies, either in single-player or in a new multiplayer mode."Elite: Dangerous is the game I have wanted Frontier to make for a very long time," Braben explains on Kickstarter. "The next game in the Elite series - an amazing space epic with stunning visuals, incredible gameplay and breath-taking scope, but this time you can play with your friends too".In the text, Braben admits that his company has made several attempts to resurrect the series since the disappointing third title, Frontier: First Encounters, was released in 1995. "We're using Kickstarter both as a means of test-marketing the concept to verify there is still interest in such a game that extends beyond the individuals who regularly contact me about the game, and raising the funds to do so".Kickstarter has become a popular means of testing the enthusiasm of fan communities for retro titles. York-based studio Revolution Software was recently successful in funding a new addition to the Broken Sword series of point-and-click adventure titles via Kickstarter, while US developer Double Fineraised over $3mon the site when it invited fans to pledge on another retro-style adventure.Already, Braben's Kickstarter page, which offers gamers the chance to contribute funds to the project in return for copies of the game and other perks, has received over £100,000 in support, with 59 days to go before the funding window closes. The project has also received a significant boost thanks to influential indie coder Markus 'Notch' Persson, whotweetedon Tuesday morning, "Well, ok then! Throwing all my money at a new Elite game by David Braben" with a link to the Kickstarter page.However, the appeal has been criticised by some for lacking solid detail about the development status, and also for the tone of the pitch. Comedian and gamer Robert Florence has launched a string of tweets pillorying the way the project has been presented. "I'm David Braben. Remember Elite? Give me a million pounds," states one.For Elite fanatics, though, the prospect of another instalment in the space trading adventure will be too tempting to resist. Already two backers have offered the maximum £5000 pitch each for the chance to have dinner with Braben and members of the development team. Nostalgia has become a powerful currency in the digital gaming era, with publishers cut out of the equation by veteran developers keen to engage directly with fans.The big question now is whether the project can ascend past the 'Mostly Harmless' phase of its Kickstarter appeal and on to Competent, Dangerous and finally, Elite.
So, did your fireworks night go with a bang or a fizzle?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Surface RT more profitable than iPad, teardown analysis reveals &gt;&gt; IHS iSuppli's Teardown portal provides deeper insights into bill of materials, BOM cost, photo analysis and graphical representation of electronics. To learn more, call us at 1At an estimated total BOM and manufacturing cost of $284 and a retail price of $599, the Surface RT generates hardware and manufacturing profits that are, in percentage terms, higher than the low-end iPad. Even at a price of $499 without the Touch Cover, Microsoft will generate a profit margin that is greater than the low-end iPad, in percentage terms and on a per-unit basis.Obviously Microsoft is totally exploiting its total monopoly on tablets in a monopolistic price-gouging manner that illustrates that its exploitative profit-grabbing monpolistic ways must be stopped, and, er... (Also: IHS iSuppli has a "teardown portal"? Sounds like something out of a cheap sci-fi TV series.)Wii U's browser is better equipped for HTML5 than Internet Explorer 10 on PC &gt;&gt; VentureBeatHTML5 is the language of the Internet. It's what makes most things possible on the web, and the browser in Nintendo's Wii U console can handle it better than Microsoft's Internet Explorer 10 for PCs.That information comes from benchmarking websiteHTML5test.com. Here's how the Wii U, Internet Explorer, and other popular browsers fare (scores out of 500 + 15 bonus points)...Makes interesting reading: the PlayBook, for example, is the top-ranked tablet in HTML5 compatibility.Windows Phone sales to ramp quickly: Microsoft CEO &gt;&gt; ReutersSteve Ballmer:"With the work we have done with Nokia, HTC, Samsung and others ... there is now an opportunity to create really a strong third participant in the smartphone market," he said in Tel Aviv at Microsoft's first Windows 8 launch outside the United States."We are still relatively small ... I expect the volumes on Windows Phone to really ramp quickly."He could have been speaking in 2011 or 2012. Actually, which one was it?Samsung Galaxy Note II, the global 3 million sales achieved &gt;&gt; SAMSUNG TOMORROWThe original page is in Korean (apart from a headline saying "Social Media News Release") and says that the Galaxy Note 2 has achieved 3m global cumulative sales in 37 days. That is more than the original, it says. (Thanks @undersinged for the link.)Apple sells three million iPads in three days &gt;&gt; AppleApple today announced it has sold three million iPads in just three days since the launch of its new iPad mini and fourth generation iPad - double the previous first weekend milestone of 1.5m Wi-Fi only models sold for the third generation iPad in March.Estimates are the mini has been the majority of that - probably 2-2.5m.Android malware surges despite Google's efforts to bounce dodgy apps off its platform &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDespite Google tightening Android's security screw, by introducing an additional layer of security to the Play Store earlier this year to scan for malicious code (and its September acquisition of online virus and malware scanner VirusTotal), Android's malware problem has surged in the third quarter. Security firm F-Secure's latest mobile threat report (for Q3) reports "a whopping 51,447 unique samples" detected in the third quater, up from 5,033 in Q2 and 3,063 in Q1.That's a tenfold increase. Most, however, in China. (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Google will become more influential in tablet market &gt;&gt; DigitimesGoogle's Nexus 7 shipments performed better than expected, and are forecast to reach 4.3m units in 2012, accounting for about 20% of non-Apple tablet shipments (excluding white-box models), while the volume in the fourth quarter is also expected to enjoy sequential growth despite the weak global economy, [Digitimes researcher James] Wang pointed out.Digitimes Research estimates that Google's Nexus series tablets will see total shipments of 19m units in 2013 accounting for 50% of non-Apple tablet shipments.Only 38m non-Apple tablets in 2013? Even excluding white-box companies, that seems low spread over four quarters. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)What happens when you leave your Surface on the roof of your car &gt;&gt; Kurt Shintaku's BlogIt falls off. Then the car behind it runs over it. Then..All possible paths to the White House &gt;&gt;Flowing DataPointing to a New York Times story about how Obama's and Romney's "paths" compare: if one wins state X and the other wins state Y, how decisive is Y? To quote the original article, "Obama has 431 ways to win, Romney has 76 ways to win". What's clever is the use of data and visualisation as a means to consider the path to the result.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Apple says it sold 3m iPad minis and iPad 4 in the three days from Friday – with analysts reckoning that the vast majority were the smaller version of the tablet, which was only unveiled a fortnight earlier.Despite theradical management shakeupinitiated by chief executive Tim Cook just days before the products went on sale – including the departure of its retail boss, ex-Dixons chief John Browett – Apple seems to have kept its supply and retail chain running smoothly.The sales only included Wi-Fi versions of the devices, with 4G-enabled models due to go on sale later this month.The company didn't provide a ratio of sales between the devices, but researchers reckoned that the small version, with a screen size half that of the 10in iPad, would have been much more popular. Carl Howe, vice president of data sciences research at analysts Yankee Group, reckoned that iPad minis made 1.8m of the total. Ross Rubin, principal analyst at Reticle Research in New York, put the figure higher, at 2m.The figures compared with 5m sales in three days of the iPhone 5 when that was launched in September. Google's Nexus 7 tablet, which was launched in July but is sold in only eight countries – compared to the iPads' 34 on its opening weekend – is reckoned to have sold around 2m in total based on figures released by its manufacturer Asus to investors."On launch, iPads are selling as fast as Windows 8 upgrades," commented Horace Dediu of the consultancy Asymco. Microsoft launched its new Windows 8 operating system eight days earlier, and claimed 4m sales in the first four days. Though Dediu's remark was somewhat tongue-in-cheek, it also pointed to a reality that a growing number of commentators have observed, which is that tablets, and especially the new breed of mini tablets with screens around 7in, have begun to create a new class of computing use.Figures released separately on Monday by theresearch company IDC showed Apple's share of the tablet market slippingin the third quarter, before it launched the new products. Even so it was far ahead of rivals, with 50.4% of the entire market. IDC calculated that Apple shipped 14m tablets in the July-September period; Samsung 5.1m (18.4%); Amazon 2.5m (9%); Asus, which makes the Nexus 7 for Google and its own Transformer device, 2.4m (8.6%); and others 3.7m (13.65).The introduction of the iPad mini, and the enthusiastic response from buyers, suggests that Apple's share could increase in the fourth quarter - although Google is trying to boost its share by working with Samsung to produce its &lt;a href=""&gt;new Nexus 10 tablet&lt;/a&gt;, a 10in device with which it hopes to gain share at the higher end of the market."Customers around the world love the new iPad mini and fourth generation iPad," said Cook in astatement. "We set a new launch weekend record and practically sold out of iPad minis. We're working hard to build more quickly to meet the incredible demand."
The government is to review Google's pledge to downgrade illegal filesharing websites in its search results, after entertainment groups accused the internet giant of dragging its feet over the issue.The move comes a year after the search giant was warned by the then culture secretary Jeremy Hunt that new laws would compel it to demote such sites if it did not act first.Now the department for culture, media and sport (DCMS) says it will examine the technical changes promised by Google in August, when itpledgedto relegate sites that persistently flout copyright laws.A spokesman for the DCMS said the government would "consider our options" following the review, raising the prospect of fresh legislation that would force Google to downgrade pirated material in search results.Entertainment groups, comprising the film, music and publishing industries, complained that top Google search results remain dominated by pirate sites despite repeated assurances from the internet firm that it would push them down.Government ministers see Google as central in the fight against online piracy because it is the main portal to the web for nine out of 10 Britons. The former culture secretary Jeremy Hunt privately threatened Google in September 2011 that he would introduce legislation to force it to take action against well-known pirate sites if the company did not take action voluntarily.But even today, music fans who search Google for their favourite artist – for example "Katy Perry download" or "One Direction MP3" – will find the highest-ranked results point them to illegal filesharing sites.Several of the most complained-about websites – most of which arelisted by Google in its own transparency report– still appear prominently in search results for artists and films.For example, the top search result for "Coldplay MP3" is for the website BeeMP3.com, which hasreceived almost 400,000 copyright complaints from music groups according to Google's report. A searchto stream the new James Bond film, Skyfall, also links to apparently infringing sites.Google maintained that it was taking action against piracy websites and had demoted millions of sites every month.A spokesman for Google said: "We continue to work closely with the industry to protect rights holders and their material. Sites with high numbers of removal notices are now more likely to appear lower in our results, we've made it easier to report pirated material and now take down more than seven million infringing links per month."However, entertainment groups complained that Google was still not doing enough to tackle the issue.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the BPI, said: "Google said it would stop putting the worst pirate sites at the top of search results. Google's transparency report shows they know clearly which are most infringing domains. Yet three months into the much-vaunted algorithm change, many of these illegal sites are still dominating search results for music downloads."We are talking to Google to try to establish why this is the case. With the launch of music in Google Play, now is the time to build a genuine partnership and for Google to show the world that it loves music. This means Google must stop dragging its feet and giving profile to illegal sites that it knows rip off everyone working in music."Richard Mollet, chief executive of the publishing industry trade body the Publishers Association, said he welcomed Google's promise to demote infringing sites, but added: "We are yet to see evidence for a significant reduction in their presence in search results."Kieron Sharp, director general of the Federation Against Copyright Theft, added: "Google claims to have taken steps to make infringing websites and the pirated content they promote less accessible, yet it seems that its search engine is still promoting these sites which are often making money from advertising or other payment mechanisms."The way Google ranks piracy sites came to a head last year when Hunt told Google he would introduce new laws as part of the forthcoming Communications Act if the internet firm did not take immediate action. Hunt, now health secretary, was replaced by Maria Miller as culture secretary, as part of David Cameron's cabinet reshuffle in September.A spokesman for the DCMS did not rule out the prospect of fresh legislation to force Google to take urgent action on copyright.The DCMS said in a statement: "The Department is aware of the concerns raised by rights holders that this has not had the impact that they hoped, and, together with industry, we now need to review the effect of the technical change made by Google and consider our options."This is part of a wider campaign to tackle online infringement, which includes working together with payment facilitators (such as credit card companies) and online advertising bodies to reduce the revenue flowing to seriously infringing – often criminal – sites."It is understood that the government will meet with Google, internet service providers, and rights holders before Christmas to discuss online piracy.The DCMS is due to set out its policies on the creative industries as part of the Communications Review white paper to be published in early 2013.Google's tough stance on its search results has been a major sticking point in its attempt to strike music licensing deals with the industry as it attempt to take on Apple's iTunes.The company says it received reports of 7.6m infringing web addresses in the past month – a sign of the significant scale of the problem.Google has fought attempts to make it remove websites that have proved to be infringing entirely from its search results, arguing that this would amount to an attack on freedom of expression. The internet firm has stressed that downgrading websites was not a "silver bullet" in the fight against piracy, and pointed out that there are comparatively few legal services to replace the illicit sites in search results.
As a blizzard of lawsuits around the world shows, the battle of the tablets is heating up. Apple's recent announcement that it had sold its 100 millionth iPad emphasised its dominance thus far, but in late 2012, the company finds itself with serious competition at last.If you buy the theory that tablet success is about ecosystems rather than pure hardware – iPad + iOS + iTunes + App Store as the driving force for Apple's success – then you'll see why Amazon and Google have emerged as credible rivals with their Android devices.Amazon is taking its Kindle Fire line beyond the US, with its services and stores tightly integrated. Meanwhile, Google has extended its Nexus brand from smartphones to tablets, first with the Asus-made Nexus 7, and now with Samsung's Nexus 10.The latter is the most impressive 10in Android tablet yet, from its design and hardware specs through to its software.But does Nexus + Android + Google Play have a shot at tilting the tablet market towards Android, at a time when Google's OS has rampaged its way to top dog in the smartphone space? Let's see.Build QualityThe Nexus 10 is a sleek, smooth tablet that feels solid, and sits nicely in the hands with its rounded corners – more rounded than the iPad.In contrast to the Nexus 7's dimpled back, this is mostly smooth, apart from a section along the top, which can be peeled off and replaced with one that has a protective cover attached.That's the Nexus 10's slightly fiddlier equivalent of iPad's Smart Cover: no magnets presumably means no lawsuits winging their way towards Mountain View (or Seoul) from Cupertino. Well, over the cover, at least.There's an interesting contrast between the Nexus 10 and the iPad in their hardware layout, too. The iPad's emphasis is on portrait use, given the positioning of its dock and camera on the shorter sides of the device.The Nexus 10 has them on the longer sides, with landscape use in mind. That extends to its external speakers too, which are positioned on either side of the screen (when held in landscape orientation) as vertical strips.The sound quality is good: decently beefy audio when watching video, playing games or listening to music. The positioning does mean your hands will be partly over the speakers when holding the tablet, but this doesn't have a particularly noticeable effect.In my tablet usage over the last three years, I've tended to use headphones for films, games and music, so the quality of external speakers isn't a huge selling point for me. But if your habits are different, the Nexus 10's speakers are excellent.ScreenGoogle is making a big noise about the Nexus 10's screen, and understandably so: it's rather marvellous.The 10in display, reinforced with Gorilla Glass 2, offers a resolution of 2560x1600 pixels: 300 pixels per inch, which as you'll read in every article about the device, is more than the iPad's 264ppi Retina display.Leaving the tech-spec willy-waving aside for the moment, the Nexus 10's screen is very impressive indeed: uber-sharp and bright, with a 16:9 aspect ratio that's made for movies (well, vice-versa, if you're being picky), and pixel-perfect performance for text.Now, back to the willy-waving. It's true: Google and Samsung have trumped Apple for pure pixels-per-inch, which may make for some marketing fun over the coming weeks and months. On a more personal level, any iPad owners who've been over-smug to Android-owning friends about their Retina display in the past will now be getting a comeuppance.The wider truth? Both displays are, to use the technical term, really bloody good. Even when watching the same film on the Nexus 10 and the latest iPad side-by-side, you'd be hard-pressed to spot the difference.Processor and batteryIt's safe to say the Nexus 10 isn't short of grunt when it comes to processing power, thanks to its dual-core A15 Eagle CPUs, a Mali T604 GPU and 2GB of RAM.AnandTech has plenty of figures and charts in itsperformance preview of the Nexus 10, but what does this translate to in the hands? Very fast, very smooth, very good indeed.3D games run like a dream on the device, and everything else feels snappy too as you move around the operating system and between apps. The quality of its screen would have been an embarrassment for the Nexus 10 if its innards weren't up to the task, but they're more than capable.The same is true of its battery, which lasts well beyond a day even with relatively heavy use.CamerasThe idea of shooting photos or video using a 10in tablet's front-facing (rear-mounted) camera remains a baffling notion to many, although not all the iPads being held aloft in London's Olympic stadium earlier this summer can have belonged to ambush-marketers from Apple, so there clearly is some demand.Anyway, the Nexus 10 has a 5-megapixel rear camera capable of shooting video at 1080p resolution. Yes, there is a camera app to go with it: an elegantly stripped-down one, although others will undoubtedly be popping up on the Google Play store.Of more practical use is the 1.9-megapixel front camera for video calls, whether using third-party apps like Skype – uncertified for the Nexus 10 at the time of writing, but it worked fine for me – or Hangout, which remains one of the best features of Google's own Google+ social network.Setup experienceIf you already use some of Google's services, setting up the Nexus 10 is a breeze. Log in to your Google account once as you fire up the device for the first time, and you'll be ready to go with your Gmail, YouTube, Calendar, Google+ and other services.Google accounts are also tied to the Google Play store, so if you've used an Android tablet before, you'll also have easy access to the apps you've downloaded elsewhere. Much as iCloud makes upgrading from one iPad to another a painless process, so a Google account will work well for Android users: free apps you previously downloaded are added by default, and the paid ones are available on Google Play (you'll have to fetch them).Android 4.2 softwareThe Nexus 10 is the first Android tablet to ship with the latest Android 4.2 software, which falls under the same Jelly Bean title as 4.1, which was the first manifestation of Google's internal 'Project Butter' drive to improve the not just the look of Android, but its 'feel'.Both Jelly Bean updates show how far Android (now five years old) has come as an operating system for tablets, whether you're using fairly basic software features, or customising your homescreens to suit your needs with widgets.There's some new stuff in Android 4.2 that will go down well, too. Support formultiple user accountswill be a big deal: a recognition on Google's part that in many cases, 10in tablets are shared between several people in a household. The feature wasn't yet enabled in the software build on the review device, though.Wireless display supportis also a welcome inclusion if you're keen to sling entertainment from your tablet to your big-screen HDTV – if you have the relevant adapter.It's Android's equivalent of Apple's AirPlay + Apple TV combo, and plays into the increasingly-heard view that TVs may not need to get smarter after all: as long as they're connected, the smarts can reside in the device in their owner's hands.Gesture Typeis an interesting one: the ability to type by dragging your finger between the letters of a word, as pioneered by Swype, and recently introduced in rival SwiftKey too.It works well, but I suspect it will be more useful on smartphones for swipe-typing one-handed. On a 10in tablet, I still felt more comfortable typing two-handed in the traditional style. On a screen where one thumb can reach from 'Z' to 'P', it makes more sense.Of course, you could use one of those alternatives too, which is one of Android's selling points: the fact that apps have more licence to take over features of the OS mean that if there's something about the software you don't like, there may well be an alternative to fix it.Some new Android 4.2 features, like Google Now and Photo Sphere photography, are present in the Nexus 10, but are really more applicable to the new Nexus 4 smartphone, so will be covered in our upcoming review of that device.EntertainmentThe Nexus 10 is a powerful tablet with a beautiful screen and effective software, with Google's suite of cloud services neatly tied in. But if there's an Achilles heel for Android tablets to this date, it's in the third-party content and apps available.On the content side, Google has been working hard. You can now buy or rent films from its Google Play store in the UK, with a growing selection, and several ways to discover what's available. Ebooks are in a similar state.Music will follow on 13 November, complete with Google's own cloud music locker, which will scan-and-match your existing digital music collection – ensuring you don't have to upload every single file – and store up to 20,000 songs on its servers to access from all your devices.Google is looking to undercut Apple's iTunes Match and Amazon's Cloud Player by making its own music cloud free.Google Play isn't yet up to iTunes standards when it comes to the breadth of content, but it's improving fast. And as on iOS, there are alternative sources for entertainment: Spotify, Netflix, Amazon's Kindle app, and so on. Other music download stores such as 7digital and Amazon MP3 are worth a look too.Apps and gamesIt's rare to see Apple talk tablets in one of its device launches without taking a shot at the lack of high-quality apps that are optimised for Android tablets, as opposed to simply blown up from smartphone versions.With more than 275,000 native iPad apps, it's a barb that hits home on Android, with its small (but growing) number of tablet-optimised apps. Even some of the biggest ones that have been optimised – step forward, Twitter –lag behind their iPad versions.Google has work to do in encouraging more developers' efforts here, asthe company itself admits. Selling lots of Nexus 10s (and Nexus 7s) will help, as will continuing to improve the Google Play Store, which is already much better than it was when the first Android tablets were released in mid-2010.Some app categories are better than others. Android has been on something of a tear when it comes to games in recent months, and that applies to tablets too, with EA's Need for Speed: Most Wanted being this month's high-profile example of a simultaneous release across iPad and Android.Useful tools such as Evernote, Pocket and Instapaper; casual games such as Angry Birds Space, Cut the Rope and Temple Run; news apps such as BBC News and News 360… The basic categories are being stocked, gradually, although some (children's apps, for example) are still far behind iPad.PricingThe 16GB Nexus 10 costs £319, while the 32GB model costs £389, both Wi-Fi only. The comparable iPad models cost £399 and £479, so savings of £80 and £90 respectively compared to the Nexus 10's main rival.ConclusionThe thing about Android is that there are several distinct groups of potential buyers for a device like the Nexus 10, each with their own motivations and demands. They're best treated separately.• If you're a geek (I class myself in that category, so the term isn't pejorative) who definitely doesn't want an iPad: The Nexus 10 is the best 10in Android tablet available. Buy it, customise it to run exactly the way you want, enjoy it.• That said, if you're one of the growing number of people whose first experience of computing is a tablet – or if you're buying it for someone like that – Android is still a bit more intimidating than iOS.The £80/£90 saving may trump that concern for a lot of people, but cost aside, iOS still beats Android when it comes the extent of your unpaid customer-service duties for a parent or grandparent (delete according to age).If you're somewhere in between – relatively tech-savvy, and with no particular prejudice for or against specific platforms or manufacturers – well, this is where it gets interesting.• If you already own an iPad and are thinking of upgrading, the Nexus 10 is a viable alternative to the fourth-generation iPad, but the headache of switching from one ecosystem to another if you've bought lots of apps, games, films, music etc via Apple may put you off.• If you don't own an iPad, the Nexus 10 is a convincing contender, especially if your needs revolve around more regular tasks – email, web browsing, social networking, video calls, watching films and YouTube videos, and maybe the odd casual game.• If you're more excited about other kinds of apps, iPad still has the quantity, but also the quality. This will still tip the balance for a lot of tablet buyers, and it's the next big area Google needs to work on.Most people still don't own a tablet, and that's why this area of consumer electronics is exciting going into 2013: it's all to play for. The Nexus 10 shows Google's determination to take the fight to Apple, which in turn will spur more innovation from Apple (and Microsoft, and Amazon…) in the year to come.
Age:38Appearance:Like a small black bouncy castle.That's a very unkind remark. There are a lot of overweight people who struggle with low self-esteem.I think Dotcom might be one of the other ones.What makes you say that?He is a flamboyant  filesharing tycoon wholives in a mansion in  New Zealand surrounded by giant photographs  of himself.He's probably just shy.It would have to be the kind of shyness that makes you drive around in a pink Cadillac convertible and a Rolls-Royce with the numberplate "GOD". Because those are Dotcom's cars, or at least they were until they were seizedin a police raid in Januarythat was later ruled to be illegal.Poor chap. All this must have dented his  morale.He appears to be coping. He has just  announcedplansto replace his old site  Megaupload with a new one calledMega.  He also intends to sue the US government and  the Hollywood film studios and, when he  wins, spend the settlement on installinga  fibre-optic cable across the Pacific Oceanin  order to supply every house in New Zealand  with free broadband.A guy's gotta have a dream.Yes. And he'll always have his music career if it all falls flat.His what?Oh, he also makes rather strangeelectro pop songswith his wife. And before the police raid, he wasthe world's No 1 Modern Warfare player.Right. Anything else you haven't mentioned?He was born in Kiel, Germany, with the name Kim Schmitz. If he is extradited to the US, and then convicted, he might face decades of prison time.Police found him hiding in a safe room with a sawn-off shotgun. He has pastconvictions in Germanyfor computer fraud and insider trading. According to the Motion Picture Association of America, he is "the biggest copyright infringer in the world".You're just trying smear a man's character  with a barrage of facts!Guilty as charged.Do say:"They're treating us like a Mafia, man!" (as Dotcom protested in an interview with Wired).Don't say:"Perhaps you shouldn't have put the word MAFIA on your Mercedes?"
After beingreprimanded by the court of appeal,Apple UKhas put a large-type acknowledgement to Samsung that its rival's tablets did not copy the iPad on its home page – but you won't see it without scrolling the page.The reason: Apple has included a piece of code that runs when the page is loaded and finds out how tall your browser is. It then resizes the current main picture, known in the code as the "hero" picture and presently showing its new iPad mini, so that it always pushes the apology below the visible area of the screen.That means that although Apple is complying with the letter of the ruling handed down from the court of appeal on Thursday, which told it to display the acknowledgement on its home page, it is once again edging around the spirit of the judges' decision.Not only that: the text is contained in a page element entitled "sosumi" – a phrase first invented inside Apple Computer in 1991 after it was sued by the Beatles' company Apple Corps because its operating system included the sound of a xylophone, when an Apple Corps ruling had banned it from including "creative works whose principal content is music" under the Apple Computer name. One system engineer created a beep which he named "so sue me" because it had to go through legal scrutiny.Apple was hauled up before the court of appeal judges after its first attempt at an acknowledgement was deemed to have included content that did not meet the original demands – because it mentioned other court cases in the US and Europe where Apple had prevailed over Samsung.The ruling emerged from a case in the high court where Apple had claimed that Samsung's Galaxy Tab tablets infringed the registered design – in effect, too closely mimicked the appearance – of its iPad tablet. That was rejected when Judge Birss ruled that Apple's designs were "cool" and Samsung's were not – but then put Apple in a bind by demanding that it acknowledge it had been wrong to suggest any infringement by Samsung.Themuch shorter statementnow on the site does not refer to Judge Birss's "cool" comments.TheJavascript code used in the Apple pageis able to detect the size of the user's browser, a common facility for such code. It means that the only visible elements of the page are pictures of the iPad mini and other Apple products.The acknowledgement has been included on the home page beneath every other element, including links to the store and copyright notices. It reads: "On 25 October 2012, Apple Inc. published a statement on its UK website in relation to Samsung's Galaxy tablet computers. That statement was inaccurate and did not comply with the order of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales. The correct statement is at Samsung/Apple UK judgement."Apple was obliged by the court of appeal to take out adverts in newspapers and magazines including the Financial Times, Guardian, Daily Mail, T3 and Inside Mobile. Those appeared last Friday as plain text without any logos.
Q Why did Apple use Google's Maps before?Because in 2005-06, when Apple was planning the software for its forthcoming iPhone, Google was a neutral provider of map data – and also seeking to expand into the fast-growing mobile sector. The only alternative mapping provider would have been Navteq, but Nokia had bid for it in 2006 (the deal was closed in 2007). Furthermore, at that time Apple and Google had aims that were at least parallel: Apple wanted to move into the mobile industry and create a profitable space there; Google wanted to get more mobile users (because its executives saw mobile as the future - something which everyone in Silicon Valley had realised by 2005); both wanted to prevent Microsoft's Windows Mobile from getting a consumer foothold, and both were strong consumer brands.Q Who dropped who?You can argue it both ways. Apple didn't renew its licence with Google; that still had some months to run when iOS 6 was introduced. But Apple had also been frustrated by Google's refusal to allow it access to its voice-directed turn-by-turn navigation and vector graphics for mapping; Google kept that for its own Android to give it an edge. Google, meanwhile, was frustrated that Apple would not let it offers its Latitude service, which in effect tracks users over the maps. Apple could point to Google refusing to give it the functionality it wanted to give users the best experience; Google could say it was treating Apple equally with every licensee (none of whom can get turn-by-turn or vector graphics via API).Arguably, the arrangement became impossible as soon as Google became a direct competitor to Apple in the smartphone space through Android, but the cracks only really showed once Android began offering better map services (voice-directed turn-by-turn, vector graphics) than iOS from the beginning of 2011.Q Who paid who when Apple used Google Maps?That's unclear, but the likelihood is that Apple paid Google for its users' access to the Google Maps API, and that the two companies had a revenue-sharing arrangement for any ads shown on maps - so Apple was paying Google, but getting some return from ads. Overall, Apple was probably paying Google.Q Which company loses more from Apple dropping Google?Again, you can argue this both ways. Googleloses access to the location and driving dataof hundreds of millions of iOS users; it also loses the chance to sell location-based adverts against map searches that iOS 6 users carry out. Given that Tim Cook said in mid-October that 200m devices had been updated – compared to an estimated 450m active iOS devices, and about 500m Android devices – that's a significant slice of data that Google has lost, especially since many of those users will be in the US, one of its major markets.But Apple loses because thecriticism over its Maps product has dented its reputation, and made it the butt of jokes which could harm its brand over the long term. Customers are displeased at losing functionality such as Google's StreetView (although other apps can add that functionality).Although Apple is now getting the benefit of location data from users, and is rolling out improvements to Maps, it is discovering that mapping is one of those thankless tasks: people don't thank you when it's right, but criticise you when it's wrong. And getting it right, in a timely fashion, is extremely difficult and expensive.
Those hoping to see Google Maps return to the iPhone might not want to hold their breath.Sources at Google familiar with its mapping plans say they are "not optimistic" that Apple will ever approve a dedicated Google Maps iOS app. Though the app is reportedly in development and should be ready to ship by the end of the year, the sources say their plans are only proceeding in "the unlikely event" that Apple will choose to approve the app.Although any user can bookmark a page on the Safari browser linking to maps.google.com, many have been hoping that Apple will allow Google Maps back on the iPhone as a dedicated third-party app via the App Store. But there are doubts among some circles inside Google that such an app, when completed, would be approved by Apple.While one source indicated increased hopes that the dedicated Google Maps iOS app will eventually be approved now that Apple's maps leader, Scott Forstall, has departed the company, another was less than enthusiastic about any increased prospects, citing industry politics and Apple's need to save face as much as possible and "keep moving forward in an effort to make its obviously inferior product better". The source also cites the present organisation of the App Store, which, to them, suggests Apple has little interested in approving an official Google Maps app.The release in mid-September of Apple's latest mobile operating system, iOS 6, which runs on the iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and is pre-installed on the iPhone 5, saw Apple replace Google Maps as the phone's mapping software of choice with Apple's own in-house mapping solution. Apple's Maps app waswidely panned by both the technology press and consumers. The software saw train stations disappear, an airport relocated miles from where it should be, and local points-of-interest, like cafes and shops, completely erased from streets. Public transport information and some locations were lost. The addition of turn-by-turn navigation and vector graphics - which Google had refused to provide to Apple on the iPhone - did not satisfy a significant number of users.Although chief executive Tim Cook said in October that 200 million devices had been upgraded to iOS 6, the new maps are seen as Apple's most significant recent failure, and led Cook toissue a rare public apologyon behalf of the company. Internal strife over the new maps was so great it reportedly became a key part of what led Cook last week tofire Forstall, the chief architect of Apple's iOS and the one finally responsible for choosing to replace Google's maps with Apple's own.Google's sources though do not think their own Maps app would be approved quickly. Specifically, they point to the lack of any mapping app in the "Find maps for your iPhone" section of the App Store - accessible only via iPhones or iPads - that use the Google Maps APIs to call wirelessly for location, routing or point-of-interest (POI) data.Apple now has a special section in its App Store for map appsApple unveiled the section, which on Monday listed ten free and paid-for apps, to spotlight alternative mapping apps for iOS in an effort to placate users over response to criticisms of its own Maps app. Apps such as the freeMaps+ app, which uses Google Places APIs and Google Maps tiles to bring Google Maps back to the iPhone, and the £3 appQuick Route, which mashes Google's directions and locations database with Apple's Maps tiles, are noticeably absent from it, even though a Google source says they are the two apps that would give back many of the capabilities lost with the advent of Apple's Maps in iOS 6.Further, a source at Google told me the feeling is that those apps were purposely left out of the new section because they promote Google and its "superior product" – at a time when there is so much bad blood between the companies over the continuing  smartphone patent litigation (following allegations from the late Steve Jobs that Google's Android OS ripped off iOS). In other words, no matter how bad Apple's Maps are, the company still wants its users to move on from Google – and forget about them. This doesn't bode well for the approval of an official Google Maps app, the source says.Apple did not respond to queries about how apps are chosen for spotlighting in the "Find maps for your iPhone" part of the store, or whether it would approve a dedicated Google Maps app for iOS.Both sources inside Google, however, were quick to point out that Google and Apple are constantly in communication about any number of topics and that policies and agreements can change quickly. The sources also say that no matter if a Google Maps app is approved,  iOS users should never expect to see Google Maps back on the iPhone as its default mapping solution.That point was reinforced last Thursday as Apple released the beta of iOS 6.1 to developers, including improvements for generalised search strings such as "coffee" to its MapKit API, the low-level calls that let developers use Apple Maps from inside other apps. These search strings are meant to improve point-of-interest (POIs) queries to deliver better search results in the new Maps app.The MapKit improvements confirm two things: first, Apple is intent on improving its maps' search functions, and second that believes the only direction to go is forward. Bringing Google Maps back to the iPhone would be just another wrong turn.
New to Hotline Miami? Reader, meet a five-star neon-soaked death machine of a video game. Released on PC a fortnight ago, Hotline Miami's a little bit of stealth and strategy mixed with a whole lot of doors and shooting. An exhilarating and cartoonishly gory arcade game at heart, it's also a stylish and atmospheric take on 1980s Miami.Dennis Wedin and Jonatan Söderström are the creative brains behind Hotline Miami, and work together asDennaton. Söderström has a higher profile, an indie development darling better known asCactus. But the two shared overall design duties on Hotline Miami, before they got down to coding (Söderström) and working on the visuals (Wedin). "We realised we worked together really well," says Söderström, "So we decided to start something bigger."Hotline Miami is Dennaton's debut, but not the first game it worked on. "After we did [previous collaboration]Keyboard Drumset Fucking Werewolfwe started on a really big, how do you say, role-playing zombie game," says Wedin. "But it got too big for us. We were looking through some of Jonatan's old prototypes and he showed me one of a guy in a top-down action game, really bloody. I love top-down games and I thought we should do something with it because it was so funny."Hotline Miami is funny indeed, with every single kill splattering enemies in OTT ways and a different animation for every melee weapon's "finisher". The fact that it's a violent video game, of course, tends to overshadow everything else. Is that annoying? "No, not really," says Söderström. "We made it violent. There's more to it than that, but people can choose to ignore the story or think what they want and that's fine with us."The story is hard to follow, to be fair, a riddling narrative that switches between freaky and confusing. At points your character is clearly hallucinating – during other sequences, he may well be. Piecing it together is a puzzle. "Mostly it's because I don't like a lot of storytelling that explains everything," says Söderström. "Making sure that everyone understands. That takes away a mysteriousness from the plot, and that's something I appreciate almost more than plot itself. So with Hotline Miami, it's up to the player to decide how they want to see the story."Hotline Miami has more obvious attractions, anyway. Its pixels reek of 1980s pastel suits, a meaner Miami Vice brought to pulsing life. The nightclub level has to be played to be believed. It makes you sad that the default description for a style like this is retro. "Yeah I don't like that label at all," says Wedin. "When people say we use pixel art to make people nostalgic, for me that's … Just because we have 3D graphics, pixel art shouldn't be seen as outdated. For me, I love pixel art more and it suits my aesthetic to use it. It's nothing to do with retro or anything like that."Hotline Miami's done well enough to earn at least one future portion of downloadable content ("We want to do more story stuff and delve more into the side characters and things like that," says Wedin), and despite its low price has been widely torrented. So far, so usual. But Söderström's attitude towards the torrenters is not – hepopped up on the Pirate Bay to answer some questions, and asked that the torrent be kept updated with the game's latest version. I ask what Wedin makes of his partner's stance."I loved it!" laughs Wedin. "I agree a lot with him. He didn't even tell me about it, I saw it when I was Googling 'Hotline Miami' and I laughed my ass off. It was good. I'm totally with him on that one." Have you any idea how many people have pirated it? "No," says Söderström. "I took a brief look at how many were seeding and leeching on the torrent, but I didn't see download stats. Some have said they've bought it after pirating it, but that's a much smaller number than you'd like."So what does the future hold for Dennaton? "We're actually looking at old prototypes again, we're thinking about Shotgun Ninja 2," says Söderström. The original's a devilish platformer made in 48 hours, available freehere, and feels as if it might suit an upgrade very nicely. "Jonatan's prototype I really liked as well," says Wedin. "So we've started doing some sprites and stuff and hopefully we'll move on to it full time next year."Which makes you wonder – does Hotline Miami mark a permanent shift towards bigger projects for Cactus? "Not permanent," says Söderström. "But I want to work on larger projects more. Before the next big game I'll release some smaller stuff as well, so hopefully both."It's no secret that, despite Söderström's profile and many years of productivity, he's never really found a way to make game development pay. I ask how Hotline Miami's done. "It sold pretty good," he says. "The important thing," Wedin adds, "is that we got enough to make another game." Is that two thumbs up or one? Söderström laughs. "Somewhere in between."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 3 November 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)12 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (43)Wii (3)VITA (3)63 (–)WWE '13(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)14 (–)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (100)15 (–)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (42)VITA (5)PC (2)16 (1)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)PS3 (46)Xbox 360 (51)27 (3)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)28 (4)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (44)Xbox 360 (34)39 (6)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (92)Xbox 360 (6)PS3 (1)510 (5)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (37)PC (7)411 (7)Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask(7+)3DS (100)212 (8)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (68)3DS (32)213 (10)Resident Evil 6(18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (49)514 (–)Assassin's Creed III Liberation(18+)VITA (100)115 (12)Pokemon Black Version 2 (3+)DS (100)416 (13)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (80)PS3 (11)PC (9)4717 (15)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)PC (2)718 (9)Doom 3: BFG Edition(18+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (46)PC (7)319 (11)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (32)PC (6)720 (19)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (24)Wii (23)DS (16)PS3 (13)20UKIEGames Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Football is usually all about the big guns: for Manchester United, Chelsea or Manchester City in the Premier League, read FIFA or Football Manager Handheld on the app stores.Yet the latter is sprouting some intriguing giant-killers too: independently-developed football games giving the established franchises something to think about. Two British examples from the last year:New Star SoccerandFluid Football.The latter has just hit a notable milestone: "We're up to half a million downloads on iOS and are on course to replicate that on Android before the end of the year," says Robin Clarke from Fluid Football's publisherAppyNation."The half million is only on iOS, from 16 August until now. Android has only been out a bit over a week, but is already doing tens of thousands of downloads a day, and still climbing."The game involves drawing lines on a pitch viewed from above to send players on runs in and around the penalty box, before switching to a 3D view to shoot. It's presented as a series of challenges where the aim is to score: as much a puzzle game as a football simulation.Fluid Football was developed by independent studioChromativity, whose chief executive Simon Prytherch says that the game currently has around 20k daily active users, with iOS accounting for 40% of them, and Android the other 60%.Prytherch and his colleagues had form in the area of football games, with this background helping attract football pundits Andy Gray and Richard Keys to work with Chromativity on the tactical elements to Fluid Football."People know me for my tactical awareness and knowledge of football, but I really wanted to work on a game that could combine the two," says Gray."Keysie and I met with Simon Prytherch through our businesspartner Jason Cooper. Simon has made loads of great football games in his career, including LMA Manager and Club Football. Working closely with Simon and his team has been great fun, and it has allowed us to make the game we wanted."Fluid Football's popularity owes much to the tactical side, although its release at the start of the new football season gave it a running start too. Since then, though, word-of-mouth has been a big driver of its downloads."I genuinely believe the biggest reason for Fluid Football's success is the fact that it's the first football game designed from the ground up for touchscreen devices," says AppyNation's Andrew Smith."It meant that we fill a hole in the footy market – the tactical focus of the play – but we feel it also proves how strongly the games-playing public will respond to games that suit the platform."Clarke says AppyNation "haven't spent a penny" on traditional advertising, with the investment going instead into PR, video trailers and presences at games exhibitions like Eurogamer.It's important to note that most of these downloads were not paid: Fluid Football is only available for free on Android, and in a choice of free and "Pro" paid versions on iOS. The money comes from in-app purchases of gameplay packs and virtual coins."The conversion rate is broadly in line with what you'd expect for a free-to-play game," says Clarke, who explains that AppyNation and Chromativity are working hard on honing their model: what's available for free versus what's sold in-app.On Android, distributing the game for free then charging for in-game content means Fluid Football sidesteps the complaints of some developers –including Football Manager Handheld maker Sports Interactive– about high levels of piracy on Android."There's no point losing sleep over piracy: it'll always be there," says Clarke. "Make a game that speaks to the players who ARE willing to pay is the only sane way to approach it. Also, being out on both iOS and Android has meant that the visibility of one has spurred on the other, which is nice."More platforms are on the way, with ambitious plans on Prytherch's part to look beyond iOS and Android."The ones planned already are Amazon, Kindle Fire, Nook, BlackBerry and Windows 8 tablets," he says. "With our background, we are also looking at consoles, PC and Mac for a bigger, enhanced version of the game."Meanwhile, a major update for iOS and Android will be released before Christmas, which Prytherch says will herald "a huge change" in the way people play Fluid Football, and boost that daily active users figure."It will give you compelling reasons to return every day and play with your friends," he says. "Fluid Football will start to build a real community… This is just the start."He's also keen to partner with developers of other football games, and promote one another's titles."I think this will be seen as a benefit to our customers, as we will be recommending a game that they would be interested in playing," he says. "With four or five quality titles with regular updates, we could keep a football fan happy all year round."
Oh good, Monday again. How was your weekend then? I managed to start Dishonored, but that was it really.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThanks Microsoft! Do Not Track is effectively dead on arrival &gt;&gt; EconsultancyDNT was, of course, never going to be a perfect solution for those hoping to provide a means for consumers to exercise greater control over their online footprints. Yahoo's decision not to recognize the IE10 DNT settings highlights what is perhaps DNT's fundamental flaw: it doesn't have to be respected, and consumers won't necessarily know when it isn't being respected. Here, Yahoo is telling the world that it's not going to respect the setting, but others almost certainly won't.And therein lies the rub: if one of the biggest players on the consumer internet is already ignoring a DNT implementation it doesn't agree with, DNT, as we know it, is effectively dead on arrival.Beloff baked, Apple roasted, Britons unscrewed &gt;&gt; IPKatIPKat follows patent news of all sorts in Europe:One suspects that Apple's "Guy" knew beforehand that he was likely to be subject a certain amount of "heat" [as did every member of the IPKat's large and varied circle of people claiming exclusive knowledge of the impending proceedings], but he can have been left in no doubt from the outset when Lord Justice Longmore indicated to Samsung's counsel, Henry Carr QC, [could this be the fabled "South Square Slugger", wonders Merpel] that the Court first wished to hear from Michael Beloff. It appeared that the learned Lord Justice had decided to light the blue touch paper immediately because his opening comment to Mr Beloff was the the Court took a "pretty dim view" of what Apple had done. Further kindling was provided by Sir Robin Jacob, who said that he was "completely at a loss to understand how a company like Apple could do such a thing and then go on justifying it" [Katnote: Sir Robin is never at a loss to understand anything, is that he completely understands why Apple did it, but that Apple was at a loss to explain how it thought it could get away with it before a British Court].Michael Beloff manfully attempted to dodge the increasing flames and justify what Apple had done. His primary point was that the earlier order had not prohibited Apple from making additional statements and, indeed, in the course of the earlier hearing Mr Carr had said that Apple could "say what they like".  However the Court clearly thought that that was intended to mean, and was understood as meaning, "say what they like ELSEWHERE". As Lord Justice Kitchin LJ: what if there had been three pages in between the two paragraphs which they had ordered, or a book?  At this juncture the smoke signals were coming thick and fast from the general direction of the judiciary and the heat was rising.Intel working on 48-core chip for smartphones, tablets &gt;&gt; ComputerWorldIntel researchers are working on a 48-core processor for smartphones and tablets, but it could be five to 10 years before it hits the market."If we're going to have this technology in five to 10 years, we could finally do things that take way too much processing power today," said Patrick Moorhead, an analyst with Moor Insights and Strategy. "This could really open up our concept of what is a computer... The phone would be smart enough to not just be a computer but it could be my computer."With 48 cores, you'd hope so. Then again - five to ten years? Seems a big margin of error. And Intel's still not knocking them over in smartphones.Open Standards Consultation documents &gt;&gt; Cabinet OfficePlenty of them; get stuck in. Open standards are now mandated in government.Nate Silver: One-term celebrity? &gt;&gt; POLITICO.comThe New York Times's resident political predictor says President Barack Obama currently has a 74.6 percent chance of winning reelection. It's a prediction that liberals, whose heart rates continue to fluctuate with the release of every new poll, want to take solace in but somehow can't. Sure, this is the guy who correctly predicted the outcome of the 2008 election in 49 of 50 states, but this year's polls suggest a nailbiter.Pick your side: Silver's analytics or poll punditry. Tuesday's the day, don't forget.Gmail edges Hotmail as world's top e-mail service &gt;&gt; CNET NewsGoogle's Gmail is top dog in e-mail, according to ComScore, which tracks Web site traffic.In data for October released by ComScore, Gmail saw 287.9m unique worldwide visitors during the period, edging out Microsoft's Hotmail, which finished with 286.2m unique visitors. The findings were first reported by GigaOm.In third place was Yahoo, the once mighty e-mail power, with 281.7m, according to ComScore.Will Windows 8's drive to get people to use Hotmail addresses reverse that?Telegraph launches limited paywall &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIn case you missed it:The Telegraph website has launched its long-awaited digital paywall with a metered system, charging non-UK users £1.99 a month to visit the site after 20 free page views.Telegraph.co.uk is moving to a metered paywall model similar to the New York Times on Thursday after years of planning. The new payment system was introduced at 12.00 GMT according to an internal email seen by MediaGuardian.Two-thirds of Telegraph Media Group's audience is outside the UK.Presidential Identifying Information &gt;&gt;Web PolicyJonathan Mayer:Sunday's New York Times included astoryabout how the presidential campaigns are making extensive use of third-party web trackers. In response to privacy concerns, "[o]fficials with both campaigns emphasize[d] that [tracking] data collection is 'anonymous.'"The campaigns are wrong: tracking data is very often identified or identifiable. Arvind Narayanan has previously written a comprehensive and accessibleexplanationof why web tracking is hardly anonymous; mysurvey paper(PDF) on web tracking provides more extensive discussion.(Mayer is the researcher who discovered that Google was hacking Apple's Safari to plant cookies on mobile devices.)Windows RT, Sideloading, and Office. Oh my. &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller (who works at Directions on Microsoft, which provides consultancy about what's happening inside Microsoft:Why is sideloading [to Windows RT] so complicated? Because there are three competing forces at play (in no particular order):o Microsoft's desire to keep the WinRT platform and Windows Store secure - sideloading gates what can/cannot run on these devices.o Microsoft's desire to keep the Windows Store as the preferred means of obtaining apps written for WinRT - retaining the 30% (or 20%) of revenue from app sales.o Microsoft's desire to (hum along if you know the tune) maintain Windows enterprise licensing sales - Enterprise includes sideloading. It's a paid option on other editions.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Apple paid less than 2% tax on profit made outside the United States last year.The iPhone and iPad maker paid $713m (£445m) in overseas corporation tax on foreign profits of $36.87bn (£23bn) in the year to the end of September. That translates as a tax rate of 1.9%, compared to a headline corporation tax rate of 35% in the US and 24% in the UK.The details were revealed in Apple's10K filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).Apple has not broken any laws by arranging its tax payments this way, but it is likely to reignite debate about the astonishingly small amount of tax US multinationals pay in the UK.Google, Amazon and Starbucks will be hauled before the Commons public accounts committee on Monday to explain why they pay so little tax to the exchequer.Analysis by the Guardian found thatGoogle, Amazon, Starbucks and Facebook have paid just £30m in tax over the past four yearsdespite generating more than £3.1bn in sales.Margaret Hodge, who chairs the committee, said: "We want to ask them for an opportunity to explain why they don't pay proper levels of tax in the UK."Matt Brittin, the managing director of Google, has claimed to be too busy to attend the committee.Prime minister David Cameron has said he is "not happy with the current situation" of Apple, Google, Facebook, eBay and Starbucks avoiding nearly £900m of tax.
Kim Dotcom, the flamboyant German-born internet entrepreneur facing extradition to the US for alleged piracy, has put forward a plan to give all householders in his new home of New Zealand free broadband access, financed by suing Hollywood studios and the American government.The 38-year-old, better known to his mother as Kim Schmitz, made a fortune reputed to exceed £100m with his hugely popular Megaupload file storage site,which US prosecutors allege was involved in the distribution of copyright-protected films, music and other material.Originally based in Hong Kong, Dotcom has had New Zealand residency for two years. In January this year dozens of police raided his mansion in Auckland and other addresses on behalf of the FBI. Six months later New Zealand's high courtruled that the operation was illegal, casting doubt on the 6ft 6in entrepreneur's extradition. Dotcom has been on bail since February.Dotcom nonetheless faces an extradition hearing in March, and has engaged in a concerted campaign to court public opinion in his adopted country. The latest salvo involves resurrecting a planned second fibre optic web cable across the Pacific to the US, which would have doubled New Zealand's available internet bandwidth. A New Zealand company, Pacific Fibre, hoped to build the £200m link but announced in August it could not secure the funding.Dotcom's proposal is to supply broadband free to domestic customers, charging only businesses and government users,the New Zealand Herald reported. His share of the capital would be provided by lawsuits against the US government and film studios for their "unlawful and political destruction" of his business, he said.The plan would be key to New Zealand's future prosperity, Dotcom said: "You have clean and cheap energy here. Power is becoming the biggest cost factor for data centres around the world. With its own cable, cheap power and connectivity, New Zealand could attract foreign internet business. Unfortunately, the current government wants to invest into more tarmac roads. In 10 to 15 years most people will work and shop from home. You don't need tarmac, you need fibre!"Despite the seemingly unlikely funding model, Dotcom's plan has received at least some support. "If anyone can put together a deal like this, then it would be Kim Dotcom," said Paul Brislen of theTelecommunications Users Association of New Zealand.Clare Curran, the MP who covers communications and IT for the opposition Labour party, said Dotcom was right in raising the idea of a second cable: "The sentiment is right. Kiwi businesses, particularly in the technology sector, have been calling for a second cable for some time now. Their concerns need to be taken seriously."Dotcom is busy with a series of projects, including plans fora successor to Megauploaddesigned to sidestepthe US laws under which he is being prosecuted.
