We've written plenty about the battle between Sony's Blu-Ray next generation DVD and Toshiba's HD-DVD standard - a scrap to see who can win the hearts and wallets of film fans around the globe.NowNew Scientisthas picked up on a patent filed for a "triple standard DVD" from some researchers at Warner Bros. Essentially it would use a few clever tricks to be able to play ordinary DVD, Blu-Ray and HD-DVD formats...Two top Warner engineers, Alan Bell and Lewis Ostrover, have been working on a cheaper and more elegant solution.[...] Warner's plan is to create a disc with a Blu-ray top layer that works like a two-way mirror. This should reflect just enough blue light for a Blu-ray player to read it okay. But it should also let enough light through for HD-DVD players to ignore the Blu-ray recording and find a second HD-DVD layer beneath. An ordinary DVD recording could be put on the other side, so that conventional DVD players can read the disc as well.Not the easiest answer, but probably what most customers want, I'd imagine.
Is there a way of viewing Guardian Unlimited, particularly the Technology section, on a PDA without having to use the awful AvantGo software? I run Windows Mobile 5. The website does not appear to have a PDA-friendly version that would work with something like WorldOffLine, for example. Jim CromwellGU does not have a PDA version (apart from AvantGo), but it does have RSS feeds for the Technology section (which has daily news online) and for the Technology blog. Clickherefor a list of the feeds available.There are loads of RSS readers for Windows Mobile, or you could use a program such asMobileRSSorRSS Syncto synchronise feeds from your PC to your mobile device.Backchat: Steve Power says: "The Guardian does have a PDA site atwww.guardian.co.uk/pda. I've been visiting it since I too gave up on AvantGo. There are also film, books and sport sites but, ironically, no technology site. Who needs AvantGo if you have Wi-Fi or GSM on your PDA?"
Strange piece earlier this week from theBBC websitein which John O'Farrell - formerly of this parish - plugs his new UK Onion rip-off,News Biscuit. In his article, he writes that Britain doesn't do funny on the internet.Every Thursday the wonderful Popbitch newsletter raises a laugh in five continents. So why is there only a sprinkling of obscure and erratically funny UK sites, where is the Private Eye of the net? (Oh, I've just found it - it's at www.private-eye.co.uk).Perhaps the average British comedy writer has been a little bit cynical about the wonders of the World Wide Web.What? This seems, frankly, absurd to me. There's plenty of fun and games to be had on the British side of the web - and though, yes, something likeTV Go Homehas shuffled off into that great big web server in the sky, not everything's had its chips.What aboutb3ta, that home of everything furry, fuzzy and photoshopped that's hit the media for a year or three. Or theRockall Times, which tries exactly what News Biscuit is doing. Or the very chuckle-worthyFramley Examiner. And that's before we even get to some of the outrageously funny blogs out there.And what has America - home of the Onion - got, apart from the Onion? No more, I'd venture, than we Brits do. In fact, I think that British comedy on the web is thriving - it's just that a lot of it doesn't come from "comedians", so of course it doesn't count.
Two biggies in thereviewsthis week - Lego Star Wars 2 and Just Cause - and I'm a big fan of both. The former is a lovingly created slice of nostalgia that will make 30-somethings rue the day they sold their boxed Millennium Falcon and unopened Princess Leia figure for a fiver in a 1986. Or was that just me?Just Cause too is a real treat - especially if you like the idea of skydiving around a tropical island while pulling stunts on a speedboat en route to assassinating South American caricatures. In fact I'd say Just Cause has the most beautiful in-game environment ever created and without any of the loading messages that marred the nearly as gorgeous Oblivion. The game itself is a little rough around the edges - Just Cause 2 can't come soon enough - but I agree with reviewer Steve Boxer when he says Just Cause is an excellent buy. Sadly the same can't be said for the other review - Super Bikes Riding Challenge. Actually, it may be a good buy, but seeing as I'd ratherwatch ITVfor 48 hours in a row rather than ten minutes of Superbikes, I'll probably never know.Elsewhere, globetrotting Aleksstops off in South Koreaand admires a country where avatars have broken free from their virtual constraints.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Whose content is it anyway?Media executives are embracing user-generated sites, encouraging amateur talent to upload photos and videos. But, asks Kate Bulkley, who should own the copyright?Roadworks database is caught in a jamPlans for a national register to coordinate streetworks and share information on pipes and cables appear to be stuck in a hole.Chat program scoops the prize for being almost humanHer name is Joan; she is just a few years old and very talkative... and now she is officially the world's most human computer program.NewsbytesCanon fires digital market | Sony's PC entertainers | Overseas connections | High-powered home networking | Independent viral video chart | A date with Google | Mobile ConferencingZune joins the fray as iPod gains the platformApple and Microsoft traded punches in a new fight over digital music - but it was rivals who felt the pain.Korea shows where the avatars are leading usAleks Krotoski: Korea's gaming culture is a phenomenon spoken about in hushed, reverent tones behind the closed office doors of Western industry bigwigs.GamesLego Star Wars 2 | Just Cause | Super Bikes Riding ChallengeWill Vista really create 100,000 jobs in Europe?Microsoft would certainly like you - or preferably the EC - to think so.How can I find out where the nearest mobile phone base station is?Presently, by looking at Ofcom's Sitefinder site.TechnobileFor that seamless finish, forget Word and WYSIWYG - try scissors and Sellotape.The very picture of a model communityVictor Keegan: The internet community is often referred to as a global village, even though you are unlikely to find anyone who shares your own interests from the small numbers living in a village.Wikipedia reaches a fork in the road - and takes itWith real-name logins and credential checks, Citizendium will place value on expertise, says Jack Schofield.Why doesn't government ask me how much of my data it can share?Michael Cross: This is not a brilliant time for ministers to announce that they want public bodies to be more enthusiastic about passing our personal details around.Flatter batteries are good newsAt long last the humble battery is on its way to becoming smaller, lighter and even wearable.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Each week we get far more letters than we can put on a page. Here's the full set from which we chose those we printed..FOLLOW YOU, FOLLOW MEGiven today's article on GPS you may be interested in this mobile phone application which will allow most java enabled camera phones to link to a Bluetooth receiver to plot your journeys: www.locoblog.com Dr Paul Coulton, Lancaster University, LancasterTom Hibbard must be very confident that his 24 hour 7 day a week GPS location wont lead to his home being burgled. Councillor Sue Blatchford, Southampton City CouncilGPS phones are almost upon us? They are already! I bought a Motorola A780 some months ago with built in (ok, it came on a card) CoPilot Live for the UK and major European roads. I'd been waiting past all the TomToms, etc (that take up acreage on windscreens and leave tell-tale sucker-marks) for an all-in-one phone that didn't have to have a separate GPS receiver as some have. Motorola said that it hoped to build GPS into most or all of its future phones. I drive between private addresses all day and choose to rely on map software printouts for routes that I can change on the fly (Route 66 if you must know). My phone sits in my shirt pocket and guides me only by voice in new cities and in the countyside in the dark. It has its limitations but it does exactly what I need and takes photos, videos and soundclips - as if I need them!. I'd be happy to provide a brief review if needed but check out the Motorola website first to see its capabilities. I've no connections with anyone in the trade but can get one other phone for the £250.00 I paid for mine, SIM- and contract-free. I slotted in my ancient O2 SIM card and away it went. My field supervisor saw mine and bought himself one the next day. I've tested the GPS positioning with that shown on a screen on a cross-channel ferry and sat on trains and timed them at over 100mph - all on this phone. Sad, probably, but still interested in such new technology despite grey hairs. Peter W Skillern (no post town given)Thank you, Ronan Fitzgerald, for highlighting the promise and pitfalls of GPS tracking ('Follow you, follow me,' technology Guardian, 14.09.06). The article presented in a balanced way the pros and cons of this technology as on the hand GPS tracking can be used in a positive way, for example to assist the emergency services, but also has serious potential for abuse (eg employers tracking workers). I found the article incredibly thought-provoking and share Mr Fitzgerald's conclusion that consent is key: "whether we're using our mobile phone, wandering around on social networking sites, or just going about our daily lives, we want to have agreed to any tracking that takes place". Vicki Combe, WhitstableLots of interesting possibilities for GPS location via mobile phones were canvassed in the "Follow you, follow me" article, Guardian 14/9/2006. The worrying possibilities such as tracking without consent would surely be mitigated if the GPS function in a phone could be turned off. But I suppose this wasn't mentioned because the story would have lost an essential journalistic ingredient, to scare. Be that as it may, one potential use of GPS in mobile phones that occurs to me would be in connection with calling taxis. The taxi driver could know where you are immediately. The passenger could also use it to track the journey to the destination. Chris Opie, Clifton Hill, AustraliaPRINTER CARTRIDGES (TECHNOBILE)What you say about printer cartridges is true, of course, but the Epson people are no fools. When I installed a Jettec cartridge ordered from Premier Ink Supplies (part of Q Enterprises UK Ltd), my new Epson Stylus C48 printer immediately detected that it was not an Epson-made cartridge, and after a warning, shut down completely. It took a good hour of fiddling, re-installing software, etc to get the thing working again after I put an Epson cartridge into it. Clearly there is now a bit in the printer that detects cloned cartridges. (name and address supplied)Andrew Brown's article "Technobile" (14th September) touched a raw nerve. I recently purchased a HP PSC1510 Printer Scanner Copier all in one for my iMac G5 in March. During a holiday in Kuala Lumpur this summer, I decided to buy a replacement cartridge as it was relatively cheaper. I made sure it was for the right machine When I got home to install the cartridge, I found it was not compatible. I contacted HP, who said that I should have read the small print on the printer box and cartridges that specified that the product was sale in that region only. This policy was designed to stop people importing cheap cartridges from abroad. It seems me to that HP possibly indulging in restrictive marketing practice. The company needs to grow up and acknowledge that it is a global village out there. I will not be purchasing HP printer products from now on. PS anyone want a relatively new PSC1510? Gary Choo, Keighley, West YorkshireThe piece by Andrew Brown (Sep14) on the Great Rip off by Printer Makers warmed my heart as it has been almost an obsession with me since I first bought my Canon bubblejet about 10years ago. I started refilling cartridges and did so until I got an Epson Printer and could buy Compatible cartridges which were as good as the originals. I have promoted their use whenever possible and even got Guardian Columnist Michele Hanson using them - to her great delight! All seemed well until fairly recently when Epson threatened to Prosecute Compatible Manufacturers for Infringement of Patent - this was because their Chipped Cartridges had failed to prevent Chipped Compatibles from being made and marketed. Whether there have been as yet, any successful prosecutions I do not know but at the last Computer Fair I attended I was told by one stallholder that there would be no more available form him very soon. It is because the threat of astronomical damages being awarded is a very real one and cannot be risked. If you remember, Robert Maxwell used a similar ploy successfully for many years! What can be done about it? Well if Original Manufacturers reduced their prices to economic levels we would all be happy. However as they expect the gravy train to run for ever and greed rules there is little likelihood of this so may I suggest that Compatible manufacturers refill 'original' cartridges. e.g.. "Send us your cartridge and we'll refill it for you" This cannot be any more illegal than changing the brand of petrol in your car tank! Incidentally, I did e-mail Jack Schofield on September 9, mentioning Ink Cartridges (when I asked him about another problem as well) but have had no reply or comment; in fact he seems to have disappeared from the reach of my PC. Charles Rowbotham, Arnside.Andrew Brown's "Technobile" today is one of the most useful things I have read for ages. More please. We need two things: some green or progressive entrepreneur shoul design and sell printers which can be filled from an ink bottle. They would quickly conquer the market. Some Dyson of the IT world. In the meantime you should publish a weekly table showing the capitalised cost of buying each available printer and its cartridges over a few years and the availability of generic/cloned/refillable cartridges. Compared with the massive data tables in other Guardian supplements (interest rates, university rankings) it would not be much work and it would be truly valuable to us all. Michael Edwards, London&gt;&gt; Do you know how much per sheet your printing costs you? I don't. Hewlett-Packard cartridges are apparently particularly poor value. What make of printer do I have? Hewlett-Packard. A twin pack Tri-colour cartridge costs £47 on their UK website; but in the States I could get the same item for $62.99 (about £34). And I can't even be sure I'm getting the same number of copies. Andrew Brown says: Their chips actually vary from country to country... Their current slogan is: HP Invent. Invent what: diferent ways to make you pay? http://aristophanes2006.blogspot.com/NATIONAL ARCHIVESMichael Cross (14 September, p3) should know that the Family Record Centre is not where one goes to obtain wills (High Holborn for that) but the successor to Somerset House for Births, Marriages and Deaths, plus a sizable computerised facility for census and other data. It is central, accessible, busy and should be profitable, so therefore a clear target for the McKinsey-trained brain. Philip Ralph, IvybridgeGADGETS (Ion TurntableAshley Norris writes 'There are many ways to transfer audio from vinyl records to PCs, but for the most part they are complex and not very effective,' (Technology 14 September). Whether these 'many ways' are effective depends on whether you know what you are doing, the quality of the software you use, and how much trouble you go to. The results can be extremely effective. The new Ion turntable is doubtless less complex than other ways, but I cannot imagine how it could be more effective, given that the editing software it uses is quite modest. Allan Jones, Yardley GobionIn your issue of 14-Sep you featured the Ion USB Turntable in the Gadgets column. The device is fine and the Audacity software is pretty good, if a little quirky. However the alleged support address (support@ion-audio.com) is staffed only by an email server that tells you your message has arrived. I sent an email nearly two weeks ago and there has been no response at all. Garrett Simpson, ReadingPHILIP K DICK[We had an incorrect URL in the article "Do robots dream of copyright?". The first link should have been to http://home.autotutor.org/aolney/resource2.htm (and should have been given as http://tinyurl.com/ftj35 ).SOLAR ENERGYJust emailing to point out an error in the paragraph "Arnold Schwarzenegger (turning out to be the ideal politician, more interested in pragmatism than party politics) has initiated a scheme to put 3kW of photovoltaic capacity on 1m Californian rooves - to generate as much electricity as three power plants - in the next 10 years." The California Million Solar Roofs Bill really ought to result in more than 3kW of installed capacity. 3GW is closer to the mark for a programme costing USD 3bn and leveraging private finance. [The sentence was meant to imply "on *each* of 1m rooves - Technology Ed.] I'm also dubious about the assertion in the article that the biggest silicon manufacturing plants are in China (though Scandinavia is correct). China is a huge manufacturer of solar modules and cells, but it imported nearly all its silicon in 2006 from the West. For example, Chinese cell manufacturer Suntech just signed a 10-year silicon wafer supply contract with US semiconductor manufacturer, MEMC Electronic Materials. This may well change in the next few years as companies like Tianwei Yingli and the Jinglong Group intend to expand feedstock capacity significantly. Jenny Chase, Senior Analyst, New Energy Finance magazineBROADBAND With all the buzz about broadband and the faster speeds being rolled out, I think people's attention should be drawn to a rather unpleasant fact. A network is only as fast as its slowest link. In this case it's the local loop. BT are busy spending money on 21CN, but this is their backbone and will have little effect for consumers. They are doing nothing about the local loop. This has serious consequences for broadband which is very sensitive to the length and quality of the line from people's homes to the exchange. BT are only required to provide a voice service. They push broadband very hard with ads proclaiming "up to 8Mps", but the reality is very different. If you are on a line which is either very long or of poor quality (not the same thing), then you are basically left to rot. As long as you can just about hear someone speaking to you at the end of the damp piece of string, BT refuse point blank to do anything at all to investigate concerns about line quality which causes poor ADSL performance. Nor are they required to do so. I could go into much more painful detail. Suffice to say, that until a regulator forces BT to change its ways, many of us are going to be left behind on poor connections which BT is under no obligation to do anything about. Given the lack of competition, they have very little incentive from a commercial point of view, either. Switching to a cable operator isn't a good choice for me right now, but that may change. Simon McNab, Southsea
We've said itbefore(often) - there are plenty of indie games out there which (may) challenge the existing gaming paradigms, but how in the world do you find them?A couple of weeks ago we told you aboutManifesto Games' distribution service, and hopefully that will go some way to spreading the word. You can also check out the free indie games review magazineGame Tunnelon all good browsers.
Got some free time and an open internet connection this morning? Joystiq.com has kindly harvestedseveral TGS demo videos- or you can head straight for theGamevideos.com Hotlistand take your fill. The Lost Odyssey, Blue Dragon, Trusty Bell, Lost Planet and God Hand vids are all worth a look. Those hunting for guilty pleasures might want to surreptitiously wander overhereand take in the Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 taster. A trailer of ParaWorld plays first, so remain patient.UPDATE:Magic Boxhas some scrumptious pre-TGS details. Square Enix has announced Front Mission: The First for DS, a new version of the original SNES Front Mission title. Konami has revealed six Xbox Live Arcade titles: Yie Ar Kung-Fu, Rush 'n Attack, Track &amp; Field, Gyruss, Contra and Super Contra. And finally,Level5is unveiling a new PlayStation 3 RPG entitled White Knight Story.
The first thing I saw when I woke up last Thursday - even before I caught my first glimpse of China through the airplane window - was the word "avatar" flashing across the inflight entertainment monitor in the subtitles of a Korean romantic comedy. En route to Sydney with a stopover in Seoul, I focused my eyes and reflected on that very appropriate welcome to South Korea.From all I've heard about this highly techno-literate country, it's hardly surprising that a mainstream rom-com should casually throw a word referring to a user's virtual-world representative into the conversation.Korea's gaming culture is a phenomenon spoken about in hushed, reverent tones behind the closed office doors of Western industry bigwigs. Gaming is apparently mandatory, and Koreans of all ages are down with the techno lingo.I base my grotesque assumptions on a few facts. First, practically every street in Seoul has an internet cafe - a "PC Bang" - where kids and OAPs game side by side. Second, one of the largest interactive entertainment products in the region, the massively multiplayer online game series Lineage, held the record for the greatest number of players for years until the digital juggernaut World of Warcraft made (Western) history, attracting a whopping 7m users worldwide. Of course, WoW's population is international; Lineage still boasts more than 4m Korean users, reportedly more than the number of TV viewers.In the UK, we are less at ease with the multiplicity of identity that avatars represent. The only TV show that could conceivably include "avatar" in a script would be the satirical geek programme The IT Crowd, which would have to be accompanied by pseudo-cyborg sound effects and a sarcastic remark to establish its utter geekiness.I refuse to admit I'm a nerd, but I have spent a lot of time lately insisting that this is the year avatars will rise and captivate us all. Sure, this line of thought tends to stop polite dinner conversation, but avatar representation seems so natural. A personalised little version of me imbues the arguably masculine computing platform with my personal touch, making it approachable.Visual shortcuts contribute more in an instant to the social online space than a thousand typed words. Some research has even proposed that our in-game avatars have the same sense of personal space as we meat objects. Like it or not, digital people are creeping into our lives. Yahoo! recently introduced Yahoo Avatars 1.0, and people are downloading avatars in record numbers to their mobile phones.Rather than fight it, let's do like the Koreans do, and embrace them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The internet community is often referred to as a global village, even though you are unlikely to find anyone who shares your own interests from the small numbers living in a village. The internet changed all that years ago with the growth of user groups based on shared interests. In those days you needed a little technical knowhow to take full advantage. Not any more. This is the golden age of communities as people of all ages share interests, meet friends, swap music and goodness knows what else on websites from MySpace to YouTube.Video downloads may be all the rage but the community site that most impresses is Flickr.com, which enables you to upload photographs along with tags (such as "France" or "garden") so others can come across them when they are searching. When it first came out, I had a nightmare of millions of people coming at me with their family snaps. There are plenty of those, but they don't cross your path unless you are looking for them. Instead, Flickr has evolved into a site driven by the needs and ideas of its members. Looking at the deceptively simple home page (in which all your photos are automatically arranged neatly) you have no idea of the scale of activities behind and of the quality of many of the photos.There are thousands of special interest "groups", from Rome to rhubarb, in which members (it is free unless you use the "pro" version) post photos for others to comment on or designate as favourites. If you are interested in sunsets, there were, at the time of writing, 11,998 different groups, (some of which had over 8,000 members each) who had posted 900,000 photos, many quite stunning. There are 68 for Shakespeare, 1,354 for restaurants (199 in London). There are groups in Iran, Iraq and practically every other country. I recently went to Westmeath in Ireland and found a Flickr group already established that enabled me to make contacts. There is one,Cone Shakespeare, inviting you to recall Shakespearean moments inspired by traffic cones.I spent time over the weekend trying to discover subjects for which there were no groups. It was not an easy task. Each photo has a space for a caption (which can include a link to another website) with provision for comments to be made. When several people are interested in the same picture at the same time, this can develop into a multi-person conversation - a bit like instant messaging. Flickr members also meet each other by saying, say, they will be in a pub at a particular time. I attended one at Southwark Tavern by London Bridge, a former debtors' prison that still had the original cells with food holes through which inmates were fed by friends.You can also create your own groups in a matter of seconds. I set up one dedicated to ginkgo trees and within a few days there were four members from various parts of the world. Recently Flickr introduced "geo-tagging" enabling users to click a button to call up Yahoo maps (or even Google Earth) then navigate to the road or field where you took the photo and use the mouse to drag your photo to the place where it was taken. Since Flickr enables you to see and use everyone else's photos (unless they have said otherwise), this means that if you are going somewhere, or simply walking around town, you can call up a map to see photos (and text) of places of interest.In the UK (but not the US) Flickr is the biggest photo site, with a 12% market share - according to Hitwise - having overtaken Photobucket and Webshots Community. This is partly because the bigger Piczo is classified as a net community and not a photo site. But that doesn't detract from Flickr's achievement in becoming one of the web's most impressive sites. It must be one of the biggest archives of interesting photographs, most of them freely available or under a creative commons licence. It is a good model for a community and a model community itself.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the beginning was the thought. The word came later.This sums up what's wrong with all word processors. They are designed to help you spell words, format words, place words, rearrange words, and identify the word you want from lists. They do not help you think.It was 4am. I had been rearranging the words in an article for hours. And what I wanted was to stop rearranging words, and start rearranging thoughts. On paper, at this point, you would cut the whole thing up with scissors, and tape into internally cohesive chunks and rearrange them for a while on the living room floor. These days, I shouldn't have to do that: we have dual widescreens and plenty of screen space.So here's what I want.First of all, forget WYSIWYG. At least for the composition phase. It's only when you're getting close to actual production and printing that you need to be able to see what the document is going to look like.Surely it's possible to create different standard screen and print formats, and have the word processor shift seamlessly between them when you're ready. In screen mode, I want to be able to select any length of text and pull it right out of the document and the program and stick it somewhere else, like a Post-It note. I want the font on that note shrunk except for the first few words so I can identify easily which chunk it is.When I pull it back into the text I'm working on, I want it to reflate immediately to the standard screen format without any added HTML coding, font variations or other gewgaws.I know outliners have outline view, but it doesn't work. You can't, say, automatically collapse the text to an outline showing just the first lines of paragraphs, and if you add sub-sections you either have to make them the same format, or you have to reformat them when you go back to your normal draft mode.Now, I know someone's going to email to say, "Ah, you want brainstorming software." Or wiki software, or Lotus Notes, or some other damn thing. No, I don't. I already have acres of stored notes, and I'm not collaborating; nor do I want text that will require heavy reformatting. And I already have ideas. I just don't know what order they go in or how they link up.In the case of that article at 4am, in the end there was no choice but to rewrite the article from scratch on a blank screen.Retyping was what we used to have to do 25 years ago, before we had word processors. Computers have solved nothing.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nowhere to hide?Given the article on GPS (Follow you, follow me, September 14), you may be interested in a mobile phone application that will allow most java enabled camera phones to link to a Bluetooth receiver to plot your journeys:www.locoblog.comDr Paul Coulton, Lancaster University, Lancaster&middot; Tom Hibbard must be confident that his 24 hour, 7 day a week GPS location won't lead to his home being burgled.Councillor Sue Blatchford, Southampton City Council&middot; Thank you, Ronan Fitzgerald, for highlighting the promise and pitfalls of GPS tracking. The article presented in a balanced way the pros and cons of this technology. GPS tracking can be used in a positive way - for example, to assist the emergency services - but also has serious potential for abuse (eg, employers tracking workers). I share Mr Fitzgerald's conclusion that consent is key.Vicki Combe, Whitstable&middot; Lots of interesting possibilities for GPS location via mobile phones were canvassed in the article. The worrying possibilities such as tracking without consent would surely be mitigated if the GPS function in a phone could be turned off. But I suppose this wasn't mentioned because the story would have lost an essential journalistic ingredient, to scare.Be that as it may, one potential use of GPS in mobile phones that occurs to me would be in connection with calling taxis. The taxi driver could know where you are immediately. The passenger could also use it to track the journey to the destination.Chris Opie, Clifton Hill, AustraliaNot fit to printWhat you say about printer cartridges is true, of course (Technobile, September 14), but the Epson people are no fools. When I installed a Jettec cartridge from Premier Ink Supplies (part of Q Enterprises UK), my new Epson Stylus C48 printer immediately detected that it was not an Epson-made cartridge, and after a warning, shut down completely. It took a good hour of fiddling, re-installing software, etc to get the thing working again after I put an Epson cartridge into it. Clearly there is now a bit in the printer that detects cloned cartridges.(name and address supplied)&middot; Andrew Brown's Technobile is one of the most useful things I have read for ages. More please. We need two things: some green or progressive entrepreneur should design and sell printers that can be filled from an ink bottle. They would quickly conquer the market. In the meantime, you should publish a table showing the capitalised cost of buying each available printer and its cartridges over a few years and the availability of generic/cloned/refillable cartridges.Compared with the massive data tables in other Guardian supplements, it would not be much work and it would be truly valuable to us all.Michael Edwards, LondonDodgy dataMichael Cross (National Archives squares the data circle, September 14) should know that the Family Record Centre is not where one goes to obtain wills (High Holborn for that) but the successor to Somerset House for births, marriages and deaths, plus a sizable computerised facility for census and other data.It is central, accessible, busy and should be profitable, so therefore a clear target for the McKinsey-trained brain.Philip Ralph, IvybridgeTaking LPs to PCsAshley Norris writes: "There are many ways to transfer audio from vinyl records to PCs, but for the most part they are complex and not very effective," (Gadgets, September 14). Whether these "many ways" are effective depends on whether you know what you are doing, the quality of the software you use, and how much trouble you go to. The results can be extremely effective. The new Ion turntable is doubtless less complex than other ways, but I cannot imagine how it could be more effective, given that the editing software it uses is quite modest. Allan Jones,Yardley Gobion
Lego Star Wars 2: The Original TrilogyTravellers Tales/LucasartsXbox 360/PS2, &pound;49.99/&pound;29.99, cert 3+4 starsThe first Lego Star Wars, a charming block-based interpretation of the Star Wars "prequel" movies, managed to capture the imagination of pre-teens and 30-somethings alike. But while the former will still enjoy this sequel, it is the older players who will have nostalgic spasms of joy, as Lego Star Wars 2 is based on the original trilogy. Good news then, especially as the game satisfies the fans - authentic characters, locations and sound effects - while poking fun at the films through some genuinely amusing cut-scenes. Even better is the sheer amount of content. A host of extras - create your own Star Wars Frankenstein, with Princess Leia's head on Chewbacca's body, for example - add to a package that banishes memories of the original's brevity. The pick-up-and-play element, which allows other players to join in at any time, merely furthers the family appeal of the game. Enjoyable to play, and with a healthy disregard for the po-faced antics of other games based on the franchise, Lego Star Wars 2 is a blast.Greg HowsonJust CauseAvalanche Studios/EidosXbox 360, PC, PS2, Xbox, &pound;39.99, cert 16+4 starsThere are some interesting ideas in this third-person action-adventure game. You play CIA agent Rico, who is involved in a dastardly but fun mission to destabilise San Esperito - a fictional Caribbean island. Before long, you find yourself helping local guerrillas to eject government troops, fuelling a war between rival drug cartels and bumping off government officials in brothels. The allaction Rico cuts a very Bond-like figure: he has a parachute and a grappling-gun, with which he can fly behind vehicles like a kite, then reel himself in and hijack them. The gameplay is very much like that of GTA, while the graphics and the details of daily life in San Esperito are top-notch. There are flaws - too many side-missions involve driving for long distances with your eyes on the map rather than the road - but Just Cause is an excellent buy.Steve BoxerSuper Bikes Riding ChallengeMilestone/Black BeanPS2, &pound;29.99, cert 3+3 starsWith an Italian developer experienced in three previous Superbike sims, you can expect this to be a polished affair - more attuned to the bike-fan than the casual "ride through the scenery" brigade. It's still easy enough for novices to pick up, but the relatively low number of available bikes (40) indicates the kind of gameplay that rewards mastering the machine you've got rather than endlessly switching. Luckily, with smooth handling and more than 30 accurately licensed tracks, practice really does reap rewards as you climb the rankings over a three-season Career mode. Purists may decry the absence of true powersliding, but this does lead to some spectacular crashes. Other tricks include being able to intimidate other racers into making mistakes - which Valentino Rossi uses to good effect almost every week, and now so can you!Mike Anderiesz
One of Wikipedia's founders, Larry Sanger, says he plans to rewrite it - as Citizendium, a "citizens' compendium". To succeed, he will probably need to attract many of the people who contribute, or used to contribute, to Wikipedia. But whether the "new Wikipedia" will avoid the problems of the old one, or just create new ones of its own, remains to be seen.Wikipedia has been amazingly successful, fostering the production of a huge database with a surprising level of quality and accuracy. Google's PageRank system for determining the order of search results makes Wikipedia pages very prominent in Google, and rival search engines also afford them a level of authority they don't always deserve.It's not just petty vandalism; most won't accept Tony Blair's middle name is Whoop-de Doo or that Robbie Williams "makes his money by eating domestic pets in pubs in and around Stoke". But there have been more serious errors - most famously,a defamatory entryabout a distinguished US newspaperman, John Seigenthaler Sr.Such cases stimulated action to retain Wikipedia's virtues and avoid the problems. There is already aScholarpediaa lot like Wikipedia, except "each article is written by an expert (invited or elected by the public)". Citizendium hopes to better it by "forking" Wikipedia.Open source software projects "fork" - break into two divergent paths - when groups that develop them cannot agree on the future direction for development. In such cases, "forking" is seen as a last resort; generally, one or the other will wither in the end.Initially, the content of Wikipedia and Citizendium will be identical, and Citizendium will take updates from Wikipedia. (Both systems use the GNU Free Documentation License, allowing re-use.) But once an article has been changed at Citizendium, it will continue to develop separately.Wikipedia is fundamentally anarchical: in principle, any idiot can edit any page at random, whether they know about the subject or not. By contrast, Citizendium's contributors will have to log in using their real names, and editors will be asked to submit their credentials. Unlike Wikipedia, it will value expertise.In his manifesto, Sanger writes: "Where Wikipedia shares the culture of anonymity found in the broader Internet, the Citizendium will have a culture of real-world, personal responsibility."You can imagine an anonymous student introducing errors into a Wikipedia article on physics to deceive a gullible friend writing a paper. Not as likely if you have a named physics professor writing or approving changes to an article; and even students have reputations to protect.Signing up to Citizendium will mean agreeing to the rules in its charter, and there will be "constables" to enforce them. "Constables will rapidly eject the project's inevitable, tiresome trolls, without going through a long, painful process of the sort Wikipedia suffers under - which it euphemistically calls its 'arbitration' process," says Sanger.Wikipedia has around 5 million articles, including 1.3 million in the English language version. It will take a very long time to rewrite them, unless there's a mass movement of disaffected Wikipedia contributors to Citizendium. Still, debating the point on the Slashdot website, Sanger remarked: "If the articles that CZ has worked on are better than the corresponding WP articles (and that's the hope), then the CZ will at least be better than WP to that extent. That's nothing to sneeze at, is it?"Another alternative is to involve the academic and commercial worlds. Wikipedia is one of the web's top 20 most visited sites - much bigger than the BBC - and what it says is repeated across the whole web. Given its impact, its content must be taken seriously.In a blog conversation over the weekend, Byron Saltysiak wrote: "The public sector shouldn't try to resist Wikipedia, because it's futile; they shouldn't resist because embracing would be much more productive. Instead of wasting time trying to fight back with standards and other methods to out compete Wikipedia, groups could fix the data, set up alerts on content changes, and get free hosting to boot." (tinyurl.com/o5o7r)The example raised was finding the population of Canadian provinces. Who has more reason to care if the Wikipedia pages on Ontario are correct than the government of Ontario? Who has better access to the facts and the resources to devote to watching Wikipedia than public sector bodies? That goes for most notable companies, universities, and quite a few individuals, too. Though what goes for the government of Ontario also goes for the those of China and Zimbabwe, criminal rings and cults. Wikipedians could be in for some interesting times.Users can't actually write anything they like, because Wikipedia forbids "original research" and relies on citations from reputable sources - mainstream media. But while editing remains open, it will be hard to stem the tide.Of course, Wikipedia could start requiring registration and having disputes settled by experts - just like Citizendium. Or it could simply take content from Citizendium, if that has already done the job.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Toxic, lumpen and sometimes downright dangerous, batteries are the fly in the ointment of portable electronics. But while Dell and Apple and now Toshiba have recalled nearly 6m of them, laboratories in Israel, Japan and the US are working frantically to be the first with commercial versions of the next generation of batteries - printable, paper-thin derivatives to generate energy for the micro devices that are poised to out-evolve our gizmos while promising to keep our environment green.Film-thin printed batteries have been commercially viable since 2001, when an Israeli company, Power Paper (power paper.com), unveiled a caseless battery just 0.5mm thick that could be printed on paper and even plastic using the same silkscreen process that commercial printers use. The two ends of the battery - the cathode and anode - are printed along with an electrolyte ink onto a flat surface, enabling the mass-production of flat batteries to the size, thickness and form required for the design of any product.Small packagingSeparated by electrolyte ink, zinc anodes and magnesium dioxide cathodes form the top and tail of Power Paper's tiniest battery. Just 0.6mm thick and 39mm across, it can generate 1.5 volts and a mere fraction of an amp - small, but enough to power electrically-charged cosmetic patches for the skin, talking animated greeting cards and RFID tags. And cheap, too, at 50p each.Stack them together and you have a more potent power pack, say its makers. Low power applications have been limited, says Barry Huret of Huret Associates, a battery consulting company in the US. "For the moment, such paper-thin batteries are going to be limited to the likes of RFID tags and smart cards because the energy they produce is not that significant," he says.But other power-frugal products - such as implantable medical devices, remote sensors and miniature transmitters - powered by film-like batteries are on their way to commercialisation already. "RFID tags with a proper power source will be able to transmit more and easier to read information about the object it's embedded in. Paper, too, will take on a new life in packaging. Even cardboard boxes on shelves could double in shops as small ads for their contents," says Huret.A major Japanese printing corporation, Toppan, recently piloted at a Tokyo station a series of A4 posters made of electronic paper powered by an ultra thin battery embedded invisibly in the paper itself. Passers-by were treated to updated weather reports, news and ads.E-paper is low on power demand and can display text for months on the charge from a conventional AA battery, so Toppan's trial hardly tested thin batteries' endurance. The challenge now is to adapt the technology to power digital audio players, mobile phones and other portables, making them smaller, lighter - maybe even wearable - with longer periods between recharges."At the moment, the relative bulkiness of existing batteries for MP3 players and their like is caused by the need for a significant power source," says Huret. "But if electronics become more sophisticated so they use less energy, they can be powered by something very small, one tiny lithium battery for example, or even a series of thin batteries laid one on top of another."Competitive innovationConventional battery developers, meanwhile, are fighting over the best materials for printable batteries. Most are experimenting with conventional combinations of metals found in today's regular (low cost zinc/manganese dioxide) and rechargeable batteries, which use the more expensive lithium for longer life and increased power capacity.Japanese electronics giant NEC is betting on polymers for micro-thin batteries as they are bendable, non-toxic, cheap and rechargeable. NEC is developing a battery that claims a charging time of under 30 seconds. Made from a plastic "organic radical polymer", at 300 microns it is the width of a human hair and does not contain any harmful heavy metals.Battling against such electronic giants is inventor Nobuyuki Tabata, who claims to have discovered his own holy grail of battery technology after studying rock samples for 20 years. Tabata refuses to say what minerals he uses in his printable, 0.2mm batteries, but claims his inventions produce almost 10 times the energy density of rivals with the same volume.He does let on that he uses a solid natural mineral electrolyte printed between the cell's graphite and aluminium plate electrodes. When used in series, his batteries can produce 30 volts of power - enough to supply a small monitor and data transmitter. A credit card-sized array of his cells would power a mobile phone, use lithium for the cathode and will be rechargeable, he says.Tabata set up Ion Technologies four years ago to further his research and says his samples have prompted some leading Asian electronic companies to invest in or try to emulate his technology.By next year he plans to have batteries in production that will power super smart cards used in Japan. Unlike Oyster cards, these can be read remotely in your pocket - so, obviously, batteries that overheat will not be an option.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
According to the Mail on Sunday, the Germans plan to bug our wheelie bins. Immediately, I alert the Crouch End home guard to be on the lookout for pickelhaubed waste collection operatives. None so far: but when they come, by golly we'll be ready. Disappointingly, reading beyond the headline reveals that the "bugs" are RFID identity tags and that the Germans are blameless apart from manufacturing the things. The people behind the plan, supposed to pave the way for charging for rubbish collections, are local authorities. (Mainly Conservative-controlled ones, which doesn't stop the Mail's readers blaming New Labour.)By now, though, we've moved on to the following week's panic - the Department for Education's plans for a children's index. We nattering classes are all in favour of this kind of measure, until we realise that it applies to our own children, too.We're still marshalling our outrage when Big Brother strikes again: Middlesbrough has equipped its CCTV cameras with loudspeakers to tick off antisocial types in the street. Again, a great idea - until we're at the receiving end.With feelings on privacy running high and esteem of government running low, this is not a brilliant time for ministers to announce that they want public bodies to be more enthusiastic about passing our personal details around. Hence the low key launch last week of a modest "vision statement" on the subject.Despite the usual drivel about "delivering" public services and "alternative approaches to improving outcomes", the12-page PDFfrom the Department for Constitutional Affairs is a fairly easy read.The message is that public bodies already share a certain amount of data, but that if they shared more they would be much better at supporting those who get the worst deal from our society, and at making life more convenient for the rest of us.So far, so good. The vision has two big flaws, however. First, it does not identify the current barriers to data sharing, or what it intends to do about them. All we get is "the Data Protection Act must not be used to justify unnecessary barriers to sharing information". In fact, the act is only one of several tiers of law and constitutional convention that can stop one arm of the state from routinely passing on personal information to another.There is also the common law duty of confidentiality and the small print in statutes setting out exactly what powers bodies like local authorities enjoy. In several places the vision statement says "legislation may be needed" but does not say what such legislation will entail. This does not inspire confidence.The second flaw lies in the one substantive suggestion aimed at building trust in the process. Ministers assume that most people (even Mail readers) will trust government to share data so long as they can see what's being shared. Yet the only step in the direction of transparency is couched in vague hypothesis. "We will be exploring how we might provide citizens with more information about which public sector bodies hold information and what they use it for."Note that word "might". It is pathetic. And at this stage in the modernising government programme, we should be doing a sight more than "exploring".The statement should be changed to read: "We will provide citizens with all necessary details about which public sector bodies hold information and what they use it for. Citizens will have the option to decide with which public bodies their information is shared."There are two reasons to get this bit right now. One, as I've said, is trust. The second, as the vision statement admits, is accuracy. Long experience has shown that the way to maintain accurate data is to put the data subject in charge. And if government data isn't accurate, there's not much point in sharing it anyway.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The gloves are off... almost. After months of waiting, the first real volleys have been fired in the long-anticipated digital music war between Apple and Microsoft.It kicked off with Apple, as Steve Jobs unveiled revisions to the iPod range and added some extra features. He finally lifted the curtain on the heavily-trailed movie download service, offering American customers downloaded Disney-produced films such as Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest and Cars. Though there is still no British content a year after TV shows hit iTunes, the company promised something here in 2007.There was, unusually, a preview of a set-top box system, temporarily called iTV, which will stream media files sent wirelessly from a Mac or PC to a TV set. Such a gizmo is not a new idea - but where others flopped, industry watchers say Apple could have the market muscle to push forward where predecessors have feared (or failed) to tread.At the event in London last week for the launch event, Apple's product manager Christi Wilkerson was visibly excited by the link between the iPod's small screen and the living room TV, despite iTV's launch still being months away. Turning the iPod into the heart of a true multimedia platform will take a long time; no matter how the $299 iTV (there is no UK price yet) fits into Apple's wider plans, it will not be available until next year. Hardware geeks had to get their fix from the miniscule new shuffle and the nano's revival of the iPod mini's popular candy colour schemes.Brown studyMicrosoft, meanwhile decided it also needed a splash of colour - and, somewhat bizarrely, plumped for brown. It waited until the day after Apple's announcements to lift the lid on Zune, its own attempt to break the music market open. Zune, which will reach US shops by Christmas but still has no confirmed price, exposed itself as a revised version of Toshiba's Gigabeat player with a bigger screen and smoother looks.But it's what's on the inside that counts - and there are a couple of features Steve Ballmer will hope can lift Zune above the crowd. It offers wireless connectivity, though shared files (only of purchased songs, not those ripped from your own CDs) with a very limited lifespan - three days or three plays, whichever is first. Some say Microsoft's restrictions are likely to seriously limit any real impact of the feature, despite indications that young users are increasingly interested in sharing music via their mobile phones.Someone on our Technology blog summed it up succinctly. "I've often wished I could somehow share full-length sample tracks of select songs," remarked Pauldwaite. "Thank goodness Microsoft is here to help at last."The other difference inside Zune could be the crucial one, however. In a remarkable change of direction, it ditches Microsoft's long-held faith in the digital rights management (DRM) system that it developed and has promoted for previous Windows-only players. Despite the heavy promotion given to the PlaysForSure format, used by services such as Napster, the Zune for sure won't play tracks protected by that DRM. Instead, it will ape Apple's closed system, hooking into a specific download store for purchases while offering support for unprotected Windows Media Audio (WMA), MP3 and AAC files - the latter meaning that iPod owners can find a new home for any music ripped in Apple's default format, though not any tracks direct from the iTunes Store.The news was a punch in the gut to many companies supporting PlaysForSure, and even J Allard, the Microsoft vice president who helped mastermind the rise of Xbox and now oversees Zune, struggled to explain the U-turn."PlaysForSure is still a program we're going to invest in, we still have a lot of partners there, and for a class of consumers who want to have a handcrafted media experience and maximise their choice, we have an answer," he told the Engadget blog (tinyurl.com/ksgqd). "There's another class of consumers that just want digital media, and they just want to be able to go to one store and have it all just plain, dead simple, and don't want to know what a codec is."Vendors who had lined up behind PlaysForSure believing it was that simple solution - among them Napster, MTV's Urge, Creative and Samsung - may have been surprised. While Microsoft's decision to pitch into the digital music hardware market - a move as guaranteed to irritate its numerous partners as if it began making PCs - will not have been taken lightly, this battle plan has clearly been coming together for some time. When a parody video about Microsoft packaging the iPod (tinyurl.com/ks8m8) circulated online this year, it drew laughs; now it is obvious the film (leaked from inside the company) underlined a new strategy to fight fire with fire. Ballmer confirmed the development program in an interview with Fortune magazine in March.Taking sidesThe Zune announcement led to domino-like reactions and repercussions in the industry. On Monday, Real Networks announced a partnership between its Rhapsody service and device maker SanDisk, to try to create another end-to-end solution and include preloaded content on players.The profitless Napster, meanwhile, hired investment bank UBS to find a "major strategic partner" or buyer - early rumours suggested player makers Creative or Samsung, or phone maker Motorola as possible suitors.It's every man for himself, as music providers hammer out deals with manufacturers to stop Microsoft swiping customers. Rumours indicate other interested parties as diverse as Nokia, T-Mobile and Sony are poised to follow suit.Mark Mulligan, an analyst with Jupiter Media, says Redmond's decisions are based on long-term fear that Jobs will turn the iPod and its ecology of add-ons into a much wider platform. "Microsoft doesn't want Apple to develop a strong position in the media player business, and that includes PC," he says. "At a strategic level, they're probably not that concerned at making revenue from music... but the problem is that Apple is beginning to squeeze into Microsoft's digital home strategy."And while Microsoft closes ranks, some of the features added to the new iPods indicate expansion, albeit limited, of Apple's vision. Aside from iTV's obvious charge into the living room, the addition of games for the iPod, on sale via the iTunes Store in the same way as audio or video content, marks a watershed. Games are software; if non-Apple companies write software for the iPod, it begins to resemble a platform. As Microsoft understands, platforms can emerge where business happens, and vice-versa; it's a virtuous circle.With the battle focused heavily on music, the danger is that this could be the start of a very painful transition. Despite rapid growth in recent years, digital music accounts for just 6% of music industry revenues, and a scrap between two bloody-minded and well-funded rivals could spell trouble for everybody else caught up in the fight."There isn't an infinite market in digital music," Mulligan warns. "But either way, we're a long, long way from the digital home: we're not talking about the Jetsons... this is still the Flintstones."Head to head: how the players stack upiPodMemory:30GB or 80GBSize:4.1"x2.5"x0.43" (4.4 cubic inch)Weight:4.8 ounces (136g)Screen size:2.5" LCDColours:White, blackAudio:AAC, MP3, Audible, Apple Lossless, AIFF, WAVVideo:H.264, MP4, MOV, M4VMultimedia:JPEG, H.264 supportConnectivity:USB 2.0Battery life:14 hours audio, 3.5 videoExtras:noneWorks with:PC, MacPrice:&pound;189ZuneMemory:30GBSize:4.4"x2.4"x0.58" (6.1 cu.in)Weight:5.6 oz (158g)Screen size:3" LCDColours:White, black, brownAudio:MP3, AAC, WMAVideo:H.264, MP4, WMVMultimedia:JPEG, H.264 supportConnectivity:USB 2.0, 802.11 b/g Wi-FiBattery life:unknownExtras:FM tuner, music sharingWorks with:PCPrice:TBA&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Email blacklistedI am having some of my emails blocked and returned because at least two of my ISP's mail servers (Wanadoo/Orange) have been blacklisted by SpamCop. SpamCop tells me that the ISP should sort out getting these servers removed and my ISP says that I should contact SpamCop direct. Any idea how to get out of this impasse, and why does Orange seem so unconcerned that its mail servers are being blacklisted?John McGilley, Priory TranslationsJack Schofield replies:SpamCop blocks servers when they are used to send spam, and then automatically unblocks them 24 hours after the last spam was received. There is no point in contacting SpamCop, unless you are interested in looking up blocked servers (www.spamcop.net/bl.shtml) and how long they have been blocked. It's up to Orange/ Wanadoo to stop the people who use its mail servers from sending spam. It seems to have had problems with this going back to the Freeserve days, and if it seems to show no concern, you should consider changing your email service provider or switching to a different ISP.You should, of course, run at least two anti-virus checks to make sure it's not your PC that is sending out spam, and thus causing innocent bystanders' mail to be blocked. Also bear in mind that SpamCop isn't actually blocking your email: all it does is publish the SpamCop Blocking List (SCBL) of spammy IP (Internet Protocol) addresses. ISPs can choose to reject email from these addresses and thus reduce the amount of spam they accept. Some legitimate mail will also be blocked. However, not all ISPs use the SCBL, and most ISPs also have "whitelists" that allow some blacklisted mail servers to send mail through.More text on railsI'm a PC user, and I am looking for a simple laptop to use as an electronic typewriter on trains, aeroplanes, in the park etc. Do you know anything about the Dana Wireless from the US firm Alphasmart? It seems to be basically a Palm-OS based machine but with a real keyboard, and Wi-Fi (802.11b).Dagmar WillisJS:I suggested the Dana Wireless a year ago to a reader who asked the same question (tinyurl.com/m8tcg), though in the end she chose a Pocket PC with a fold-up keyboard, which takes up much less space. I suggest you compare the Dana with a Dell Axim or an iPaq that has Bluetooth, so you can use, say, a Freedom or Stowaway Bluetooth keyboard. You might also consider a smartphone/PDA such as the HTC Universal (MDA IV, i-Mate Jasjar etc), which also uses Windows CE software, or the Psion NetBook. This used to be too expensive but Expansys is currently knocking out old Epoc (Series 5-style) versions for a tempting &pound;319.95 (tinyurl .com/j7wl8). However, it doesn't have Bluetooth or Wi-Fi.Missing toolbarI upgraded to Office 2003 and the toolbar has disappeared from my desktop. I cannot find any way of restoring it.Pete WallJS:Office 2003 doesn't include an Office Shortcut Bar, and it deleted your old one. You can get it back by doing a custom install from your old Office discs, and choosing to install only the toolbar. Alternatively you could try one of the alternative launchers, such as the JetAudio Toolbar, H-Menu, Slickrun or Drag Strip. Seewww.mcse.ms/archive187-2004-10-1191808.htmlGuardian to goIs there a way of viewing Guardian Unlimited, particularly the Technology section, on a PDA without having to use the awful AvantGo software? I run Windows Mobile 5. The website does not appear to have a PDA-friendly version that would work with something like WorldOffLine, for example.Jim CromwellJS:GU does not have a PDA version, but it does have RSS feeds for the Technology section (which has daily news online) and for the Technology blog. Clickherefor a list of the feeds available.There are loads of RSS readers for Windows Mobile, or you could use a program such as MobileRSS or RSS Sync to synchronise feeds from your PC to your mobile device.Backchat&middot; Last week, Peter Johnson wanted a pre-pay data card for his notebook PC. AA Macbeth says he's using an Advent Wireless Modem PC Card on special offer from PC World with the Easymobile PAYG Sim card taken from his mobile. "I get about 115kbps and charges are about &pound;3 per megabyte," he says.&middot; Eric Liggett opened some old Word 97 files and found most characters showed up as little squares. Barry Moore says to try loading them in Microsoft's free Word 97 file viewer, then copying the whole text and pasting it into another word processor. "It works for me, anyway!"&middot; Mike Hughes says he uses Windows XP Pro to control his kids' time online, with "limited logon hours attached to the account properties. Pretty straightforward."&middot; Continuing the theme of computer accessibility for people with impaired vision, crossword compiler Keith Parker has found a UK source for Zoomcaps key labels: IC-Online Ltd (www.ic-online.co.uk). He says: "I phoned them on 01226 762513 and received their comprehensive catalogue in the next morning's post. It contained everything for the visually restricted: keyboard stickers, laptop stickers, keyboard gloves, large print keyboards, computer accessories and much else for me and for people with even greater problems than mine."
If you live in a city street, chances are someone is digging it up, or is about to dig it up. Nationwide efforts to install optical fibre cables and replace Victorian water and sewerage have added to a regime of chaos that began when the utilities were privatised in the late 1980s.Government, utilities and local authorities are now getting their act together to coordinate the 4m holes dug in the UK's streets every year. That's a lot of holes when you consider that there are just under 1m roads in England and Wales.But the effort is being hampered by questions of information standards, ownership and secrecy - the very issues highlighted by Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign.The first step in organising streetworks is to know what pipes and cables lie under each patch of tarmac. This is not a trivial exercise, Les Guest - of the national underground asset group - told the Association for Geographical Information's annual conference last week.Today, data on streetworks is collected on seven or eight different scales, and organisations have widely differing ideas about when it should be made available."The data is of variable accuracy," Guest said "There are lots of incomplete records and a wide range of timescales on when it is made available, from 24 hours to more than three months." With some prodding from government, the underground assets group (nuag.org.uk) was set up last year to champion better coordination between utilities, highways author- ities, local councils and others.Unmarked burialsGuest has called on government to enforce a statutory code of practice to force utilities and local authorities to make data on pipes and cables available on a common format, accurate to within 10cm (4in).The code would also require people digging holes in the road to record details of "unidentified buried objects" - that is, the unmarked pipes and cables most likely to be damaged, requiring more holes to be dug in the road to fix them.Standardised data accessible via a web browser would allow contractors to find out immediately what they are likely to hit, and alert them when two firms have plans to dig up the same street simultaneously or in quick succession. To be useful, this information would have to be available in real time. "At the moment, it's taking them months," Guest said.This lack of mandatory standards threatens to compromise the government's attempt to reduce disruption through the 2004 Traffic Management Act, which gives highway authorities powers to regulate streetworks. Even though everyone agrees that a standard accessible electronic register of underground assets is a good idea, progress is slow. Standard formats and procedures won't be agreed until the end of next year, Guest said: "We're talking four to five years before it's all done."What's the hold-up? Surprisingly, Guest says that commercial sensitivities among utilities are not a problem. A survey showed that most utilities didn't think there would be a problem, he said.This has been the experience in Liverpool, where the city council is coordinating streetworks required by the regeneration effort.Addressing the problemEven official secrecy is not necessary, although a number of mysterious underground cables belong to the Ministry of Defence. "We wouldn't go public with their exact location, but we would shade an area of the map and say the MoD has got an interest there," says Guest.Nor is technology. The government is sponsoring a project called Vista to create a 3D map of underground pipes and cables, which contractors will be able to check on a handheld device before they dig.The problem is more the cost and complexity of moving to common data standards. The assets group notes: "There are likely to be cost and resource issues associated with the deployment of a new code." Maps and other geospatial data cost money, even when government has paid for them in the first place.One complexity is the ongoing state of confusion about a national database of spatial addresses, a programme that has been in limbo for a year because of a dispute over who has the intellectual property in postal addresses.These barriers are not insuperable. In Scotland, all 33 local authorities and 26 "statutory undertakers" already coordinate information on street works using the latest geographical information system technology.The Scottish Road Works Register, funded by subscription, provides a "dial before you dig" service to coordinate work; its geographical information system, which flags up disruptions such as road closures, sporting events and skips as well as streetworks, will soon be available on the web, Mike Bartlett, of the software provider Symology, told the conference.Technology Guardian's Free our Data campaign proposes a shortcut through at least some of the complexity. If electronic data collected by public bodies was automatically made available without worries aboutintellectual property, the job of coordination between public bodies, and the public and private sectors, would be simplified.No one claims that freeing our data will overnight end the waste and disruption caused by Britain's road-digging frenzy. But any step towards a simpler life is surely worth a try.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Her name is Joan; she is just a few years old and very talkative... and now she is officially the world's most human computer program.On Sunday, the computer-generated character scooped the prestigious Loebner prize for artificial intelligence, seeing off some of the world's most hi-tech creations in the process.Joan's maker, the British entrepreneur Rollo Carpenter, emerged victorious after a day of intense competition as a quartet of software experts attempted to pass the famous "Turing test" and scoop a purse of $100,000 in the process.The test began well before computers were capable of such complex interaction. In 1950 the British mathematician Alan Turing, who famously helped crack German military codes during the second world war, asked how scientists would determine whether computers had successfully achieved truly artificial intelligence. His suggestion was that a computer which could give conversational responses that were indistinguishable from a human's could be said to be thinking for itself.That challenge turned into an annual competition when New York philanthropist Hugh Loebner offered $100,000 to the first program to successfully fool a panel of judges into thinking it was a real person.Despite 16 years of trying, no technology has made that breakthrough, and the grand prize remains unclaimed. However, Joan was deemed to be the most human competitor on show after a blind test held at University College London. The judges held typed conversations - similar to an internet chat program - with all of the challengers, before they declared her the winner.That victory earned Carpenter a $2,000 prize and a bronze medal - and also helped him retain the title he first won last year with George, another program driven by Jabberwacky, the technology behind Joan.What's unusual about Jabberwacky is that it uses its experience of interaction with humans to create a store from which to draw its next response. The system has been entered for the Loebner Prize contest since 2003, and now seems to be building up an impressive lead over its rivals. That may be helped by the fact that it is always able to enlarge its database through conversations online: if you want to try it out, go tojabberwacky.com."I'm very pleased," said Carpenter. "In a way this is very subjective test... but I believe that for practical purposes, people in working conditions will believe it's a human." (Technology Guardian had a conversation with Joan; you can judge the results below).Carpenter is now working with call centre companies to help train his robots into understanding how to better interact with humans - with the possibility of using them to replace human workers in the near future. But experts say that a program that will successfully pass the Turing test is still some years away."We're still a long way off, but I think he's onto something," said Duncan Graham-Rowe, one of the judges.But Carpenter is used to the long haul. The very first version of the program was written in 1982, and ran on a Sinclair ZX81, an 8-bit home computer which had a maximum of 16K of RAM.Bobbie Johnson talks to JoanBobbie:You won the Loebner prize!Joan:Nobel beats a Loebner hands down.Bobbie:You shouldn't be so hard on yourself.Joan:In a world of depression and misery, the least you can do is try to be optimistic.Bobbie:That's the spirit. How does it feel to be a winner?Joan:Don't be silly.Bobbie:Why is that silly? Are you embarrassed?Joan:A little... I'm talking to a robot here.Bobbie:Well, it is a difficult experience.Joan:You're so stupid.Bobbie:So you keep telling me.Joan:I don't like you very much.Bobbie:I see. Do you ever think you'll win $100,000?Joan:I already am.Bobbie:Well, you're not there yet.Joan:Do you like cyborgs?Bobbie:Not really. I have to go now, goodbye!Joan:Sorry.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Canon fires digital marketCanon is refreshing its range of digital cameras with several new models, including the PowerShot G7 (&pound;449), a titanium Digital Ixus 900 Ti (&pound;399) and the Ixus i7 Zoom (&pound;249).Sony's PC entertainersSony has launched another all-in-one TV/PC, the LA1, with a 19 inch widescreen display and Windows XP Media Center, and the XL200, which connects to an HD Ready TV via its HDMI output.Overseas connectionsConnect Me Anywheresays you can make cheap overseas calls from your mobile. You have to enter the numbers first (up to 20) on its website and get a "CMA calling number" for each one.High-powered home networkingThe HomePlug standard lets you use existing mains wiring to extend your home network, andSolwisehas added a high-end Ethernet HomePlug AV Ethernet adaptor that shifts data at up to 200Mbps - fast enough for high-definition video.Independent viral video chartUnruly Media has launched a Top 20 for viral video clips, based on video sharing at YouTube, MySpace and Google Video. Not for the easily-depressed...www.viralvideochart.comA date with GoogleGoogle has added Google Calendar to its UK site - but not at a UK web address.www.google.com/calendarMobile ConferencingPresenterNet says it has introduced the first mobile web conferencing system. It works with any PC and with Windows Mobile 5.0 running on a PDA or phone.www.presenternet.com/mobile&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Presently, by looking at Ofcom'sSitefinder site. But in the near future it'll probably be arriving at a Google Maps-style mashup near you. That could be interesting for a number of reasons.First, the Sitefinder site is painfully slow and imprecise; it feels as though you're being discouraged from finding anything out. Secondly, even though this data is not government-generated (the masts' operators provide it to Ofcom), it might provide an interesting example of the hypothesis behind the Free Our Data campaign, which suggests that making non-personal data available will encourage commercial spinoffs that exploit it.The release of the data was ordered by the Information Commissioner, responding last week to a request from a consumer group under the Environmental Information Regulations. It wanted the locations of mobile communications masts run by the five mobile networks, the Airwave emergency system and Network Rail (for trackside communication with train drivers). Ofcom has protested that releasing the data to the public - which would surely lead to sites showing mast locations in great detail, with the names of operators - would discourage operators from providing it at all. Apparently, operators fear rivals will pinpoint holes in their network and exploit that weakness to boost sales there; and that vandalism could follow release of mast locations.Neither argument holds much weight. The problem with holes in coverage cuts both ways, while mobile masts are easy targets for determined vandals - after all, it's not as if they can run very fast. And releasing the data could help prove that masts don't have harmful effects.The Information Commissioner pointed out that the location data still retain copyright and database rights. Now, that might preclude the first recipient from putting it online, since it would be obvious who had done it, and they might be prosecuted (depending on the terms of the release). But if a second organisation requested and received the data, and then a third, a samizdat copy of the data might well escape onto the web - with no indication of which recipient had naughtily released it.Who would that help? An enterprising satellite navigation company could, for example, program it in so you would know where you might fall out of phone range (a potential boon to hillwalkers). The phone networks with better coverage should become obvious - which could prompt the less good ones to improve, or cut their prices.Compared to the present obscured arrangement, it's hard to see how the proposed one would be worse. However, Ofcom has until October 9 to appeal over the ruling. Even so, we think that the ultimate test of whether the proposed move is good or bad is to ask: if the full data had always been available on a slick mashup, would it feel like an improvement or a retrograde step to stuff it back into Sitefinder?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft would certainly like you - or preferably the EC - to think so. It paid International Data Corporation (IDC), a respected US research company, to produce a report, The Economic Impact of Windows Vista, andpublished it on the web.The IDC result is based on the Windows ecosystem and the multiplier effect. This says for every &euro;1 (70p) spent on Vista, another &euro;13.31 will be spent on other things. That includes &euro;7.35 on hardware, &euro;3.43 on software and &euro;2.53 on services. In other words, IDC includes the impact of Dell and other companies building new PCs, software houses writing and selling new versions of programs to run on Vista, and services from companies working on Vista- related software. Further, IDC reckons 20% of the IT budget spent on software generates 54% of IT jobs; Vista should disproportionately effect new jobs.In just the six countries that IDC studied, Vista could represent about 1% of total IT spending and 5-6% of the spending on software. But the multiplier effect means this should add up to a &euro;32bn business revolving around Vista in 2007.There's no doubt Vista is going to create a commercial impact, as it provides tens of thousands of companies in the Windows ecosystem with an excuse to sell, sell, sell. This should be a particularly potent sales pitch because it's the first mainstream version of Windows since 2001, there's also a new version of Office, and lots of us quite fancy a faster PC with Intel Core 2 Duo chips. Whether anybody will actually be better off if they buy, buy, buy is an entirely different question. But I'm sure we can knock up a quick spreadsheet to prove it.Buy it or not, the report was launched in Brussels, with support from half a dozen independent software houses, as a way of sending a message to the EU, which has been poking its nose into Vista's security enhancements.The EU's Competition Commission interfered with XP's Windows Media Player, forcing Microsoft to spend money producing WMP-free versions of Windows no one wanted (trousering &euro;497m in fines). Will the EU interfere with Vista's security enhancements - delaying its release - and go for another big pile of lunch money?If so, Microsoft doesn't expect much sympathy. However, I'd certainly expect it to use the IDC report to argue the EU is thereby shovelling sand into the engine of the software economy.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Chico Bongalar is a tubby twenty-something guy - real name Grant - and he likes making videos. At the moment Chico is the No 1 attraction on Trouble Homegrown, the UK television channel's attempt to mirror the runaway success of web sites like MySpace and YouTube.Chico talks about his life, getting a suntan and eats a slice of bread. Doesn't sound like much, but he created a bit of a buzz. Chico is part of a new wave of amateur video talent that includes the Beijing karaoke champs, aka the Chinese Backstreet Boys (sponsored by Coca-Cola), the folk singer Sandi Thom (now with a &pound;1 million recording deal) and the Arctic Monkeys, who went from obscurity to the Brit Awards, all kickstarted by the web.Chico and millions of others who upload amateur videos to the growing number of user-generated content sites such as YouTube have sent shockwaves through big media companies - and executives are sitting up and paying attention.It's not just for the size of the audience; there's the increasingly contentious issue of content ownership and control.Chico's video narratives are free online, just like all MySpace and YouTube content, because people like Chico create this stuff mostly just to share ideas and get attention. Until recently, online fame and the potential of discovery seemed enough, and the commercialisation of so-called user-generated content (UGC) sites was not an issue - because the sites were startups and below the radar of big media organisations. But that's all changing.Sites such as YouTube are growing up. MySpace is now owned by News Corporation. Trouble's Homegrown and MTV Flux have been created by publicly-listed, bottom-line-oriented media companies. They may be interested in nurturing new talent, but the MTVs of the world also want to profit from this new creative pool."YouTube and MySpace are all about community, and I don't believe that their initial plans were to commercially exploit uploaded material, but rather only to build business models based on ad revenues," says Alexander Ross, a partner at Wiggin LLP, a media and technology law firm. "Contrast that with an MTV and some others, who appear to be approaching the model more from a broadcaster's perspective."Cut and damageVideo downloads have reached phenomenal proportions - 100m are downloaded daily on YouTube - and growing numbers of TV executives are embracing the Chico Bongalars of this new media world. Every YouTube wannabe website wants a Chico. But what if the site wants to make money by putting his video on their television shows or into their channel promos? Does Chico get a cut?At recent industry fest IBC in Amsterdam, Robert Amlung, head of technology at German broadcaster ZDF, said its programme to encourage viewers to upload photos and videos to the ZDF website had proved a success, and was clear on rights. "We want to own the rights, so if someone puts images up on our site, they are giving their rights away," he said. It seems viewers can have the fame; the broadcaster wants the money.But it's not the same if the user feels like using some of the broadcaster's content - even for no money. There are an uncountable number of TV clips (or entire TV shows) on sites like YouTube - which have led to repeated legal threats. Last week Doug Morris, chief executive of Universal Music, implied that YouTube others might be sued for tens of millions of dollars for the illegal posting of music videos.That irked Mark Mulligan, an analyst at Jupiter Research: "If any action is taken against MySpace and YouTube then it will be an own goal," he observed. "It's time for record labels to wake up to the reality that the internet's prime role is not distribution but discovery."Jeff Jarvis, who advises organisations on new media, blogged: "The smartest thing YouTube could do is just take all of Universal's artists off and watch them scream when suddenly they're not talked about and bought as much as their competitors. [The record companies] just don't get it: YouTube and MySpace and blogs and the internet are their new distribution and sales channels. Want to cut off your noses to spite your faces? Fine. Here's the knife."Protecting big mediaBy contrast, Warner Music decided this week to make its music video library available to YouTube - perhaps marking a change in how media deal with these sites.For the average user, such sites make uploading content a breeze. They're less good at making terms and conditions (Ts & Cs), governing what you upload, transparent. Written by lawyers, they seem principally to protect big media's options.Singer Billy Bragg protested last month ("Who owns the music, MTV or me?" August 31 2006) that sites like MySpace and MTV Flux were hijacking peoples' creative output. That got MySpace to rewrite the Ts & Cs. People posting content are informed they retain ultimate ownership, but have given MySpace a licence to use content without payment. The Ts &Cs; also specify the licence "will terminate at the time you remove your content". MySpace agrees the licence does not grant it the right to sell the content, nor to distribute it "outside of MySpace services".Bragg lauded the changes to MySpace's contract and re-uploaded his music. He has been less thrilled with MTV Flux, calling (in a video blog) for a revamp. The company has so far refused."I don't think our Ts & Cs are any more strict than anyone else's out there," says Nayeem Syed, vice president of legal for MTV Networks UK & Ireland. When pushed, Syed admits people who upload to MTV Flux forfeit payment and relinquish their rights "in perpetuity". That is, forever. Removing your content doesn't revoke MTV's right to use it.MTV holds the right to "commercially exploit, host, store, copy, distribute, modify, edit, incorporate into other material, and/or otherwise treat in any way" content. Providers to MTV Flux also waive "moral rights" to material - a lawyer's way of saying MTV does not have to give the author credit. MTV doesn't plan to be quite so tough as its terms allow. It does identify content creators, and if you leave MTV Flux, you need only give MTV seven days' notice, as content might have been scheduled to air on an MTV TV channel or mobile service.Syed admits to a "balancing act" between protective language, and what MTV might actually do in certain situations; clearly MTV is already commercialising user-generated content, because both the website and the TV channel take advertising. Next month MTV plans to launch its first advertiser-supported UGC TV show. "We want to make sure we have the rights we need and we are also trying to future proof them for stuff we don't know about yet, but we are not the bad guys," says Syed.There are new and revolutionary approaches to licensing content. The BBC and Channel 4 chose Creative Commons (creativecommons.org) licence regime, designed to encourage sharing and "make the value of the content flow better," says Anthony Lilley, head of Magic Lantern, the digital media company that runs C4's Fourdocs site for budding documentary makers. "I think Creative Commons works much better when you are talking about the web and loads of people making and sharing content because you need a truly frictionless system," he says.However, MTV's Syed say she is "not confident" a Creative Commons licence is "practical", if an artist wants to "get noticed or get a record deal". The bottom line seems to be that MTV, and likely other big media companies, feel more comfortable with more traditional licensing language.MTV Flux and Trouble's Homegrown see user-generated content as a path to new talent. "We are trying to raise the bar on UGC, taking our 25 years' experience in television and music TV and tying the UGC clips together with real music videos to make more interesting television," says Angel Gambino, vice president of digital media for MTV Networks UK & Ireland. "We'd like to get to the stage where we can commission content from people and pay them directly." But Gambino is clear that it is MTV's decision when and if the company decides to commission someone to make content. "We won't change our T's & C's, but we could contact those people directly and enter into a separate negotiation with them."In the future, Gambino envisions a "digital farmers' market" where MTV could let people sell their content to others. But "we're not there yet", she admits. "There are some entertaining clips up there, but not the volume that we need to make a commercial model. Hopefully, we'll get there."Celia Taylor, channel controller at Trouble and Challenge, says that media companies have to protect themselves with tough terms and conditions to avoid copyright infringement cases, but that this has to be weighed against the popularity of sites such as YouTube and MySpace, which are popular because they are "so open and so free"."Once you try and close them down, they change," says Taylor. "It's usually the lawyers that spoil it because they want to make things safe and also they want to make money. But we are trying to also be guided by what the users want to do."And if Chico Bongalar gets really popular and I decide to make a UGC show fronted by him, I would expect to pay him. I think talent will win out. If you make a name for yourself and you're good, a Disney or someone will come along and make an offer."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Some hardcore porn sites are already exploiting an unpatched security hole in Internet Explorer's Vector Markup Language (VML). For details and news of fixes, seeMicrosoft admits to IE vulnerability being expoited on porn siteson the Ask Jack blog.Of course, what's on porn sites now could quickly be used by other risky sites, including ones offering free MP3 files, games, and so on.As Microsoft explains, one workaround is to unregister the VML code. As I point out, another is to use a different browser, such as Firefox or Opera.
Microsoft has issued aSecurity Advisory (925568)that confirms Internet Explorer is vulnerable to an overflow fault in its Vector Markup Language (VML). The note says:A security update to address this vulnerability is now being finalized through testing to ensure quality and application compatibility Microsoft's goal is to release the update on Tuesday, October 10, 2006, or sooner depending on customer needs.However, "If you are a Windows Live OneCare user and your current status is green, you are already protected from known malware that uses this vulnerability to attempt to attack systems."Microsoft has published a workaround, which involves disabling (unregistering) vgx.dll, and this seems the simplest approach. Full details are in the advice note, under Workarounds, in the section called:Un-register Vgx.dll on Windows XP Service Pack 1; Windows XP Service Pack 2; Windows Server 2003 and Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 1If you are a company with a Windows Domain, you should use Group Policy to block the attack,as explained on Jesper Johansson's blog.Another workaround is, of course, to use a different browser, such as Firefox or Opera.The VML exploit wasfirst described in public on Monday on the Sunbelt blog, after it was found on a small number of hardcore porn sites. The vulnerability allows the site to download a long list of Trojans, adware and other malware, asSunbelt explains here.The danger, of course, is that the exploit could be used on sites that are commonly visited by more innocent users, in which case Microsoft might decide to release the fix before "patch Tuesday".
ModelVolkswagen Golf GT TSI 170Price&pound;18,595Top speed137mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.9 secsConsumption38.2mpg (combined)EmissionsCO2 175g/kmAt the wheelTony BlairThey'd rather walkGordon BrownOn the stereoScissor SistersEn route forEdinburghTurbo lag: where do you stand? Irritated by it to the point of screaming in a public place? Broadly in agreement that it would be better if turbo lag could be got rid of, but prepared to live with it equably enough in the meantime? Of the opinion that your feelings about turbo lag should remain confidential between you and your GP? Without the first clue what turbo lag actually is or whether you have ever suffered from it?Let's clarify. Turbo lag is a complaint that commonly affects the drivers of turbo-charged cars and their passengers. It's the interval between forcing the accelerator down and noticing the turbo charger go to work, as advertised, to push the engine harder than it would manage on its naturally aspirated ownsome.Normally, this moment will be accompanied by some kind of whoosh or hiss, or, if the turbo-charger is broken and/or was recently fixed at a garage that was suspiciously light on official certification, the wheeze of a perilously asthmatic sheep. Plus, of course, the car will start to accelerate more quickly. Ideally, that is.Turbo lag occurs while you have your foot flat on the floor and are looking out of your windscreen, waiting for something to happen. On expensive and recently serviced cars, the vacant interval may only be a split second. On some older or cheaper cars, however, this period may be anything between 20 minutes and a week. Indeed, there are believed to be people in heavily driven, turbo-charged Volvo V70 estates who registered their interest in accelerating an entire month ago but have yet to hear back from their car's turbo charger.It is possible to think of several circumstances in which turbo lag might bother you. It could bother you if you had made a decision to overtake a tractor on a narrow country lane and only then noticed a looming bend. Or it could bother you if you were an incorrigible speed maniac and impatience expert for whom any form of waiting around was anathema.The medication, in either case, comes without prescription, over the counter, from Volkswagen and it's under the bonnet of the Golf GT. (In all other important respects, the car is a Golf Mark V, the most recent update, launched in 2004, of VW's legendary hatchback and fabled Sloane carrier.)This Golf is fitted with award- winning "TSI technology" that allegedly says farewell to turbo lag forever. Its active ingredients are an engine-driven supercharger and an exhaust gas turbocharger, arranged in sequence. The supercharger helps out the engine at low speeds, and the turbo charger rides in like the cavalry when the engine speed increases. Between them, they create a situation in which large amounts of power come as and when your foot asks for them, rather than sometime later, possibly by second-class post.Now, you could be thinking that, given its interest in power on demand, a Golf GT TSI must be some kind of achingly unnecessary, petrol-soaked speed wagon, of interest in the main to juvenile car offenders and other fans of the hotter kinds of hatch. On the contrary, its best intentions are economic and even, up to a point, eco-sensitive. Hitched to a direct injection system, the TSI apparatus described above enables a relatively small capacity engine to punch way above its weight, using less petrol and puffing less carbon dioxide than far bigger engines.All in all, VW has made a 1.4 litre engine (the sole TSI engine size at this point), whose performance figures bear comparison with a 2.3-litre engine - in other words, the kind of hard-drinking, heavy-smoking engine that would tend to be on a high-end saloon rather than a hatchback.And yet it accelerates like a whippet that has been stung on the hind leg by a wasp. The one drawback: it sounds exactly like a diesel - and a really clanky and rattling diesel, at that, a diesel of the old school. You could be driving Thomas the Tank Engine and a particularly bumptious set of trucks. Except that Thomas can't do corners quite so tidily nor burst past tractors with such aplomb nor stop in such a hurry.TSI engines are now also in the VW Touran and the Golf Plus (which is a Golf, only bigger). OK, it's not the answer to every eco prayer. It doesn't run on rainwater and reconstituted goat droppings. But it's something.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"They say cameras add ten pounds, but HP digital cameras can help reverse that effect. The slimming feature, available on select HP digital camera models, is a subtle effect that can instantly trim off pounds from the subjects in your photos!" exclaimsHP's Web site.Comment: Slimming is on the menu for Apply Artistic Effects, which also includes Soft Glow. You can choose how much slimming you want.
Just a quickie: as mentionedhereandhere, Microsoft has announced, ahead of the Tokyo Game Show, that Xbox 360 is going to get 1080p support via a free software download. Currently, the console is only able to display a HD signal in either 720p or 1080i.Predictably, it seems there are no plans to release games that run in 1080p. Instead, the software update will allow DVD movies to be scaled up to 1080p and will also handle HD DVD releases. Sony, of course, has made much out of PS3's status as the only console capable of coping with 'True HD'. Although limited numbers of first-party games will attempt to exploit the resolution, most PS3 titles will stick with 720p/1080i.An interesting little annoucement there for Microsoft, ahead of a key PR-saving event for Sony...
VideobloggerAmanda Congdon, who used to be famous as the face ofRocketboom, is takinga road trip across America, with a blog and awiki.
To the uninitiated, the world of the club cyclist must seem pretty weird and forbidding. It sometimes still feels that way when you are one. Look at what it involves: odd clothes, strange rituals at unsociable hours, greeting fellow members in public with discreet flicks of the hand . . . it makes masonism seem socially inclusive.Suppose you've become a keen cyclist and want to find like-minded people to ride with. How would you even know where to start finding a club? A quest such as this can seem an arcane pursuit within one that is arcane enough already.There's something very British about the inaccessibility and "unto-itself-ness" of the cycling club. So much sign-posting in this country is inadequate for the same reason: you are just supposed to know where to go - or, says the subtext of the non-existent directions, you have no business going there at all.It's more shyness than unfriendliness, perhaps, but even when we join a club or society, we seem to do so ambivalently. I was struck, recently, with the contrast when I joined a Sunday "club run" in France. As each rider arrived before the start, he (it was "he" exclusively, I'm afraid) would shake the hand of every person there - a scene no doubt repeated in every small town in France. That would never happen here. A nod and a murmur suffices, thank you.There is one way that British cycling club culture improves on the French: at least our jerseys aren't cluttered with ads for the local supermarket or garage. We can't get the sponsorship.Possibly I exaggerate. And perhaps I describe a world now disappeared. Several of the clubs I grew up with just 20 years ago are virtually defunct. The ones that have survived have had to find ways of turning themselves outwards and recruiting new members. My old club, the Velo Club de Londres (many British cycling clubs founded around the turn of the century are prefixed "VC", consciously following the French example) does a fine job coaching young people at Herne Hill velodrome in south London, and has also cultivated some of the best women racers in the country.Another local club, the Dulwich Paragon, has gone a different route, away from sport, finding new members by organising easier, social rides. These have the additional merit of starting and finishing at the Cafe St Germain, atop Crystal Palace, where you can taste the best croissants this side of Calais. Or Croydon, certainly. Like others, the Paragon has also got into running charity rides and cyclo-sportives, such as the Ride of the Falling Leaves the weekend after next.But some things never change. Go on a club run today and you will still encounter some old boy who'll tell you you are doing it all wrong. That would be me.&#183;To find a local cycling club, go tobritishcycling.org.ukBike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear MattOur daughter, aged 10, hasn't learned to ride a bike. She still has stabilisers on her bike and as there will be a cycling proficiency course at her school next summer, I need some advice on how to get her riding confidently before then. We don't have a garden and the local park bans bikes, so practice would have to be in the school car park. Any guidance would be appreciated.Mrs Robin Kelly, via emailFirst, do consider booking a lesson or two with a qualified cycling instructor. It won't cost much and, in my experience, children take instruction much better from someone who isn't their parent. For a trainer near you check out the CTC website (www.ctc.org.uk).The good news is that if your daughter is using her bike regularly, even with stabilisers, she is probably closer than you think to riding unaided. If you can, try to find a grassy area to practise on: it's much nicer to fall on and also slows down the steering response of the bike, making it easier to balance. Then all you have to do is run behind holding the saddle!
Kotaku blogged the Xbox 360 briefing at the Tokyo Game Show, and reports that "Now, HD DVD player. If it is connect vis USB cable, you can view HD DVD via your console. It looks 6 times better. It is full HD DVD 1080p." It will go on sale on November 22 for 20,790 yen inc tax -- £94 or $176, which sounds rather low.Of course, as with Blu-ray, if there are no HD-DVD movies you really need to see in HD, and you don't have an HD TV set, then it really doesn't matter how much it costs: there are cheaper paperweights around.Footnote: Microsoft is currently providing free access to TGS coverage and X06, its own event, via Xbox LIve. That will remain free until September 29.
A couple of weeks ago, a US politician crossed the boundary between reality and virtuality when he made a stop on his political tour in Second Life. Attempting to approach "the people" - i.e., his potential voting public - in this way is a big step for virtual worlds in general, but has met with cynicism and criticism from a few sceptical broadsheet journalists.Mark Warneris the former governor of Virginia and, according to reports from US-centred media, is apresidential hopefulfor the Democratic party in the general elections in 2008. Working with the organisationMillions of Us, he appeared in-world for an interview with the space's premiere journalist, Wagner James Au, in front of gathered Residents - both regulars and newly-avatared journalists.The event was videoed, and you can see clipshereandhere(viagamepolitics).You can also check out the transcript of the eventhere, atNew World Notes.Unfortunately, this ground-breaking event has had some backlash, notably from theWashington Post, which thinks this appearance is a laughable gimmick (but a "cool" one). Hey - is that a problem? One person needs to make a step, and then others will follow. Or so I once heard in amovie. The again, notable appearances from pop stars like Blur, Duran Duran, academics like Sherry Turkle and rights activists like Lawrence Lessig have certainly paved the way for Warner's public (virtual) presence.Another interesting moment in theyear of the avatar.
Sega's UK press agency sent out a Sonic and the Secret Rings press release on Monday, reminding us all in its email heading that the hedgehog is now 15 years old. While most pundits credit Sony with the ambiguous achievement of making games cool, arguably Sonic got there first, bringing in the hyper-accelerated aesthetic of anime, the series' brash primary colours, trill, rippling sound effects and unrelenting speed re-defining the sense of what it was to play a videogame.Sonic was the first next-gen game. It was 2D, yes, but it used space in a way designers would later use polygonal landscapes - multi-directional, multi-layered, with lots of hidden spaces to discover and explore. Previously, especially in the arch-rival Mario series, gamers were encouraged to ponder, to look before they made pixel-precise leaps. Sonic demanded that players let go, pinging around the screen, more-often-than-not , spraying golden rings everywhere as unseen enemies provided unsuitable landing platforms. To be good at Sonic meant multi-tasking at speeds previously unknown outside the field of advanced aeronautics.But Sonic was so astonishingly fast and fun, being good or bad didn't really matter that much to many people. My dad bought a Mega Drive sohecould play Sonic. He never really got far.Since the original two games, the character has had a mixed history. Like Mario he has made the odd ill-advised foray into other genres. Like Mario he has toyed with 3D non-linear landscapes. Recently, his games have been slightly over-shadowed by Sega's desire to surround its icon with peripheral characters - Sonic Heroes the prime example. Interestingly, in the forthcoming Wii outing, The Secret Rings, Sonic will be alone again.Another big change is the interface - the player able to tilt the controller to avoid enemies, and thrust it forward to attack. With all games there is a worry this system will be airy and indefinite. In the crisp, twitchy world of Sonic that worry is tenfold. But this is Sonic so whatever happens it will be an experience.Anyway, what have beenyourfavourite Sonic moments from the last fifteen years? Let's compile a list of the best five Sonic titles. I'll let you go first...
Relations between the European commission and Microsoft plumbed new depths yesterday when Neelie Kroes, competition commissioner, accused the software group of a "coordinated campaign" to portray her team of anti-monopoly officials "in a negative light".Ms Kroes, who fined Microsoft &euro;280.5m (&pound;189m) in July for failing to comply with commission rulings and could yet impose more fines of up to &euro;3m a day, insisted she was not pursuing a vendetta against the group.The Dutch commissioner, a former business executive, is known to endure frosty relations with senior Microsoft officials and is said to have spoken out because of what she sees as intimidatory tactics by them.Her last conversation with Steve Ballmer, Microsoft chief executive, in late August, ended in mutual silence and recrimination. Since then, relations have become frostier with the company's supporters accusing the commission of delaying the European launch of its upgraded operating system, Vista, with a string of demands.Ms Kroes said in a letter to the Financial Times that the commission's actions were "guided by the desire to create the most innovation-friendly business climate in Europe to the ultimate benefit of European consumers". She added that, throughout extensive discussions with the group, her aim was to prevent a "near-monopoly", known for its anti-competitive conduct around the globe, from releasing a product that "could have the clear potential to hinder effective competition in the market".Her predecessor, Mario Monti, fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m in March 2004 for abuse of market dominance and, in the current reprise of its then accusations, the commission is concerned that the group has "bundled" too many functions into Vista, including a search engine, that could prevent consumers from buying rivals' products.Last week Microsoft warned that the commission's actions could stop it improving Vista's security system to ward off hackers but Ms Kroes said: "This is categorically not the case. We do nevertheless seek to ensure that rival security software vendors, who have traditionally been the innovators in this area, are able to compete on a level playing field."She also ridiculed Microsoft's claims, backed by a consultant's report it sponsored, that Vista would create 100,000 jobs in six EU countries, including the UK. She said any new jobs would "only be enhanced" by the release of a version of Vista that allowed rival products to compete.
I completed Lego Star Wars 2 over the weekend - impressive eh? Ok, maybe not, Lego Star Wars 2 is noNinja Gaidenwhen it comes to difficulty, although there was the odd bit of Hoth head-scratching. Actually, I "completed" the story mode - i.e. the action based on the 3 original films - but there is still a pile of other content that I haven't got too far with, mainly because I don't have the patience to constantly replay levels in an incessant collect-fest. Does anyone? But no matter, Lego Star Wars 2 is as charming as the original and comes recommended. It's not worth getting for the 360 though. Yes, it looks shinier and sexier, but it's not worth the price hike over the PS2 version. Unless, of course, you're a Gamer Points addict.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Toshiba has become the latest company to recall laptop batteries manufactured by Sony.A Toshiba spokesman announced last night that it was recalling 340,000 batteries inside Dynabook and Satellite model laptops sold between March and May this year, after concerns they had problems storing power and recharging.The latest furore concerns the same Sony lithium-ion batteries that led to the biggest recalls in consumer electronics history last month.In a flurry of high-profile cases, Dell and Apple recalled millions of Sony batteries over fears they may overheat and combust. Dell, the world's biggest computer manufacturer, recalled 4.1m batteries and Apple followed suit by asking customers to return 1.8m.Toshiba said it had received no reports of explosions or heating problems but remained concerned about the batteries' performance. Unlike the earlier recalls, the decision was not made at the instigation of the US's Consumer Product Safety Commission.Around 200,000 laptops outside of the US and Japan are believed to be affected, pushing the total number of recalled batteries to more than 6m worldwide.The news marks a low point in a difficult year for Sony, which has struggled with a range of other technical problems. Manufacturing difficulties have hit its plans to launch the PlayStation 3 games console this November, with the result that European consumers will not be able to get their hands on it until next spring. And the Japanese launch of its latest digital Walkman products was also pushed back after issues with component failure.It is not known how much the move will cost or whether Sony will be forced to stump up, but Toshiba has said the recall will not affect its earnings. At the close of trading on Tuesday Toshiba shares had risen 0.5% to &yen;796 (&#163;3.59) and Sony had fallen by 0.8% to &yen;4,930 (&#163;22.24).
"MSN today announced the US beta release of Soapbox on MSN Video, a user-uploaded video service that makes it easy for people to express themselves by uploading, discovering and sharing personal videos with the Soapbox community and others around the world. Soapbox will be available on MSN Video and will be deeply integrated throughout Microsoft Corp.'s portfolio of online services, including Windows Live Spaces and Windows Live Messenger," saysMicrosoft's press release.It works with Firefox and videos can be up to 100 megabytes. However, it's invitation only for now. Form a queue athttp://soapbox.msn.com.AP went to the preview yesterday.CNet has ashort news storyand an even shorter "hands on" that concludes:In sum, Soapbox is disappointing. It's a slightly better sharing service than YouTube in some small technical ways, but it doesn't help users make money from their content like Revver does; it doesn't have granular privacy controls like Vox; it won't post directly into blogs for you like VideoEgg; and it won't show videos from other networks like Yahoo Video. Given Microsoft's position in the video sharing market (dead last), I expected a more aggressive product.Afterthought: One point is that the quality for Windows users can be brilliant -- using wmv. Linux and Mac users, however, get the usual low-grade transcoded Flash rubbish familiar from YouTube and similar sites. Question for any odd Linux user with beta access and the time to spare: can you get access to the wmv files using MPlayer, gmplayer or Xine etc?
Microsoft's "E3: Bringing It Home" initiative compiled game demos, press briefings and show floor footage from the final E3 and made them available on Xbox Live. It was a decent gesture, aping the likes of IGN and Gamespot with their TV-style video output from the last few shows. And now the Seattle behemoth is preparing similar reports from the Tokyo Game Show and X06 events. As the press release explains:"From Wednesday 20th September to Friday 29th September, connected gamers can access the best content from the Tokyo Game Show in Japan and X06 in Barcelona, Spain, including highlights from both press briefings, daily updates and behind the scenes videos from the show floors as well as the hottest playable game demos"Microsoft has also announced that it will be introducing two new Xbox Live Arcade titles to coincide with the events, including a 'never before announced major franchise making its way onto Xbox Live Arcade'. Any guesses?Anyway, those who've never experienced the aural and visual splendours of TGS first-hand should be in for a treat - as long as Microsoft can swing the camera away from its own on-stage execs long-enough to take in some of the peripheral flavour (i.e. lots of frothily enthusiastic booth attendants dressed as game characters, train drivers and cops).
Here in Oz, the nation is mourning the loss of their favourite croc hunterSteve Irwin, who died earlier this month on an adventure in the Great Barrier Reef. I'll be heading up to his home patch north of Brisbane in a couple of days where a memorial service is happening later this week, but before I go rest real flowers at his nature park, I thought I'd highlight that players inWorld of Warcraftand Residents ofSecond Lifehave held cool events to pay respect to him in the virtual world.Once again, I'm amazed by the sense of community in these places.More on in-world memorialshere,here,hereand (an overview)here.
Things just keep getting worse for Sony over thebattery bungle: Toshiba has announced a recall of nearly 350,000 Sony-produced laptop batteries.The call-back affects Dynabook and Satellite models made between May and March - but Tosh says the recall is not because of reports of exploding or overheating, unlike previously afflicted machines from Dell and Apple.According to reports, the problem is that the batteries simply stop working, and theBBCclaims "Toshiba said the batteries would die "only in rare cases"."Things just keep getting worse for Sony - when will the rot stop?
This week's Science weekly podcast is online, featuring a lovely spread of science and technology stories for your aural pleasure.Click here to listen now.We speak toClive Finlayson, who has discovered what might be the last resting place of the Neanderthals, and you can hear from Royal Society's chief librarianKeith Moore, who discusses some of the weird and wonderful research available through theonline archive.Plus I talk to roboticistMark Tilden- a former Nasa engineer and inventor of the RoboSapiens toy - about his claims that we'll have household bots in just a few years.It's not exclusively technology content, but if you haven't heard the show yet you might be interested in having a listen. It's put together by the science/technology reporters here at the Guardian - namely Alok Jha, James Randerson, Ian Sample and myself - and goes out every Monday afternoon (here's thefull archive).For those of you who use iTunes, you can subscribevia the store, or pick new episodes up through ourRSS feed- and leave your feedback here, or mailscience@guardian.co.uk.
Oh dear. And I wondered why I hadn't watched ITV in about 10 years. I've just sat through an excruciating programme looking at "addictive videogames". According toTonight with Trevor McDonald31% of kids who play games think they are addicted, with some lucky buggers* able to play up to 20 hours a day.A host of spotty teenage boys with acne and/or weight issues - plus a six year old playing what sounded suspiciously like the 18-rated Grand Theft Auto - were wheeled on to explain how addicted they were to "games". The most extreme was a Dutch guy who peed in bottles so he could carry on playing. Yes, I'd cross the road to avoid him too.The global threat of addictive gaming was highlighted by familiar stories from Europe -Dutch clinic- Asia and the US. The latter concerned the tragic suicide ofShawn Woolleyalthough the impact was lessened by the presenter'sBrass Eye-style disbelieving nod to camera. In fact the unintentional influence ofChris Morris'classic satire was evident throughout the show, particularly during an incredibly patronising sequence where the presenter dramatically explained the threat from "new generation" games.ELPSA - the UK trade body - used their PR to remind us not play games in darkened rooms, which was nice of them, but the central thrust of the argument - GAMES ARE BAD - was never up for discussion.Of course, most people reading this blog will have had gaming sessions when one hour turns into 5 - heck, I've lost the odd night to WoW. Addictive? Well, like any pleasurable activity, gaming can be. But it's all about moderation. I run a half marathon every few months. If I ran for 14 hours a day I'd be knackered - or possibly dead. It's all about moderation and parenting - and pressing the off switch.When interviewed one of the psychologists argued, probably rightly, that many heavy gamers play for hours to escape from the real world. But if it means missing TV like this then who can blame them?*Joke - obviously playing for 20 hours a day is naughty and a bit stupid
Xbox360 owners - there's a Guardian GRAW session tonight from 8pm. Send a friend request to me (Keefer71) or, if you're already on my list, wait for an invite. All skill levels are welcome. We'll be playing mostly Team Elimination and Team Territory. You won't need the extra GRAW download.Come on, there's nothing on TV, I've checked...
Writing on the Apple announcements, Jupiter analystMichael Gartenberg concludesthatAt the end of the day, there's no reason to think the iPod will lose significant market share for the next 24 months.No argument there; you'd not want to be trying to sell any other digital music player against the new lineup of iPods. But something else Gartenberg said intrigued us:Also, it's still early in terms of holiday announcements, we might yet hear another one or two things from Cupertino before the first frost hits in the East.Since Gartenberg had (surely) a prebriefing from Apple on the announcements, the hint - allied to Steve Jobs's signoff on Tuesday of "We'll see you all again soon" - does leave possibilities in the air.One other thought: last year when the iPod nano launched, it had a blitz of adverts to go with it.This year, the most popular iPod ever, the iPod mini is reborn (come on, with those colours, be honest), and yet there's not a squeak. It's quiet. Too quiet.Think Secret certainly thinks so, and is putting its finger to the corner of its mouth and adopting a raised eyebrow (think Robert Wagner in the Austin Powers films) to suggest a widescreen touchscreen iPod before Christmas.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Archbishop of Canterbury has been speaking out about the crisis facing children in modern society. His key targets are the relentless levels of testing in modern schools ("the whole educational system (is) anxiety driven") and advertising to children ("The whole thing about pester power for children, which of course advertising colludes with so often, needs challenging.") Interesting then, that this morning's BBC Breakfast programme chose to illustrate a short preview of a report on these comments with a shot of... yes, children playing videogames.I've not yet seen the video of Dr Rowan Williams' interview, but judging bythis precisfrom the BBC's website - in which games are not evenmentionedamong his major concerns - I'd say interactive entertainment is not really a defining element of his argument. But there they are on TV: kids playing games. The convenient symbol for a youth in crisis.Last week 110 'professionals and academics', including several children's authors sentan open letterto the Telegraph, concerned about 'escalating incidence of childhood depression'. In one paragraph they wrote:"[Children] still need what developing human beings have always needed, including real food (as opposed to processed "junk"), real play (as opposed to sedentary, screen-based entertainment), first-hand experience of the world they live in and regular interaction with the real-life significant adults in their lives."TheChildren's Societyhas concurred, launching The Good Childhood Inquiry, 'the UK's first independent national inquiry into childhood':"The Children's Society believes that there is a climate of fear and confusion surrounding childhood. The childhood experienced by today's children is significantly different from that of previous generations."Where is this going?It is frustrating that videogames are often pulled into these campaigns and causes - or more accurately the reportage surrounding these campaigns and causes - with little or no context built around the subject. Like it or not, we now live in a technological society that demands from a majority of working adults some knowledge of, and ability with, computers. Videogames - in adult-supervised moderation - are a marvelous de-stigmatising introduction to computing.Videogames aren't digital junk food - they're not full of empty calories. They can be brilliant for children. It is not helpful to foster an environment in which non-techy parents feel they must cut games out of their offspring's lives. More importantly, videogames are such a ridiculously minor part of such a major social question it is laughable they even emerge. But emerge they inevitably do.
Hot from our BOD (Bleeding Obvious Department), research last week uncovered the shocking truth: techies aremore likely to wear heavy metal T-shirts at work.In fact, they are twice as likely as their counterparts in other areas of work. And that's not all that MS Exchange host Intermedia found during a survey of workers - apparently IT bods are:34%more likely to have a ponytail63%more likely to wear black jeans32%less likely to wear clean clothes to work20%more likely to carry a LeathermanHands up now. Do you fit the stereotype?
