What’s the fastest way to find Wally, or Waldo as he’s inexplicably called in the US and Canada? Why, with machine learning, of course.The new method derived by a doctoral student at Michigan State University’s High-Performance Computing Centre, entirely defeats the simple pleasure of aimlessly staring at a page covered in animated characters that look like Wally, but are in fact imposters planted by fiendishMartin Handford, creator of the Where’s Wally books.Related:Michigan's big freeze – in pictures“I was going to pull out every machine learning trick in my tool box to compute the optimal search strategy for finding Waldo. I was going to crush Slate’ssupposed foolproof strategyand carve a trail of defeated Waldo-searchers in my wake,” Randy Olsonposted on his blog.Olson had been trapped at home by a snow storm, which gave him time to spare. He used that time to derive the method for finding Wally fastest using a data set mapping out all of Wally’s positions across all 68 of Handford’s books published since 1987.The co-ordinates where plugged into a genetic algorithm – a search process that mimics the process of natural selection used in artificial intelligence as part of machine learning. The result was a trial and error search that optimised the fastest route to take across the page to find Wally.“Genetic algorithms continually tinker with the solution — always trying something slightly different from the current best solution and keeping the better one — until they can’t find a better solution any more,” explained Olson.Optimal search path for finding Waldo, optimized w/ a GA.#dataviz#datascience&#10;&#10;Source:http://t.co/LfUavPB4yCpic.twitter.com/itHuaf44Ir&mdash; Randy Olson (@randal_olson)February 3, 2015He ran the algorithm for five minutes and found the solution – a path across the page that takes into account that Wally is never in the top left of the page, as he would be covered by the postcard, or in the bottom right as that’s the most looked at part of the entire page, as readers see it first when turning the pages of the book.Related:Artificial intelligence 'will not end human race'“This path represents one of the shortest possible paths to follow on the page to find Waldo, so if we followed this path exactly, we’d most likely find Waldo much faster than someone following a more basic technique,” said Olson.The method has yet to be put to the test, but should you really need to find Wally fast, rather than enjoy the search, this could save yours or Wally’s bacon.
It’s brutal out there for public service institutions. They are under relentless pressure to conform to a bizarre form of market logic that requires them to turn a profit, even if the only way to do so is at the expense of the public that has supported them for all these years. Whether that’s archives that are being told to make up their budget shortfalls by selling digital access or the BBC being told to expect a much-reduced license fee and to make up the difference by figuring out how to grow Worldwide, its commercial arm.Even when it’s not so direct as that, the pressure is still there: libraries are forced to carry DRM-locked ebooks by the publishers, even though these books leak huge amounts of sacrosanct patron data – location, reading habits and social relationships – to third parties. From the NHS to the state school system to public media to museums, every institution is being recreated as something that must be judged on nonsensical quantitative metrics that can be easily gamed to make the relevant numbers go up while undermining the services they relate to. For example, schools can improve their attendance numbers by refusing to allow students to accompany their parents to events with unique educational value; hospitals can improve their finances by refusing to treat chronic and emergency patients; and archives can improve their revenues by denying access to all but those who can afford to surmount a paywall.The proponents of these measures – and the profitable public-private partnerships they entail – call this capitalism, but it’s not very good capitalism. In real capitalism, early stage investors get equity commensurate with the risk attended by early investment. If you start a business and get your mum to mortgage her house to keep it afloat, then get a fat round of venture capital once it’s been proven out and you need some cash to expand to meet demand, the VCs don’t get to take away all your poor mum’s equity. As the first money in, she gets a long-term, hefty chunk of the equity, and dilutes least and last in subsequent rounds. Try to freeze mum out and she can have a sharp City solicitor break you in an ugly minority shareholder lawsuit.In the story of market-driven public institutions, it’s we, the public, who are the angel investors. We paid to keep the archives growing, to put a roof over the museum, to amass and catalogue all of our nation’s cultural treasures (and the treasures of many other nations). The internet now makes it possible for those institutions to reach wider audiences than ever before, at lower costs than ever before – once their collections are digitised. When Siemens or another big company comes along to digitise our investments, they are the VCs putting in late-stage capital after we’ve borne all the risks, sometimes for centuries. If our management team – led by David Cameron, the self-styled MD of UK plc – offers these investor-come-latelies the lion’s share of the equity (that is, access to those treasures) for their paltry, late-stage capital, then he is in gross dereliction of his duty to us, the shareholders.But of course, this is a stupid story. We don’t invest in public service institutions because we want them to be profitable. We invest in them because we want them to be good. Galleries, museums, archives and libraries tell us who we are. Schools and hospitals tend our minds and bodies. They are not businesses. We are not shareholders.We have private archives, private schools, private healthcare, and private libraries. They cream off the easiest, most profitable, least onerous part of the public service remit. As austerity tightens and market logic crushes our institutions, many have become private/public hybrids, charging for some of their services, or selling off some of their treasures, or forcing the public to fit within the metrics demanded by the zealots of UK plc.This is suicide. There is no amount of capitulation that will save your institution. If your archive charges the public to access its own memories, who will argue to keep it funded when the next round of cuts comes along? People who can’t afford to pay for your archive won’t stand up for it. People who can afford to pay for archival services already have private firms to serve them – why would they vote for their tax money to support another for-pay service?Even if every pupil in the state system turned up on time, never missed a day, learned to recite her times-tables to 12, aced every standardised test, and devoted herself to reading upright classics that would delight an anxious Victorian middle-class striver, they will not become educated. Attendance isn’t learning. Tests measure the ability to take tests.But if you subject the children in your care to this hateful, regimented, meaningless fooforaw in the name of learning, they will grow up to be adults who don’t see any reason to defend public education or the teaching professions.The BBC exists to represent the interests of the license payers – including their children, even if they haven’t yet paid a single penny into the license – in negotiations with rights holders and governments. The minute the BBC switches allegiance and starts letting production companies demand that it restrict license payers’ access, it loses the voters who will support its existence in the future. The argument that license payers should have to pay to access the material their license fees already paid for because that will allow the BBC to buy more material that license payers can pay more to access is so stupid it’s a wonder that the people who espouse it don’t turn to ash on the spot.Dear public service: the true believers in UK plc don’t want you to exist. Even though they’re running the country, you can’t afford to please them, because you can only do so by alienating the stakeholders you desperately need to have on your side for the next round of cuts.
Here is something that actually happened to me in Far Cry 4 yesterday. The latest title in Ubisoft’s open-world shooter series is set in a fictitious region named Kyrat, tucked up in the Himalayan mountains. Although stunningly beautiful, the country is ruled over by a psychopathic tyrant, Pagan Min, who has enslaved the population; when the game starts, the player arrives to usurp him – like Clint Eastwood in High Plains Drifter. But with automatic assault rifles and a bag of C4 explosives.You don’t have to bother with all that narrative nonsense, though. Instead, you can simply drive around Kyrat’s sprawling countryside, raiding enemy bases and discovering the wildlife. And by discovering I usually mean shooting.In the Far Cry titles, hunting is an important gameplay element. If you kill an animal you can skin it and use its hide to craft a variety of useful items, such as weapon holsters (so you can carry more guns) and wallets (for your cash, obviously). Of course, this will all be shocking to animal lovers, particularly those who cannot bear any portrayal of wildlife distress. To those people I would just say,stay away from Far Cry 4 –because, among many other things, this is a game that weaponises elephants.The beauty of Far Cry 4 though is that the animal kingdom is a truly anarchic system, and these are very rare in video gaming. There are dozens of different types of creature roaming the landscape, all exhibiting their own needs and behaviours, and they do what they want, regardless of your plans as a player. This has always been the case with the Far Cry series, which is much more about the player vs the environment, than shooting at enemies, but Ubisoft has really cranked up the anarchy this time. These animals are vicious.Yesterday, I was hunting pigs because I needed a bigger wallet. The game’s map shows you where you can expect to find certain types of animal, so you just head into the area and scout quietly through the bushes, or along valley pathways, hoping to sight your pray. I caught the pigs quite quickly, and managed to snag one with a single sniper shot from some considerable distance. I was pretty pleased, but as I traipsed gingerly over to my prize, something unexpected happened. An eagle swooped out of the sky, grasped the pig in its claws, and took off again. Its flight was laboured and slow, of course, because it was carrying a pig. But it got away. I watched it soar over the tree tops before dropping the pig into a cluster of bushes in the far distance. I just stood there in the clearing, thinking something that I have never before thought while playing a computer game. An eagle just stole my pig.This is just one of the many ridiculous things that animals have done in Far Cry 4 while I have been watching. I’ve seen a herd of rhinos smash up an entire enemy base. Another time, I was at the mercy of an enemy soldier brandishing a molotov cocktail and thought my number was up until a honey badger leaped down onto his head from a small cliff, inspiring the man to effectively throw the bottle of burning alcohol athimself. I once spent 15 minutes locating a truly brilliant sniping position near a large enemy encampment only to be devoured by Tibetan wolves. And I fell off a radio tower because a snake surprised me.Most open world games are effectively based around two agencies: the player and the enemy. Enemies are allowed to be unpredictable and intelligent because that is what gameplay demands. But very often, other agents placed in the world are just there for decoration. If you look at the pedestrians and other drivers in Grand Theft Auto for example, they are effectively walking scenery – it’s very rare that they react positively to player activities, and it’s even rarer when they respond to each other creating emergent moments of pointless drama.This is a shame because when it does happen, it’s amazing and hilarious. Witness this video of a fracas between a group of firemen and a car driver.There’s a reason this video has almost 750,000 views: watching an entirely emergent non-narrative fight breakout between computer controlled avatars is astonishing and compelling. It’s not just slapstick violence, it actually enhances our understanding of the environment. It tells us that the world of Los Santos is truly batshit crazy, that the player characters are effectively products of a broken society. Also, I mean, they run over the guy’s head in their fire truck. WTF, Rockstar?!There are reasons why designers shy away from this sort of nihilism. First, gamers often react badly to having their plans ruined by a misfiring computer system. This is why EA Sports will never purposefully introduce dodgy refereeing decisions into the Fifa series: it would just feel infuriatingly unfair. Secondly, truly emergent, physics-based behavioural systems are unpredictable and can break things. While that could be an exciting and interesting feature of an indie game, it is bloody terrifying to publishers sending $50-100m on Triple A titles.However, as we enter into the next generation of truly adaptive and persistent open world games, I think more developers are going to have to introduce anarchic systems. Cities filled with weird repetitive automatons, soullessly re-enacting the same smartphone conversations over and over again, are going to seem really weird when the visual acuity of the environment, and the human/animal models themselves, are so rich and detailed.Related:In Shadow of Mordor revenge gets personalFor years, the term Uncanny Valley was used in games to describe the eerie feeling you get when you see a digital representation of a human face that isn’t quite right. But actually, digital faces are quite convincing now. The next stage is an uncanny valley of behaviour: the world looks real, the people look real, the animals look real – but why are they all behaving so oddly? Why are they seemingly on rails?Far Cry 4, then, hints at a game design era in which every video game ecosystem is a living entity that co-exists with, and sometimes reacts against, the player. The future of all games is the eagle taking the pig.
Wearable camera manufacturer GoPro had a bumper end to 2014, shipping 2.4m of its devices in the final quarter of the year as its revenues soared.The company, which went public in June 2014, reported revenues of $633.9m in the fourth quarter of 2014, a 75% year-on-year rise from its $361.5m of sales in the final quarter of 2013.Related:The rise of GoPro: why wearable cameras make us film everythingGoPro said strong demand for its cameras, including the Hero4 line that it launched in September, fuelled its growth in the months leading up to Christmas.“We’re feeling good. GoPro was one of the best-selling products this holiday, selling-in an average of 1,000 units per hour for the entire quarter,” said chief executive Nicholas Woodman in a statement.GoPro says that it shipped 5.2m cameras in 2014 as a whole, while its companion apps have notched up more than 13m downloads, including 2.8m in the fourth quarter of 2014 alone.All those shipments are important for the company’s next phase of growth, which it sees coming from the videos being filmed by GoPro users, rather than just sales of the devices to those people.The company says that more than 3.9 years worth of videos with “GoPro” in the title were uploaded to YouTube in 2014, while its official channel’s views grew by 84% during the year, while its watch time increased by 140%.GoPro now has 2.7 million subscribers to that channel and nearly 698m video views since its launch in 2009. However, the company is forging other partnerships as it evolves into a media company, as well as a hardware maker.GoPro’s channel for LG’s connected TVs.Already in 2015, GoPro haslaunched a streaming TV channel for LG’s connected televisions, with playlists including Deep Sea, Wild Animals and Full Throttle collecting some of the daredevil exploits of its customers.GoPro is alsoworking with US sports body the National Hockey League(NHL) and its official players’ association to get players wearing cameras, with the footage then made available during broadcasts of matches as well as online.Its newest partnership, announced alongside the financial results, iswith set-top box maker Roku. GoPro’s channel of videos and playlists will launch on Roku – whose shareholders include 21st Century Fox and BSkyB – in the spring.
The two major new games franchises Destiny and Hearthstone brought in a combined $850m revenue for gaming megacorp Activision Blizzard, its financial reports show.Destiny was as close to a guaranteed hit as the gaming world gets - the first new franchise from Halo developers Bungie in a decade. Signed to the publishers for a reported $1bn, the first-person shooter incorporates elements borrowed from Activision Blizzard’s massive online hit World of Warcraft to create an addictive (some might say compulsive) experience aimed squarely at the console mainstream.The second game, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, couldn’t be more different – or more indicative of where the focus will be for all publishers come 2015.A collectible card game, thematically based on the Warcraft franchise dating back to Blizzard’s genesis, Hearthstone is the company’s first real foray into the world of free-to-play games.Available on PC, iPad and Android devices, the entire game is possible to play without spending a penny: new cards can be bought using in-game currency won by beating human opponents in duels, and even a whole new game mode can be bought.A few years back, suggesting that that sort of game would turn out to be one of Activision Blizzard’s highest grossing new franchises could have got you laughed out of the room. But with the rise of mobile gaming and the massive financial success of other free-to-play games such as Clash of Clans and Candy Crush Saga, that assumption has been turned on its head. Compared to those giants, Hearthstone remains a tiny player:Clash of Clans pulled in revenue of $1.8bn in 2014.That’s partially a factor of the game’s comparatively small player-base. While Hearthstone has more than 25 million registered players – around 10 million more than Destiny – there are stumbling blocks preventing it from achieving the huge numbers other free-to-play games have.One is that Hearthstone is, fundamentally, not an abusive game. The free-to-play superstars tend to incorporate at least some mechanics designed to extract money from players through a combination of frustration and addiction – think paying to beat a tough level in Candy Crush Saga, or to reset a timer in Clash of Clans. In contrast, Hearthstone limits what players can get with their cash to more cards, or more goes in the game’s random deck-building “Arena” mode.On top of that distinction, the format, a Magic: the Gathering-style card game, presents a relatively high barrier to entry, and the absence of a browser or phone version further limits the potential pool of players.The latter point is about to change: Activision Blizzard’s chief financial officer Dennis Durkin confirmed in the company’s earnings call that the firm is set to bring the game “to mobile devices later in the year”.Related:Destiny has 16m players, Call of Duty in 2015 – six things we learned from Activision's financials“We’ll keep working hard to build on last year’s momentum with more content in 2015 as well as the upcoming Android phone and iPhone versions of the game,” said Blizzard’s Chief Executive Michael Morhaime.As they get released throughout the course of the year, those apps should bring Hearthstone to whole new audiences. It’s unlikely to ever beat the titans of free-to-play, but from here the only way is up.
Watchmaker giant Swatch will release a smartwatch this year to compete with Google, Samsung and Apple.Related:Apple Watch update: will you be wearing one soon?Following rumours that the Swiss watch conglomerate was partnering with Apple on its Apple Watch, Swatch chief executive Nick Hayek revealed that the company will start selling a smartwatch within three months.The Swatch smartwatch will go head-to-head with Samsung and Google’s existing smartwatch line, as well the new Apple’ smartwatch scheduled forlaunch in April.“Swatch will launch a new generation of its Swatch smartwatch in the next two to three months. Functions will include communication, mobile payments at stores such as Migros and Coop, and applications that works with Windows and Android - without having to be charged,” Hayek said in a statement following the release of the company’s financials.The Swatch smartwatch’s communications features are likely to include SMS display and smartphone notifications including incoming calls, similar to most other smartwatches available today.Related:Click tock: which is the best smartwatch this Christmas?The key difference, according to the Hayek, will be that the watch will not need to be charged. Apple has said its watch will need charging once a day. The best Android Wear watches from Sony and LG last under three days before needing to be charged, while the Pebble smartwatch lasts around five days per charge.Swatch has a track record of designing watches with additional features, releasing its first touchscreen watch in 1999 under its Tissot brand, which now has watches packed various sensors for logging dives among other activities.The Swiss company also has a stable of watch-related patents across batteries, watch mechanisms, displays, manufacturing and materials, which may aid it in competition with technology companies and traditional watch manufacturers.Luxury watchmaker Montblanc launched a version of a smartwatch at the Salon International de la Haute Horlogerie (SIHH) 2015 watch trade show in Geneva in Januarycalled the e-Strap, which is a screen that attaches to a traditional analogue watch. Others including Timex and Fossil have partnered with technology companies to launch devices in the near future.
NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden’s revelations of mass surveillance by government agencies has made a big impact on investigative journalists, according to a new study.The survey of 671 journalists,conducted by the US-based Pew Research Center and Columbia University’s Tow Center for Digital Journalism, found that 64% believe that the US government has probably collected data about their communications.49% said that they have changed the way they store and share potentially sensitive documents in the last year as a result, while 29% have altered the way they communicate with fellow journalists.However, only 3% have opted not to pursue a particular story due to concerns about electronic surveillance and hacking, although 13% have not reached out to a particular source for those reasons. Just 2% have considered abandoning investigative journalism.The study quizzed members of trade body Investigative Reporters and Editors (IRE) on their concerns and professional habits in December 2014, using an online survey.It found that meeting in person rather than communicating by phone or email remains the most popular way journalists try to protect sources: 48% said they have been doing this for more than a year, while a further 11% have started in the last 12 months.7% of journalists surveyed said they’d been using encryption for email and instant messaging for more than a year, while 8% had started in the last 12 months. Only 3% in total use voice encryption when communicating by phone.When it comes to protecting their own data, 91% of journalists surveyed now use different passwords for different online accounts, including 15% who have started doing so in the last year.Related:Live from The Logan Symposium: secrecy, surveillance and censorship64% regularly clear their browser history; 72% use enhanced privacy settings on social networks; and 66% turn off the geolocation features in mobile devices, apps and social networks.Other findings included a lack of confidence in internet service providers, with just 2% of journalists saying they have a lot of confidence that their ISP can protect their data, compared to 27% who had some confidence, and 71% who had “not much or no confidence at all”.90% said they believed that their ISP would share their data with the US government as part of standard data gathering by the National Security Agency (NSA), while 97% said they believed it would if subpoenaed by the government as part of a criminal investigation.There was more confidence in the ability of their own news organisations to protect them: 47% said their company was doing enough to protect them and their sources, although 50% said it was not.To a separate question on whether their organisation had taken new steps to protect them against surveillance and hacking in the last year, 36% said it had not, while 21% said it had. 41% said they had received training from outside sources about ways to protect themselves and their sources.“In a world of diminishing newsroom resources, some respondents say the issue has not risen to a level where it can be treated as a budgetary priority,” explained the report’s authors Jesse Holcomb, Amy Mitchell and Kristen Purcell.“Comments also show that while some journalists view these issues as being the responsibility of the IT department and something they do not pay much attention to, others are actively encouraging their organisations to improve.”That played into a wider finding in the report: that budget cuts are a bigger headache for most investigative journalists than the threat of electronic surveillance.88% said decreasing newsroom resources was their biggest challenge today, compared to 5% saying legal action against journalists, and 4% saying electronic surveillance. 56% chose legal action as the second biggest challenge, while 28% chose electronic surveillance.“Overall, these data paint a complex picture in which investigative journalists on the whole feel vulnerable to surveillance and hacking, but not to the degree that most are changing their journalistic practices dramatically or investing energy into figuring out how to do so,” claims the report.“And nearly all of those surveyed (97%) say that for today’s journalists, the benefits of digital communication like email and cellphones outweigh the risks. Just 3% say the risks outweigh the benefits.”
Twitter’s share-price soared in the hours after the companypublished its latest quarterly financial results, as investors cheered its sharp growth in advertising revenues, and tactfully ignored another nine-digit net loss and sluggish user growth.The social network’searnings call with analystsprovided more context to its latest numbers, including news of an iOS 8 bug that lost it four million users; Twitter’s further plans for recommendation and curation; and a data-sharing deal with Google. Here are the highlights:Blame Apple (in part) for sluggish user growthTwitter had an average of 288 million monthly active users (MAUs) in the final quarter of 2014. That’s up 20% year-on-year, but was only four million more MAUs than it averaged in the third quarter of 2014. Has the social network reached some kind of ceiling?Not according to chief executive Dick Costolo, who put the meagre quarterly growth of 1.4% partly down to “seasonality”, and partly down to Twitter’s integration with Apple’s iOS 8 software, which launched in September.“We lost approximately four million net users due to the rollout of the iOS8 integration,” said CFO Anthony Noto, with Costolo adding that there was “an unforseen bug in the release of iOS 8 as it relates to the specific Twitter integration” – although neither gave specific details.Costolo claimed that Twitter is back on track for user growth so far in 2015, suggesting that “our Q1 trend is likely to be back in the range of absolute net ads that we saw during the first three quarters of 2014”.The company added 14 million net users in the first quarter of 2014, 16 million in the second quarter then 13 million in the third. If it’s back in that range now, Twitter should reach the milestone of 300 million active users by the end of March.More money, and mobile is still the keyThe main reason investors were so chuffed with Twitter’s financials was its growth in revenues – up 97% year-on-year to $479m in the fourth quarter, leading Costolo to “publicly congratulate everybody involved in building the business engine at Twitter” during the earnings call.Twitter now makes $2.37 in ad revenues for every 1,000 timeline views on its service, and mobile is the key. 80% of its active users access Twitter from a mobile device at least some of the time last quarter, and mobile ads accounted for 88% of Twiter’s $432m of advertising revenues.Twitter continues to work on deals to take its ads to other apps and websites, following itsrecent partnerships with Yahoo Japan and Flipboard. “Because our primary ad unit is a tweet, the ads can go wherever tweets go, and our monetisation engine follows our content on sites across the web or another mobile apps,” said Costolo.Is Twitter any closer to turning a profit from all this monetisation? Well, it recorded another sizeable net loss in the fourth quarter of 2014 – $125.4m – and its losses for 2014 as a whole reached $577.8m. Which, at least, is down from its $645.3m net loss in 2013. Investors seemingly aren’t spooked about it, though.Recommendation and curation is a big deal for TwitterTwitter sees recommendations and curation as a key part of its business in 2015, especially when it comes to ensuring newly-registered users don’t feel so intimidated at the prospect of figuring out who to follow that they drop out.The new Instant Timeline feature is the first big push on this front. “We get them into a fully populated timeline that does not require them to immediately know the language of Twitter or who is on Twitter etc. Expect to see this on mobile in short order,” said Costolo.Related:Twitter's 'Instant Timeline' is actually a really good idea“By immediately dropping users into a high quality timeline of great content we believe we will be better able to convert those new signups into healthy long-term users.”He later returned to the theme during the earnings call. “We know that the follow action is the high-friction action for new users and by removing that action completely and dropping users into a really high quality timeline right away, we’re hopeful we’ll drive immediate engagement and create long-term users out of that large group of people we have coming into the top of the funnel.”The algorithm being used for Instant Timeline is also behind a new feature for Twitter’s existing users: “While You Were Away”, which shows older tweets that it thinks they’ll be interested in at the top of their timelines.“There are more than 6,000 tweets a minute every day. What one person sees on Twitter is just a very narrow slice of all the amazing content we have on the platform and we have an obligation to better organise content and deliver it in compelling ways to our total audience,” said Costolo.He later added that the recommendation algorithm is “the number one priority” for Twitter’s engineers this year: “It drives so much of the high quality engagement on the platform that, that’s probably first and foremost where we’ll devote a lot of resources.”Twitter’s new video uploading features.Photograph: PRMobile video is also a priority2015 is going to be a year of intense development around video for Twitter. We’ve already seen the companylaunch video editing and sharing featureswithin its mobile apps, joining its existing work with the standalone Vine app, and its Amplify scheme for broadcasters and brands to promote video on Twitter.“We’re clearly at the very beginning of mobile video sharing,” said Costolo, who pointed to the 1.5bn daily loops of Vine videos as evidence of the demand for video from Twitter users.“In expanding video to more people, we want to develop features that make video fast and easy,” said Costolo. “The simple video editor now in the tweet composer makes it super easy to capture moments as they happen with video on Twitter. We have a lot more coming on the mobile video front and I am personally investing a good deal of time in this area.”One analyst asked how the new native video features will complement or compete with Vine. “I think of Vine as really a creative medium in its own right, an artistic medium in its own right,” said Costolo.“You see the emergence of all these Vine stars and what they’ve been able to do on the platform as distinct from, but complementary to, native mobile video across the Twitter ecosystem.” He also promised more tools for video creators on Twitter, to roll out over the coming months.Google and the opportunity to ‘aggregate eyeballs’Ads might be Twitter’s main way to make money, but the company also made $47m from “data licensing and other revenue” in the final quarter of 2014. That was up 105% year-on-year as it found new customers willing to pay for its firehose of data: a business-focused deal with IBM, for example.Twitter has started 2015 with a bang on this front, withreports of a new deal with Googleto make tweets visible in the latter’s search results as soon as they are posted –three and a half years after a previous partnership expired.Related:Twitter: why #SoggyFries make for a tasty future in big-data revenueThose reports of a new deal were true. “We have a relationship that we’ve agreed to with Google. I don’t have any more detail to share about it at this time,” Costolo told analysts, and he was true to his word in remaining tight-lipped about whether Google is paying for the deal, and if so how much.He did warn that real-time tweets in Google search won’t be available “for several months”, while hinting that Twitter sees the partnership as an important way to bring internet users to its new “logged out” homepage, which will show a curated mix of tweets, trends and accounts.“What’s new about those deals is that they will drive traffic and distribute traffic to our logged out experience,” he said, explaining what had changed since the companies’ last partnership lapsed.“We’ve got the opportunity now to drive a lot of attention – to aggregate eyeballs, if you will – to these logged out experiences, topics and events that we plan on delivering on the front page of Twitter. And that’s one of the reasons this makes a lot more sense for us now.”Twitter likes cricket, but analysts don’t care about trollsTwo smaller points of interest from the earnings call: Twitter is planning a big push around the cricket World Cup this year, building on its work with football in 2014.“We’re providing global cricket fans with an immersive experience similar to what we provided for the FIFA World Cup last summer,” promised Costolo, highlighting India as a big part of this thanks toTwitter’s recent acquisition of Indian mobile tech startup ZipDial.“We’ll be working with them to bring key moments and commentary around the cricket World Cup to a much larger audience on Twitter.”Something that wasn’t mentioned during the earnings call – by Costolo or by analysts – was Twitter’s desire to crack down on abuse on its network in 2015.Despite the call taking place just a day after a Costolo memo admitting“We suck at dealing with abuse and trolls on the platform and we’ve sucked at it for years”was leaked, he didn’t face a single question about Twitter’s plans to do better.Its CEO may see dealing with trolls as a corporate priority, but until there’s proof that toxic tweets are harming advertising revenues, Wall Street seems unfussed. #Business.
Call of Duty publisher Activision Blizzard boasted record sales for 2014 and beat market estimates for its fiscal quarter ending 31 December, but share value fell after the company announced it was unlikely to meet revenue projections for 2015.In an investor call on Thursday evening, adjusted sales of $2.2bn were revealed for the last quarter, beating estimates of $2.1bn, thanks to strong sales for Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare and Destiny. The company projected 2015 earnings of $4.14bn for 2015, lower than the $4.4bn it previously estimated. Activision blamed weakened foreign currencies, higher tax rates and investment into Blizzard’s free-to-play online battle game Heroes of the Storm.Here’s what else we learned.Treyarch is answering the Call of Duty in 2015Call of Duty: Black Ops II – the most successful title in the CoD series. Will there be a follow-up?Photograph: PRNot announced during the investor call but revealed concurrently on Twitter, developer Treyarch confirmed that it is developing 2015’s Call of Duty instalment. The creator of the Black Ops titles didn’t mention whether its game would be a continuation of that series, but considering Black Ops 2 remains the most successful title in Call of Duty history that seems pretty likely.Bobby Kotick also revealed that the culminative earnings for the Call of Duty franchise now stand at over $11bn. So yeah, Call of Duty isn’t going anywhere.Destiny has over 16m registered usersThe ‘shared world shooter’ has over 16m players who indulge in an average of three hours of play a dayPhotograph: PRIt was a successful launch for Bungie’s online sci-fi shooter, even though the ambitious project received mixed reviews when it arrived in September. Activision claimed that data from market research company NPD made it “the most successful launch of a new video game franchise in history”. The mix of role-playing and FPS elements has certainly proved compelling: active players are averaging three hours of alien blasting a day. Three hours. There are no figures on how much of that time was spent hanging around outsidethe loot cave.Skylanders is still ridiculously successfulLast year’s Skylanders: Trap Team has continued the success of the ‘toys to life’ seriesPhotograph: ActivisionThe “toys to life” series, which combines kid-friendly role-playing adventures with compatible action figures, is another ongoing success. So far, Activision has sold 240m Skylanders toys, outperforming all other action figure lines in 2014. The series has made over $3bn so far.The company is promising an “innovative” new title in the series this year, which is good news for fans, but bad news for parents: if there are significant new features it’ll probably mean a lack of backward compatibility with the current Portal of Power peripheral that connects the game to the toys. Hence, new starter pack. OhActivision.The World of Warcraft ship has steadiedThe Warlords of Draenor expansion pack has boosted interest in Activision Blizzard’s long-running online role-playing game, World of WarcraftPhotograph: ActivisionThe long-running massively multiplayer online game has been losing players over the past two years, but thanks to a boost in interest delivered by new expansion pack Warlords of Draenor (which sold over 3.3m copies within 24 hours of its November launch), it ended the year with over 10m subscribers. Considering the influx of free-to-play alternatives, that’s impressive form for the ageing MMORPG warlord.Digital and free-to-play are the big growth areasCall of Duty Online is coming to China this year; a free-to-play version of the blockbusting shooter designed specifically for the regionPhotograph: ActivisionLike its rival publishers Electronic Arts and Ubisoft, Activision is moving away from a concentration on boxed-copy game sales and toward digital distribution. This includes full downloadable games on smartphones, tablets and consoles, and extra downloadable content for big titles like Call of Duty and Destiny. Indeed, the company boasted record digital sales in 2014, making up 46% of its revenue, and over the winter quarter it made $685 million from digital content. Demand for Call of Duty map packs doubled in 2014, and its likely that Destiny’s expansion packs – the already released Dark Below, and forthcoming House of Wolves – will provide a financial boost, especially at their £20 price point.In January, Activision launched an open beta of Call of Duty Online, a free-to-play version of the hit shooter, specifically targeted at the Chinese market, where the freemium model dominates. The game is co-published by China’s Tencent, which runs several of the regions leading free-to-play role-playing games.The company’s free card-battling game Hearthstone has also performed well with 25m registered players. Activision didn’t give separate revenue figures for the game, which makes money from microtransactions; it did, however, claim that, combined, Destiny and Hearthstone had generated $850m in revenue.There are new “franchises” to comeOverwatch is Blizzard’s new team-based shooter set on an alternative future EarthPhotograph: Activision“This year we expect to expand our leading franchise portfolio to ten, up from five franchises at the beginning of 2014,” said Activision Blizzard CEO, Bobby Kotick. “Franchise” is business speak for “games”, FYI.Anyway, this boosted line-up will include Blizzard’s two newcomers Heroes of the Storm and Overwatch, a six-vs-six online shooter clearly aimed at the growing eSports market. What else? Well, we can expect at least one new title – or maybe even a return of a favourite legacy series for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One era. Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater and Guitar Hero are both rumoured. We’d love to see Interstate 76, though: the apocalyptic road adventure from the 90s would look astonishing on current machines. Well, if there’s money in it, Activision will sniff it out.
DISORDERSwagabyte GamesPCUnder the radar for many, the recently released and brilliantly designedDisordertackles a bold subject with the simplest of gaming forms. It is a platform game about struggling with mental health problems. By offering two parallel planes of existence, it explores the divide between reality and personal perception of that reality.The landscape of Froze Cortex.Photograph: PRFROZEN CORTEXMode 7PC, Mac, Linux13 FebruaryIn the tradition of retro gaming iconSpeedball,Frozen Cortexdelivers a futuristic sport. Or, rather, it’s dressed up as one; specifically an unearthly robot rugby. Eschewing a sole action focus,Frozen Cortexplays out as a methodical strategy title. Experienced like an interactive football manager’s blackboard, it is brilliantly engrossing.A scene from Woolfe: the Red Hood Diaries.Photograph: PRWOOLFE: THE RED HOOD DIARIESGrin3D, PCThis creation by Grin3D reworksLittle Red Riding Hoodas something more sinister. Rather cinematic considering its existence as an adventure-platformer blending the second and third dimensions, it has been made available as “early access”, meaning you can play the game while it is still in development and provide feedback to its creators.Playing Darkest Dungeon.Photograph: PRDARKEST DUNGEONPC, MacRed Hook StudiosMade available as an early access game this month, this is a gothic-flavoured turn-based role-playing game, illustrated with a bold, distinct style. Its unusual angle is that the psychological stress of dangerous adventuring is a key gameplay mechanic. The game looks more interesting with each day closer to full release.
For two and a half years, Sasha Hostyn, better known to her legion of supporters as “Scarlett”, has, in her words, been “at the very top” of the North AmericanStarCraft IIleague.The video game, designed in California but whose spiritual home is in South Korea, where it has been adopted as something approaching a national sport, is often compared with chess. Both games are played by two players, each of whom command an army from a bird’s eye vantage point. But the analogy is flawed. InStarCraft II, the map changes between each match while each side’s troops are asymmetrical: players choose between three “races” at the start of the game, each with its advantages and drawbacks. Among her peers, Scarlett is considered something of a Kasparov – quick-witted, daring, stoic in the face of peril and, crucially for her sponsors,Acer, usually victorious.Related:Esports for all? How to get more women into pro gamingBut after four years of playingStarCraft IIprofessionally, Scarlett, who lives in Kingston, Ontario, is ready for change. “I want to try something else for a bit,” she tells me. “I’ve been playing a lot ofDota 2so I’m going to practise and see if I can get good at that. WithStarCraft III have lost a little bit of my competitive drive.”Dota 2, another American game, is played with two teams of five players and each player has a clearly defined role. For Scarlett, who has spent her career answering only to herself, the idea of working alongside other players is daunting. “Playing with strangers is always a challenge,” she says. “But I’m going to start looking for people who share my view and approach to the game soon. There can’t be conflict else you won’t be able to play well.” Scarlett’s plan to switch e-sports is unprecedented, she says. “If I can be good at both it’ll be something nobody has really done before.” But while both games are vastly different, they share elements that Scarlett considers essential for professional play. “Both games are extremely well-balanced,” she says. “More importantly, there are lots of ways in which, if you are better than someone else, you can create a lead. That’s crucial in high-level competitive play.”Hostyn plays in the eliminations round during the Red Bull Battle Grounds Grand Finals in Washington DC last September.Photograph: Cameron Baird/Red Bull Content PoolWhether or not Scarlett and her other colleagues should be considered professionals is a question for debate. They are certainly paid a salary and placed on a stage for the matches. Last year’s world final forLeague of Legends, the most widely played competitive video game in the world, was staged at the Sangam stadium in Seoul, where the 2002 world cup final was held. The prize pot totalled millions of dollars.The best cyber-atheletes can earn up to $200,000 a year and many e-sports teams live together in training houses where their diet, schedule and even psychological health can be monitored. In July 2013 one e-sports manager hired a lawyer who successfully campaigned to have one of his players issued with a US athlete visa, a move that in effect sees the game recognised as a professional sport. But last year John Skipper, the president of sports channel ESPN, declared that video games are “not a sport”, but “a competition”. Scarlett, meanwhile, admits that her only preparation on the day of a big match is to buy a cup of hot chocolate.Scarlett seems uninterested in how her hobby is categorised. At 20, she has earned a good living fromStarCraft II, winning $111,000 in tournaments and thousands more while playing in a team league. She has become famous for her daring strategies on the digital pitch and also brave in her decision to reveal that she is transgender within a culture around video games that is often associated with misogyny.“I plan to go to college next,” she says. “Maybe study Korean or computer science. I think e-sports players should think about higher education before they get too old. We don’t know how popular this will be in the future. If you focus 100% on e-sports till you are 35 or so and it doesn’t continue to become mainstream, I think it could be harder in life later on.”Once concern that plagues this, the first generation of so-called cyber athletes, is shared with their counterparts in physical sport: for how long will their minds and bodies be quick enough to enable top-level play. While e-sports are a sedentary pursuit, one’s action-per-minute rate (how many clicks of the mouse and keyboard one is able to make) is crucial to top-levelStarCraft IIplay, as is a nimble mind. Scarlett, however, disagrees. “I think the decline is overstated,” she says. “People say after the age of 25 that you won’t be able to compete in e-sports any more. I don’t believe that’s true. In most other sports you are able to compete till you are 35-40. E-sports is even less of a physical activity. You can play till 40 easily; I don’t think this would affect how well you are able to play video games.”SASHA ‘SCARLETT’ HOSTYNDec 1993Born in Kingston, Ontario.April 2011Begins playing StarCraft II, winning online women-only competitions later that year.Jan 2013Bases herself in Seoul with the Axiom-Acer team, making the winners’ rostrum three times.Sept 2013Returns to the US and picks up two tournament wins.Jan 2015Tweets that an upcoming StarCraft II tournament may be her last.
“Development for Apple Watch is right on schedule, and we expect to begin shipping in April,” Apple chief executive Tim Cook told analysts in a recent financial earnings call.The company’s most eagerly awaited product since the iPad is within touching distance, but can it live up to the hype, and prove that smartwatches are more than just a novelty geekcessory?Some of those analysts have high hopes, with predictions for Apple Watch sales in 2015 ranging from 10 million to 30 million units. This is despite the fact that the device’s pricing remains mysterious: the cheapest model will cost $349 in the US, but the price of the Sport and Edition versions remains unknown.In many ways, Apple Watch’s debut resembles past launches by the company, from iPod to iPhone, when it let other companies make the running, learned from their successes and mistakes, then entered the market with its own slick competitor. In late 2014, a poll by Ipsos Mori found that only 1% of Brits owned a smartwatch, which suggested that early efforts from the likes of Pebble, Motorola, Samsung and LG had failed to appeal beyond the earliest of adopters.Time for Apple to storm in with something better? The company won’t solve all the problems that have made smartwatches a niche. For example, battery life: “We think you’re going to end up charging it daily. Overnight,” said Cook in October. The biggest challenge faced by the Apple Watch, though, is to answer the simple question: what is a smartwatch for? Health-tracking might be a good answer now; contactless payments perhaps in the longer term; and the notion of breaking the cycle of smartphone-checking rudeness has potential.Smartwatches are clever devices in search of problems to solve: not just a design and engineering challenge, then, but a marketing challenge. Which, given its maker, might be exactly why the Apple Watch stands the best chance yet of taking the smartwatch beyond the early adopters.Stay healthierHealth and fitness is going to be a major selling point. Its sensors will track your activity – including how much (or little) you stand up – suggest weekly goals and feed data back to your iPhone’s health app.Zoom and scrollApple is very proud of its watch’s digital crown. Rotate it, and the menus will zoom and scroll – it’s a way around the impracticality of using the iOS “pinch” gesture on a screen this small.Choose your faceYes, the Apple Watch can tell the time, alongside its whizzier features. It’ll offer a large choice of customisable faces, from traditional analogue designs to digital displays – and even a face that’s a 3D model of the solar system.Buy with Apple PayIn the US, the Apple Watch will also use its maker’s new Apple Pay technology, enabling owners to slap their wrists down to pay for goods and services. As Apple Pay launches elsewhere in the world, so overseas watches will be able to use the feature too.At the flick of an eye …Expect to hear the word “glance” a lot around Apple Watch this year: the notion that quick eye-flicks towards your wrist will let you leave your iPhone in your pocket more often. That includes notifications of new messages, and the ability to quickly check, flag and/or trash incoming emails.
MICROSOFT OUTLOOKiOS/AndroidJust a “preview” for now, this is Microsoft’s flagship email software made mobile, with a slick app that gives Gmail and other rivals a run for their money. It works with many of those rivals too: Gmail, Yahoo Mail and Apple iCloud accounts.VESSELiOSIf you spend a lot of time watching vloggers, comedy skits and music on YouTube, Vessel is worth a look. It’s signing up creators to offer “early access” to their new videos, with an easy-to-use app to browse what’s new in your feed.DUBSMASHiOS/AndroidDubsmash is a big hit among younger smartphone users. You choose a famous quote or clip, mime along to it, then send the video to friends – including via WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. A novelty, maybe, but popular.iBRAILLER NOTESiPadThis app has a very specific audience: blind and partially sighted people. It’s a way to create and share Braille notes, with an inventive user interface based on detecting where your fingertips are, and matching their position with the keys.ROBOT SCHOOL: LEARN TO CODEiOS (£2.29)There’s a lot of buzz about children learning coding. Robot School is one of the apps trying to help. For age seven and up, it introduces coding logic across 45 levels of accessible, robot-guided puzzling.VRSEiOS/AndroidInterested in virtual reality but don’t want to spend hundreds of pounds on a headset? Verse is an app showcasing VR films that can be used alone, or with a DIY “Google Cardboard” device. The films, from creator Chris Milk, are beautiful and thought-provoking.LIFTSHAREAndroidLiftshare has been around for a while as a website, but not as an app. It’s a network of 400,000 people sharing lifts across the UK. Just stick out a virtual thumb to see if anyone has a spare seat to get there.36PICSiOS/AndroidThanks to the likes of Facebook and Instagram, many people don’t bother printing their smartphone photos any more. 36pics aims to reverse that trend: an easy way to choose 36 pictures and order prints to be delivered.VINE KIDSiOSTwitter’s Vine app has become a fertile community of people making six-second videos. Now there’s a version for kids, minus the swearing and twerking in favour of child-friendly animal and animation clips.PUSHBULLETiOS/AndroidIt’s been on Android for a while, but the clever notifications-synching app is now on iOS too. It pushes smartphone alerts to your computer, making it a cinch to ping files and links from one to the other.GAMING APPSTOP ELEVEN 2015iOS/Android (Both Freemium)Can anyone challenge Football Manager Handheld as the best mobile football management game? Top Eleven is the best effort yet, blending transfers and tactics in a social game where you take on other players around the world.GUNBRICKiOS (£2.29) /Android (£1.99)What’s a Gunbrick? Simple: “A gun one side, a shield on the other”. It’s the cube-shaped protagonist in this inventive, original platform-puzzler. Your job is to roll, jump and shoot your way through the carefully crafted levels. Brilliant fun.TRIVIA CRACKiOS/Android (Both Freemium)Huge in the Americas, with 100 million players, and now available in the UK, Trivia Crack is a turn-based trivia quiz where you test your knowledge against friends and strangers. It’s this year’s Draw Something – a fun social mobile craze.ADVENTURE TIME: GAME WIZARDiOS (£3.99) /Android (£3.29)Cartoon Network’s Adventure Time show’s latest app has creativity galore. It involves sketching your own levels on-screen or on paper, and turning them into a game featuring favourite characters – or just browsing those made by others.FLOCKERSiOS/Android (Both £1.49 + IAP)Flockers is the spawn of two famous game franchises: its developer Team 17 made the Worms games, while its gameplay will remind you of Lemmings. Here, it’s sheep that you’re guiding to safety through an array of dangerous levels. Full of charm.DRAGON QUEST ViOS/Android (Both £10.99)Square Enix has been updating a swath of its famous console roleplaying games for smartphones and tablets, with Dragon Quest V the latest. It’s a meaty challenge for RPG fans, whether you have nostalgic pangs for the original or are new to the series.WORDS ON TOURiOS/Android (Both Freemium)A Scrabble-esque game that has been an enduring hit on mobile devices now has this version, which can be played alone. Making words with letter tiles is still the key, but this time it’s more of a digital word-search in format.SKY GAMBLERS: STORM RAIDERSiOS (£3.99 + IAP) /Android (£0.63 + IAP)Newly released for Android, this second world war air-combat game has all the mid-air thrills and spills you could hope for. It also offers spiffing graphics and online multiplayer modes to dogfight over the internet.ROCKET CARSiOS (Freemium)Sitting somewhere between Mario Kart and Wipeout, this racing game is a colourful mix of speed, stunts and great big missiles. Vehicles vary from buggies to trucks, and while in-app purchases are used, they’re not pushed too aggressively.PIRATE KINGSiOS/Android (Both Freemium)This piratical adventure has been a hit from Scandinavia to Singapore, but has finally touched land in the UK. It’s a fun slice of ocean-bound empire building, as you raid friends’ islands and upgrade your own base to become a pirate king.
I was sitting on my own in the room I had for the week, looking out over a steep Spanish hillside of almond blossom and holm oak and olive trees. It was sunny but cold, and I sat at the table with a large cup of tea and a blanket over my legs. Beside me lay a broken internet router. It was very, very quiet. No TV, no music, no radio, no children. Not even a book. Dogs barking in a distant house, echoing down the valley. The house dog, Pablo, padding around outside. A faint rustle of the wind in the carob tree branches overhead. And a hum, like the hum of a refrigerator, which I do believe was the hum of my own mind.This is luxury calm. At the end of my tether a month ago, I felt the internet had stolen my creativity. I came here out of necessity, for exactly this moment, to reset my restless, relentless, internet-saturated mind. I thought I might struggle when faced with so few choices, with so little input – but it was bliss, like slipping into an old pair of slippers. I opened my sketchbook. I started to draw. I wrote a letter to someone who’ll never receive it. I had an idea for a novel. I had an idea for an essay on artists and their muses. I made plans, reprioritised. I started to think again. The days in those hills started with long, chilly, muddy walks with dogs, scrambling off road, up hillsides and through olive groves. Goat bells tinkled in the distance. The dogs ran off and ran back again, but I was walking at my own pace. No discussion about the route, and I knew the way instinctively. My route, my pace.With friends, we planned meals and cooked. There was no rush to cook to meet a deadline, or a bedtime, and food became enjoyable again, a delicately chopped salad, a two-hour wait for something in the oven, the satisfaction of a homemade cake. The smallest and simplest of pleasures.I drew every day, observing and questioning and redrawing, remarking. There is no better meditation for me than drawing, which is not about a finished work but about the act of properly observing and understanding something. Cats and dogs sleeping, eating, washing, tiny moments interrogated and expanded, embraced in all their mundane detail. The mountains at dawn, the mountains at noon, the mountains at dusk.I have meditated every day for a month – dismissing my own prejudices and excuses – letting my mind settle on the simple patterns of my breath, the feeling of my body resting on the floor. Of not needing to think, or react, and conclude, or judge. What do I find in those moments of stillness? Realisations about how I’m really feeling, about what’s exciting me, what’s making me anxious, and about ideas and expectations and plans that creep in.I stand by my opinion that the internet is not made for us. It’s not made for the benefit of us. All those sites we use, that pull us in – none of them has our creative health or our wellbeing at heart. Themechanics of the internet– the bright lights and dopamine rewards – are deadly in combination with social expectations and instincts, and make it so hard to resist. It feels the norm.But this haphazard attention war is not the norm. I said before that these companies need to build sites and services that better work for us, true. But we owe it to ourselves to be acutely aware of what we lose in all this noise.Distractions muted, we have time and attention for the bigger picture. We face unprecedented social, cultural and ethical challenges from technology, which the industry itself isn’t objectively equipped to address: the redefinition of privacy; the balance of state surveillance and security; the life-changing opportunities of new healthcare, of transport, of education. But we don’t have the headspace to take on these challenges, we can’t scrutinise, and interrogate, and push for the better internet we deserve, if we are too overwhelmed by the superficial internet of the now.If my journey offline has taught me anything it is balance; that this aspirational, hyperconnected life we see all around us is not normal. Life is all around us already, beautiful in its imperfections and its normalness, under our feet and under our noses, in the room with us, if only we would put our smartphones down for long enough to experience it.
Rob Yescombe has been writing game stories for more than a decade, on titles such asAlien: Isolation,Rimeand Ubisoft’s forthcoming Tom Clancy shooter,The Division. His discipline is a distinct one, plotting narratives for worlds where the player – not a director – is in control.How is writing for games distinct from other forms of fiction writing?“Writing games isn’t very glamorous. It’s not about sitting alone in a Parisian hotel with a glass of red wine and a long black cigarette. It’s about collaboration. What we do affects teams of artists, gameplay designers, programmers and sound designers working on the game.”Games themselves must demand a very distinct approach to narrative?“In traditional linear formats – like television, film or books – story structure is usually fairly straightforward. Everybody knows that a movie is roughly two hours and at the end the hero learns something important about themselves. But games are often non-linear; so you have to weave new kinds of structures to deliver your message.How much weight is given to the player and the way they interact with a game?“It’s important to remember that the player is a director, but they’re also an actor who doesn’t know their lines. They need the freedom to express themselves, but enough encouragement to ensure the story keeps momentum – it’s an equation that needs to be re-solved in each game.Where should readers look for some of the best games writing?“A lot of great games writers fly under the radar – they’re unsung heroes. So if you want to hunt down quality stuff, check out writers like Navid Khavari at Ubisoft or freelancers like Laura Deeley, Joel Janisse and Zach Parris. You’ll find some genuinely fresh and interesting writing.”
Gaming is essentially a sedentary pastime. Andrea Pirlo, for example, spent the hours before winning the 2006 World Cup final with Italy playing video games and sleeping. Is it possible, though, that the skills required to play video games might be useful for nurturing certain parts of footballers’ brains?Professor Jocelyn Faubert, a psychophysicist at the University of Montreal, has devised a computer game, a type of graphical simulation machine, called a NeuroTracker. Players have to index a number of spheres floating in 3D space. It lasts about 15 minutes. He tested 51 English Premier League players against two other test groups – elite amateurs, including athletes from an Olympic training centre, and 33 university students who were not athletes.Faubert discovered that a professional footballer can “hyper-focus” better than a typical undergraduate student (and top athletes).“What really blew me away,” he says, “is that professional footballers learnt so much faster for this task that really had no specific sports element. There’s movement, but there’s movement in real life, too.”The conclusion he draws from the NeuroTracker, which has been used as a training device by Manchester United, is that it can arguably improve players’ concentration during a game.“We separated the soccer players into three groups. We did the NeuroTracker training and measured (pre and post) their ability to do passing and decision-making on the pitch and they improved while the other groups did not improve.”The Neuro Tracker in use.Is it possible to train a footballer’s brain? Professor Ian Robertson is a neuroscientist at Trinity College Dublin. He makes the point that the brain is like a muscle. Use it or lose it.“I know,” he says, “that if you play games likeMedal of Honor, for instance, your capacity for spatial thinking improves. We know, for instance, that surgeons who play a lot of video games, which make demands on their perceptual motor system, perform better and have better accuracy; they show slightly better surgical technique.”Faubert says that a footballer’s working memory is used in the same manner for playing video games as it is for making decisions on a football pitch – the ability to focus intensely, to track multiple elements, to anticipate things that are out of sight but remain in play, to make calculations and predictions. That innate ability of football’s finest playmakers like Pirlo to read a game, to end up in the right place at the right time, is a function of good visual memory.David G Kirschen, an optometrist and a colleague, Daniel M Laby, studied US Olympians from the 2008 Beijing Games. They found that soccer players, who track flying objects at a distance, scored well on contrast sensitivity, which is the ability to pick a target out of a background and is a feature of action-based video games such asCall of Duty. “If you have poor vision, your contrast sensitivity goes down,” says Kirschen.It is not that top athletes have superior reaction times to the rest of us, it’s that they have better eyesight. Good vision helps them to pick up on visual clues so they can make better decisions, such as picking the right moment to pinch a ball from the feet of a winger.It could be that video games – apart from being a way to unwind before a World Cup final – become an integral part of footballers’ training-and-fitness regime; another counterintuitive way to get an edge, such as doing yoga or ballet, one which appeals to their obsessive, competitive nature and draws on keen eyesight, spatial awareness and a greater ability to “hyper-focus” than average undergrads.Richard Fitzpatrick is the author ofEl Clásico: Barcelona v Real Madrid, Football’s Greatest Rivalry(Bloomsbury 2012)JUST A GAMENEYMAR JRThe Brazilian star says he adopted moves from football video games and assimilated them into his play with a teammate, Ganso, at Santos.BAFETIMBI GOMISThe Swansea City striker tinkered with Football Manager as a research tool before joining the club this summer from France. He used the game to bone up on his future teammates’ attributes.ZLATAN IBRAHIMOVICWhen the Swedish star played for Inter Milan he could go 10 hours at a stretch playing football video games. He has since replaced the hobby with hunting.FERNANDO TORRESDuring his time at Liverpool, Fernando Torres spent £35,000 converting three rooms in his house – one on each floor – into gaming suites.
Ditch your wetsuits and hang up your snorkels – theNatural History Museumin London is offering you a new way to explore our planet’s stunning coral reefs. Launching in March,Coral Reefs: Secret Cities of the Seawill embrace digital displays to plunge you beneath the waves, while a tank of live coral and multitude of specimens from across the museum will reveal the nuances of reef construction and the diversity of species they support.“Corals are animals that are related to sea anemones or jellyfish,” explains Dr Ken Johnson, a reef expert at the museum. “They build limestone skeletons, so the coral reef is actually made up of the skeletons of animals.”Bringing you up close to these intricate architectures, the museum is drawing on imagery from theCatlin Seaview Survey- an international organisation dedicated to monitoring the world’s coral reefs. “They have invented some underwater panoramic cameras which are similar to the cameras that Google streetview uses on their cars,” explains Johnson. “The idea is to go around and get videos documenting the condition of reefs all over the world.”The upshot is the exhibition’s pièce de résistance: aGoogle “Liquid Galaxy”system consisting of large digital panels that submerge you visually in breathtaking aquatic landscapes. “Visitors to the exhibit can use the controller to go on virtual dives in different parts of the world,” says Johnson. But he hopes the exhibition will do more than entertain.While coral reefs offer communities benefits such as coastal protection, food and a lucrative tourist trade, they are at risk from a host of threats including climate change and ocean acidification as well as more local pressures such as pollution and overfishing. Johnson is optimistic that the exhibition will help to raise awareness of the situation - and provide visitors with ways to support these beautiful ecosystems. “Hopefully we will give some idea of things that people can do to help decrease the threats to coral reefs,” he says.Coral Reefs: Secret Cities of the Sea opens at London’s Natural History Museum on 27 March.
Twitter’s growth continued to slow in the fourth quarter, but the microblogging company’s shares soared in after-hours trading as it announced a sharp increase in revenues.The company has struggled over the last year as its share price plummeted amid continuing signs of slowing growth. Twitter announced on Thursday that monthly active users rose 20% to 288 million by the end of December 2014, compared with 23% growth in the prior period. The number was lower than the 22% average forecast by analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.The still loss-making company did, however, beat revenue forecasts. Twitter’s revenues increased 97% to $479.1m, above the average projection of $453.6m. The net loss for the quarter was $125m compared with a loss of $511m for the same quarter a year earlier. The chief executive officer, Dick Costolo, predicted a return to higher growth rates.After the news, the company’s shares spiked more than 9% before drifting lower.Costolo said: “We closed out the year with our business advancing at a great pace.” He said the trend in the first quarter leads the company to believe that number of net users added over the next three months would return to the levels seen in the first three quarters of 2014.“We have a number of projects in development to grow our user base and to provide a compelling product to anyone in the world, whether they have an account or not,” Costolo said on a conference call.Twitter spent much of last yearoverhauling its managementand strategy. It has beencourting developersas it looks for new ways to embed real-time information into new applications and experiments with ways to make the service easier for new users. The company has also struck a deal with Google to make tweets appear in search results.James Gellert, CEO of ratings agency Rapid Ratings, said: “They need to demonstrate the ability to broaden [Twitter’s] user base and become profitable. This earnings report demonstrated revenue that beat expectations, but user figures are much lower than expected. Twitter is running out of patience from investors to demonstrate this. Management turnover is troubling and the market needs to see stability in leadership as well as the ability to capture and monetise monthly users.”
Google has bought children’s apps developer Launchpad Toys for an undisclosed amount, in a deal that may well be related to its plans to launch a new version of YouTube aimed at kids.The San Francisco-based developer, which made the Toontastic series of apps,announced the acquisition on its website.“We’re proud to announce that our little toy company is pairing up with a great big team of tinkerers to empower GAJILLIONS of playful storytellers around the world,” explained Launchpad Toys.Related:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014“Launchpad Toys is joining Google to create even more amazing creativity tools for kids. Today, we’ve made our digital toys and tools free to creative kids everywhere. Tomorrow... well, we can’t wait to share.”Toontasticis the umbrella brand for a series of creative storytelling apps for children, which so far have only been released for iOS devices, rather than those running Google’s Android software.The main Toontastic iPad app got children to create their own cartoons by choosing scenery, and moving characters around while recording their voices telling stories. Launchpad Toys also released a spin-off Toontastic Jr. Pirates app, and branded versions based on the Shrek and Kung Fu Panda films.However, another of its apps –TeleStory– seems much more relevant to Google deciding to buy the company.Released in October 2014, it encourages children to “write, direct, and star in your own TV show” by choosing a theme, writing a script and then filming themselves performing.The app launched with its own online community called ToonTube, with children able to upload their videos to share them with others.Launchpad Toys is now shutting ToonTube, asking parents to download their children’s videos by 4 March.Launchpad Toys’ TeleStory app.ToonTube was essentially a mini-YouTube where all the videos were created by children, with Launchpad Toys also providing the tool – TeleStory – used to make those videos. Google buying the company is a big hint at its ambitions to do more with children’s videos on YouTube.Those ambitions were the subject of frequent speculation in 2014, first in March with a report thatGoogle was developing a version of YouTube for under-10swith strict moderation on videos and comments, and then in October when the companyadvertised for a new position as head of family entertainment.Related:This woman's thumbs are the biggest YouTube stars you've never heard ofSome of the most popular channels on YouTube are already aimed at children. Toy-unboxing channelDC Toys Collectorand Minecraft gamerStampywere itssecond and fourth most popular channels in 2014with 3.3bn and 2.2bn views respectively.Children’s nursery rhymes channelLittle Baby Bumwas also one of the biggest channels on YouTube by the end of the year, with an array of musical and animation channels for kids also building large audiences on the platform.All these channels will figure prominently if YouTube does launch a separate version of its service for children, although the sensitivities around advertising, data collection and moderation would ensure intense scrutiny for such a venture.However, Google’s acquisition of Launchpad Toys hints at ambitions to get more children creating and sharing videos rather than just watching them.
The typical victims of cyber fraud are lonely singles searching for love online or anyone who puts too much trust in an email.But proof that even corporate financial professionals are not exempt from being swindled has come with the revelation that a company based in Omaha, Nebraska lost $17.2m in an email scam.A senior employee at theScoular Company, a privately owned commodities trader founded 120 years ago, wired the money to a bank in China last year in three tranches – one of $9.4m – after acting on instructions received in emails from fake addresses.The emails were sent to Keith McMurtry, the corporate controller, and appeared to have come from Chuck Elsea, the chief executive, and its auditing firm. However, they were sent from a different address than the one usually used by Elsea,Omaha.com reported.The FBI said that the first email on 26 June told McMurtry to wire $780,000 to Shanghai Pudong Development Bank – a genuine institution. The following day he complied with another instruction to transfer $7m, and then he sent another $9.4m three days later.‘Not suspicious’The first two emails from Elsea’s fake address told his colleague that the transfers were for a secret acquisition of a Chinese company and swore him to secrecy.The second email gave the arrangement an air of legitimacy by telling McMurtry to contact an employee of the auditing firm for details of where to send the funds. He subsequently received an email that appeared to be from the firm telling him to send the money to the bank.McMurtry told the FBI that he was “not suspicious of the three wire transfer requests” because Scoular had been considering expanding in China, the email address used by the fake auditors appeared to be genuine and the phone number given in one of the emails was answered by a person with a name given in one email when he called.The fraudsters used email addresses set up in Germany, France and Israel and servers located in Moscow.Elsea said the company had not been affected by the loss, but accepted that it would be difficult to recover the funds – although the FBI was attempting to do so.The main victim appears to have been McMurtry: he is no longer one of the 800 people employed by Scoular.Related:Scams, scareware and threats: how online hackers tap into your worst fears
More people than ever before are talking about mental health online.Whether through blogs, videos or tweets, candid conversations about mental illness can be found across the spectrum of social networks we interact with on day-to-day basis. According to a survey by Time to Change, released for Time to Talk Day, 47% of people aged 21 and under said they find it easiest to talk about their mental health problems online (compared with 49% who said face to face and 4% who said over the phone).Mental health charities have long known the benefits of social media.Mind has its own social network called Elefriends, Time to Change regularly hosts blogs on its site and, just last week, a new platform for videos on mental health calledIt Gets Brighterwas launched.Popular YouTubers, regular features in mainstream culture, are also involved. Zoe Sugg, or Zoella,is now a digital ambassador for Mindafter her frank discussions about anxiety and panic attacks on her enormously popular channel, normally featuring slice-of-life videos and make up tutorials.On a day wheneveryone is encouraged to take five minutes to talk about mental health, we spoke to two YouTubers and the followers ofLet’s Talk Mental Health, the Guardian’s mental health blog, about the benefits and pitfalls of social media has had on spreading awareness of mental health.Note: while we don’t discuss things of a graphic nature in this article, you may not want to continue if you feel you might be triggered by discussions about mental health.Beckie0Having vlogged for nine years, Rebecca Brown, or Beckie0 to her 246,898 subscribers, is no stranger to speaking to people on the internet. Her vlogs cover a range of subjects in her day-to-day life, from moving back homeafter graduating from film schooltothe things she has in her bag.She also talks openly about depression and a condition calledtrichotillomania, an impulse-control disorder where a person feels compelled to pull out their hair. One of her most popular videos,a time lapse of a photo every day for six and a half years, shows the effects of this complex condition. Last week, the video hit 10m views, showing just how popular videos about mental health can be on YouTube.For Brown, it’s meant extra attention and sometimes extra pressure. She runs a trichotillomania-themed YouTube channel calledTrichJournalalongside her more general one, as well asTumblrand Twitter accounts with hundreds of thousands of followers between them.“When I first started vlogging, I was talking to around 20 people at most. In the last year, it’s shot up quite a lot – at one point I gained around 100,000 in about two months,” she said.Internet fame has its pitfalls, particularly when you’re dealing with mental health issues as well. In the past, Brown has inevitably encountered cruel commenters, with one going as far as harassing her on a daily basis.While Brown recognises social media has helped more people to talk, she doesn’t feel the stigma around mental health has been eradicated as of yet.“It’s very popular right now for politicians to talk about mental health but not much has changed yet."Rebecca Brown (Beckie0)“I don’t feel like anything has changed. In general, it’s all very well talking about things, but real change is what we really need. We need a lot of change in how mental health is treated, for example. The system just can’t cater for everyone right now.“It’s very popular right now for politicians to talk about mental health but not much has changed yet.”Having shared so much, Brown feels she often feels she has to hold back when things are difficult in her personal life. She said: “Some people say, take a vacation - but of course, you can’t take a vacation from the internet!“Two things tend to happen: one, I find I can’t talk about it and two, I sometimes trigger myself. So I’ll sit down to make a video and then I’ll start thinking about everything and suddenly I’ve been there for hours.”For now, she feels she needs to hit a balance between what she does and doesn’t share.“I do still say, I’ve had a bad day, but I don’t tend to go into as much detail as I used to,” she said. “Generally, I’ll put a bad tweet up and then follow it up with something a bit more positive if I can.“But, I do think it’s so, so important for people to talk to someone, anyone – and you don’t have to set up a YouTube channel to do it. If you feel like you’re struggling, you shouldn’t bottle it up.“We’re never going to be able to deal with things if you don’t at least talk about it.”Laura LejeuneDissatisfied with the on and off therapy she received between the ages of 15 and 20,Laura Lejeune, now 21, began looking for an alternative to professional help she feels let her down.“Turning up to therapy felt very shameful, one of my psychiatrists wouldn’t even say ’self harm’ she’d just do a motion with her hands to suggest it which made me even more embarrassed by what I was trying to deal with,” she said.“I soon came to despise the idea of professional help and started to search for answers elsewhere.”Those answers came from YouTube, where Lejeune found the upfront and uncensored approaches of the site’s mental health community refreshing and helpful, to the point she was watching them religiously before school.“I can remember being 14 and thinking ‘Wow, I wish I had the guts that these women have.’”Five years later,her own videoshave 6m views between them and her channel has a total of 76,000 subscribers. Her videos cover a range of mental health related topics (including) and often feature other YouTubers. Lejeune also regularly discusses her own mental health candidly.She also createsa series based around mental health misconceptions, which has 19 episodes so far and at least another 12 on the way. Lejeune thinks YouTube is a useful place to debunk common misconceptions about mental health.“People generally like the idea of choice. It’s much more effective to upload a video for a user tochooseto click on as they’re more likely to listen if it was their decision.I plan to continue fighting against the stigma and make the issue easier to addressLaura Lejeune“Trying to educate people in the ‘real world’ by just talking at them is very different because they can sometimes feel that you’re preaching or ‘shoving it down their throats.’”Like Brown, Lejeune also feels the pressure to remain a role model to her subscribers and often receives more messages than she can keep an eye on.“I just have to keep in mind that I shouldn’t set myself on fire to keep others warm, I must put on my own oxygen mask before helping others with theirs.“I’m often described as being ‘selfless’ but in all honestly, I’m really not. I put myself first, I always have done. If I’m not in the right frame of mind, I fix that before helping others.”While Lejeune thinks social media has “definitely” helped people to talk about mental health, she still gets a bulk of messages from people who feel they can’t be open about their issues.“I do get quite a lot of messages from people who are yet to come out about their struggles because there’s still a stigma surrounding the issue. I plan to continue fighting against the stigma and make the issue easier to address without having to mimic self harm through hand gestures like my psychiatrist did years back!”Let’s Talk Mental HealthRelated:'It's a national scandal': 15 stories which show the state of mental health care in the UKWhen it comes to mental health on Tumblr, there are two sides to the network. There is a darker side in which mental health is almost glamorised and can be difficult to navigate while someone is attempting to recover. But there is a more positive side, where self-care and awareness is the name of the game and users look out for one another and support each other where possible. Some users even dedicate their blogs to providing advice and resources.Tumblr itself has also moved to target the more negative side, with warnings popping up with helpful resources when anyone searches specific hashtags to do with self harm, eating disorders or suicide anda proactive policy on blogs promoting self-harm.So: has tumblr been helpful to the mental health conversation or not? We asked the followers ofLet’s Talk Mental Health, the Guardian’s mental health Tumblr. Here are some of their responses:Mental disorders are a lot easier to talk about online vs talking to people you know.dreamingviana, Tumblr userDo you think social media has helped or hindered the awareness of mental health issues? Let us know in the comments below.Time to Talk Day is on Thursday, February 5. Run byTime to Change, the anti-stigma campaign run byMindandRethink Mental Illness, it asks the nation to take just 5 minutes to have a conversation about mental health. Follow the discussion using the hashtag#timetotalk.
More than 40% of “dangerous” apps on Apple and Google’s app stores were made by American developers, according to a report published by online security firm Marble Labs.Dangerous?The report refers to “malicious and risky” appsthat take liberties with their users’ personal data, including sending their private data or uploading their contacts to remote servers without telling them, and sending their browser history over the internet.However, at the more extreme end of the spectrum, its definition includes apps that defraud people with premium-rate text messages, lead them to malicious phishing websites, or install extra apps to show unwanted advertisements.According to Marble Labs, the fact that 42% of “dangerous” apps come from American developers was a surprise to its analysts, who scanned more than 1m Android and iOS apps as part of the study.“While China, Korea, India and Taiwan generate a great number of malicious and risky apps, their combined total doesn’t amount to that of the United States,” claimed the report.“It is a commonly held belief that Chinese or Russian app developers are responsible for the majority of malicious and highly risky apps. While that may be true for malware that targets jailbroken iPhones or rooted Android mobile devices, when we looked at apps that are available on legitimate app stores for non-tampered devices, the story is very different.”The US may be responsible for the largest number of worrying apps according to the research, but that’s partly because of the high number of apps being developed in that country.The report includes a second table ranked by the “likelihood that an app from these countries is malicious or highly risky” – in other words, what percentage of apps developed in those countries provide cause for concern.Related:Check the permissions: Android flashlight apps criticised over privacyMarble Labs claims that on these grounds, China is the riskiest country, with nearly 9% of apps originating there triggering its dangerometer. Taiwan with 7% and Singapore with just over 4% are second and third in that chart, with only just over 1% of American-developed apps causing concern.It’s important to think about the different grades of danger, too. Uploading someone’s contacts to a server without telling them is a serious privacy intrusion, but in many cases it’s due to a developer not understanding (or wilfully disobeying) privacy laws in their country, rather than full-blown cybercrime.It’s still a problem – a study by the pan-governmental Global Privacy Enforcement Network in September 2014 claimed that85% of apps are failing to clearly explain how they collect, use and disclose personal information– but it’s not the same level of danger as apps developed with malicious intent to steal personal data, install malware and/or defraud users.
What remains of the stereo system I bought about 20 years ago is a Rotel 820AX amplifier, Mordaunt-Short MS3.3 speakers and a Philips CD player. I own about 20 yards of vinyl – so I need a new turntable – and a somewhat random CD collection. I need to start again. But where?A sub-plot to this sorry tale is that a couple of years ago my wife acquired a Sonos, but one of the speaker units packed up. There are further problems with the Sonos, which I think are due to the inadequacy of our in-house Wi-Fi and my general bafflement over how to make it work.DaveYou are not alone: I suspect a lot of Guardian readers have aging hi-fi systems that are not integrated with any newer digital media. The problem isn’t so much doing it as deciding which of the plethora of ways is most appropriate. I took advice on this from two enormously helpful people: Ketan Bharadia, technical editor ofWhat Hi-Fi?magazine, and Andy Moore, product manager atArcam, the Cambridge-based hi-fi manufacturer. Any errors are, of course, mine.The first step is to buy a new turntable, such as theRega RP1(£230), which will plug straight into your Rotel 820AX. You have so much vinyl that ripping all your records is out of the question, and the results probably wouldn’t be very good. Also, it’s unlikely that all of them are available as downloads or from a streaming service. Even if they were, you’d be sacrificing the vinyl sound that many people love.I thought the Rega RP1 would be the obvious choice. “Oh,” said Ketan, “I’d be inclined to get theRega RP3with an Elys2 cartridge, if your budget can stretch to it. It’s a really capable product.” What Hi-Fi has given this turntable Product of the Year awards four years running. But it’s more than twice the price, so you will have to think about your budget.Either way, the turntable must be set up so that it’s absolutely level, and insulated from whatever it is standing on. In my case, it’s on a wall-mounted Target turntable shelf.Upgrade and/or replace?It’s tempting to replace everything with a new system, but Ketan counselled against it. The Rotel 820AX is a classic and he reckons you “should keep it, if it’s working properly, and the same with the speakers.” Ketan said: “If he’s kept them this long, he likes them. If he buys new ones, they may be more detailed, but the balance is going to be different.”Rather than spending, say, £1,000 on a new amp and speakers, Ketan suggests you spend it on new items, and preferably on the higher-quality products that will support later upgrades.I imagine the Rega RP1 is more than good enough for your 820AX/MS3.3 system, but might not be the best choice if you decided to upgrade one or both of those. The RP3 would work beautifully with a better amp such as the Rega Brio-R or Arcam A19, and so on.If you’re serious about your vinyl, Ketan suggested buying aRega phono stage(from£85) to handle the turntable signal. This would sound better than using the phono stage pre-amp built into your old 820AX, and allow you to buy a new amp without phono support.The speakers make a big difference to the sound of a hi-fi system, so it’s important to listen to them before you buy. Either way, your Mordaunt-Short MS3.3 or alternative “bookshelf” speakers should be on spiked stands, andpositionedso they are not flat against a wall. Stands, spikes and careful positioning can make a huge difference to the sound.Digital mattersOne simple way to add digital sources to an analogue hi-fi is to buy an external DAC (digital to analogue converter). That will convert the output from a laptop or media PC, games console, Sonos and other digital sources into signals that your amp can handle. Again, I thought this would be a simple matter: Arcam’sirDAC(around £400). This is also What Hi-Fi’s pick at the price. Again, Ketan suggested moving up to anAudiolab M-DAC(around £600) – another product that has won awards four years in a row.“It has loads of features,” says Ketan, “and in a few years time, you could build a really good system around an M-DAC. But it only makes sense if you want to take the next step up.”A good hi-fi system can highlight flaws in digital sources that are not apparent when they’re used with PCs, smartphones and most MP3 players, and I expected that to be a problem with theSonos. Arcam’s Andy Moore corrected me. He said the Sonos devices can provide a CD-resolution output, and if you feed that through an external DAC, the results are “wholly acceptable” for hi-fi purposes. Indeed, Arcam makes a dedicatedSonLinkversion of the irDAC for precisely this purpose.Either the irDAC or the M-DAC would improve the sound, and playing music from the Sonos through your Mordaunt-Short speakers would remove any Wi-Fi problems.Otherwise, note that you can plug any current Sonos speaker directly into your router, via a cable, to create a separate, dedicated (and proprietary) Sonos network that won’t impinge on your Wi-Fi. If that’s not convenient, you can create a separate network by plugging a £29Sonos Bridgeinto your router instead. You could then use your Sonos speakers in different rooms – or pairs of speakers, if you want stereo.If you already have or want to buy aSonos Connect(£279), you could plug this straight into your 820AX via the usual pairs of line in/line out RCA sockets, just like a CD player, but then you wouldn’t benefit from the external DAC.CD player?Your references to the Philips CD player and “somewhat random CD collection” suggest this is not a major concern. Without knowing which model it is, I’d expect a modern CD player such as theMarantz CD6005(£280-£320) to sound much better. I remember getting a dramatic improvement myself, when I upgraded from an early (1980s) Philips CD player to aRega Planet. The Marantz CD-63II Ki (Ken IshiwataSignature edition) is another great-sounding CD player that you could pick up cheaply second hand and upgrade later if necessary.However, if your Philips CD player has a digital output, you can connect that to your external DAC as well. It should produce a significant improvement in sound quality, thanks to two decades of advances in DAC design, though you will still be using the original Philips “transport” to spin the disc.The nice thing about hi-fi separates is that you don’t have to buy everything at once. Start with the turntable, and then add whatever else you need one part at a time. I built a very satisfying system by buying a quality component every two-to-four years, with some of the older stuff being repurposed or sold. I’ve lost money, of course, but solid products – mainly from British companies such as Rega, Arcam, Quad, Linn, Naim, Audiolab, Harbeth and so on – have tended to retain at least some value on eBay. They’re not piled high in your local “cash converter” – or if they are, you might pick up a bargain.Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
Trading card game Magic: the Gathering has quietly introduced its first openly trans character, Alesha, Who Smiles at Death, in a short story by James Wyatt.A young khan of the Mardu tribe, Alesha was first seen on her card in the Fate Reforged expansion, released in January. Little was known about her untilWyatt’s story, which reveals her background in the tribe, as well as her decision to transition at the age of 16.She had been so different – only sixteen, a boy in everyone’s eyes but her own, about to choose and declare her name before the khan and all the Mardu.The khan had walked among the warriors, hearing the tales of their glorious deeds. One by one, they declared their new war names, and each time, the khan shouted the names for all to hear. Each time, the horde shouted the name as one, shaking the earth.Then the khan came to Alesha. She stood before him, snakes coiling in the pit of her stomach, and told how she had slain her first dragon. The khan nodded and asked her name.“Alesha,” she said, as loudly as she could. Just Alesha, her grandmother’s name.“Alesha!” the khan shouted, without a moment’s pause.And the whole gathered horde shouted “Alesha!” in reply. The warriors of the Mardu shouted her name.In that moment, if anyone had told her that in three years’ time she would be khan, she just might have dared to believe it.The fiction of Magic: the Gathering is based around dimension-hopping planeswalkers, who build armies of creatures to duel each other in a variety of fantastical locations. Alesha is one such warrior who can be recruited to fight for the player. In game terms, she’s a rare red creature with the ability to resurrect expired cards from the graveyard and attack with them immediately.Wizards of the Coast, the publisher of Magic, has been praised for the introduction of Alesha – as well as the understated manner in which her characterisation is presented.Jessica Lachenal, a writer for geek culture site The Mary Sue,says that: “The way in which her name choice is presented in the story is understated, and refreshingly so. Alesha’s trans identity isn’t the focal point of the story. It isn’t made out to be a big deal.“Characters like Alesha are a welcome change to a genre of games which have a reputation for being problematic. While strong, empowered women have long been a staple of the Magic: the Gathering lore, it is definitely incredibly encouraging to see Wizards of the Coast trying to tackle diversity so matter-of-factly”.
More than 500,000 Brits have downloaded the Trivia Crack mobile game in the first two weeks sinceits release in the UK, according to its developer.The social trivia quiz had already picked up 100 million players in the US and Latin America, where it launched in late 2013.That milestone was announced in mid-January, but Argentinian developer Etermax says the game has added another 25 million players since then, taking its total to 125 million.“Since adapting Trivia Crack for English-speaking audiences in mid-2014, we have quickly discovered that there is high demand from hardcore and casual app gamers alike for a fun, insightful trivia game in the European countries,” said chief executive Maximo Cavazzani.Related:Katy Perry follows Kim Kardashian by striking mobile game deal“With 38 million users already playing Trivia Crack in the US, we are thrilled to be seeing the same enthusiasm from gamers in the UK in such a short period of time.”Released for iOS, Android and Windows Phone devices, Trivia Crack has elements of Trivial Pursuit, with its database of general-knowledge questions split between history, geography, science, sports, entertainment and arts categories.However, the way it gets people playing multiple turn-based matches against friends or strangers is more reminiscent of mobile hits like Words With Friends, Draw Something and SongPop.Etermax is also encouraging Trivia Crack players to submit their own questions and rate those of other players, to keep its content fresh.The developer is also brandishingresearch from mobile analytics firm App Annieclaiming that it was the most downloaded game in the world for Apple’s iOS devices in December 2014, before its UK launch.A few years ago, Trivia Crack’s sharp rise to the top of app store charts would have made it a tempting acquisition for larger social games companies.However, the example of Draw Something – whose developer OMGPOP wasbought by Zynga for $180m in March 2012at what turned out to be the peak of the game’s popularity – may make potential acquirers of Etermax more cautious in 2015.
Sports clothing manufacturer Under Armour has purchased two of the most well known health and fitness apps, calorie tracker MyFitnessPal and activity tracker Endomodo.Under Armour, famed for its compression tops, has added the two apps to its existing MapMyFitness to create what it calls the “world’s largest digital health and fitness community” with an estimated 120m users.The move continues the trend of sports clothing companies moving into digital products – apps and sensor-enabled fitness devices. Nike was one of the pioneers of this with its Nike+ service, which connects a smart phone app to sensors in shoes and a fitness band in order to track activity. These apps often involve as social element, allowing friends, family and co-workers to compete for goals, steps, fitness and weight loss.‘Elevate the connected fitness experience’MyFitnessPal is a popular dieting app for iPhones, Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry smartphones that allows users to log food eaten and activity performed in order to track calories. It has 80 million users and the US company cost Under Armour $475m (£312m).Related:I enjoyed my week in Google Glass, but those around me weren't so keenDanish company Endomodo, for which Under Amour has paid $85m, makes fitness tracking apps that use sensors within smartphones and wearables to measure activity. It works with the Samsung’s Gear, the Pebble and Android Wear smartwatches and has 20 million registered users.Kevin Plank, chairman and chief executive of Under Armour said the acquisitions of MyFitnessPal and Endomondo would help it “continue to redefine and elevate the connected fitness experience for millions of people around the world”.MyFitnessPal will be run directly by Under Armour from its San Francisco head quarters, integrating with the company’s MapMyFitness service. Endomodo will continue to be run from Copenhagen as a wholly-owned subsidiary.From fitness apps to smartclothingUnder Armour currently sells a range of its own and third-party fitness trackers and activity sensors, including heart rate monitors. It has also been a pioneer in the smartclothing space, with a connected sensor-equipped compression shirt users by NFL players in 2011.Related:Best fitness trackers to help get fitter in 2015Smarttextiles and smartclothing for monitoring and tracking sports performance areexpected to be a trend this yearand into 2016, as manufacturers from Ralph Lauren to Asics will release smartshirts and other connected clothing to compete with fitness bands and chest strap heart rate monitors.“There are fewer barriers to adoption for smartclothing,” Stanislas Vandier, deputy chief executive of french smart fabric technology company Cityzen Sciences told the Guardian at CES in Las Vegas. “With something like a smartshirt you can just put it on like any other shirt, there’s nothing to strap on, nothing to change your existing behaviour.”“Textiles can solve some of the problems seen by wearables – they are hidden, flexible, in the right location and comfortable,” he said.Related:2015 gears up to be the year of wearable tech
Several hours ago I was hacked to death by a lowly guard in a remote outpost on the south-eastern plains of Middle Earth. I’m pretty annoyed about it. He was part of a combat unit that I started a fight with in a moment of foolhardy bravado; I felled six of his compatriots, but was severely weakened, allowing him to strike me down with a clumsy blow.My character, Talion, was quickly reborn on another part of the map; in the fantasy adventure Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor, death is only ever a temporary inconvenience. But I was pissed off anyway. Thanks to the game’s ingenious Nemesis system, this pitiful grunt would now be promoted, rising through the ranks of the Uruk army, my death the bright point on his otherwise unremarkable CV. If I meet him again, he’ll be stronger and harder to beat, and he’ll remember me, mocking my weakness in battle.The thought of it consumes me.I must have revenge.Shadow of Mordor is an enjoyably gruff and gritty hack-‘em-up, set cleverly between The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings novels, but it’s the Nemesis system that really sets it apart. In most games, retribution exists solely as a component of the narrative: the story tells you that you have to kill a certain enemy because of something terrible they’ve done (probably revealed in an overblown cinematic sequence), and so you do it. It’s not personal, it’s just part of the set-up.In those games, rank and file enemies are totally anonymous; you dispatch them and you move on without a second thought. But in Mordor, the enemies all have names and memories; every confrontation can give birth to an emergent rivalry – every soldier who escapes a fight has the potential to rise up through the ranks and come back at you.Suddenly, retribution isn’t just a plot device, it’s a game mechanic. Players experience the shame and dishonour for themselves and become the authors of their own revenge fantasies.The ludology of revengeIt turns out, this is so wildly satisfying that the Nemesis system is now considered one of the most important and prophetic innovations to emerge on the current hardware generation. Games writers have analysed it, designers have admired it.“I think the reason that the Nemesis system is so interesting and so compelling is that it draws the player’s attention to the systemic nature of grudges and revenge,” says Richard Lemarchand, lead designer on the first three Uncharted games, and now a professor in game design at the University of Southern California. “By making those aspects of human experience such a clearly-codified part of the game, and by making dealing with a character that has a grudge against you central to the game’s progression, Shadow of Mordor does a nice job of integrating a literary reflection on the human experience with what game scholars call the ‘ludic’ - the stuff relating to play and games.”The interesting thing is, it’s actually a very old ludic system. When developer Monolith Productions was first toying with ideas for the game’s combat, the team went back and started playing old pencil and paper role-playing games like Dungeons and Dragons. “In tabletop RPGs, the best games are often the ones where the players are empowered to create their own stories, where the Dungeon Master takes on the job of facilitating and encouraging players creativity and immersion,” says design director, Michael de Plater. “Very often, the most memorable villains are not the pre-crafted ones within the story, but the emergent characters who enter the spotlight through a chance encounter.“We believed that an interactive story doesn’t mean letting players choose between a set of branching narratives that we have created; it should mean that players are at the centre of authoring the experience and that the world of the game remembers and responds to them.”The origins of rivalryThe system began as something much more simple. Enemy warriors would remember meeting players and could react accordingly with a series of taunts, but that was it. As development continued, the ambitions expanded. The team introduced the promotion element, allowing enemy soldiers to gain more power within Uruk society by beating the player and other captains. Each character was constructed from a series of randomly assigned strengths and weaknesses as well as variable qualities, such as morale and discipline; this meant that from a modest selection of attributes, the team able to create seemingly individual enemies.It was also simulating a vast, highly organic hierarchy. In the game, captains will often compete for power, rising through the ranks to become guardians of the four dominant war chiefs. There are betrayals, executions and skirmishes, all of which the player can discover and take part in. Crucially, however, it’s a society that appears to function beyond the protagonist. It lives.The Uruk armies have a culture and hierarchy, allowing successful grunts to rise through the ranksPhotograph: Warner BrosArtificial intelligence also comes into the system: after several meetings, Uruk captains can learn to anticipate and counter the player’s attacking style. “One of the goals of the Nemesis system was to propose variety in our combat encounters, to have meaningfully different emergent ‘boss fights’,” says de Plater. “It was very important that the encounters are very dynamic, with alarms going off, ambushers springing out, trackers hunting you, cowards fleeing so that fights become chases and a host of other emergent situations. This sandbox approach to the encounters makes the game unpredictable.”But the AI was doing more important things than that. What Shadow or Mordor creates is an artificial social memory; it is a form of intelligence we encounter in real-life, from other human beings, but rarely in games. “I think one of the reasons the system was such a hit with people was that it acknowledged the player’s decisions in ways we’re not used to,” says AI researcher Michael Cook. “Games, and particularly the AI within them, are good at the cold, technical things. We can throw bottles to distract guards, we’re used to that – it simulates the kind of behaviour we’re used to seeing in small animals or robotic hoovers.“Simulating social behaviour, though, is unusual. Shadows of Mordor convinces players that their enemies care about them on a personal level – they remember you, they hate you, they call you names.”The rise of emotional agentsShadow of Mordor is far from alone in this emerging sector. Experimental indie titles likeProm WeekandFacadehave investigated the idea of non-player characters with simulated emotional lives, and with theVersu interactive story platform, Richard Evans and Emily Short are producing AI agents capable of highly nuanced social interactions.Indeed, compared to these titles, Mordor’s implementation is impressive but emotionally limited and still very much rooted in the power fantasies of the hack-’em-up genre. The player remains central and the relationships are all adversarial. “There isn’t really any room in the Nemesis system for compassion or forgiveness,” says Lemarchand. “The most pity that the player can express is to enslave rather than kill an enemy that you’ve taken revenge on.”The experimental social simulation game Prom Week, created by students from UC Santa CruzMichael Cook also sees the current shortcomings of the system, but is excited about the possibilities. “At the moment it all feels very simple and stilted,” he says. “Lots of things happen behind the scenes while the player is dead, and there are repeating patterns that you can see after time. Social simulations will end up being far more complex, though. They’ll let you tell lies to characters, they’ll let you manipulate friendships and cash in social status. It’ll feel very natural, and as a result you’ll feel able to act more naturally.“I’ve spoken to many researchers who think that following these ideas through won’t just lead to better videogames – it’ll lead to new kinds of videogames, new genres even, where the player is tasked with doing things that are hard to conceive of right now. Role playing games might actually come to be about playing a role again!”Monolith itself certainly does not see the Nemesis system as a finished product. “It will continue to be very important – we learned an enormous amount from Shadow of Mordor,” says de Plater. “We’d like to support players creating unique stories within the game but we’d also like to give them more tools to share those stories with each other and with us.”Related:Ghosts in the machine: how AI research is bringing game characters to lifeCould the next Shadow of Mordor – or the next Grand Theft Auto even – take these ideas of memory, response and personal history, and make them into a more complex emotional experience? Can non-player characters move on from automaton-like henchmen to rounded human beings? Can rich narratives emerge from these interactions? Can it be, not just about revenge, but friendship? Love?“Mostly I’m just happy to see efforts to make game systems richer and more intelligent,” says Cook. “People want to tell stories; letting them be creative with their own entertainment is empowering. And it sort of feels like this is how the future was supposed to be – not about films that you walk through, but about putting the player in the middle of the game and having the drama appear around them.”
The Kim Kardashian: Hollywood mobile game was a lucrative hit in 2014. Now its publisher is working with Katy Perry on a follow-up.US firm Glu Mobile has signed afive-year licensing dealwith the musician for a game that will feature her “voice, likeness and personality”, with a planned release towards the end of 2015 for iOS and Android devices.It is likely to follow the template laid down by Kardashian’s title, which saw players trying to become celebrities in a game that was free to play, but made its money from in-app purchases of virtual currency to speed up their progress.“Ultimately the Katy Perry title and its specificities will be under wraps until it comes out. But I think it’s fair to say that it’s not going to be a shooter,” Glu’s chief executive Niccolo de Masitold analystsshortly after announcing the Katy Perry deal.“Something closer to a narrative-based RPG makes a lot of sense than an action-RPG for example,” he continued. There is, as yet, no news on the presence or absence of dancing sharks in the game.Related:Why is Kim Kardashian: Hollywood so popular? Because people like itGlu is hoping that Perry’s popularity on social media – including 77.1 million Facebook fans and 64.6 million Twitter followers – will be as powerful a launchpad for an official mobile game as Kardashian’s online fanbase was.“We are going to do something that’s appropriate to tell her story as well as to make sure that we are not taking risk in this particular case on something that won’t monetise,” said Masi.Kardashian’s game has certainly made money for Glu since its release in June 2014. According to the publisher’s financial results, the game made $74.3m of revenues by the end of the year, from a relatively small – in mobile game terms – 28.4m downloads.Its success presents a new challenge for Glu, though. Even though Kim Kardashian: Hollywood was released halfway through the year, it still accounted for 31% of the company’s annual turnover – with the game’s $43.4m of revenues in the third quarter dropping to $29.3m in the fourth quarter.That’s why Glu has been scouting around for other public figures to reduce its reliance on Kardashian. Besides Perry, it says other partnerships with celebrities will be announced in the first half of 2014.The appeal for those celebrities is clear: a new source of income with relatively little personal effort beyond recording some voice narration, then promoting the games to their social media followers.In July 2014, celebrity news site TMZ claimed thatKardashian’s deal with Glu involved a 45% share of the game’s net profits. However, its prediction that her gamewould gross $200m in 2014 alonehas proved to be a vast overestimate.
The games industry is going through a period of radical change. The biggest new titles on PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One now feature hyper connected co-operative worlds, allowing players to seamlessly sneak into each other’s games, while technologies like augmented reality promise to revolutionalise how we interact with screened experiences.But do gamers want things to change this much? At the Guardian office in London recently, games editor Keith Stuart hosted aGuardian Livepanel discussionwith five regular contributors – Jordan Erica Webber, Rich Stanton, Andy Kelly, Philippa Warr and Simon Parkin – to look at new gaming technologies and ideas, but mostly to chat about the titles everyone is actually looking forward to in 2015.Here’s what we thought.Microsoft’s Hololens may not be the Next Big ThingAnnounced in January, the Hololens is a standalone augmented reality headset that Microsoft hopes will completely change how we interact with digital content. Or something along those lines.But the Guardian’s games writers were not convinced. “I think the version of AR glasses they’re selling is like something from a fifties science fiction magazine,” said Kelly. “When we look at old sci-fi ideas, we’re like ‘those idiots thought we were going to have flying microwave ovens!’ We’re going to look back on this hololens advert and think the same way. Microsoft is making this thing because it can, not because the world needs it. People don’t want to be surrounded by holograms – they’re distracting.”Philippa Warr was more forgiving, but thought that the device would have to look beyond gaming for its target audience. “It’s going to be like Kinect in that the most interesting things people do with it will be outside of the games space,” she said. “Kinect is being used in things like sexual assault response training and disaster relief projects, which is really interesting and valuable. Hololens has a lot of scope to be used as a tool, but not necessarily in gaming.”For Simon Parkin, the shortfall for the technology will be its users. “It’ll be great as a gimmick, but the path of least resistance for gamers is sitting on the sofa moving your thumbs,” he said. “I mean, even the AR cards that come with your 3DS or Vita, they’re cute, but you have to get the cards out, put them on the table... by that time I’m already resentful. I think there’s a fundamental over-estimation of how interesting it is to play a game that’s set in the room you’re actually in. I’d rather play a game in a world crafted by an artist and made to look beautiful.”The future of games is colour and freedomOne of the most discussed titles on the night was No Man’s Sky, the online multiplayer space exploration adventure from tiny Guildford studio, Hello Games.“I think it’s the most interesting game in development right now that we know about,” said Parkin, pointing to the developer’s use of procedural generation to create every planet in the vast universe. “Systemically, what they’re demonstrating as a small independent studio is something that hasn’t been done before – they have a blockbuster ambition and they want to show that a team of 12 people can make a game on a blockbuster scale. It just needs to have all these procedural ways of working. If this game comes through it could mean a significant shift for the industry.”Related:The five most disruptive ideas in video game designFor Kelly, the interest is in the game’s aesthetics. “It’s just got so many colours,” he said. “A lot of space games go for standard hard sci-fi greys and blacks, but No Man’s Sky is inspired by sci-fi artists like Chris Foss who creates these vividly colourful images, instead of grey spaceships on black backgrounds.”Much has also been made of the sheer scale of the game: millions of planets and the vast emptiness of space to explore. “Literally no one has seen the whole game,” said Webber. “Each of the developers has a different galaxy running on their computer, because they’re all testing different generational seeds. And I’m interested in the idea that there’s something in the centre of the universe that everyone has to try to get to – all the players start on the edge and move in.”The best new games are reconfiguring familiar genresThe near future of games probably won’t be about staggering innovation; it’ll be about the quiet evolution and combination of well-worn ideas. Destiny was a key touchstone for most of the panel, who recognised the compelling brilliance of combining role-playing and shooting mechanics into one package.However, the repetitive compulsion loops that the game is based around were compared to a sort of dysfunctional relationship. “I hate myself when I’m playing it but I can’t stop,” said Parkin. “It’s like an abusive partner – do all this stuff for me and maybe I’ll give you a treat.”Related:It's complicated: why playing a video game is like having a relationshipRich Stanton meanwhile, talked about Heroes of the Storm, a multiplayer battle arena game from Warcraft developer Blizzard, that seeks to be more approachable than League of Legends and all. “It’s the Moba for people who don’t like Moba,” said Stanton. “Blizzard has a real knack for taking a genre, getting to its essence and producing something quite brilliant.”The joy of vocational gamesThere was a lot of love on the panel for games that simulate familiar jobs – albeit sometimes in weird environments. Philippa Warr spoke fondly aboutViscera Cleanup Detail, a game in which you play a janitor in a space station, having to clean up after a series of Doom-style shoot-outs.Participants are free to tackle the blood-splattered corridors and trashed science labs, however they want – as long as they put everything back properly. “You have to make sure you put the nitrogen canisters back into the nitrogen canister rack!” said Warr. “It’s really satisfying. And it doesn’t put objective markers all over the place, you make your own objectives.”Andy Kelly, meanwhile, spoke passionately about Euro Truck Simulator, in which players are able to transport cargo around the continent, obeying the speed limits and highway laws. “It is a really good game built around a really boring subject,” he said. “I’ve written a lot of articles about it, I just had an article published on Vice about how I’ve never been more at peace than when I’m playing Euro Truck Simulator 2.It seems however, that the interest has turned into something of an immersive obsession. “I decided to do an endurance test with it wearing an Oculus Rift,” said Kelly. “I drove from Aberdeen to Stuttgart in real-time. My brain was so fooled into thinking that I was really in the cabin of this Scandia truck that I tried to lean my elbow out of the window.”Most anticipated gamesEach of the panelists was briefed to speak about one game they were looking forward to in 2015. We ran out of time, sadly, but Jordan Erica Webber put forwardMushroom 11, a physics-based puzzle platformer; Philippa Warr went for shooter-puzzler SuperHot; Andy Kelly suggested Pillars of Eternity; Simon Parkin opted for Bloodborne; and I wanted to introduce the beautiful small town adventure, A Night in the Woods.Only Rich Stanton got the time to lyrically introduce his own choice, Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain. “I think the most amazing thing about the Metal Gear games is that even though they may look the same, they’re all really different,” he said. “They all chose different things to think about and explore; they change the mechanics in subtle ways. Phantom Pain is set in Afghanistan in the 80s, and Kojima describes it as an open-world stealth game, but I don’t think it’s going to be a vast world, it’s much more about freedom of approach – a lot of different ways of doing things, a very rich, detailed deep world.“I can’t wait to see what Kojima has come up with. He is a genius.”Guardian Liveis our series of debates, interviews and festivals exclusively for Guardian Members. Find out more about membership andhow to sign up
Twitter’s chief executive has acknowledged that the company “sucks at dealing with abuse and trolls on the platform, and we’ve sucked at it for years”, in a leaked memo.Dick Costolo’s statement was posted on Twitter’s internal forums, in response to an employee who had highlightedan article in the Guardian by columnist Lindy Westabout her experience with trolls on social media.In the memo,obtained on Thursday byThe Verge, Costolo writes: “I’m frankly ashamed of how poorly we’ve dealt with this issue during my tenure as CEO. It’s absurd. There’s no excuse for it. I take full responsibility for not being more aggressive on this front. It’s nobody else’s fault but mine, and it’s embarrassing.”“It’s no secret and the rest of the world talks about it every day”, Costolo continues. “We lose core user after core user by not addressing simple trolling issues that they face every day.”West had written on Monday: “I’m aware that Twitter is well within its rights to let its platform be used as a vehicle for sexist and racist harassment. But, as a private company – just like a comedian mulling over a rape joke, or a troll looking for a target for his anger – it could choose not to. As a collective of human beings, it could choose to be better.”Lindy West attends the 2013 Women’s Media Awards on October 8, 2013 in New York City.Photograph: Mike Coppola/Getty ImagesCostolo’s reply to the employee who had raised West’s article suggests it has prompted action: “We’re going to start kicking these people off right and left and making sure that when they issue their ridiculous attacks, nobody hears them. Everybody on the leadership team knows this is vital,” he wrote.In a follow-up comment later in the thread, Costolo says: “Let me be very very clear about my response here. I takepersonalresponsibility for our failure to deal with this as a company. I thought I did that in my note, so let me reiterate what I said, which is that I take personal responsibility for this. I specifically said: ‘It’s nobody’s fault but mine.’“Wehaveto be able to tell each other the truth, and the truth that everybody in the world knows is that we have not effectively dealt with this problem even remotely to the degree we should have by now, and that’s on me and nobody else.”Costolo continued: “So now we’re going to fix it, and I’m going to take full responsibility for making sure that the people working night and day on this have the resources they need to address the issue, that there are clear lines of responsibility and accountability, and that we don’t equivocate in our decisions and choices.”In June 2014, the Olympic gold-medalist swimmer Rebecca Adlington revealed that abuse on Twitter had harmed her self-confidence in the wake of the London Olympics. “I did get upset about it,”she told the Guardian. “I couldn’t get my head around why someone would go to the effort of looking someone up, and then sending them a nasty tweet. I still can’t really. What’s going on in those people’s lives?”Related:Twitter abuse: what can be done to stop trolling?And in October, Chloe Madeley, daughter of TV presenters Richard and Judy, wastargeted for harassmentby people upset about her mother’s comments about convicted rapist Ched Evans. Chloe condemned her trolls in the Daily Mail as someone who sends who send “lewd, disturbing messages” while he “cowered anonymously behind his computer screen”.In December, Shreyas Doshi, Twitter’s director of product management, user safety,wrote: “We are nowhere near being done making changes in this area. In the coming months, you can expect to see additional user controls, further improvements to reporting and new enforcement procedures for abusive accounts. We’ll continue to work hard on these changes in order to improve the experience of people who encounter abuse on Twitter.”Twitter declined to comment on Costolo’s memo.
Tony Abbott has sought to put pressure on the Labor opposition to pass mandatory data retention laws swiftly, but conceded the cost and technical details were still not finalised.The prime minister visited the Australian Federal Police (AFP) headquarters in Melbourne on Thursday to campaign for the proposal to store people’s phone and email records, three weeks before a bipartisan committee examining the legislation is due to complete its report.“I hope it’s a unanimous report and then let’s get this legislation dealt with as quickly as we can,” he said during a media conference alongside the AFP commissioner Andrew Colvin.“I believe that in the wake of the attack on the policemen here in Victoria, in the wake of the Martin Place siege, in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo atrocity, the public want protection, and this gives the public the protection they have a right to expect.”Labor said it would not rush parliamentary scrutiny, while the Greens accused Abbott of invoking national security in a desperate attempt to save his embattled leadership.“This is, I think, breathtakingly cynical action by the prime minister to salvage the dying days of his leadership by standing in front of an AFP banner to try to pretend that he can make the community safer,” the Greens senator Scott Ludlam said.The government wants to require internet service providers (ISPs) and telcos to store customers’ phone records and communication activity such as email recipients for two years, arguing that access to such information is critical to law enforcement.But the joint parliamentary committee on intelligence and security – which is due to report to parliament on 27 February – has been told government officials were yet to establish an accurate estimate of the full cost of implementing the scheme.And Colvin said police were “working with industry very closely at the moment” on exactly which data would be included in the scheme.The AFP chief said he did not want his officers to have to rely on luck when carrying out investigations – a reference to the current practice of companies storing customer data based on business needs rather than working to a national standard.Abbott has told the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, the government wants parliamentary debate to begin in the lower house on 2 March and for the bill to pass both houses in mid-March.After being briefed about metadata during his visit to AFP offices on Thursday, Abbott conducted a joint media conference and stressed the need for the “absolutely vital” legislation to pass the parliament “as quickly as is humanly possible”.But he said the government was still working with the telecommunications sector on the cost of implementing the scheme – to which the government has offered to contribute.“Even if the costs are in the order of a couple of hundred million, you’ve got to remember that this is a $40bn plus sector,” Abbott said. “So, the costs involved are comparatively modest and, obviously, we the government are prepared to work with the sector to ensure that we bear our fair share of the costs as well.”Shorten said Labor had worked with the Coalition on national security issues, but would not serve the public interest “by rushing laws through the parliament” without adequate scrutiny.“The great thing about our parliament which has served Australia’s interests well for over a century, a federation, is that you have parliamentary committees which examine draft legislation for all the pros and cons,” the opposition leader said.“That process is underway. The government know this. The government have got members on the committee. The government agreed to this committee process. Just because the government is having its internal political upheavals and focused on themselves, is not a reason to throw our parliamentary system overboard.”Ludlam said questions remained about the coverage and effectiveness of the proposed scheme, and it was not clear whether the costs would be known before the legislation was debated.He said the prime minister was “effectively blackmailing” Labor and the crossbenchers to agree to a proposal that had not faced adequate scrutiny.Ludlam drew a distinction between targeted surveillance and mass surveillance, noting that the gunmen involved in the Sydney siege and the Paris attacks had already been known to security authorities.In a letter to Shorten, dated 22 January, Abbott called for continued bipartisanship and said police and security agencies had advised him “that metadata and related telecommunications information played an important role in the response to the Lindt Cafe siege and has been integral to the investigation following the recent terrorist attacks in France”.
Thursday already, people!
“Along with changing sheets, vacuuming is my least favourite household task”, saysAggie MacKenzie, standing on a piece of carpet which has been befouled with sawdust and pet hair. “Lugging it up the stairs, changing the sockets, tripping over the flex: it’s annoying. I don’t even bother vacuuming stairs, I use a dustpan and brush.”It is comforting to hear this confession from the UK’s most recognisable cleaning authority, who for six years fronted the exuberant Channel 4 showHow Clean Is Your House?, withKim Woodburn. MacKenzie, a journalist, is rigorous in her investigation of the five, top-of-the-range vacuums arranged around her.Suction power is important but MacKenzie has other considerations. “It’s no good hauling a huge thing around,” she says, prizing instead the sleek, the nimble and the user-friendly. A vacuum should also look “at least a bit appealing, because it’s not an appealing job. You’ve got to be able to open the cupboard without hating the sight of it.” She concludes: “You need to feel at one with your vacuum.”GTech AirRam K9, 3.8kg,gtech.co.uk£249The Gtech Airram K9. Quite hard work.Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose/ObserverThis is very hard to push, and that’s maybe because you are actually turning the brushes manually as you go. In that respect it’s like the old Bissell carpet sweepers, although even those were less stiff to use. And we certainly don’t want to go back to those days. It also looks like a prototype, like it’s not sure what it is, so it’s hard to have confidence in it.It’s hugely expensive considering it’s got such a small dust compartment, and I think the user will get fed up.Suction62gNoise level82dbVax Air Cordless, 4.6kg,vax.co.uk, £249.99The Vax Air Cordless. This is the future.Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose/ObserverI’ve never had a cordless vacuum cleaner before, but I think they’re the future. This isn’t a bad little number. It’s flimsier than the others but it’s simpler, and it’s the only one that doesn’t leave any kind of mark on the carpet. The battery only has a finite life, 25 minutes or something, which would spur you to be more efficient. You’d just whip it round and get it done rather than lingering over it. The canister is nice and big, it’s light – why would you want a corded vacuum if you could choose not to? It’s a huge step forward.Suction36gNoise level82dbSebo Felix Pet Eco, 6.8kg,sebo.co.uk, £259.95The Sebo Felix Pet Eco. Bagless, and a pleasure to use.Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose/ObserverThis is the only non-bagless, and I suppose that makes it more expensive long-term, but if you’re somebody with very bad allergies it’s probably better to have a bag. Emptying a bagless vacuum is a messy business, and what if you don’t want to see all the stuff you’ve vacuumed up?. This is a pleasure to use; it’s so effortless it almost leads you around the room.It may not have such strong suction as the Dyson, but I like it. I use a bagged cleaner at home and there’s something quite satisfying about throwing the bag away, when it’s all full and taut. It’s cathartic.Suction59gNoise level78dDyson Cinetic Big Ball Animal,dyson.co.uk, 8.7kg £460The Dyson Cinetic Big Ball Animal. Very loud. very heavy.Photograph: Katharine Anne Rose/ObserverAnimal? It’s a blinking elephant! You wouldn’t need to go to the gym with this thing. What amuses me about Dyson is, whenever they bring out a new one, which is quite often, they say: “This one is the best Dyson ever.” It makes you think: “I bought the previous Dyson – now I’ve got an inferior model, have I?” This one’s big and scary and unnecessarily over-designed. The ball might seem like a clever idea, but it scores deep lines in the carpet. It really is an ugly bugger: very loud, very heavy. You wouldn’t thank anyone for it.Suction102gNoise level80dbRelated:James Dyson interview: 'Vacuums are already smarter than people'iRobot Roomba 880, 3.8kg,irobot.co.uk, £599.99These are supposed to be the most popular vacuum in Spain, and you can see the benefits: if you’ve got a dishwasher and washing machine, why do your own vacuuming? You set it to wake up and it’ll trundle out of its docking station, clean the floor and go back to charge. It’s only worthwhile in certain homes – no clutter, lots of floor. It can’t handle stairs, and even though it’s quiet, it goes on for hours, so it’s best when you’re out of the house. You also have to empty the canister fairly often, but for big, unencumbered floors, it would be perfect.Suction41gNoise level65dbEQUIPMENT USEDThe suction trial was conducted on a 3m² carpet embedded with 200g of fine MDF sawdust. The results represent the weight of the vacuums’ contents after 30 seconds of hoovering. The Roomba, which moves slower than a human-operated vacuum, was given three minutes of roaming. Noise levels were measured in decibels from a 50cm distance.Carpet supplied byIslington Flooring Company, pet hair byLove Your Pets, sawdust byLondon Cabinet Makers.
When Canadian innovatorMcCauley Wannerbegan her master’s project in industrial design, she set out to change the public perception of an art. When she’d finished she had created a product with a far greater impact. Wanner had produced an accessory for lower-leg amputees that could be fitted to any prosthetic, and easily interchanged, allowing wearers to express their individual sense of style through their artificial limbs.“I wanted to challenge the stereotypes that everyone seems to have about fashion – about how it is so frivolous [whereas] it actually is really important for people’s self-identity and self-identity,” she explains.After completing her thesis in 2011 Wanner began working with artist and designerRyan Palibrodato develop a commercial line. “We quit our jobs, we sold our cars, we moved across the country to the middle of nowhere and worked on it in isolation – basically on the side of the highway in a shed,” he says.It was a new wave of accessible tech that proved pivotal in turning the idea into an affordable reality. Made of ABS plastic and costing around $400, the covers are designed in 3D on a computer before being fabricated by CNC – a process that uses a computer-controlled cutting machine. “The digital fabrication process allows us to change something every single time if we want to, which was so important for us at the start,” says Palibroda.Now based in Victoria, Canada, their studio,the Alleles, offers ready-to-wear and custom-made covers in stylish designs and vibrant colours, with Paralympians among their models.And these products, the pair believe, are challenging the way prosthetics are viewed. “It’s completely changed the conversation,” says Palibroda. But the team’s ambition doesn’t end there. Determined that prosthetic wearers should have the chance to update their covers as they would their wardrobe, Wanner and Palibroda are releasing both spring/summer and autumn/winter collections each year, with the latest designs scheduled for release next month. “It’s exciting to see that people really do treat it like an article of clothing or like an accessory,” says Palibroda.
The suspected mastermind of the online drug emporium Silk Road is facing the prospect of spending the rest of his life in prison after a jury returned a guilty verdict at the end of a four-week trial that revealed a plethora of detail about US investigations into the use of the bitcoin digital currency for drug trafficking and other crimes.Ross Ulbricht, 30, was convicted on all seven charges which he had faced at Manhattan district court, including drug trafficking, criminal enterprise, aiding and abetting the distribution of drugs over the internet, computer hacking and money laundering.His defence team attempted to convince the jury that, while Ulbricht was one of the site’s creators, known as Dread Pirate Roberts, the mysterious mastermind behind the deep-web marketplace was actually Mark Karpelès, the founder of bitcoin exchange Mt Gox.However, the prosecution was able to produce evidence including Ulbricht’s personal journals, as well as his bitcoin wallet containing millions of dollars’ worth of the online-only currency, all of which pointed to his guilt.Related:Bitcoin: will 2015 be a make-or-break year?Ulbricht was arrested in San Francisco in October 2013 in the wake of US investigations into the use of bitcoin for drug trafficking and other illegal activities and charged with being Dread Pirate Roberts, a name taken from the film The Princess Bride where it referred to a mythical persona shared between several people.Visitors to Silk Road could procure anything from LSD to ecstasy pills and even read reviews and star ratings left by previous customers of dealers, rather as one might do on sites such as eBay or Amazon.By spring 2013, 10,000 products were for sale, 70% of which were drugs, in addition to more than a hundred listings for “services,” much of which related to hacking into social network accounts, and more than 800 listings for digital goods such as pirated content or hacked Amazon and Netflix accounts. Fake drivers’ licences and fake passports could also be found.Prosecutors said Silk Road had generated nearly $213.9m (£140m) in sales and $13.2m in commissions before police shut it down. Police had claimed that Ulbricht had been running the site since 2011, doing so for much of 2013 from his home in San Francisco and from a nearby cafe where he was eventually arrested.The jury of six men and six women needed a little over three hours to deliberate while Ulbricht turned toward his supporters and raised his hand as he was led from the court after the verdict was read.“Ross is a hero,” shouted one of the supporters who have rallied behind him and regard the US government’s case as an attack on internet freedom.The US attorney for Manhattan, Preet Bharara, said Ulbricht’s conviction should send a message to anyone attempting to operate an online criminal enterprise.“The supposed anonymity of the dark web is not a protective shield,” he said.Ulbricht had conceded that he created Silk Road, which his defence team had said was intended as a “freewheeling, free-market site” where all but a few harmful items could be sold. They argued that the “economic experiment” became too stressful for him, so he handed it to others before being lured back.Joshua Dratel, Ulbricht’s lawyer, had tried to raise questions in jurors’ minds about whether someone else had been operating Silk Road, such as Karpelès, who was never charged and has denied involvement.Although a federal agent told jurors he had been investigating Karpelès, the judge, Katherine Forrest, struck out much of that testimony as improper.Ulbricht faces up to life in prison and a minimum term of 20 years. His sentencing was scheduled for 15 May, although his defence team signalled he would appeal. A separate trial of Ulbricht in Baltimore, on charges including attempted commission of a murder-for-hire, continues.
They havemastered the art of poker, helpedwrite a cookbookand can cope with a basic conversation. The decision by a Japanese bank to staff their frontdesk with a bevy of robots is just the latest in a series of advances and predictions that at times appear to suggest we will all be replaced, professionally and socially, by automatons.Ray Kurzweil, director of engineering at Google, has estimated that robots will reach human levels of intelligence by 2029, purportedly leaving us about 14 years to reign supreme. So, how far are we along this trajectory?The increase in computing prowess during the past decade has expanded the kinds of tasks computers can undertake independently.IBM’s Watson computer, which won the US quiz show Jeopardy! in 2011, is being successfully applied to medical diagnosis.Related:Are the robots about to rise? Google's new director of engineering thinks so…By mining medical research papers available online and analysing diagnostic images, it can outperform doctors in some tasks. Most recently, the same machine has been transformed in to an “artificial lawyer”, which can search legal databases and correspondence for possibly relevant information.Before mourning or rejoicing over the imminent demise of the entire legal and other professions, it is worth noting that these machines only do well at responding to certain predictable questions. Like the iPhone’s Siri, if you ask the right things, it sounds quite competent, but a lot of the time the responses are plain silly.The next step, elusive thus far, is developing a program that actually understands the meaning of words and phrases. Computer scientists generally concede that jokes and sarcasm are still utterly beyond computers.Beyond purely intellectual tasks, the physical capability of robots is also rapidly advancing. Improved processing of visual information means that driverless cars are now on the horizon and a glance at some of the galloping and armoured machines developed by Boston Dynamics gives a sinister hint of the military potential.But the best technology today still performs far worse on skills such as dexterity and balance – attributes that come naturally to humans. Engineers can just about build a robot capable of loading a dishwasher or taking out the dustbin, for instance, but at colossal expense, making such machines a very distant prospect in the home.There is also the question of what we want our robotic companions to look like. While films, from Terminator to Ex Machina, tend to portray essentially “souped up” humans, in reality we may be more comfortable with entities that look a bit less like us.The so-called “uncanny valley” effect means that many people find robots creepy when their features look and move almost, but not exactly, like humans.Perhaps with this in mind, when Japanese scientists developed a robot to provide emotional support to the sick and elderly, they chose to make it in the shape of a baby seal, called Paro. Similarly, scientists at the University of Lincoln went for plain white plastic features when designing a “printable companion”, Marc, that can be screwed together from 3D-printed components. Previous research has shown that humans readily interact with not much more than a pair of eye brows and a smile, so our aesthetic requirements may be the easiest to meet.
Proposing a titanic legislative shift on net neutrality after a years-longpush from internet activists, the head of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is preparing to push through “the strongest open internet protections ever”.“The internet must be fast, fair and open. That is the message I’ve heard from consumers and innovators across this nation,” FCC chair Tom Wheeler wrote inan editorial for Wiredmagazine published on Wednesday. “The proposal I present to the commission will ensure the internet remains open, now and in the future, for all Americans.”Wheeler’s proposals – to all but reclassify the internet as a public utility – come after the FCC has received more than 4m public comments on its proposals, the biggest overhaul of US regulation of the internet since the presidency of George W Bush.Related:Obama will fundamentally reshape the internet. But he hasn't said how | Trevor TimmThe new rules will be sent to the regulator’s commissioners on Thursday, before a crucial vote at the end of the month. While the FCC has the support of president Barack Obama, the proposals have stoked Republican ire about over-regulation and will face intense lobbying from the cable industry in the coming weeks.FCC officials, speaking on background, said the new rules would:ban blocking, preventing broadband providers from blocking access to legal content, applications or services;stop throttling, preventing broadband providers from degrading lawful internet traffic on the basis of content, applications, services or non-harmful devices;outlaw paid prioritization, preventing broadband providers from favoring certain internet services with so-called “fast lanes” or from prioritizing the content and services of their affiliates.Activists hailed the decision as “historic”, while critics called Wheeler’s proposals “unjustified, overblown”.Wheeler is set to press for broadband internet to be regulated under Title II of an overarching communications act. Under Bush, broadband was classified as an “information service” and escaped the regulatory burden associated with telecommunications, which are considered a utility.The shift would give the FCC far greater powers to step in and act if it spots potential broadband abuses – and hand the FCC oversight of mobile broadband, a fast growing area, for the first time.However, officials said the FCC would not set prices or force cable companies to share their networks and would “forbear” parts of the act they believe would hamper innovation.Last May, Wheeler proposed regulating broadband under Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act, a move supported by the cable companies. Such a policy shift could have allowed cable operators to create “fast lanes” for some users in return for higher fees – a move critics charged would kill “net neutrality”, the concept that all traffic should be treated equally online.While Section 706 only allows fast lanes that are “commercially reasonable”, Wheeler wrote in Wire that he became concerned “that this relatively new concept might, down the road, be interpreted to mean what is reasonable for commercial interests, not consumers.”Wheeler said he now believed the FCC needed to use Title II to protect an open internet. On Thursday, he is expected to release draft orders to his fellow commissioners from the United States’ top telecommunications regulatory agency, ahead of a landmark vote on 27 February.“Using this authority, I am submitting to my colleagues the strongest open internet protections ever proposed by the FCC,” Wheeler wrote. “These enforceable, bright-line rules will ban paid prioritization, and the blocking and throttling of lawful content and services. I propose to fully apply – for the first time ever – those bright-line rules to mobile broadband.“My proposal assures the rights of internet users to go where they want, when they want, and the rights of innovators to introduce new products without asking anyone’s permission.”Related:Net neutrality battle pitches activists and FCC against Big Cable and GOPWheeler’s proposals come as Republican critics work on their own legislation, which could effectively stymie his efforts. Senator John Thune is proposing legislation that would ban fast lanes and throttling but would not increase the FCC’s regulatory authority over the cable industry.Last month Thune, the chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, called Title II a “desperate path” that would upset the “light touch” regulation he said had allowed innovation to flourish online.Objections to the proposals were swift. Michael Powell, CEO of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, cable’s biggest lobby group, said Wheeler’s went “far beyond the worthy goal of establishing important net neutrality protections”.“The cable industry has repeatedly voiced our support for sensible net neutrality rules which accomplish the important protections that president Obama and others have supported – no blocking, no throttling, no paid prioritization and transparency of business practices – and can be enacted without the significant regulatory baggage that comes with public utility regulation,” he said.Doug Brake, a telecommunications policy analyst at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, an industry lobby group, said the shift to Title II was an “unjustified, overblown response to what has in actuality been a by-and-large hypothetical concern”.But activists – who have bombarded the FCC with demands for stronger regulation – continue to charge that cable companies will stifle innovation by “picking the winners” if they are allowed to charge those who can pay more for faster access.The FCC was effectively left without rules to govern broadband after a court sided with Verizon’s successful challenge to its authority to regulate the industry in January 2014. Officials said they expected fresh legal challenges but were confident they could be overcome.Chris Lewis, vice president of government affairs at advocacy group Public Knowledge, commended Wheeler for his support of Title II authority. “This is a historic announcement by chairman Wheeler, and a decision that consumers have been demanding for some time,” he said.Tiffiniy Cheng, co-founder of Fight for the Future, which has organised a series of protests for net neutrality, said: “We’ll be ramping up the pressure to make sure the details are right, but the significance of the FCC moving to use Title II rules to protect net neutrality is undeniable – it is an awe-inspiring, unprecedented victory for the public and the internet freedom movement against DC’s fiercest lobbies.“Every internet activist who has signed a petition, made a call or showed up at a protest deserves to celebrate. It’s crucial that we keep the pressure on both the FCC and Congress to make sure they get the details right, but no matter what happens from here, we’ve already accomplished more than any pundit, lobbyist or cable CEO thought was possible.”
A car leased to Apple and covered in cameras and scanning equipment has been spotted driving around San Francisco.The people carrier with system of 12 cameras and alidar sensor, which scans the environment using a spinning laser, attached to its roof was spotted by a Bay Area localblog called Claycord news and talk.The unmarked vehicle was confirmed as having been leased to Apple via its number plate, and it could indicate that the company is preparing a large update to its maps app for the iPhone and iPad, similar to the street-level photography within Google Maps.Apple’s update to its operating system for the iPhone and iPad, iOS 9, is expected to debut in the summer and could introduce the new feature. That would require a significant investment from Apple and a fleet of cars to photograph and map roads.A similar car to the one spotted in San Francisco was also captured on video in New York last year.Mapping car in New York.Google’s Street View was introduced in 2006 across five major US cities before expanding to the rest of the UK and Europe in 2008. It marked the switch for Google from relying on other providers for maps to building its own.Apple has invested heavily in its maps app and made it the default mapping application on the company’s smartphones and tablets.Apple Maps was notoriously buggy with inaccurate data on its launch in 2012, prompting the chief executive Tim Cook topublicly apologisefor user frustration stating that the company was “doing everything we can to make Maps better”.Related:Apple maps: how Google lost when everyone thought it had wonStreet View was a crucial step in improving the accuracy of Google Maps as part of the company’s “Ground Truth” project, adding context such as no access roads, traffic signs and the context not available from satellite or aerial photography.Tracking the cars route with GPS and other sensors not associated with photography verified routes and brought local knowledge to the standard map.A similar project from Apple could boost the accuracy of its map application and bring it up to par with competitors from Google and Nokia’s Here maps.
“The brogrammer bullish mentality tells you never to take no for an answer, and never quit. The reality is there are a lot of times you should quit, walk away and do something else – because your idea is terrible!”As chief executive ofIgnite, the Newcastle-based startup accelerator programme, delivering a sharp dose of reality to overconfident tech-company founders is sometimes part of Paul Smith’s job. He doesn’t shirk it.“Just because you’ve identified a problem doesn’t necessarily follow that you’ve created a solution that anybody wants,” adds Smith. “When people are passionate about something, tempers can flare when they hear something like this, but it’s important that they’re challenged.”Ignite is in its fourth year, and styles itself as a “pre-seed accelerator”. It recruits 10 startups at a time into its programme, providing £18k per team in return for an 8% equity stake, workspace, four months of solid coaching, and ongoing support once they graduate.Companies from its first three cohorts have raised more than £15m in investment, and according to Smith have a total valuation of £59m, which he says proves the value not just of its willingness to prick inflated expectations, but also its focus on first-time founders.“We work with first-time entrepreneurs, so we are taking a bigger gamble than many other accelerators. These people are unproven, but we think the biggest gains are going to be made by outliers: the people nobody sees coming,” says Smith.“We have a higher appetite for risk: we’re looking for teams that haven’t raised money before, and the kind of teams that some of our rivals won’t consider. We’re just looking for smart people who want to make a difference.”Ignite’s latest cohort included companies exploring programmable wearables, drone architecture and 3D educational publishing, among other areas – a sign that the programme is willing to bet on new technologies as well as unproven teams.Related:Cyber London aims to be launchpad for cyber-security startups“Some of it may be too early, but that’s exciting. What turns me off is people who have invented Foursquare five years too late. It’s surprising that there are still people who think that a variation on Foursquare will be the next big thing,” says Smith.“If you look at the big success stories in technology, it’s tech that either changes the rules completely, or which does something really well. Snapchat and the idea that it destroys the photos and messages you send to make the whole experience very ephemeral? That’s changed how we use cameras. While something like WhatsApp does one thing – messaging – incredibly well.”Smith expects five or six Ignite graduates from the program’s first three years to start moving into Series A funding rounds in 2015, which he sees as validation of the scheme’s focus on backing “outliers”.Ignite currently gets around 80% of its funding from a network of angel investors including Friends Reunited co-founder Steve Pankhurst, former Virgin Holidays MD Amanda Wills; early Spotify exec Jonathan Forster and Vouchercodes founder Duncan Jennings. The other 20% comes from long-time partner Northstar Ventures.Smith says that the fact that these backers are prolific investors in technology, and that they are generally based outside the north east, has been important in changing the way that Ignite’s startups are perceived outside the region.Friends Reunited co-founder Steve Pankhurst is an Ignite mentor.Ignite accepts a wide geographic spread of startups – in a 10-company cohort, two or three teams will generally come from the north east, around five from London, and two or three from elsewhere in the world.“We are very much global in terms of the talent we attract. There has been a prejudice in London against investment activity in early-stage startups that doesn’t take place in London, but that is changing,” says Smith.“We are showing that just because a team isn’t based in London, doesn’t mean you can’t have startups that create a massive amount of value for investors. But there’s still a tendency for London investors to be prejudiced against anything that doesn’t happen within cat-swinging distance.”Smith isn’t one for anti-London rants, though. Ignite is planning to launch a programme in the capital, and is also a partner for the recently-launchedCyber London (CyLon) cyber-security startup accelerator.Its CEO also makes a point of warning startups not to be “chippy and insular” about London and its ecosystem of startups and investors.“The fact is that cities outside London can only be strong and prosper if they work in collaboration with the city. You can base a successful startup outside London, but you can’t have a successful startup here in the UK that ignores London,” he says.Ignite’s main programme is based in its own premises in Newcastle – Campus North – funded via commercial sponsorship and aKickstarter campaignin 2014.“Half our teams tend to stay in Newcastle because of the cost, but ultimately they all still do business in London, travelling to meet clients and investors, and attend events. I don’t believe for a moment that teams should have to choose one place or another to base themselves,” says Smith.Related:Poor travel links 'stop UK tech competing with Silicon Valley'“Have an office of developers outside London and a sales team in London? That makes perfect sense to me. People talk about the distance between London and Newcastle as if it’s on the moon! The fastest trains get here in two and a half hours…”Stressing the need to get out and about is part of the coaching regime at Ignite, with startups encouraged to not just pick the brains of experienced entrepreneurs and investors, but to put their advice to good use.“There is so much learning out in the world about startups: so much education out there about best practices and how people’s startups failed. The paradox is that most startups don’t read any of it, and they blunder into the same mistakes every time,” says Smith.“My bugbear with the startup industry is the lack of consistent coaching. Any angel investor or entrepreneur will give you their time for the price of a cup of coffee, but you can end up taking a lot of inconsistent advice from people over time. That’s why the consistency of coaching within an accelerator programme is so important.”Consistency, and the occasional spot of tough talking with startups seduced by the cult of the founder, and the notion that the more single-minded they are about their grand vision, the more likely it is to be a success.“Some teams don’t take criticism very well, but the environment we work in is ‘‘if you say you’re right about something, you’re going to have to show us evidence’,” says Smith.“It’s not enough to just say ‘I think’. You’ve got to be able to point to data or evidence that your solution to a given problem is the right one – no matter how passionate you are.”
It is wilfully offensive, nihilistically violent and its view of women is best described as dismissive – but Grand Theft Auto V is now one of the five biggest selling video games of all time.In an earnings statement released by Take-Two, the parent company of GTA publisher Rockstar, it was announced that the game has shipped 45m units since its initial release in September 2013; almost 10m of those on the year-old PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles. And it isn’t even finished: a PC version is due out on 24 March. The mammoth figure represents sales to stores rather than to consumers, but even with this in mind, the game is doubtless up there with the likes of Tetris, Wii Sports and Super Mario Bros as a titan of the games industry.Of course, the chaotic and exhilerating Grand Theft Auto adventures, which follow a menagerie of hoods and criminals through endless blood-splattered missions, have been best-sellers since the revolutionary Grand Theft Auto III hit the PlayStation 2 in 2001. But what is it about this controversial series that makes it endlessly appealing?Here are the five key factors.Rockstar understands the pop culture momentThe Grand Theft Auto titles have always been able to skewer and explore contemporary trends. Rockstar founder Sam Houser came to games from the music industry, where he spent time making music videos for BMG Records, and he brought with him a keen understanding of youth culture obsessions. 2002’s Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, for example, brilliantly tapped into the exploding eighties rediscovery, channeling Miami Vice and Brian de Palma’s Scarface into a pitch-perfect satire on criminal ambition, with an amazing soundtrack crammed with contemporary pop hits. GTA V pastiches everything from reality TV to invasive social media, plastic surgery, celebrity gossip and, yes, video game violence.The environment is a narrativeRockstar’s Edinburgh-based design team intricately crafts each game’s sprawling open-world environment, ensuring that there’s always something new to discover. Whether that means cycling to the peak of Mount Chiliad in GTA: San Andreas or exploring the wrecks off the coast of Los Santos in GTA V, players are constantly rewarded for developing their own activities. The team also fills the landscape with secrets and in-jokes; that may mean a sign saying “No hidden content this way” in GTA IV’s Statue of Happiness, or the yeti rumoured to wander the wilderness of San Andreas. In this way, players create and curate their own mythologies, providing the digital realm with a sense of shared culture and history.The spinning plates structureGrand Theft Auto was one of the first “open-world” games to present players with a series of narrative missions interspersed with side-quests and activities that have nothing to do with the over-arching plot. In this way, players can quickly swap between activities, temporarily abandoning missions to, say, race jetskis or apply for a pilot’s license. At any one moment, there are myriad options and demands, so players constantly feel engaged.The basis in realityHowever insanely violent Grand Theft Auto is – and it isinsanelyviolent – the design grounds every action in naturalism. While the rival Saint’s Row series has slipped into hyper-real extravagance, including trucks with cannons that shoot players across the environment, GTA features credible vehicles, weapons, urban layouts and criminal structures. It’s the contrast between the anarchy of player actions and the seeming order of the environment that creates the guilty pleasure. Crashing a car or punching a passing pedestrian in GTA V has almost photo-realistic veracity, appealing to that part of our nature that enjoys reality cop car chase shows and You’ve Been Framed blunder videos. Except in GTA we are complicit – there’s part of us that thrives on that too.The value of anticipationGrand Theft Auto is not an annual franchise like Fifa or Call of Duty. Rockstar spends around four years developing each title, then careful teases new instalments over many months: the first trailer for GTA V was launched in November 2011, two years before the game arrived. The company is hugely guarded over pre-release announcements, controlling the dissemination of information, eschewing big events like E3 and Gamescom to establish its own rhythms of revelation and silence. While other publishers flood the market with trailers, screens and behind-the-scenes documentaries, Rockstar is an enticingly closed shop; a dictatorship of hype. When the game eventually arrives, we know a little, but not too much, so everyone gets to discover their own version. In this way, with quite spectacular skill, Rockstar gamifies consumer participation. The narrative begins, not when the virtual actors appear on screen, but when the fans begin to speculate on new content. Everyone in the entertainment industry tries this, of course. But no one does it like Rockstar.
Facebook is to prompt every adult user in the UK to register to vote ahead of the general election in May, in the company’s first intervention into British electoral politics.The social network is joining forces with the Electoral Commission to promote a reminder at the top of newsfeeds on Thursday, which is national voter registration day.The reminder, which follows the format of similar exercises in the US and India, will let users create a new “life event” on the site to tell friends that they have registered to vote, and will be run in conjunction with an Electoral Commission campaign to encourage voter registration amongst 17-year-olds who turn 18 before the election.In the 2010 midterm elections in the US, when Facebook ran a similar campaign, it increased turnout by almost a third of a million people,according to a study by the University of California, San Diego.In America’s 2012 presidential election Facebook conducted a battery of experiments to test the efficacy of various interventions. It showed 1.9 million users an increased number of hard news stories, which increased turnout amongst that cohort; it randomised the effect, design and placement of the “I’m voting” button; and it even hid it entirely from some users. The results of the experiment were published in a 2014 paper titledA 61-million-person experiment in social influence and political mobilization.Elizabeth Linder, Facebook’s politics and government specialist for Europe, said: “Over 35 million people in the UK use Facebook, considerably more than the number of people who voted in the last general election.“We’re seeing that many of them are already using the platform to have their say on who should govern this country …. We hope that through partnerships like this one with the Electoral Commission, we can make sure those conversations lead to higher turnout on 7 May.”Alex Robertson, Director of Communication at the Electoral Commission, said “We’re delighted to be working in partnership with Facebook again to reach those who will be eligible to vote on polling day.“We saw at the Scottish Independence Referendum that young people are passionate and engaged about the issues that affect their lives. It’s vital that we continue to reach them on platforms like Facebook with information that’s accessible to them.”
An Instagram update has brought infinitely looping video to its platform, following in the footsteps of competitor Vine.The new feature, introduced in a software update, also removes the ability to pause video, instead letting users tap videos to turn sound on and off. Unlike Vine, the sound defaults to off on any video posted, and the company is eager to highlight that the looping will not affect data usage.Looping videos may be popular with advertisers, who can now bank on a significantly higher number of plays for any given video. On the other hand, if those plays don’t translate into higher engagement, butdotranslate into a higher ad spend, Instagram may have found a way to earn more money from the same clients.Auto-playing video is now the norm for most social networks, with only Twitter still asking users to explicitly decide to play a video. But there’s still a great deal of variation in whether videos loop when completed, whether sound is automatically on or off, and whether any of the options can be changed in settings – something most valuable to users with small data limits, who may want to turn off autoplay on Facebook in order to preserve their precious bandwidth.
Three Android apps have been removed from the Google Play app store, after a security firm claimed they were harbouring adware.The most popular of the three, a card game called Durak, had been installed more than 5m times according to the store’s public stats. Antivirus software maker Avast also identified an IQ test app and Russian history app as fellow offenders.“When you install Durak, it seems to be a completely normal and well working gaming app. This was the same for the other apps,”explained Avast’s Filip Chytryin a blog post.“This impression remains until you reboot your device and wait for a couple of days. After a week, you might start to feel there is something wrong with your device. Some of the apps wait up to 30 days until they show their true colors.”Related:How can I protect my privacy and security on Android?Those true colours are pop-up advertisements shown to people whenever they unlock their infected device, warning them about a (false) problem with it that needs to be solved by installing new software.“If you approve you get re-directed to harmful threats on fake pages, like dubious app stores and apps that attempt to send premium SMS behind your back or to apps that simply collect too much of your data for comfort while offering you no additional value,” wrote Chytry.“An even bigger surprise was that users were sometimes directed to security apps on Google Play. These security apps are, of course, harmless, but would security providers really want to promote their apps via adware?”The presence of adware-toting apps on the Google Play store is surprising, since most reports of Android malware and adware tend to focus on apps distributed through unofficial stores, rather than Google’s official outlet.Google appears to have taken speedy action to remove the three apps identified in this case, but Android’s popularity – there weremore than one billion active Android usersin June 2014 – will continue to make these devices and their official store a target for scammers.
Google banned more than 214,000 individuals and companies from its online ads network in 2014, as it continued to crack down on “bad actors” in the web advertising world.The company revealed the figure in a blogpost highlighting its efforts to keep its network as free as possible from malware, scams and other criminal activity.“Overall, we disabled more than 524 million bad ads and banned more than 214,000 advertisers in 2014,”wrote Google’s director of ads engineering Vikaram Guptain a blog post.“While this represents a tiny fraction of the total ads on our platform – the vast majority of advertisers follow our policies and act responsibly – we continue to remain vigilant to protect users against bad advertising practices.”Gupta provided some more specific figures from 2014: 7,000 advertisers banned for promoting counterfeit goods; 250,000 sites blocked from its network for hiding malware; 33,000 merchants banned from its Google Shopping service for “bad practices”; and more than 5,000 advertisers banned for phishing attempts.Related:How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015“This is a constantly evolving fight. Bad actors continually create more sophisticated systems and scams, so we too are continually evolving our practices, technology, and methodology in fighting these bad ads,” claimed Gupta.He cited the example of a series of advertisements that “looked like ordinary rental property ads that met our policies”, but which further analysis revealed were the front for a scam: the properties advertised didn’t even exist.Tackling “bad actors” on its advertising network is a long-term challenge for Google. For example, itannounced a crackdown on ads for counterfeit goods in March 2011, but three years later,fake products could still be found advertising on its network.Google has also faced regulatory scrutiny of its network,agreeing in 2011 to pay a fine of $500mto settle an investigation by the US Federal Trade Commission into its display of advertisements from Canadian pharmacies illegally selling prescription and non-prescription drugs to Americans.Malware is another ongoing battle for Google’s online advertising business.Its DoubleClick subsidiary was targeted in September 2014by a widespread “malvertising” attack aiming to deliver malware through ads on websites, while in January 2015,Google faced a malvertising atttack focused on its AdSense network.All of this explains the company’s desire to talk publicly about its efforts to keep its web ads clean. “The security of our users is the foundation of our ecosystem, and we’ll continue to work tirelessly to keep people safe online,” wrote Gupta.
When Wales meet England for the opening match of the Six Nations rugby union championship on Friday, it will be as much a battle of statistics and data as of raw rugby-playing talent.Rugby coaches are increasingly relying on the insights from research and real-time analytics to plan their strategies and make their team selections. But has this obsession with data gone too far, taking the human touch out of the game and turning elite sports into a statistical showdown?From the boardroom to the sports training ground, the question of how far we should rely on data for decision-making has become a defining issue over the past few years.Ahead of the Six Nations, and in the year that England hosts the Rugby World Cup 2015, the Guardian hosted a seminar, sponsored by Accenture, about the uses of data in elite sports and business. Senior figures from the worlds of rugby and business took part in a panel discussion before an audience of some 50 data and digital executives.On the panelEddie Butler (Chair)Observer rugby correspondent and BBC rugby commentatorMaggie AlphonsiFormer England rugby union player and Rugby World Cup 2015 ambassadorJeremy GuscottFormer England rugby union player and BBC punditNick MallettFormer South African rugby union player and international rugby coachNick MillmanManaging director for big data and analytics, AccentureThis was followed by a question and answer session where the audience put some tough questions to the panel about where the balance should be struck between using the insights of data against human intuition.Top rugby coach Nick Mallett, a former star player and coach of South Africa’s Springboks team who also managed Italy between 2007 and 2011, explained that data has become an essential tool. He told the panel:Nick Mallett“As a coach you follow the ball a lot and by necessity you are not looking at your team and the opposition. The detail and information from technology is absolutely vital.”“You find players who hide and you get players who do their best to avoid getting into a tackle situation and you have that information because you’ve got it in front of you,” he added.But the data is far from infallible and can sometimes send out confusing signals. Jeremy Guscott, a former England player and now a BBC rugby pundit, pointed to one game where the losing team had 75% of the territory and 70% of the possession. “How did they lose that? You can have less territory, less possession but be more efficient,” he said.Guscott welcomed the arrival of detailed statistics in rugby union saying they helped his analysis. “They give me a second view of what I see with my eyes, what I feel in my gut and how a player is playing.”But he added that there is a lot the data cannot tell you. “The only thing I would challenge is that statistics won’t tell you how smart the player is,” he said, adding: “It is quite difficult to measure skill.”Watch highlights from the debate around the role of data in elite rugby and elite business, featuring a panel of rugby greatsData, the panel heard, has changed our understanding of the game, showing that territory and possession are not the only ingredients to winning. But Mallett insisted that data must be interpreted correctly to find the most instructive insight. “It’s not just territory or possession or the number of tackles or carries or line outs, there are always statistics that explain why you lost.” He gave an example of Wales beating France at last year’s Six Nations. France led on many important statistics. “But the key statistic was that they had 27 turnovers, they lost 27 balls from every possession and Wales only lost seven.”So the power of data lies in the ability to interpret the most important results and disregard what is irrelevant, which means it also requires a great deal of practical experience to sort through the statistics.Accenture’s Nick Millman, the consultancy’s managing director for big data and analytics, said that the human interpretation of data is vital:Nick MillmanPhotograph: Sam Friedrich“You actually need the insight and experience to look at what the data is telling you and use it to advise you rather than just blindly following it. Otherwise we could all be international rugby coaches.”He added that it was vital to bring in more data variables to gain better insights, whether in sport or in business. With the growth of the internet of things, where data will be collected from a far greater range of objects and parts of the human body, there will be an opportunity to get smarter insights.Millman argued that offering easily digestible statistics to the public could help bring in more fans to rugby. “The more engagement you can make through the fan community, the better it is for them.”Data is extending its usage into a wide range of business fields. Since retiring as a player, Guscott has worked in the world of telematics, collecting data on the way cars are driven to help improve driving skills and to save on fuel. He said the data needs to be seen as a helpful tool rather than something authoritarian.Jeremy Guscott“There are drivers who see it as Big Brother looking down on you and monitoring you and it’s not, it’s an aid to help you, to back you up.”It is important to avoid data becoming a de-humanising force. Mallett said there are coaches who make every selection decision based on statistics, but insisted: “Sport is never going to lose its human impact.” He said that data should help coaches become better at their job. The key skill is communicating the insights to players and showing how they can improve. “It is the ability to get the player to believe that makes you a good coach or a bad coach, not simply just feeding blind statistics to him.”Some audience members questioned the dependence on data and whether it could have detrimental effects on the game. The Guardian’s head of sport, Ian Prior, asked: “Is a team like England too locked into the way of playing and unable to cope with a change of conditions?”Panellist Maggie Alphonsi, a former women’s rugby player for England who was part of the 2014 World Cup winning squad, agreed that over-dependence on data could be problematic. “The way the game is played now is a bit over-reliant on statistics and data. The problem is making players understand that if plan A doesn’t work, then we go to Plan B.Maggie AlphonsiPhotograph: Sam Friedrich“As coaches you started the game with a game plan and you used stats based on what you got from previous games, but at what point do you go ‘right, I’m not relying on stats any more, I’m going to have to now change my game plan’?”A big question was how far data could address the emotional and psychological challenges faced by players rather than just their physical performance. Malcolm Simpkin, chief information officer of European Operations at insurer QBE, wondered whether data could help address the all important soft skills involved in the game.And Eamon Tuhami, managing director at Digital-Labs, wondered how far data collection would go – would it include monitoring players while they sleep? “Where will the line be on how much data you get and from where?” Miles Harley, director of sports analytics at Hanson Wade, asked about ways of using data to combat concussion, a common injury in rugby.The panel referred to Premiership team Saracens, they have started to trial sensors worn behind players’ ears to measure the impact of hits to the head as part of research into concussion.Alphonsi said: “Concussion is subjective but we are trying to make it less subjective and we are trying to make it much more based on data and relevant information.”The panel agreed that as much data would be collected as possible as the pressure ratchets up to gain a competitive edge over rivals. On the issue of injuries, there were fears that so much data about opponents could actually increase the risk of injuries as players would be able to predict their rivals’ moves and face them full on.“Before you didn’t have the information. You didn’t know what the other team’s strategy was going to be,” said Mallett. “But now you know, the impact of your tackle is so much harder because you know – there is an appreciation of what the opponent is going to do.”Meanwhile, Colm Hannon, a former rugby player who runs his own digital transformation consultancy, asked the panel: “If you had a choice of a specialist in analytics and a specialist in rugby coaching who would you go for – which is the right balance for the players?”Millman said a blended team with a data scientist and an expert in the field – whether sport or business was essential. And Mallett said: “I would need a stats guy, someone really good technically.”Chair of the seminar Eddie Butler, BBC rugby commentator and Observer rugby columnist, talked about the emotional drama of the last rugby union World Cup. He said:Eddie ButlerPhotograph: Sam Friedrich“Once you multiply all those hormonal responses, you end up with something entirely charged with unpredictability and I think this leads to a huge sporting drama.”He argued that there is room for the mathematical breakdown of performance to happily coexist with the human side of the game without ruining that drama.But concerns that data will detract from human agency in both business and in sport will continue, whatever drama unfolds at the Six Nations and The World Cup.
An eSports league based in the Philippines has withdrawn a ruling that sought to limit the number of gay and transgender participants in its all-female gaming tournaments.Garena eSports, which runs competitive events throughout Southeast Asia, particularly around the popular multiplayer battle game League of Legends, posted a message about the rule on its official blog on Tuesday. The organisation announced that it would limit teams to one “gay/transgendered woman” for each tournament day.Explaining its decision, the statement read “there are arguments and concerns from other participants who disputes that Lesbian, Gay, Transgendered Women members may probably have some unfair advantage.”The blogpost was quickly shared across social media and specialist gaming sites, with dozens of furious gamers questioning the decision. “In what universe would somebody’s sexual preferences, gender identity, or current genital load-out have any impact on their ability to compete in a digital medium?” asked one commenter on the Garena Sports site.Some observers tried to clarify the nature of the ruling, particularly its definition of “gay” team members. On the discussion site Reddit, gamers familiar with the regionpointed outthat cultural and translation issues could be obscuring the fact that in this context “gay” may not refer to gay women, but to “bakla”, a Philippine term for men who present as women but do not necessarily self-identify as female.It was theorised that the tournament organisers were attempting to prevent teams of male competitors from identifying as bakla in order to compete. Whatever the reasoning, the clumsy nature of the ruling has drawn widespread consternation from the LoL community.On Tuesday evening, League of Legends developer Riot Games provided a short response to the escalating controversy via Twitter, stating, “LGBT players are welcome at official LoL tourneys. We’re working with partners to ensure consistency with our values across all regions.”By Wednesday morning, Garena eSports had posted an update to its ruling,and a statement:“Our initial ruling on LGBT player restrictions within the Iron Solari League has created a lot of good discussion and debate over the past 24 hours. After discussing the ruling with our partners and re-examining our approach, we have decided to remove these restrictions completely. This means that any player who self-identifies as female will be allowed to participate. We sincerely apologise for any offence we caused to the LGBT and gaming communities.”This is not the first controversy to affect gender-segregated events in the eSports scene. Last year, a Finnish tournament based around the card-trading game Hearthstone was criticised for inviting only male competitors. The organisers claimed that they wereacting in compliance with International e-Sports Federation rules, and in response to an internet outcry, the South Korea-based bodychanged its positionon gender segregated tournaments, offering both “open for all” and women only events.League of Legends is one of the most popular titles in professional gaming, with around 30m active players a day. Last year, 27m fans watched the game’s world championship tournament via online streams. However, aninfographic released by Riot Gamestwo years ago showed its player base was over 90% male.Related:Esports for all? How to get more women into pro gamingSimilarly, professional eSports is overwhelmingly dominated by male players and organisers are actively looking at ways to encourage more women and LGBTQ competitors. Riot Games is supporting university and school leagues, hoping to bring in a more diverse user-base at an earlier stage, while the Electronic Sports League has pointed toward the need for more women in leadership roles.The answer, it seems, will not come from orchestrating rulings based around complex issues of gender identity and representation.
Traditional TV viewing has dropped by more than 12% year on year in the US in the face of competition from streaming services such as Netflix, according to a study.Nomura analyst Anthony DiClemente and Benjamin Black, say the figures showed “one of the worst declines we have seen since we launched coverage of these companies.“Why the steep declines? Naturally, [subscription video on demand] services, such as Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, and Hulu, continue to siphon viewers away from linear TV. Of course, over time, time-shifted viewership could offset these declines, including VOD usage, dot-com, and in-app viewership.” The report is based on statistics from market research firm Nielsen.In Britain, Ofcom figures released in 2014 show a similar year-on-year decline, although smaller: the average viewer watched 3 hours 52 minutes of TV per day in 2013, down by 9 minutes or 4% year on year.Revenue for online TV services increased by 41% in the same period, with subscription revenue specifically rising even quicker, “possibly indicating that online streaming services are gaining traction in the UK market,” according to the regulator.Figures released by Sky show a record increase in its own on-demand platform, with the company announcing “almost 2 billion download and streaming requests made by its customers during 2014”, an increase of nearly 50% on the year before.In January, Netflix reported revenues of $1.48bn in the final quarter of 2014, and 33.4 million US subscribers.
In a galaxy not so far away, people are scooping up a collection of Star Wars games in the latest pay-what-you-want promotion from the Humble Bundle website.TheStar Wars Humble Bundlelaunched on 3 February, and less than a day later has already generated more than $1.3m in sales, with the US Fund for Unicef receiving a portion of those as the promotion’s charity partner.With more than 13 days to go, it’s set to be one of the most lucrative Humble Bundles yet, with its fast start rivalling the collection of games by Civilization creator Sid Meier, whichraised $1.7m in its first two days in February 2014.For Star Wars, fans can pay whatever they like to get three games: Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic, Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy and Star Wars: Dark Forces.Related:Star Wars meets Clash of Clans in free-to-play Star Wars: Commander gameIf they pay more than $12, they’ll also get Star Wars: Empire At War: Gold Pack, Star Wars The Force Unleashed: Ultimate Sith Edition, and Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II.If they pay more than the average price paid by other buyers – currently $11.29 – three more games will be thrown in: Star Wars Battlefront II, Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II and Star Wars Republic Commando.All the games are available for PC, while three are also available for Mac. The bundle’s launch comes at the start of a big year for the Star Wars franchise, with a host of activity leading up to the release of the Episode VII – The Force Awakens film in December.Working with Star Wars is the latest coup for Humble Bundle, which began in 2010 as a way for independent games developers to team up on pay-what-you-want offers for their titles.The initiative has since attracted big brands as well as indies – it’s also currently runninga bundle for Cartoon Network’s Android mobile games– while experimenting with bundles of music, ebooks and comedy.In December 2014, Humble Bundle said it hadraised more than $50m for charities since its launch, with customers able to decide how their payment should be split between games developers, their chosen charities and “tips” for Humble Bundle.
As a developer, what should you do if 85% of the people using your calendar app have pirated it? If you’re Jack Underwood, you give them a taste of a different kind of piracy.The developer ofToday Calendar Prorevealed that unpaid installs of his Android app were much higher than the 50% rate he’d expected, andturned to fellow Reddit users for suggestionsabout what to do.“Instead of adding piracy prevention, you should just randomly add pirate themed events to their schedule,” suggested one.Underwood liked the idea, and shortly afterwards the new feature was implemented, with a “Walk the Plank” event added to the digital diaries of pirate users with a “That’s what ye get for piratin’ matey” message to hammer the point home.Today Calendar Pro, which costs £3.99 from Android’s Google Play store, has been installed legally between 10,000 and 50,000 times according to the store’s public stats. That suggests anywhere between 57,000 and 283,000 pirate installs.Related:The best Android apps of 2014In asubsequent interview with TorrentFreak, Underwood stressed that he’s not hugely angry at people pirating his app.“I’m not against piracy, from either a consumer or developer standpoint – I can totally understand why people pirate Today Calendar. They want to try it out for an extended period of time, or they can’t afford to buy it, or they don’t think it’s worth the asking price, and that’s 100% fine with me,” he said.“Fighting piracy in a traditional way is a waste of time in my eyes, software will get cracked anyway. The majority of people who pirate my apps wouldn’t have bought them anyway, so it’s not as if I’m losing 85% of my revenue. In any event, I’d rather spend that time making Today more awesome.”Underwood is hoping that the barrage of piratical events will persuade some proportion of the non-paying users to stump up. “The plan is that people will get so bored of being invited to ‘pirate parties’ and being told to walk the plank that they’ll give up and just buy the thing,” he said.He’s not the first developer to adopt a quirky approach to piracy of his work. In April 2013, the developer of PC strategy game Game Dev Tycoon, which involved players running a games studio,added a feature that crippled pirate players’ virtual businesses– through piracy of their games.In 2010,Ubisoft assaulted the ears of people playing cracked versions of DS game Michael Jackson: The Experiencewith blaring vuvuzelas drowning out the music.In the apps world,Twitter client Tweetbot once tricked piratesinto tweeting “I’ve been demoing a pirated copy of @tweetbot and really like it so I’m going to buy a copy,” from cracked versions of its app.Meanwhileweather app Conditions replaced its real forecastswith a prediction for “ARRmageddon” with 666-degree temperatures for pirated versions.
Halfway through the week already!
