People have been saying for years that it was about time that computer games grew up. All that awesome technology being wasted on escapist fantasies - why couldn't it be used to generate interest in learning maths or something? Well, whisper it quietly, it might be starting to happen. It is, of course, a bit of a libel on the still-booming videogames market to say it isn't educational. You can't play Entropia Universe or Eve Online without learning skills that are useful in a capitalistic world, nor Football Manager without acquiring organisational skills. But they were unintended consequences rather than the game plan.Last year the Harvard Business Review linked online game-playing to leadership ability, pointing out that multiplayer games such as World of Warcraft and EverQuest are good at developing skills such as "risk-taking, speed and fluidity" that businesses need in a globalised digital workplace. IBM and other corporations use virtual spaces to hone management skills in a world where events such as the financial crash would have been regarded as far-fetched had they appeared in a computer game a year or two ago.Last week I saw two small examples of what might be the future. At a seminar organised by Digital Public, a consultancy, I met the young people behind Dead Ends, a videogame commissioned by Channel 4, which enabled kids from at-risk London areas to work withrollingsound.co.uk, a small multimedia company, to create a game about knife life on the city's streets with a serious underlying message. For 17-year-old Ollie Edgington, one of several kids to get their first full-time employment on the game, it was a chance to use his experiences on the streets.In Plymouth I visited TwoFour, an interesting company embracing everything from TV production to virtual worlds, which has linked with Stoke Damerel Community College to conduct entire lessons in Second Life for 13- to-17-year-old kids lacking motivation, with surprisingly encouraging results. Meanwhile, Sony Computer Entertainment has released to critical acclaim the UK-developed Little Big Planet, a PlayStation 3 game where players can learn elements of physics or other disciplines.TruSim, a division of Blitz Games Studios in the UK, has developed Interactive Triage Trainer, a 3D virtual representation of a real-world situation designed to train professionals how to prioritise their treatment of casualties after a catastrophe.These are a few examples of what could become a mass market under the watchful eye of the recently established &pound;3m Serious Games Institute at Coventry University. David Wortley, director of the institute, is hopeful that their work will dispel some of the social stigma around videogames to highlight positive applications that can deliver genuine solutions to real social and economic issues.The point of all this is that Britain has special skills in serious games which need to be harnessed if they are to fulfil their potential and reach a global audience. The videogames industry is already lobbying to get the government to reverse the worrying migration of the UK's skills base to Canada, where government subsidies have established one of the strongest gaming sectors in the world (A case of arrested development, October 23). While it is pouring vast amounts of money into a failed banking sector, the UK government ought to nurture what could become a huge growth industry for Britain.As Ray Maguire, head of Sony Computer Entertainment UK, told last week's seminar, Britain has the infrastructure, the devices and, increasingly, the content to generate success in serious games - but something is lacking. We have got the airplane and the runway, but lacked a control tower, he said. Sounds like a hint for the new business secretary, Lord Mandelson, to do a bit of his magic.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Free movie downloadsWhile trying - unsuccessfully - to installthemoviedownloads.comsoftware, I installed ...Torrent, and got an AOL alert saying it was a security risk. I have twice told the website that I have uninstalled ...Torrent and have asked for a refund. So far it has merely responded with further step-by-step instructions.Ralph BlumenauJS:The Movie Downloads is one of the many sites that sells free peer-to-peer software so that you can download movies from other peer-to-peer software users, in violation of any copyrights. Some people would say this was a scam, but TMD's FAQ says: "The software is completely free of charge. What you pay goes towards supporting our technical team and paying for the creation of more user guides." It sounds as though you're getting the support you paid for. Either way, I'd definitely recommend against using sites like this for movies or music....Torrent is a very small open-source BitTorrent client program, and not a security risk if you downloaded it fromutorrent.com. I'd recommend against downloading filesharing software from sites where you can't know if they've changed it or bundled their own malware or Trojans with the installation files.Privacy problem?I inadvertently opened some personal files from my USB memory stick on my company laptop, to which I do not have admin rights.AWFJS:As far as I know, opening files from a memory stick does not leave traces on the hard drive. However, the file names will usually be listed under Documents in the Start menu, and in the list of recently accessed files in some applications such as Microsoft Word. These can be cleared using CCleaner, which is best run with admin rights, but works without - it might not be able to delete some files. Also, anything that has been in the PCs memory can be written to the swap file, pagefile.sys. However, this changes on a continuous basis, so I assume it would be difficult to extract anything from that.A netbook for travellingCan you suggest a suitable notebook PC so I can collect emails and search for accommodation while travelling? I use Microsoft Windows, Excel and Word.Brian HartlesJS:Ultraportable notebook PCs such as the Toshiba Prot&eacute;g&eacute; and ThinkPad X series tend to cost over &pound;1,000, so I'd suggest a netbook such as the Samsung NC10 or Acer Aspire One instead. Both have 1.6GHz Intel Atom processors and run Windows XP in 1GB of memory. The Samsung has a bigger screen (10.2in versus 8.9in), a bigger hard drive (160GB against 120GB) and weighs slightly more (1.33kg against 1.26kg). Both were launched at &pound;300 but the Acer usually costs less while the Samsung sometimes costs more. The Acer is older, in higher volume production and more widely available; the Samsung is a bit better.LocoScript revisitedI used LocoScript to record my collection of natural history slides. I am now unable to open them, though I can produce a list of them on my PC screen. I have gained advice from LocoScript staff in the past but the telephone lines I used to use are no longer available.John FairbankJS:LocoScript was the word processor used in the Amstrad PCW, and the company still has a website atlocoscript.com. This gives a PO box address and a phone number, or emailsales@locoscript.com. LocoScript offers disk and file conversion services, with prices starting at &pound;11.75 per disk.John King, last mentioned in this column in 2002, offers a cheaper service, which costs &pound;3.50 for the first disk. Anyone who still has valuable data on PCW disks should really get it converted sooner rather than later. PCW addicts unable to let go can getJoyce, a free emulator for the Unix, Windows and Mac OS X. The PCW was codenamed Joyce, after Alan Sugar's secretary.Xbox streamingDo you know of any NAS devices that can stream the media (pictures, music and videos) to the Xbox 360? I'm currently using a portable USB hard drive, but would really prefer a NAS solution that can be accessed from the two PCs in the house as well.Scott MartinJS:The Xbox is designed so that you can stream video from a Windows Media Center PC, so the Microsoft solution would be aWindows Home Serversuch as the HP MediaSmart. An alternative network attached storage (NAS) device is the QNAP TS-109Turbo Station, which mentions streaming to the Xbox 360 and Sony PlayStation 3 as one of its features. The TS-109 uses TwonkyMedia'sUPnP/DLNA(Universal Plug and Play/Digital Living Network Alliance) software, which you can obtain separately and use with many NAS servers.Plutinosoft's blogdescribes how the author built his own NAS using TwonkyVision for Xbox streaming. There's also the GeeXboX uShare open-source project, which is developing free UPnP/DLNA Media Server software forLinux(ushare.geexbox.org), which might be worth a look.Backchat• Brian Robertson has (very nicely) told me off for suggesting inexperienced users edit the Windows registry to stop the Windows Indexing Service. "Surely the best option is to use Windows Defender," he says. "It has the added advantage of the ability of changing the service status for all users. If the questioner is not using Windows Defender, he should be advised to do so." Go to Windows Defender and the routine is Tools | Software Explorer | Show for all Users | Indexing Service | Disable.• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Producing accurate and useful crime maps is far harder than it appears and does not rely only on geographical information, the Home Office has been warned, as the deadline approaches for getting every force in England and Wales to produce them.With only a couple of working weeks left before the end of the month - by which time all the relevant forces should have crime maps, according to the plan set out in July by Jacqui Smith, the home secretary - Pitney Bowes MapInfo has released awhite paperon best practice.It says problems will arise because a significant amount of crime goes unrecorded, location may be uncertain, and time of day, seasons and even the activities of the police will make figures vary.The white paper suggests a wide amount of consultation is required, with local authorities, social, health and emergency services, MPs, community groups, "crime pattern influencers" (such as bars and pubs), business groups and "Freedom of Information enquiry concentrations" - presumably, concerned residents.Averaging should be avoided, and point data used, it says - which is the reverse of the approach being adopted by a number of police forces, including theMetropolitan Police. Maps should also have overlays to explain crime spikes and have day/night splits.The Free Our Data campaign thinks the practices outlined in the memo do not go far enough: what external developers especially are looking for is pure data feeds of events, rather than static maps. Such a data feed, with location and time data, enabled the creation of the first useful crime mashup, atChicagocrime.org.Ironically, the police's efforts to meet the deadlines might be better aimed at producing those data feeds with time, location and crime form data which could then be used by external developers - who would be able to produce maps more quickly than in-house efforts.• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Global warming is snow jokeThe Green Santa website has been launched "to encourage children to get involved in ecologically friendly initiatives throughout the year".Adblock Plus is greenBlocking adverts (and Flash and Ajax) in the web browser reduces a PC's power consumption.Time for Yourname.tel?Trademark holders and companies can now apply for names in the new .tel top level domain, promoted as the web's phone book.Intel makes sensorsIntel has invited research proposals for ways to use the Wisp (Wireless Identification and Sensing Platform) chips it is developing.Google to doGoogle Labs has added Tasks - a simple to-do list - to Gmail.Welcome to the Bravia-dromeSony is filming a giant zoetrope, 10 metres across, and footballer Kak&aacute; for its next Bravia TV avert.Free dataAmazon Web Services has launched Public Data Sets on AWS, which provides free online access to public data, such as the US Census Bureau's databases.It's MajikLinn's new Majik DS digital stream player is a hi-fi Ethernet device playing music files - for only &pound;1,750.
This weekend will see the broadcast, for the first time in nearly forty years, of a vintage episode of Dad's Army it its original colour form, thanks to software developed by a former BBC employee.The episode, Room at the Bottom, was made in 1969 - but, thanks to a purge of the BBC's archives in the 1970s, had only survived in the form of a black and white film, even though it was originally recorded on early colour videotape.The technology, which digitally unpicks the electronic colour signal from the monochrome film, was the idea of James Insell, a preservation specialist at the BBC's Windmill Road archives centre in west London."I first thought of the idea of colour recovery about 1994," says Insell, whose independent Colour Recovery Working Group has created the technology. The descrambling process is akin to turning an omelette back into an egg.Says Insell: "I was watching a black and white [originally colour] Jon Pertwee [Doctor Who] episode on UK Gold. On the end titles I could see some red breaking through. 'Where is this coming from?' I thought. 'How is there colour coming out of this black and white film recording?'"Ghost of colours pastThe colour Insell saw, he would later go on to discover, came from a series of electronic artifacts burnt into the film from when the black and white telerecording was first made - a ghosting of the programme's original colour.Manifesting as a pattern of faint dots across the picture, these 'chroma-dots' are the key to colour recovery, a process which has caught the eye of the BBC (Putting the colour back into the Doctor's cheeks, March 6).The breakthrough for the project, which has led to the rescue of the Dad's Army episode, came with the development of useable software created by award-winning computer programmer Richard Russell. A retired former BBC employee, Russell had previously helped develop the BBC microcomputer in the 1980s.Progress on the program was swift. "It was only a few weeks between my first primitive results and the version of the software used for Dad's Army," says Russell. Dad's Army is the first full programme to benefit from the software. Room at the Bottom, the sixth episode of the third series of the classic sitcom, was one of a number of shows on which the process was tested earlier in the year."It was found that it was a candidate," explains Insell. "It had the chroma-dots that we rely on to decode. So we had it scanned and tried out the software. The Dad's Army came out so well that Ralph Montagu [a fellow member of the Colour Recovery Working Group] talked to the repeats team to see if they'd be interested in showing it."Following recovery, additional picture restoration by SVS, an independent company, was commissioned by BBC2 to bring the raw colour output back up to scratch, and a copy of the newly restored show was duly lined up for broadcast.Insell's day job at the BBC's London based film and videotape archive at Windmill Road in west London means he is ideally situated to explore the further potential of colour recovery and hopes are high for its future.There are many BBC programmes that could potentially benefit from the process. However, there are conditions: first, of course, they have to have been made in colour originally. Additionally, says Russell: "It's only applicable to PAL [the UK video standard], not to [the American] NTSC". This means that the technology "cannot be used with film recordings from the Americas or Japan".However, Insell doesn't know exactly how many programmes might benefit from the technology. He says: "We've started a small investigation to try and work out statistically how many films this might be applicable to. The vast majority from this era seem to have the chroma-dots, but of course, it's not just if the films have the dots present, they've got to be of a sufficient quality for the software to be applied."He continues: "There's quite a few factors which determine whether a programme is a candidate for the process. Without physically looking at the film and searching for these chroma-dots, you can't tell if it's going to be a candidate or not."Good results"There are a number of limitations of the process," says Russell, "which I don't know how to overcome, but it has exceeded most people's expectations.""I'm pleased that it's come to this point," says Insell. "Certainly we've now tested the technology and we're pleased with what the results are."• Dad's Army: Room at the Bottom, will be broadcast at 8.25pm on BBC2 on Saturday. James Insell will give a talk at a special screening of colour-recovered material at the National Film Theatre on SundayHow does it work?• The black and white film made from the original colour tape provides the starting point for the recovery.• The chroma-dots provide a reference for the recovery of the colour that was lost when the tape was destroyed.• The decoded colour then goes toward producing a final full-colour version.• This article was amended on Monday 15 December 2008 to correct editing errors. We said a vintage episode of Dad's Army was about to be broadcast in its original colour form for the first time. It was the first time in nearly 40 years. Software to recover the colour from black-and-white television recordings was developed by Richard Russell, rather than James Insell, although the technology was Insell's brainchild.
The Eee Top is another gorgeous bit of hardware from Asus, which is better known for its cheap Eee PC range of netbooks. It's an all-in-one PC with a touch-sensitive screen, much like the Hewlett-Packard TouchSmart IQ500, but at less than half the price. Unfortunately, the software lets it down.Unlike the HP TouchSmart, the ETop is not a full-spec PC: basically it's a netbook with a 15.6in, 1,366 x 768-pixel widescreen. Inside, it has a 1.6GHz Intel Atom processor, a gigabyte of memory, a 160GB hard drive and Wi-Fi b/g/n. It's fine for web browsing, email and for playing YouTube videos and MP3 files. The ETop's 1.3MP webcam, microphone and Skype also mean it's good for chat. It's not suitable for video editing or serious gaming, but it's a great second PC for the kitchen or bedroom.We used our loan sample in the living room, then on the kitchen table, for reading the news, for BBC iPlayer, as a digital picture frame and as an internet radio. The sound quality from the two built-in speakers is fine. For this kind of use, the touchscreen is OK, too. For most purposes, however, you need the keyboard and mouse supplied. For backups, there's a built-in card slot plus five USB ports for external hard drives.The problem is that Asus has tried to do a touchscreen media centre PC without using the touchscreen and media centre support provided by Windows Vista (which isn't available for netbooks). Instead you get poor old XP Home and some utilities that mostly don't work as well.To simplify Windows, Asus has installed both Eee Bar, a touchbar for XP, and Easy Mode, a whole front end overlay. This offers a tabbed interface with huge icons, and looks exactly like the one supplied with Linux-based netbooks. Easy Mode runs the pre-installed software, which includes Sun's StarSuite version of Open Office. But it soon gets confusing. For example, the Easy icons use the Opera browser while Windows still uses Internet Explorer. Also, you can't always tell whether you can use your finger (or the stylus) for gestures, or need the mouse. The intentions are good but the execution is poor.Asus intended to sell the ETop at &pound;399.99, and Amazon.co.uk has them at that price. However, sterling's decline has pushed the suggested price up to &pound;449. Yes, you can get a mini-tower PC or laptop for that, but for a touch-screen all-in-one, &pound;400 isn't too bad. And it could make a superb Windows 7 machine.Pros:Looks great; sounds OK; touchscreen; easy to move aroundCons:No CD or DVD; no TV tuner; software is too confusingasus.com
Do you find the Caller ID display on your home telephone useful? It's a great way to see who's ringing before answering. But thanks to a cold-calling American holiday company, some people now realise they cannot rely on Caller ID to tell the truth. Marketers can manipulate the telephone system to appear whomever they want to be - including non-existent numbers in Stratford-upon-Avon.Jack Wraith, the chief executive officer of the Telecommunications UK Fraud Forum, says: "For some time now the UK as well as the rest of Europe has been a target for these sort of calls."'Competent rascals'The calls from Tropical Grand Vacations of Florida go like this. A recorded voice says: "Congratulations. You have won an all-inclusive cruise to the Caribbean." It then asks you to press nine. Glancing at the telephone's caller display, you notice 01789 0000000 (dialling 1471 to find the Caller ID gives the same result). The dialling code, if not the suffix, is the code for Stratford-upon-Avon. Pressing nine gets you a salesperson - though not, as you might fear, at a premium-rate call charge.Thewhocallsme.comwebsite has many irate comments: "Keep receiving recorded phone calls saying that we have won a cruise. Calls often early in the morning. Would like to know how to stop them. Have already signed up to Telephone Preference Service." Also: "Sick to death of having my privacy invaded by these idiots"; and "I have been getting calls from this number 2 or 3 times a week for the last month - someone must be able to stop it, and I am ex-directory".But 01789 0000000 is not the only number used; 01789 9999999, 01607 999999, and others have been reported. For those using Caller ID to screen calls, it's a worrying development: can it still be trusted?Wraith talks of local loops, exchanges, trunks and return paths to explain the process. When you dial, electronic pulses establish a route to the called party and, eventually a return path is created back to the calling party. Part of these signalling protocols is the "calling line identification" or CLI, more familiar as Caller ID."When you connect to that distant end, you are sending your CLI," says Wraith. "You can withhold that" (by prefixing the number dialled with 141).Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at Cambridge University, agrees that it's a complex business. "There are actually two levels of Caller ID: a retail level (that you can withhold) and an engineering level (that you can't)," he says. What about faking it? "You're right in that competent rascals can appear to be whoever they want." More worryingly, he mentions hacking the phone system.In Wraith's opinion, all you need is a small business exchange as changing Caller ID is now a standard feature. "We can program that to either withhold the number when it's going out or to present a company name or a company number. That's perfectly legal to do," he says.When the Guardian telephoned the UK freephone number for Tropical Grand Vacations, the company said it buys outbound calls from several companies (it won't identify them) that use autodiallers, only talking to recipients when they press nine. Matza Marketing Inc (doing business as Tropical Grand Vacations) of Orlando hung up on us three times and ignored emails asking about fake Caller IDs.Presentation numbers (the number you see) are sometimes changed to 0800 or 0845 numbers. "However, they must conform to Ofcom's rules to ensure that they are not used to facilitate scams or malicious calls," says Ofcom. But if the caller is outside the UK, no action may be possible.BT reckons that Tropical Grand Vacations has "no idea who they are dialling". It also says that Caller ID is controlled by carriers bringing the call to the UK and it can even be affected by transmission quality. But if the bothersome calls were traced and blocked, BT might be accused of interfering.Just hang up"Often this type of marketing call is sent via VoIP [Voice over IP] and VoIP networks can be less than first class. It would be simple for this marketer to ask his VoIP provider to mask or insert any chosen CLI," says BT. It also appears from Ofcom that BT provides Tropical Grand Vacations with its UK freephone telephone number. BT has not denied or confirmed this. So could anyone stop the calls?"In theory. In practice, going after them could be difficult and challenging," says  Wraith. "No matter what processes or procedures we put into place, whether they're voluntary, industry-led or whether they're legislated for by government, people will find ways round them."There is some hope. Although the Telephone Preference Service does not protect consumers from unscrupulous overseas companies, the use of recorded messages (automated calls) requires prior consent under the Privacy and Electronic Communication Regulations 2003.Since July, the Information Commissioner's Office has had 600 complaints where it's been unable to identify such callers and 1,200 calls about automated calls in general. "We're looking into these calls and we are investigating the complaints we have received," says the ICO which may contact US authorities.Wraith's solution is technically simpler. He just hangs up. "That, in itself, is against the British psyche: you don't like to hang up. You're being rude." But if Caller ID is no longer to be trusted, hanging up still gives an unmistakable message.
Apart from terrorism, the growth of our waistlines after Christmas, the credit crunch and its effect on our jobs and wallets, you mean? There are going to be plenty of things online to fret about, say internet security companies.Top of the list of scary things is cloud computing, claim security providers Websense and Lumension. They reckon that the cloud - where software and data is held on servers owned by a third-party provider such as Microsoft Azure or Amazon Web Services - gives the bad guys more opportunities to steal sensitive data and trade secrets.A total of 61% of those responding to Lumension's survey said they were concerned about the possibility, while Websense predicts a rise in misuse of the cloud - either as a vector for more spam or as a place where malicious software can be hosted.Outsourcing is already a worry, says Lumension, which warns that the chilly economic climate means that businesses will try to reduce their IT spend by relying even more on outsourcing. It says that the main concerns are people outside the organisation having access to sensitive data and the possibility that the data might not be adequately protected while it's being moved around - shades of lost CD-Roms spring to mind.And as those who still have jobs increasingly work away from the office, Lumension warns that next year there will more concerns about authenticating an increasing number of users as they log on remotely. "Securing an organisation's IT environment is an uphill battle," says Larry Poneman, chairman and founder of the Ponemon Institute.Websense is also worried about the growth of browser-based web technologies such as Google Gears, Adobe's Air and Flash and Microsoft's Silverlight.Gazing into its crystal ball, it says: "We predict that in 2009 we will see some large-scale attacks using exploits found within the core Rich Internet Application components as well as user-created services that allow attackers to remotely execute code on users' machines."Finjan, another security provider, agrees that Flash and its counterparts are going to cause problems next year. "Using rich content applications such as Flash files to distribute malicious code has become the latest trend in cybercrime," says Yuval Ben-Itzhak of Finjan.And try not to annoy your IT guys in what's left of this year: Finjan reckons that unemployed former IT professionals will be joining forces with the bad guys. Cybercriminals will deploy "the latest technologies, especially sophisticated data-stealing Trojans," warns Ben-Itzhak.It might even be dangerous to visit reputable websites, says Websense: it predicts that 80% of malicious content will be sneakily hosted on big news and sports sites. Suddenly, worrying about your waistline seems pretty minor. Merry Christmas.• This article was amended on Saturday 20 December  2008. Larry Ponemon is not the founder of IT security company Lumension, he is the Chairman and founder of the Ponemon Institute. This has been corrected.
I have a phone that will take photographs, function as a GPS device, store 8Gb of music, access the internet, run three different sorts of messaging system, make ordinary phone calls, fit in a shirt pocket ... all that it won't do is keep a phonebook. Keeping contacts accessible is one of the few things that even the most primitive phone used to be able to do without trouble. But not this Nokia. In my attempts to synchronise with Google contacts it has fluctuated between storing 900 contacts and 256. The right number is something like 500, and of course the 250 contacts that it has lost include most of the really vital ones.On my previous phone, a Sony Ericsson, there was a wonderful piece of shareware called MyPhone Explorer which kept a reliable synchronisation between Google Calendar and the contacts that I kept in Thunderbird. But it won't run with modern Nokia phones. They come with their own hideous slow and clumsy software. It only synchronises with Outlook or the Windows Address Book, one of which I don't have, and the other of which is useless; I believe it also synchronises with Lotus Notes, which I both don't have and is useless.The other thing that I don't have (though it would be useful) is the time and patience to poke new contacts directly into the phone, using my forefinger one letter at a time. I prefer to add contact details at a proper keyboard. Since I work regularly at three keyboards - desktop, laptop and wherever I happen to be in the office - I need to be able to put new contacts somewhere accessible from all of them, which, unless I am crazy, means somewhere in the cloud. That ends up as Google Contacts. They don't work very well either.Google Contacts is one of those numerous fringe bits of Google which will be great some day, but until then are full of irritating hesitations and inadequacies. It is cumbersome to import to and export from. There is no way to attach notes or meeting information to people; and if you try to access it directly from a phone that isn't running Google's own operating system, the process is so complicated that you might as well fish around in a pocket for the elusive scrap of paper on which the number you want might have been written down. This is the sort of thing from which computers are meant to have delivered us.Google Calendar syncs without trouble in many ways to lots of mobile phones, and to desktop calendars and there are two services -ZYBand GooSync - which claim to be able to synchronise contacts between Google and a mobile phone. Neither works reliably for me. For a couple of times one or the other may seem to function, but after that they will hang halfway through, and for every hang a duplicate is introduced, until I am looking once more at the 900-entry phone book.This is all so grotesquely unlike the efficiency of most bits of the web that it must be significant. Of what? The answer comes when you look at the things that do work: money or sex. Corporations have solutions that work perfectly well. When I use the office BlackBerry, it will look up all of the information about all of the contacts to which I am supposed to have access, and it is not impossibly difficult to add new ones. If I used Outlook, and if the office also were plugged into it, I am sure that I could manage the same.All of the private solutions are designed to make social networks: places where you meet old friends and hope to have sex with strangers. Services like ZYB or Plaxo keep trying to map networks of friends, and all their activities, not just their address books. They are part of the world in which the screen becomes a window into an eternal cocktail party. What is much harder to find is private and personal information sharing, where my addresses are mine alone, but are available to me wherever I am.It isn't technically difficult: as I said, there's a program that does it very well on Sony Ericsson phones. But that is maintained by one man, on the donations he gets for it. In the long run, all of our information will be forced into social and corporate networks, because they will be the only things that work.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
But adults use virtual LegoA fascinating demonstration of the Crysis game engine, here used to destroy a playhouse of Lego. It's like being three years old again, but with much more computing power. And a truck.Just don't show it to RadioheadThe inventors of the Mellotron - heard on so many prog-rock (and other) tracks - explain how it works. In those days, suits were obligatory if you stood less than three feet from a keyboard.Pets.com, GM.com, who's next?Come to think of it, why don't flamed-out internet startups deserve a bailout in the same way as the US car giants?• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft has built three huge businesses using the same technique: it packages together a suite of software, simplifies it and sells it at a low price. This has worked on the desktop with Windows (worth $17bn [&pound;11.4bn] in 2008) and Office ($19bn), and in the data centre with Windows Server and back-office tools ($13bn). Now it's trying to do it again online, with last week's launch of Wave 3.Windows packaged MS DOS, the Windows user interface, a video player, a web browser and other applications. Wave 3 is packaging MSN Messenger and Hotmail with a broad collection of software and online services, although the new versions are called Windows Live Messenger and Windows Live Mail.If you use one of these - and more than 460 million people use Messenger - then Microsoft hopes to get you to use all the others "by making it easy to keep your life in sync", in the words of Microsoft Live's Brian Groth. "That's our vision."Wave 3 aims to consolidate your online life via a home page that looks quite like Facebook, and also offers social networking and photo-sharing. You can post a profile, see your mail, messages, notes, news and events, and you can also start small groups.The Live Services package provides generous mail storage (5GB at the moment), 25GB of space for your photo gallery, the chance to blog on Spaces, plus Events, Groups, a calendar and a simple contacts book. The same contacts are available to all the applications, your desktop PC and your mobile phone (via Active Sync). And you can get to all your stuff with one Live ID password, aka Passport.To support all these Live Services from Windows, there's a suite of Live Essentials software. This includes the Mail, Messenger, Writer (for blogging) and Photo Gallery applications, plus a toolbar. These desktop programs synchronise with the online applications, so you get the best of both worlds.Finally, to support the whole infrastructure, there's Windows Azure, Microsoft's cloud computing platform, running on a network of giant data centres.Like Windows and Office, Wave 3 is also a "platform play". Microsoft wants other companies to develop applications for Live, or plug in their existing applications. There's a list of the Live Framework services that external developers can use at dev.live.com.Jumpstart 2009developer training events are being organised in places as far afield as Amsterdam, Warsaw, Seoul, Sydney and Beijing.Microsoft says it is already working with Twitter, Flickr, iLike, Yelp, StumbleUpon, WordPress and other suppliers. The appeal, of course, is easy access to Live's 500 million or so users.So far, Microsoft's online division has not been very successful: in 2008, for example, it lost $1.2bn on revenues of just $3.2bn. With Wave 3, however, Microsoft is on more familiar ground. It's good at building platforms, and it has the money and the will to tackle huge projects like Wave 3 that nobody else would attempt.But in this case, there's a flaw in the strategy of "pile 'em high, sell 'em cheap". With Wave 3, the rival offerings from Google, Yahoo and others are already free. With Windows and Office, Microsoft was able to turn market share into long-term profits. With Wave 3, it may just be investing a lot of money to create long-term losses.It's a brave bet, but will it work? We shall see.
So it's been all over the web today - Sony is finally launching a beta test of its virtual community experiment,Home, tomorrow. PS3 owners will be able to download the application and leap into... well, no-one really knows exactly what they'll be leaping into. But it'll be an online world. You'll be able to own and customise an apartment, you'll get to explore different areas and play mini-games against other people.Later will come dedicated game areas where inhabitants meet up before indulging in online deathmatch sessions. Warhawk, Motorstorm and SOCOM will apparently be early recipients. Publishers will also get their own little sectors, and there'll be a virtual cinema for movie trailers.And naturally, where there are people, there are commercial transactions. Shops and brands all over the world are likely to inhabit Home to flog their digital wares. Diesel, Red Bull and furniture specialists Ligne Roset arealready onboard. Diesel will be selling exclusive T-shirts for your avatars. Red Bull island will have, erm,airplane races.Hmm, well, we'll see what it all means tomorrow. I still don't know what to make of it. Do I want to be sold virtual tat while talking to complete strangers? That's not really doing it for me. I don't even like the sound of the trophy room - I don't want people coming round, mocking me for my lack of achievements. I get enough of that in real-life.What interests me is the possibility that game developers might be able to showcase their latest titles in virtual auditoriums (or auditoria?) with the producers/lead designers actually online and ready to answer questions. Studios are always going on about wanting to reach out to their communities - this would be an incredibly effective way of doing it.Does anything interest you? Let us know what happens if you manage to download the thing. I don't think I can with my bloomin' test machine.
Silicon Valley's seen plenty of job cuts in the last month or two, but many people have been focused on what Yahoo planned to do - especially after it handily announced that it was thinking of letting 10% of its staff go.It's easy to forget, but Yahoo is iconic for many people here: after all, it was really the first proper dotcom; a company that banked its entire business on the web. Oh, and it's been in dire straits for the last few years.Today, the axe has started falling on the 1,500 - or more - staff it has earmarked for eradication... and as well as being horrible for those getting laid off, it shows a distinct lack of clarity from Yahoo's top tier management.Kara Swisher - who has been the most reliable reporter on Yahoo's woes - says thatHR and financialare hardest hit, while Owen Thomas at Valleywag has thescripted PowerPoint for managerson how to do the firing (in short, if your manager says "I have some information about the organisation that I want to tell you personally," then run for the hills.)But the cuts are hitting the company right across the board - often, it seems, without thought for the quality of work or the usefulness of particular employees. For example: Yahoo's Brickhouse incubator - meant to be a home for some of the company's brightest talents, but guided by a sequence of people who have now left the company - is shutting down, and I know of several developers there who have been axed as a result. A lot of teams (even in engineering) are being shut down completely, while other operations are moving to Bangalore (which itself is being cut) or otherwise being outsourced.These layoffs are because they appear to be the result of panic - simple reductions in headcount, with nosign of strategyinvolved. Once things have shaken down, it might be more interesting to see who remains.Jerry Yang says the idea is to 'get fit'. This seems more like a compulsive over-eater binging on fast food and then going on a crash diet - and we know effective those usually end up being.
Consumer watchdog Which? is asking for legal regulators to take action against a leading law firm it claims is "bullying" alleged filesharers.Representatives of the magazine have written to the Solicitors Regulatory Authority (SRA) — which oversees the conduct of solicitors in England and Wales — claiming that London-based Davenport Lyons has unfairly targeted some internet users with "excessive" and unfounded threats.In recent months the firmhas hit the headlinesfor its tactic of sending out letters to hundreds of web users who it says are responsible for illegally downloading games.In most cases the letters demand an immediate settlement of several hundred pounds — with the threat of further action if payment is not made promptly.Writing to regulators, Which? said that these tactics were "excessive", often accused people wrongly and failed to fully consider the evidence."We think the SRA needs to take urgent action against Davenport Lyons," said Deborah Prince, head of legal affairs at Which?."In the current financial climate, we expect an increase in the action that companies may want to take against individuals. The SRA must investigate all such allegations and take decisive action where necessary."The company's tactics have scored some high-profile successes — including a case where one woman, Isabella Barwinska, wasordered by the courts to pay £16,000for downloading a game worth just a few pounds.However, a recent investigation by Which? found a number of people who said they had never acted illegally but had still been contacted over allegations of filesharing. They included Gill and Ken Murdoch, a Scottish couple aged 54 and 66,who were accusedof downloading Atari's Race 07 title.The claims were dropped after the case was publicised, and Atari has since ended its relationship with Davenport Lyons.Responding to similar criticism, Davenport Lyons yesterday issued a statement saying that accusations that it unfairly forces members of the public to pay fines are "simply wrong"."We have been instructed by a number of media clients who own the intellectual property rights in music, film and games to help them curtail the significant losses they are suffering as a result of people illegally downloading copies of their products from filesharing networks," it said."This action is designed to prevent further illegal exploitation of our client's copyrighted material."
It was a Friday night, and Katherine Evans, a senior at Pembroke Pines Charter High, was fed up with her English teacher.To vent her frustrations, she logged onto Facebook and started typing."Ms Sarah Phelps is the worst teacher I've ever met!" she wrote. "To those select students who have had the displeasure of having Ms Sarah Phelps, or simply knowing her and her insane antics: Here is the place to express your feelings of hatred."Two months later, Evans - an honours student with no disciplinary problems - was suspended for three days for cyberbullying and disruptive behavior, pulled out of her Advanced Placement classes and "forced into lesser-weighted honors classes," according to a federal lawsuit filed on her behalf this week by the American Civil Liberties Union.Evans, 18, of Pembroke Pines, Florida, is now a freshman at the University of Florida - and worried that the stain on her academic record will hurt her when she applies for graduate school and jobs."She was suspended for cyberbullying, and that certainly sounds pretty bad," said her attorney, Matthew Bavaro. "This is something that could obviously become an issue for her."The lawsuit, filed on Monday against the school principal, Peter Bayer, claims he violated the teenager's constitutional rights, including the free exchange of ideas and opinions in the public arena.Although Pembroke Pines Charter High is run by the city, it follows the same disciplinary guidelines as Broward County Public Schools, said Pamela Brown, an assistant director for the school district who oversees expulsions.Brown said the punishment was appropriate - and that Evans would have faced the same action had she been a county high school student."It was almost like a personal attack on the teacher," Brown said. "The principal used the district's code book and policy and suspended the student." The legal action seeks no money damages. Instead, it is intended to have the suspension permanently removed from the teenager's record, Evans's attorneys say.Neither Phelps, Bayer nor Pembroke Pines's city manager, Charles Dodge, who oversees the charter school, returned calls seeking comment.The ACLU says Evans's case is a solid one."Her posting posed no credible threat or any harm," said Maria Kayanan, associate legal director for the ACLU of Florida. "It was her own view about this particular teacher and an invitation for others to express their views."The incident started in November 2007, when Evans created the anti-Phelps rant on the social networking site."She had a personality conflict with the teacher," Bavaro said. "She didn't like her. She didn't feel like Phelps was doing the best job that could be done."Evans posted her complaints about Phelps, along with a yearbook photo of the teacher, and sought comments from other students.Three classmates responded - praising Phelps and chiding Evans."Mrs Phelps is one of the most amazing teachers I've ever had, and there's plenty of people who agree with me," wrote one student. "Whatever your reasons for hating her are, they're probably very immature."Fiorella Bazan, a 2007 graduate of Pembroke Pines Charter High, also fired back."You may think she's a terrible teacher, but you could never imagine how much she's taught me," Bazan wrote. "You're only asking for trouble with this group of yours."Two days after creating the page, Evans took it down of her own free will. She went on with her life at school, where she wrote for the school newspaper and was involved in other extracurricular activities. Evans remained in Phelps's class.Two months passed until Bayer notified Evans that she was being suspended for "bullying and cyberbullying harassment toward a staff member", according to the lawsuit.Alexis Andres, one of the former charter school students who defended Phelps on the Facebook page, said Evans received appropriate punishment."She made her dislike for her far too public," said Andres, 19, now a student at Florida State University. "She messed up."But Evans and her attorneys say she was exercising a fundamental right of free speech."There were no threats made by Katie to the teacher or any of the school staff, nor did she condone any type of illegal activity," Bavaro said.Evans finished the school year and graduated in May, among the top 20 students in her class. She is attending University of Florida, where she is currently taking exams and was unavailable for an interview.
"Imagine that you can be at home in the morning and watch half of the news bulletin, then pick up your phone, head out, click play and it resumes from where you left off," says Anthony Rose, who heads the iPlayer online broadcasting project for the BBC. But if that sounds ambitious, it's only the start.Speaking at Adobe's MAX conference in Milan last week, he also explained his ideas about "Broadcast 2.0", a new phase that marries internet video with social media: "Early next year you'll see the emergence of a sign-in system, an online library, and a system that lets you talk about BBC programmes with friends. This year, thanks to on-demand, you can choose what to watch, but you are probably choosing the same stuff that we put there the night before. Next year, it's your friends who are going to choose what you watch."However, Rose's plans - which include high definition (HD) content in the near term - will either spell higher broadband prices, or a splintering of broadband provision into packages. Pricier packages would allow you to download or stream as much BBC content as you want, and cheaper ones wouldn't - rather as already happens on the limited home broadband packages which charge per gigabyte beyond a given amount.Rose says that upcoming iPlayer features, such as ratings and discussions, will be restricted to networks of friends, rather than made public. "Rating works really well in YouTube where you've got a million videos. In iPlayer, if you rate Parliament channel as zero stars, are you saying that Parliament is rubbish, or that you just don't want to watch Parliament? Rating in the context of the BBC is very useful, but only when you've got a friends network."These features will be part of a new iPlayer roll-out. The original iPlayer, launched in December 2007 after an extended period of public tests, came in two forms. The first uses a Windows-only peer-to-peer download system, and attracted complaints from users with Mac or Linux computers: more than 16,000 people signed an electronic petition asking for a more open system. In response, the BBC created a streaming version of iPlayer, based on Adobe's Flash, which runs on Windows, Mac and Linux.This month, the BBC will replace the download player with new cross-platform software that runs on the desktop, though using the Flash-based - and Windows- and Mac-compatible - Adobe Integrated Runtime (AIR) rather than Windows Media. "The plan is to dual-run our new Adobe AIR-powered iPlayer alongside our existing download manager for a few months, until we're confident that the new platform works and can scale," says Rose. Towards the end of February, the Windows player will be withdrawn.Despite these moves, the BBC is not using Flash for all its online broadcasting, as some supported devices, including Apple's iPhone, do not include Flash. Another requirement is digital rights management (DRM) to make downloaded content expire. "Although we'd love that every device supported the same playback technology, that's not the case," says Rose. "So what we've done is to build a flexible delivery platform that can encode each piece of content in at least 10 different formats and bitrates. For DRM, we support Microsoft DRM, we support OMA (Open Mobile Alliance), and we now support Adobe DRM. An iPhone has Apple DRM, so we're trying to work with the folks at Apple, but that hasn't happened yet. On Nokia we use OMA, and on Windows mobile devices we use Windows."Why did the BBC choose Flash rather than Microsoft's Silverlight media player, which is also cross-platform (though its Linux support is left to a third-party and lags behind)? "We wanted the site to 'just work' when people get there. Pretty much 100% of computers have Flash installed versus only a small percentage for Silverlight, making this an easy decision," says Rose, adding diplomatically that he "may re-evaluate" if there is good reason in future.But rich content means heavy demands on bandwidth: along with other BBC Flash content, the BBC iPlayer now accounts  for almost 10% of UK internet bandwidth at peak time, says Rose. That figure is likely to increase, as the BBC adds better device support and more features. "We're going to add HD [video], we're going to add podcasts, we're going to add a delivery notification system. You'll see a system tray pop-up: Top Gear, next episode now out."And who will pay for all that data transfer? You will. Rose has little patience with ISPs that complain the BBC is consuming too much bandwidth. "It's a profit centre. There is a huge opportunity for ISPs to sell people the packages they really want to get a great iPlayer experience."James Blessing at ISPA, the UK ISP trade association, is less positive. "The BBC is getting funded for this, and then ISPs are having to pay, partly because they're moving on to a commercial distribution platform which refuses to peer," he told the Guardian, referring to the BBC's choice of content distribution network.Receiving data from the data distributor Level 3, used for HD in iPlayer, is more expensive for ISPs than Level 3's rival Akamai. Blessing says ISPs may have to block access on the cheaper broadband packages, but adds: "People have already paid to access the BBC, so from a political point of view, service providers are really not keen to go down that road."What's the alternative? "The other option is that people move from an unlimited all-you-can eat model to a consumption model where you pay for the amount transferred." However you spin it, the growth of internet broadcasting, which is still in its early days, will drive upgrades to more expensive broadband packages - or to overall higher prices.
Bon soir from Paris. It's 3am on Wednesday morning and I've just stumbled back to my hotel from a MySpace-sponsored party at Palais Maillot and an after-party in a bizarre dive bar where water dripped from the ceiling and the DJ played nothing but Jive Bunny.I'm in town forLeWeb, Europe's largest web 2.0 conference, with 1,800 entrepreneurs from around the world each paying €1,500 to meet their peers, demo their startups and generally try to pretend that their businesses aren't completely and totally doomed. The conference ends in a little over 12 hours which, annoyingly, is about five hours after this column is due to be published.I shouldn't necessarily be surprised at the deadline inconvenience. Previous LeWebs have been marred bycontroversyandnegative press coverageso this year organiserLoic Le Meurhas come up with a cunning plan to head off criticism. In short, he's doing everything he can to ensure that no press commentary whatsoever escapes from the conference hall.It's a strategy of three planks. Plank one is to have absolutely no wireless internet access in the conference venue for most of the first day. Not in the main hall, not in the press room and not even in the theatre where startups were invited to pitch to a panel of judges. Instead, with almost no time to rework their presentations, the already screwed entrepreneurs were told they'd have to demonstrate their internet businesses without using the internet. That's right — LeWeb was entirely without the web. Which I suppose makes it simply "Le".But still Loic wasn't taking any chances. Just in case anyone managed to smuggle in their own internet connection, perhaps hidden inside their phone or their sock, plank two was to arrange for the heating to be turned down so low that all those in attendance were forced to wear not one but two pairs of thick mittens. Removing them to so much as Twitter a negative comment would surely mean the loss of a finger or two to frostbite.Finally, as hisplank de graceagainst against even the most dedicated journalist or blogger, Loic carefully selected the least newsworthy speakers ever to have appeared on a conference programme. Then he made most of them take part in "fireside chats" that were so rambling and unfocused in a stereotypically French style that I kept hoping that the ghost of Charles Bukowski would floatdrunkenly on to disrupt them.  Day one's keynote firesider wasPaulo Coelho— the favourite author of that girl you met on the first day of university who spent her gap year in Thailand and like totallyfoundherself. "Everyone has something interesting to say," Coelho said at one point, clearly showing that he's never had a conversation with one of his fans.Final score at the end of day one: Loic — 3, newsgatherers — 0.All of this, of course, thrilled the American attendees. If any of them was any doubt about Silicon Valley's tech supremacy over Europe, they only had to spend five minutes in that freezing hall, with its nonexistent Wi-Fi and and its cloakroom sign that read "Cloackroom" and all was right with their world view. 1938 Media's Loren FeldmanTwitteredto ask "how hard is it to run some cables or do whatever it is the fuck they do to bring me the internet?" — and even Americans who had been invited to participate couldn't resist a dig.BoomTownblogger Kara Swisher used the platform to encourage attendees to relocate to California "where we have warm sun and the internet" whileTechcrunch's Michael Arrington threatened to send his writers home early given that they couldn't actually file any reports. Meantime, in the startup competition room,Robert Scoblesat at the judges' table openly playing Solitare while yet another poor entrepreneur stumbled through his webless pitch.Fed up (but relieved I'd blagged my way in rather than paying to attend like so many other poor saps), I skipped out to the car park where a Finnish startup had had theremarkable foresightto install a functioning sauna. I found it packed to its pine rafters with Brits, getting slowly drunk on licorice vodka and gleefully bitching about how disappointing everything was. "The speakers were dull, it's bloody freezing and I can't even blog about it," said one, which pretty much summed it up. Although I would have given the goodie bags a mention as well: they contained branded bandannas. Bandannas! Mon dieu!But I'm not being entirely fair to LeWeb. Not all of the speakers were dull (some were just batshit weird) and of course my deadline means that I can only tell half the story. There's a slim but existent chance that tomorrow will be a huge improvement. Maybe the internet will have turned up. Maybe there'll be branded hot water bottles. Certainly the speakers look much better. There's Marissa Mayer from Google, Chris Anderson from TED, Dr. Werner Vogels from Amazon and — gasp — a surprise guest who, please God, won't turn out to be Nicholas Sarkozy again. (Although if he does come, can someone make sure Carla Bruni knows that the real action is in the sauna?) And yet, even if today's speakersarebetter, the yanks can still claim — quite reasonably — that the improvement was only because so many of the second day's speakers are American, including the organisers of two far better American conferences:TEDandTechcrunch 50. It's lose-lose for Loic and, by extension, it's lose-lose for Europe.And so, once again, it falls to me to save the day; to salvage our entire continent's reputation in the eyes of the world. It's a hell of a job but, as luck would have it, I have a hell of a plan to pull it off.Earlier this week, just before the start of LeWeb, Lord Drayson, Britain's Minister for Science and Innovation,announced plansfor a £1billion investment fund to support technology startups in the UK over the next few years. The plan was initially greeted with excitement by those startups, but already British cynicism has kicked in and questions are nowbeing askedabout how exactly the money will be divided up. Fortunately, my plan takes care of that too. I'm all about 360-degree thinking.A few hours ago I sent an email to Lord Drayson applying for all of the money. Every single penny of the one billion pounds. And when it arrives, I intend to spend it all organising the most earth-shatteringly brilliant two-day conference Europe — and the world — has ever seen. Unlike LeWeb, there will be no panels, no "fireside chats", no goody bags, no live webcasting and absolutly no keynote speakers. Instead I'll blow the entire budget by constructing a gigantic sauna, right in the middle of London (easier for me to get to, and a beer won't cost nine euros a bottle) and surrounded by a moat of liquorice vodka. Each attendee will have a big, fat pipe of internet all to themselves and — of course — the whole thing will be completely free, including transport and accommodation. Every entrepreneur in Europe will be invited, and encouraged to bring a long straw.It may sound ambitious — reckless even — but my logic is faultless. No one really comes to technology conferences for the speakers; the real networking and business is done in corridors and during the after-hours drinking. And it's almost impossible not to network when you're crammed into a giant sauna with ten thousand entrepreneurs, investors and industry journalists, wasted on liquorice vodka. A ton of business will get done, a thousand partnerships will be made and after two days everyone will go home hungover, happy and filled with enough morale to easily ride out the recession.And even more satisfying than all of that is the fact that the idea of a huge state-sponsored piss-up is such an anathema to Americans that there's no way they can outdo us. Instead Kara, Michael and all those other smug Valley dwellers will be forced to look on enviously as Europe drinks, sweats, networks and bonds its way to a new dot com boom.Take that, American organisational superiority! And viva la revolution!Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. Having finally bought the domain name from a man in Korea, he now blogs atpaulcarr.com
We've been optimistic here on the gamesblog about the robustness of the games industry in the face of the economic climate. NESTA, the National Endowment of Science and Technology Arts is trying its best to burst our bubble with some well-research realism.The results of Raise the Game, a cross-national long-term study, suggest that the UK is restrained in its "capacity to generate new games ideas and innovative genres". A key finding in thereport:This report shows that in spite of its high levels of technical and creative skills and its continued production of world-class games, the UK games studio sector faces important structural weaknesses. They include a lack of global scale publishers, limited access to finance and skill shortages.Yet the UK industry is regarded around the world as a hub of technological expertise and innovation. It is a world leader in developing new genres, from God Games to Massively Multiplayer Online Games, and its 200+ development studios lead in many other genres.What has changed? Well, Nestaproposesthat globalisation in the sector has increased competition, and that other countries have put into place integrated support systems, like subsidies and tax breaks, drawing talent away.Further, while the UK indie scene thrives - approximately 50% of British studios are independently owned, according toTIGAin 2006 - the major international players like Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo - are scooping up the small fries, and assimilating them into their international scope. Indeed, one of the last bastions in British publishing, SCi, was the subject of takeover rumours last week by French company Ubisoft or Canadian stalwart EA.Does this make a difference to the British gamer? Do you Brits have any national pride in the gaming output that comes from these shores?
DigiTimes in Taiwan has compiled a table for the netbook market in the latest quarter (Q3 2008), and the numbers from DisplaySearch make Acer the market leader (38.3%), ahead of Asus (30.3%).The story says:Asustek Computer, which had essentially created the market in late 2007, lost significant share as Acer surged to the top spot, capturing more than 35% of this market.This is a bit of a blow for Asus, but there are obvious reasons, as I told Asus UK on Monday. First, Acer is winning on price, at least outside schools, and that's partly because it has higher volumes and just one basic model, the Acer Aspire One. Second, Acer is doing very well in the US, where it has dominated the Amazon.com sales charts; Asus is, by contrast, much stronger in Europe than it is in the US.The most surprising thing about the table is that MSI doesn't come higher. MSI looks strong in Asia (judging by the number of machines you see in the shops), but it has other outlets, including some UK sales under the Advent label, which aren't counted in the table.The growth of the netbook market has impacted the portable PC market, which includes both notebooks and netbooks. Acer and Asus have increased their market shares, while the companies that arrived late (Dell, Toshiba, Lenovo), or don't want to compete in the netbook market (Apple, Sony), have lost market share.In the full portable table (below), HP retained its top spot, but Acer overtook Dell to take second place. Asus, with its 189% growth in unit shipments, vaulted over Apple, Sony, Lenovo and Fujitsu-Siemens to draw level with Toshiba, and it will take fourth place this quarter.On a global basis, all the top portable computer companies grew faster than Apple (24% growth), except Lenovo (7%) and Sony (2%). Whether they care is another matter. A table of suppliers by sales revenues would look very different from the one for unit sales. Apple and Sony are competing to sell portable computers that cost $1,000-$2,000, and they're not playing in the $250-$500 market, where margins are razor thin.Apple makes so much profit on a MacBook Pro, it could afford to give buyers an Asus netbook or Acer Aspire One free.Sales of netbooks and notebooks, from DigiTimes
Spaceship!Tonight theSpaceship!team bring their baby to the debutante ball. We've been working long hours finalising the details, buffing the hull and cleaning the Crew's Loo. Now all we can do is seerelease her to the world. Congratulations to everyone who joined in the fun!If you're in Brighton this evening, come along to the special games event atThe Werks. Detailshere. And don't forget toplay!
You probably read this earlier in the week but if not then the news that Spore has become the mostpirated game everwill be as new to you as it is interesting to me.  The game has been downloaded an estimated 1.7 million times, way ahead of its nearest rival Sims 2 (1.15million). Other titles in the Top 10 include Assassin's Creed (just over 1 million), Fallout 3 (645,000) and Far Cry 2 (585,000). Even if these figures are out it does give a fairly clear indication - if needed - that piracy is a huge issue for publishers who make PC games. So why do people pirate games?Is it just cost? It certainly was for me back in the tape-to-tape 80s when copies of the latest C64 game were passed around the playground. But there is more to it. Was it just pent-up demand for the game? After all Spore was one of the most hyped games of the year.  And what about DRM.  Spore had a huge amount ofcontroversy over its DRM systemwhich undoubtedly persuaded some genuine purchasers to downloaded a cracked version. But did 1.7 million download because of DRM concerns. No.So what does this all mean. Less games published on PC? Even more restrictive DRM? Or do publishers have to accept that piracy will always be there?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Lyndsay Williams-- who has already developed the PC sound card,SmartQuill, andSenseCam-- is now working on SenseBooks, and the first of a series will be published next year.SenseBooks are a hybrid of paper and computer intelligence, and will have MP3 quality audio from an ARM processor and a gigabyte of storage. Williams says SenseBooks "will know when the user picks up the book and looks at a page":A proximity sensor detects this and can light up pages or make music. What is also useful is the book has sensors to know what page it is on, can send a wireless message to a PC and open up a web page with more information on. Current applications include children's teaching books, music books, cookery books etc.A Rock &amp; Roll music book could use motion-sensing technology to play rock &amp; roll. She has developed something for the purpose: she says the accelerometers used in iPhones "are still too expensive for printed books".Williams invented the motion sensing technology used in the iPhone for the SmartQuill, which she developed while working at BT's research lab, before moving to Microsoft Research in Cambridge in 1998. SmartQuill "also covered face proximity detection, scrolling screen controlled by tilting and touch" and other features used in Apple's iPhone. She says in an email:Microsoft was given a working demonstration of this technology by BT and myself (then owner of patent) in Martlesham, UK, and had the opportunity to buy this patent in 1998 but were not interested. They were "underwhelmed" and didn't understand the use of sensors on a mobile phone (the SmartQuill). Nobody had even done anything like this before and so too innovative for some companies.Apple bought the same patent'564 in 2007.I interviewed Lyndsay Williams for the Technology section -- seeEx-Microsoft star whose paper trail was too short-- after Microsoft let her go, for not writing enough academic papers. For more information on the SenseCam and "life caching", seeHow to save your life.
Sony said yesterday it would cut 8,000 jobs worldwide and close several factories in an attempt to save &pound;750m a year as new figures showed Japan's economy has plunged even deeper into recession than previously feared.Sony became the latest Japanese corporation forced into taking drastic measures amid a sharp decline in global sales fuelled by the US downturn and the sharp appreciation of the yen.The consumer electronics firm said the job losses - the biggest announced by an Asian firm in the current crisis - will come in its core electronics division. About 160,000 of Sony's global workforce of 185,000 are employed in the division, which has been hardest hit by plummeting consumer demand for flat-screen televisions, personal audio players and digital cameras.Sony said the redundancies - and the cutting of 8,000 temporary jobs - would be completed by the end of March 2010, along with a 10% reduction in its 57 global manufacturing sites. The firm also plans to slash investment in electronics operations by 30% from its mid-term plan announced in June.Although executives are reportedly in the midst of evaluating manufacturing operations around the world before deciding where to make the job cuts, sources refused to rule out redundancies in Britain. About 1,750 employees in the UK face an anxious wait, including almost 600 staff at the Sony UK Technology Centre in Pencoed, near Bridgend, which assembles high-definition camcorders.Sony has lowered inventories and cut production in line with other Japanese exporters hit by weak exports to the US, Europe and more recently China. The firm is particularly vulnerable to a weak export market because it makes about 80% of its sales overseas.It will end production next year at the Sony Dax Technology Centre in France, which makes tape and other recording media, and shift more electronics production to lower-cost areas. "These initiatives are in response to the sudden and rapid changes in the global economic environment," it said in a statement.The measures are a serious blow to attempts by Sir Howard Stringer, the firm's first foreign chief executive, to reverse its waning fortunes after the first "Sony shock" of 2003, when poor earnings results wiped 27% off its share price.Some analysts doubted whether the measures would be enough to improve Sony's balance sheet. "The number sounds big, but this staff reduction won't be enough," said Katsuhiko Mori at Daiwa SB Investments. "Sony doesn't have any core businesses that generate stable profits. After the workforce reduction, the next thing we want to see is what is going to be the business that will drive the company."Sony's profits sank 90% in the second quarter, and the firm is bracing itself for full-year net income of 150bn yen, down almost 60% on the previous year.Yesterday's thunderbolt came on the same day as government figures showing that Japan's economy shrank faster than expected in the third quarter. Gross domestic product contracted at an annual rate of 1.8% in the three months to the end of September, far worse than the initially reported 0.4%. The economy shrank 0.5% in the third quarter, compared with an initial report of 0.1%.The bleak figures have all but dashed hopes that Japan, whose economy is heavily dependent on exports, will emerge from the crisis quickly and relatively intact. Further expected contractions lasting until at least the first quarter of next year would mark four successive quarters of decline for the first time since the end of the second world war.The normally circumspect economy minister, Kaoru Yosano, warned that swift action was needed to prevent the economy from "falling apart"."Next year is going to be a tough one," he said. "Policy efforts are necessary to keep the economy from deteriorating sharply."With support at a new low of about 20% according to polls this week, Taro Aso, the prime minister, is reportedly preparing another round of emergency spending worth between &yen;15tn (&pound;110bn) and &yen;20tn over the next three years. That comes on top of &yen;5tn pledged when the financial crisis started to bite in September, which has failed to lift the gloom in Japanese boardrooms.
As we have reported inBritish censor reverses Wikipedia ban, the Internet Watch Foundation has reversed its decision to blacklist a Wikipedia page that includes an image of a 32-year-old album cover by a German rock group, The Scorpions. The ban attracted widespread derision after it was publicised this weekend, and the strength of feeling is evident in comments to aTechnology blog postbelow.Ina statement, the IWF claims the image, which shows a naked girl, "is potentially in breach of the Protection of Children Act 1978. However, the IWF Board has today (9 December 2008) considered these findings and the contextual issues involved in this specific case and, in light of the length of time the image has existed and its wide availability, the decision has been taken to remove this webpage from our list."The IWF also admits the extremely obvious: that in this case, it scored an own goal:IWF's overriding objective is to minimise the availability of indecent images of children on the internet, however, on this occasion our efforts have had the opposite effect.Considering the same album cover image is widely available on Amazon and Google, is reproduced in numerous books (and almost certainly in the British Library etc) and has been sold in high street shops for decades, the decision to try to ban one Wikipedia page was either ignorant or stupid. It's absurd to try to ban a single example of an image when there are millions of copies in everyday circulation.The more immediate problem is that millions of people now know that the IWF has been, in effect, censoring the public's internet without the general public's knowledge, supervision or consent -- though no doubt this has been well intentioned and for the public good.The question now is whether the IWF can expect to receive more scrutiny in future, or whether the whole furore will quickly be forgotten. What do you reckon?
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur as they tackle internet censorship, debating why and how the Internet Watch Foundation were able toban pages from Wikipedia, the user-generated online encyclopedia, thanks to the content of a 32-year old album cover.Dr. Richard Clayton, computing and security expert from Cambridge University, offers his insight into the IWF's decision to block it, and what the implications are for other websites peddling the Scorpions' Virgin Killer.(Note: The ban was in place at the time of recording, although it hasnow been lifted)On the flip side, the team take a look at the output of the secondSocial Innovation Camp, the event where geeks gather to change the world with the web. Jemima leads us along the garden path.In addition, we cover the rest of this week's news and hear your views from the blogs.Don't forget you can...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Call of Duty: World at War - which has nowshifted a million copiesin the UK - remains at number one in the UK charts, but more interesting is what hasn't made the top 10.  New release Prince of Persia barely scraped into the top 30, while Animal Crossing fared little better. And the older, but still recently released, likes of Gears of War 2, LittleBigPlanet and Wii Music are also out of the top 10.Surprises? Fallout 3 is doing surprisingly well and is easily the hardest-core game in the 10 - and probably the best too. The post-apocalyptic RPG obviously reaping multiformat success compared to platform exclusives like Gears 2 and Resistance 2. The new – and painfully average - Need for Speed game is hanging in there but seemingly failing to match the success of older versions.  Also it will be interesting to see if Tomb Raider survives in the top 10 till Christmas. If so it proves there is life in Lara yet, or at least thatPS3 owners in particularremain smitten.Anyway, with Call of Duty sitting pretty is it now time to shut the book on the Christmas Number 1? Or do you think something else may yet topple it?
There may be justone Android phonein existence right now, but the Open Handset Alliance - the Google-backed group behind Android - is already welcoming new faces.Today the organisation announced that14 new companieshad joined the consortium, with an eye to supporting Android and contributing to the group's open mobile standards:The new members are: AKM Semiconductor Inc., ARM, ASUSTek Computer Inc., Atheros Communications, Borqs, Ericsson, Garmin International Inc., Huawei Technologies, Omron Software Co. Ltd, Softbank Mobile Corporation, Sony Ericsson, Teleca AB, Toshiba Corporation and Vodafone.The addition of ARM - which provides chips for most of the mobile market - is massively important, as is the addition of Vodafone, which has huge global reach for an operator. Along with existing members like HTC, Motorola, Samsung, Broadcam, Qualcomm and others, that means there aren't big names groups whicharen'tpart of the OHA.Aside from those just mentioned, who are the particularly interesting names on that list? Well, it would be intriguing to see Sony Ericsson pushing out Android models (I know a lot of phonegeeks rave about SE'sHTC Xperia handset) but look who else is there. Could Asus build an Android netbook? Will Garmin start using the operating system in SatNav devices?
The Internet Watch Foundation has lifted its ban on a Wikipedia page and image of a record album cover showing a young nude girl, in an unprecedented move.The IWF also acknowledged has its initial ban had the reverse effect that it wished — and spread the image further around the net instead of removing it.The initial move last Friday by the IWF, which acts as a watchdog — and in effect censor — for internet content visible in the UK meant that some people could not see any pages on Wikipedia at all, while others were unable to edit pages on the user-generated encyclopedia.The offending picture, from the 1976 album cover Virgin Killer by the German rock band Scorpions, showed a nude girl with a crack in the camera lens obscuring her genitals. The band has said that the choice of picture was made by their record company, and it was later changed.The IWF banned it after the web page location was sent to it last Thursday. But a protest from the Wikimedia organisation on Monday led the IWF into an unprecedented reconsideration of its earlier ban.Normally the IWF bans about 10,000 web pages from around the world every year, adding them to a blacklist whose contents are kept secret — but implemented — by all the biggest internet service providers and mobile operators.After more than a day of consideration, the IWF hasissued a press releasein which it says that it has lifted the ban, after considering the "context" of the image — something which it had previously said would not affect the legitimacy of an image."The procedure is now complete and has confirmed that the image in question is potentially in breach of the Protection of Children Act 1978," the statement says. "However, the IWF Board has today (9 December 2008) considered these findings and the contextual issues involved in this specific case and, in light of the length of time the image has existed and its wide availability, the decision has been taken to remove this webpage from our list."That is a surprising move, because it opens up the possibility that any site which finds itself blocked could claim that its content is, contextually, artistic — and so get a ban reversed. It also throws into question the application by the IWF of its banning system, which is carried out by a four-strong team of analysts who work with the police's Child Exploitation and Online Protection (CEOP) unit.Copies of the image hosted abroad — such as on the Amazon US shopping site, which until yesterday did have the cover — will not be subject to a ban, the IWF said. But it added that "any further reported instances of this image which are hosted in the UK will be assessed in line with IWF procedures".That means that an image could be considered pornographic in the UK but not the US — further confusing the role of the IWF. The IWF also acknowledged that its efforts had had the reverse effect that it had intended."IWF's overriding objective is to minimise the availability of indecent images of children on the internet, however, on this occasion our efforts have had the opposite effect. We regret the unintended consequences for Wikipedia and its users."
Britain's internet censor has backtracked on its decision to ban a Wikipedia page for containing a "potentially illegal" image of a naked child.Over the weekend it emerged that the Internet Watch Foundation, which operates a blacklist to screen out images of child abuse that is used by the majority of British internet providers,had banned the imageof a 32-year-old album cover by German rock group The Scorpions.The decision resulted in a technical glitch which prevented thousands of British web surfers from editing any pages on Wikipedia, as well as confusion over why the image was deemed "potentially illegal" – particularly since the album itself has been on sale in high street shops for more than 30 years.But after conducting a review of the decision, and amid protests from the Wikimedia organisation on Monday, the IWF today said that it would make the unprecedented decision to reverse its position and remove the image from its blacklist.In astatement, the IWF said that it had taken a number of factors into account, as well as representations from Wikipedia."The IWF board has today considered these findings and the contextual issues involved in this specific case, and – in the light of the length of time the image has existed and its wide availability – the decision has been taken to remove this web page from our list," it said.Although the organisation "confirmed that the image in question is potentially in breach of the Protection of Children Act, 1978", it also said that further reports concerning the image would be ignored if the files were hosted abroad. However, it said it could be blocked again if they are on UK-based web servers.The article in question, about the Virgin Killers album from 1976, included an image of the record's controversial cover – which featured a young, naked girl with her genitals obscured only by a crack in the camera lens. Although the cover caused a storm at the time, and was later replaced by a more family-friendly alternative, it was never banned in Britain or the United States.The IWF acknowledged that its decision to block the image had the opposite affect than intended – resulting in the image being spread further around the internet, instead of removing it."IWF's overriding objective is to minimise the availability of indecent images of children on the internet, however, on this occasion our efforts have had the opposite effect. We regret the unintended consequences for Wikipedia and its users," it said.The ban affected users of some of Britain's biggest ISPs, including Virgin Media and Be internet, and led to criticism of the way the IWF operates. Although not an official censorship body, the Cambridge-based organisation has become the UK's de facto online watchdog, largely focused on preventing images of child abuse from being accessed by British users.The reversal is a surprising move, because it opens up the possibility that any site which finds itself blocked could appeal against the decision and claim that its content is, contextually, artistic.It also throws into question the way the banning system – which is carried out by a four-strong team of analysts who work with the police's Child Exploitation and Online Protection (Ceop) unit - is applied.
Released back in 1987 The Great Giana Sisters was one of the finest 2D platform games ever made, a cheeky rip-off of the Super Mario series, designed for the home computer market, where thinly veiled 'tributes' to classic titles had been a fixture for several years. But programmer Armin Gessert and publisher Rainbow Arts were probably not prepared for the censorious fury of Nintendo. The game was apparently ripped from the shelves in a legal challenge and never seen again. Well, apart from the many homebrew updates, sequels and conversions that have proliferated on a number of platforms.Well now it turns out that Gessert is working on an official DS version with his current studioSpellbound. It's being published bydtpand is set for release next June. From the (shakily translated) press release:"In more than 80 levels, players experience all the great features of the original home computer version, as well as new features, that are kept exclusive for Nintendo DS. Players will have the Nintendo DS microphone as well as the touchpad, for instance."And the good news continues - the new version will feature a remixed version of the original soundtrack by chiptune legend,Chris Huelsbeck.Of course, if you didn't own an Atari St or Amiga in the late-eighties, this isn't going to mean much to you. But if youdid... did you ever see this happening?!And while we're on the subject, which other trademark-infringing home computer classics would you like to see legitimately remade? I had a soft spot for Synsoft's decent Hunchback clone, Quasimodo, and of course, Archer Maclean's Defender-esque, Dropzone. I also spent many, many hours with Arcadians, a BBC Micro version of Galaxian. Any others?
Facebook, MySpace and Bebo users are being warned about the resurgence of a virus-like worm that will try to infect their PCs when they follow a comment posted on their profile.The antivirus and security company F-Secure has warned that the new malware – strictly,a worm, which it calls "Koobface"– is targeting Facebook, Bebo, MySpace, Friendster, Myyearbook and Blackplanet.Facebook has posted a warning about the worm on itssecurity page, telling people to reset their password and visit one of its recommended online antivirus scanners, such asKasperskyorSymantec.The worm only affects users with Windows-based computers. Apple and Linux systems are unaffected.Once a computer has been infected, it looks in the owner's system and leaves comments on their friends' areas of those social networks saying things like "Are you sure this is your first acting experience?", "is it u there?", "impressive. i'm sure it's you on this video", "How can anyone get so busted by a spy camera?" and "You're the whole show! i'm admired with you".The comments, which appear to come from the infected user, link to another site – which pretends to download a video from "YuoTube", but then stalls and says that you need a new version of Adobe's Flash Player. If you click the button for the installation, the Koobface worm is instead downloaded.That has nasty consequences, saysCraig Schmugarof security company McAfee. The worm channels any web traffic, listening for search requests to the major search engines, including Google, Yahoo and Microsoft's Live Search."Search terms are directed to find-www.net," Schmugar said, which enables ad hijacking and click fraud. The hackers make money from redirecting infected users' searches to their own results, and collect cash from the companies that receive the traffic. Those can include fake antivirus scanners which will instead load more malware onto the user's machine – and charge them for it.Facebook said it was dealing with the Koobface worm, which first appeared back in June. "We're removing the spam messages and coordinating with third parties to remove redirects to malicious content elsewhere on the web," a Facebook spokesman said.
Sony, whichtoday announced 8,000 job cuts worldwide, is just one of a string of technology companies to warn this week that it is suffering from the slump in consumer demand.Samsung, its South Korean rival, admitted yesterday it would struggle to make a profit from three of its core product lines – memory chips, LCD displays and flat-screen televisions. This leaves mobile phones as the only segment where Samsung can guarantee to do better than break even."It is difficult for us to make a profit in the fourth quarter in memory," said Chu Woo-sik, Samsung's executive vice-president for investor relations."LCD is also struggling very hard to make a profit," Chu added, echoing Sony's warning of slowing demand worldwide for electronic hardware.The technology industry has enjoyed several years of strong growth the dot-com crash at the start of this decade. But analysts believe the sector now faces tough times again. "At a time when people are worried about losing their jobs and paying their mortgages it is not surprising that the consumer electronics industry is being hit," Carolina Milanesi of research firm Gartner told Reuters.Chipmakers have been particularly badly hit by the economic downturn. With demand for electronic devices waning, the resulting glut in memory chips has pushed prices down by around two-thirds this year, according to industry data.Texas Instruments, the second-largest US chipmaker, slashed its profit and sales forecasts last night. It admitted that it was using less than half of its production capacity, as its customers dipped into their own stockpiles of chips rather than buying more.One of TI's biggest customers is Nokia, which recently cut its sales forecasts, anticipating that cash-conscious consumers would hold off upgrading their mobile phones.Ron Slaymaker, TI vice-president, said demand on all major product lines had fallen more than the company expected."Conditions are likely to get worse before they get better," Slaymaker told analysts.Smaller chipmaker National Semiconductor is also suffering. It is heavily focused on the mobile market, and cut its sales forecasts on Monday in response to falling demand for handsets.
The Internet Watch Foundation says it is still reconsidering whether its ban should remain on the image of a young girl used on the Scorpions' album Virgin Killer, after that ban prevented a number of British users accessing Wikipedia.A spokeswoman for the IWF said that to her knowledge it was the first time in its decade-long history that any image or page banned by the IWF had been reassessed, and the first time that any page or image on Wikipedia had been banned. The IWF normally bans more than 10,000 images and associated web pages every year.The ban is being reconsidered under theIWF's appeals and correction procedures.The realisation that the IWF's ban on the picture, instituted on Friday, had cut many people off from the encyclopaedia site because the picture appeared on an article there led to frustration among many UK net users who had not realised that such a filtering system was in place. The IWF passes a "blacklist" of web locations alleged to hold child pornography or images of abuse to ISPs and mobile operators to prevent their access from inside the UK.The IWF said yesterday that it had instituted a review of the decision to ban the image – which had been judged to rank 1 on a scale of 1 to 5, where 5 is the most serious under its rules.However Amazon US no longer risks being blocked under IWF's rulings. The image, as an album cover, had been on its site earlier this week, but has now been removed, apparently on the site's own initiative.Meanwhile if the IWF decides to let the ban stand it will have to block a lot more sites. Its spokeswoman said that "plenty" of other sites which also host the picture have been reported to it since yesterday, when the banning gainedwide notoriety.
Yahoo is getting ready to turn its email service into a developer platform, according tothis report from Om Malik.His takeaway points: a beta could be coming before the month is out, first featuring work by a number of trusted partners (such asEvite) and using the data hidden in users' address books as "the basis of a whole new social networking experience".Sounds good, right? Well, while the timeline might be new, very little of the information is. And, at its heart, this tells us a lot about why Yahoo finds itself in such a precarious position today. Here's why:"OpenMail" waspublicly announced at an event in San Francisco in April, and I heard more about the plans when Iinterviewed executive Ash Patel back in May.The APIs themselves have already been exposed to developers atevents over the last few months, while there are echoes of this strategy much further back...2007, and even social strategies that it was talking aboutthree years ago.Three years. In the breakneck world of the internet, that's almost glacial pace. But the speed of action - or inaction - only masks the bigger issue here: whether or not Yahoo knows how to make the most of what it does.After all, turning Mail - and other parts of Yahoo's site - into a platform might bring in users, but Yahoo's problem isn't a lack of traffic. Mail alone gets more than a quarter of a billion people each month and other services like News, Maps and Finance do pretty well.Yahoo's problem isn't even with its troubled management - at least not directly, anyway. Yeah it's had a lot of trouble, with some high-profile executives leaving, a series of layoffs and the inability to have functioning people at the top (I'm looking at you,Jerry Yang). But that's just a sideshow; a symptom of the real disease.And what's that? Put simply:even with all of this attention, Yahoo still can't make enough money to satisfy its shareholders.Without money, it doesn't matter who your next CEO is, because they're already on borrowed time before they even arrive. Without money, it doesn't matter how many fancy APIs you put out there. It doesn't matter how fancy your platform is. Without money, the company continues to scratch around for a future.It's easy for Yahoo to look over at Google and Facebook getting all cocky about "the social graph" - and want a piece of that pie. But we must remember that Google doesn't make much money from social networking, and Facebook doesn't make much money full stop. Opening up the platform is a nice long-term strategy, but it's not going to plug the hole today. And given that making money from the social graph is almost going to involve selling advertising - exactly the thing Yahoo is struggling to do at the moment - it doesn't seem like the company has another three years to find out whether it can make it a new cash cow.It might look like Yahoo has all this power locked up, and no way to plug into it - but it's even more insidious than that. It has the power, it has the plug - but there's nothing on the other end of the cable.That's the real problem Yahoo faces... and every ounce of energy the company has right now should be aimed at finding out how to make it.
This is the 360's first serious attempt to challenge the Wii as a funky, family entertainment device — and it's not a bad start. Using Microsoft's under-used Vision Camera as a simple motion capture device, the idea is to get you and your friends jiggling, jumping and gurning to on-screen instructions, then sit back while the footage is cut into movie style previews. With various genres from action to comedy, it takes a fair bit of positioning to get yourself in the frame and the final clips are disappointingly short and inconsistent in quality. However, at this time of year and at a very reasonable price, it's an amusing gimmick that should keep family and friends entertained until the traditional Christmas fighting begins.
This year's installment of the resurrected franchise which more or less invented action-adventure gaming takes a similar back-to-basics approach to Tomb Raider Underworld. Thus the (as ever, unnamed) Prince's athletic and climbing abilities are brought to the fore, along with periodic epic sword-fights and the very occasional puzzle. The storyline, recounted in conversations with Elika, the Prince's mystical power-endowed companion (who is a princess, and can fly to save him when he would otherwise plummet to oblivion), is kept to a minimum, and a hub system lets you traverse the game-world however you wish. Having unwittingly freed the evil spirit Ahriman, the Prince and Elika must rid a number of "fertile grounds" from corruption by defeating bosses. The combat is slightly odd, emphasising judicious blocking and chaining of the Prince's attacks and Elika's magic; it seems a bit tedious at first, but develops depth as the baddies become more fearsome. The Prince's movement, as ever, is fantastic – he can now even run short distances along ceilings. Prince Of Persia, with its comic book-influenced style, looks fantastic, but this version feels slightly lacking in soul – the voice-overs are cheesy, and it could do with more personality. But it's fun to play, and quite meaty.
Resistance: Fall of Man was a PlayStation 3 launch game — and it showed. Even the novel settings of Grimsby and York couldn't hide the derivative sub-Halo first-person shooter action. Thankfully, the sequel is much improved. From the off it's clear that Resistance 2 means business. Towering assailants, epic vistas, varied environments and even decent voice acting are all thrown at you in the first couple of hours  Only annoyingly accurate enemy fire detracts from the illusion, but the urge to see where the action takes you next is a real incentive to lock, load and move on. But online is where Resistance really excels. Online player is truly special, with up to 60 players — an unprecedented number for a console game — duking it out in almost lag-free environment. Co-op play is equally impressive, with up to eight able to play through the game together, each supporting the other. The sci-fi storyline is generic but Resistance 2 looks and plays the part and is easily the best first person shooter for the PS3.
It was known as "the mother of all demos" – a 90-minute presentation in San Francisco that changed the direction of the technology industry.Forty years ago today, American inventor Douglas Engelbart first unveiled the mouse, the small contraption that allowed computer users to control a pointer on screen and manipulate information.Around 1,000 people crammed into the city's Brooks Hall Convention Center on December 9 1968 to witness the first public appearance of the mouse, which proved to be a breakthrough system that helped spark the computer revolution.The first mouse was carved from a block of wood and ran on two discs that tracked the gadget's movement in two dimensions – a primitive version of its modern counterparts, but nonetheless very recognisable.Computer mouse inventor Douglas Engelbart. Photograph: John Storey/Time & Life Pictures/Getty Image"You have a pointing device called a mouse," Engelbart told the crowd in 1968. "I don't know why we call it a mouse – sometimes I apologise for it. It started that way and we never did change it."Engineers at the Stanford Research Institute, led by Engelbart, had been working on it for six years. Along the way they tested a number of alternative control methods, including digital pens and joysticks, but in the end it was decided that the mouse was the most efficient and effective way of controlling the computer."Doug and his team exemplified the disciplined approach to innovation used by SRI researchers today," said Curt Carlson, the current president and chief executive of SRI. "They accomplished a tour de force unlike any other in the field."Although the mouse is the most recognisable legacy of the demonstration, many of the other innovations displayed that day have also gone on to become core parts of the way we use computers today. NLC, the online system demonstrated by Engelbart and his colleagues, contained new ideas such as hypertext and audio/video communication.These inventions helped pave the way for a new generation of home computers, and the companies that emerged as a result are still dominant in the hi-tech world. Microsoft started just seven years after Engelbart's demo, and Apple – which later married the mouse with the graphical interface we still use in the first Macintosh computers – was founded in 1976.To mark the anniversary, Stanford University is holding a commemoration featuring an appearance by Engelbart, now 83. Also appearing will be Don Andrews and William English – both veterans of the original event.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Normally when you hear Nobel Prize winning authors talking about the internet, it's todecry it for dumbing us all down. Spare a thought, then, for Jean-Marie Gustavele Clezio, who accepted his Nobel Prize in Sweden with a far more optimistic outlook:"Who knows, if the internet had existed at the time, perhaps Hitler's criminal plot would not have succeeded - ridicule might have prevented it from ever seeing the light of day," he'sreported as saying.Well, optimistic if you believe that the pinnacle of the internet's tremendous power comes down to the ability to spread ridicule far and wide. In that strange world, we all strive to be like the 4Chan users who spend their days photoshopping Hitler's head into ridiculous, uncomfortable places. OK... perhaps it's notthatstrange a world.
After the clearing of smoke and ablaze of coveragetoday, it looks like thedecision by the Internet Watch Foundation to ban a Wikipedia page– and therefore eventually block UK users from editing the site - is turning into a real mess.Reports have started coming in that BT has now joined Virgin, Be and others in banning the page – though quite why they didn't automagically join the ban straight away isn't obvious (perhaps Wikipedia's usually on BT's exception list?)When I spoke to the IWF earlier, they said that this sort of decision was taken on a regular basis – but was rarely as controversial. The current review of the initial decision to ban the Virgin Killer image should be made by noon on Tuesday, I was told.But how was the decision made? Did something go wrong here?I asked Richard Clayton - one of the country's leading internet security experts, and someone whose workwe've featured many times– what was up."We see this borderline stuff all the time; it's a no-win," he said. The decision seems to have been based on taking the image out of context, something which might seem pretty strange - particularly "given that you can go into HMV and buy a copy on the high street".The main outcome – apart from highlighting the way the British internet is censored – might be to highlight the lack of cooperation between British authorities and other international bodies, he said.After all, theFBI had already investigated– and decided not to act upon - the image's use on Wikipedia, "but because the IWF doesn't talk to people outside of the UK they weren't able to appreciate what was going on."
Britain's rules on internet censorship have come under scrutiny following a decision to block pages on Wikipedia after a page on the site showing the image of a naked young girl on an album cover from 1976 was declared "potentially illegal".The online encyclopedia was placed on a blacklist by British internet providers over the weekend, because of the Wikipedia page discussing the album Virgin Killer by German rock group the Scorpions.Britain's de facto online censor, the Internet Watch Foundation, enacted the ban after receiving a complaint that an image of the album sleeve was child pornography. The album has never been banned in the UK and is still available in shops.The IWF said it had decided that the image was "potentially illegal" after examining it.Sarah Robertson, director of communications for the IWF, said the decision to ban the page, taken after consulting the UK's Child Exploitation and Online Protection (CEOP) agency, was being reviewed. "The assessment was done in partnership with law enforcement ... the Scorpions image was deemed to be one on a scale of one to five, where one is the least offensive."The system run by the IWF, which is a self-regulated organisation, is used by most of Britain's ISPs to screen out illegal content. The group focuses on censoring images of child abuse, and keeps a blacklist of all websites it deems to be illegal."The question is how far this episode challenges current UK practice around censoring content online," said Becky Hogge of campaign organisation the Open Rights Group.
A Silicon Valley start-up that is taking on the might of Google has attracted investment from Time Warner, owner of AOL, and the man who launched one of the world's most popular mobile phones.Kosmix, which already counts the backer of Facebook and Amazon boss Jeff Bezos among its investors, has secured $20m (&pound;13.5m) from Time Warner and Ed Zander, the former boss of Motorola.Zander was at the helm of the American mobile phone maker when it launched the Razr, the ultra-slim model that went on to become one of the world's best sellers. He is joining the company as an adviser.Kosmix is the brainchild of Anand Rajaraman and Venky Harinarayan, who made their fortunes in the dotcom boom selling their e-commerce company Junglee to Amazon for $250m. Rajaraman was a contemporary of Google's co-founder Sergey Brin at Stanford University.The duo have spent the last three years perfecting Kosmix's technology and the site -kosmix.com- will relaunch today. They claim Kosmix takes online search a step further than just generating a list of websites containing certain words.The site looks more like a web portal than a search engine. It pulls together text, audio and video content based on the underlying concept behind any query entered, rather than just looking for sites that contain the words in that query."If you want a specific piece of information you use search and Google is your best bet," Rajaraman said. "But sometimes we are not looking for such a specific piece of information but something broader ... sometimes it is far more valuable to get the opinion and discussion and commentary around things."It's not just text, it's not just facts, it's more like exploring than finding," he said. "You're not searching, you're browsing."So a search for "chocolate cake", for instance, brings up a wikipedia entry about cake, plus recipes, pictures and videos of people making cakes and details of stores and online shops offering cakes and ingredients. It also has a list of related topics from chocolate brownies and devil's food cake through to tiramisu. It also shows results generated by Google.Kosmix hopes to make money by dropping adverts into the pages that are generated, basing these adverts around the topic requested. The page also includes traditional sponsored links that are generated by Google AdWords.Kosmix - which employs 65 people just round the corner from Google in Mountain View, California - has already demonstrated the advertising potential of its system by creating RightHealth. It is an online medical resource that uses Kosmix's concept-based search algorithms and has gone from nowhere to the second largest US health site in the space of a year, attracting 11 million visitors a month.The company has raised $35m from Bezos, the serial dotcom investor Bill Miller and venture capital firms Accel Partners, which backed Facebook, Lightspeed Ventures Partners, and Dag Ventures.Rajaraman said the cash from Time Warner "gives us enough runway to grow the company for the foreseeable future" and should get it to profitability.
Microsoft and Google have fallen out over EU proposals to ensure that internet search engine users can be guaranteed complete anonymity after six months, it emerged today.Microsoft, the world's biggest software group but a small player in the EU search market, is proposing that the industry adopts a common standard for "anonymisation" in line with the recent call from EU privacy regulators.Its proposal comes ahead of Wednesday's meeting of the EU's so-called Article 29 working party which embraces privacy regulators in all 27 member states and which is to discuss the issue.John Vassallo, Microsoft's vice-president European Affairs and associate general counsel, said his company supported the EU's proposal guaranteeing complete anonymity of search data after six months &mdash; provided others followed suit.But Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel, said his company had not been forewarned of Microsoft's conditional offer.Google, which has 80% of the European search market compared with Microsoft's 2%, this year moved to anonymise IP (internet provider) addresses after nine months compared with the previous 18 months.Vassallo told the Guardian that Microsoft also insisted that the entire IP address and all other cross-session identifiers such as persistent cookie IDs should be removed to ensure that it was impossible to connect search terms back to an individual user.But Fleischer, recently appointed to a panel of five experts on the working party which is to update the EU's privacy rules, argues against this, saying that removing the last four digits of an IP address is sufficient.Microsoft insists, however, that partial approaches are not adequate to protect privacy. Brendan Lynch, director of privacy strategy, said it was essential for search companies to remove the ability for search terms to be linked to each other &mdash; or to an individual computer.The two groups at least agree that data should be retained for a limited period to allow their engineers to refine search quality and enhance security. Lynch said it helped guard against fraud and/or prevent mechanical click-ons on advertising links.Vassallo added: "What we're trying make as a statement is that the internet depends on trust and confidence and we think that we have the right form of security in keeping this data anonymous. If everybody moved to six months it would be doable."Microsoft admits that its proposal could enhance its attractiveness to European consumers concerned about privacy but insists it cannot go it alone because this would put it at a competitive disadvantage with advertisers and protect only a small portion of internet users.Effectively shunning its proposal, Google's Fleischer said his company was working with data protection officials, governments and privacy advocates to find ways to improve privacy. "We will continue to work constructively with the authorities," he said.
Next week Greg, Aleks and I will be taking it in turns to reveal our five favourite games of the year. I'll be kicking off the seasonal review extravaganza on Monday.But, of course, Gamesblog wouldn't be Gamesblog without its readers, so we'd also like to compile a top five ofyourchoices.Just let us know your favourite games for 2008, together with some brief reasoning on each choice. You can either add your selection to the comments section of this post or - better still (for the purposes of suspense) - email them to us atgamesblog+at+gmail+comwith 'games of the year' in the subject header. Make sure your email reaches us by5pm this Friday.I'll then add them all up and run the Gamesblog Reader Top Five on Thursday December 18.Come on, haveyoursay!
The average family Christmas is rife with opportunities for impromptu mobile gaming sessions. The queen's speech, the long delay between dinner courses, everyone else opening their presents, the traditional late-afternoon game of charades/Pictionary/Kerplunk... Whatever's going on you can sneak in many minutes of gameplay if you're sneaky enough.To provide you with furtive gaming ammunition, here are the ten best titles of the season, selected especially for Gamesblog by veteran mobile journo, Stuart Dredge, from over at PocketGamer...Brothers In Arms: Hour of Heroes (iPhone)"Apple has been banging on recently about iPhone and iPod Touch taking on DS and PSP in a new handheld gaming war.Gameloftis doing its best to provide evidence, particularly with this 3D military action game. The controls take a bit of getting used to, but it's proof that iPhone can handle this kind of immersive action title."Snowboard Hero(Java)"You might not think your phone can do an SSX-style snowboarding game justice, but Snowboard Hero will change your mind. Fresh from German 3D whizzesFishlabs, it looks fantastic, but also has the depth and progression you'd expect from this genre on console."ONE(N-Gage)"It's been a long time coming, but ONE is truly a showcase game for what Nokia's N-Gage handsets are capable of. It's a beautiful-looking 3D beat-'em-up which walks the tightrope between offering combo-led depth, and working well on a mobile keypad. Plus there's online play – admittedly better if you're on a Wi-Fi connection."Tap Tap Dance(iPhone)"Tap Tap Revolutionis one of the most popular free games for iPhone, but this premium spin-off adds new features, OpenGL-powered visuals, and a bunch of licensed tracks from the likes of The Chemical Brothers, Daft Punk, Basement Jaxx and (ahem) Moby. It's great, plus there's a separate version coming out with Weezer performing Christmas carols."Rollercoaster Rush: 99 Tracks(Java)"Digital Chocolatestill makes some of the most addictive casual mobile games around, and Rollercoaster Rush: 99 Tracks updates one of their previous hits. You're still driving a rollercoaster using just two buttons (speed up and slow down), but there are more tracks and more coasters to play with."Aurora Feint II: The Arena(iPhone)"If you're interested in where iPhone gaming is going in 2009, you must pick upthis innovative game. It's a match-three puzzler with RPG elements like spells and levelling up. Sounds like Puzzle Quest, right? Except the big deal is the asynchronous multiplayer mode, where you upload ghost fighters and battle it out with others."Deal Or No Deal 2008(Java)"A branded game based on a TV game show? No, wait! This one's actually great, not least because besides the regular box-opening fun, it's got a mode where you get to play The Banker, trying to do contestants out of as much cash as possible. One for obsessive fans only, maybe, but still an innovative approach to a branded mobile game."Guitar Rock Tour(iPhone)"One look atthis gamewill tell you its influence – Guitar Hero. You're tapping the screen in time to falling notes while a band wigs out – Activision must be steaming mad that their game hasn't yet made it to iPhone. The only downside to this is that the songs are soundalike cover versions, not the originals."Tomb Raider Underworld(Java)"Getting the average mobile to run a fully 3D free-roaming Tomb Raider game is still a stretch, so the mobile version of TRU restricts your movement, while keeping the visuals suitably flashy. Still, it's a slick adventure that'll keep Lara fans happy."Toy Bot Diaries Entry 2(iPhone)"The most interesting iPhone developers are investigating how games controlled by touch and tilt can forge their own path.IUGOis one of them, and Toy Bot Diaries Entry 2 follows the standards set down by its predecessor – cute robot + fiendish platform puzzles = inventive and imaginative fun. Even if it is bastard hard."
The second video filmed by Guardian photographer Dan Chung entirely on a production Canon EOS5D MkII with adapted Nikon lenses. This was the first commissioned piece shot on the camera to run on the Guardian website. You cansee his first attempt here.Hosted here with thanks toSmugmug in full 1080pthis will need a fast computer and will take some time to download, so be patient. If you can't get it to work then you can trya version in lower quality.It is the story of Wang Chenyang, a student at the Wang Fei Basketball Training Camp at Shi Dai High School, told in his words. Basketball is fast becoming the biggest sport for China's youth – and teenagers like Wang hope to become its new stars.This film is not really videojournalism, more of a video portrait. The shoot was far from perfect – shot in only two hours and with only one camera battery as spares were unavailable. The whole thing was a rush.There were problems with the dolly introducing vibrations, due to rushing to set up.  There were also problems with the Steadicam not balancing well despite a day spent setting it up earlier in the week. Worst of all, footage was lost when a 8Gb card failed on me, mostly Steadicam work. Despite all this the film was put together.Deliberately using high shutter speeds to create the Gladiator look on the action sequences. A lot of the action was shot handheld or on the Steadicam. The footage shows skew issues but it doesn't ruin the film in the way it might with other subjects. All audio apart from the interview voice over is from the camera's built in mic. The camera was set to a custom Picture style, many thanks toJames Millerand to Matt Jasper of C4 news for the loan of the Wallydolly.It was edited overnight in Final Cut Pro, using Apple ProRes 422 using Mpeg Streamclip to convert. Basic exposure and adjustments only, no grading. It was originally cut to the same Moby track that Vincent Laforet used for his now famous first 5dmkII film but sadly we could not get permission to use it in time.The kit used was as follows:Nikon 16mm f2.8; Nikon 17-35mm f2.8; Nikon 28mm f1.4; Voigtlander 58mm f1.4; Nikon 85mm f1.4; Nikon 80-200 f2.8; Edirol R-09 field recorder;  Manhattan HD LCD monitor; Wallydolly; Miller DS20 tripod; Steadicam Merlin arm and vest.
Microsoft wantsLiveto be your new home page. It looks much like Facebook – you have a profile page with updates from your friends – combined with Hotmail, Picasa and Flickr. It's a one-stop shop that unifies your data on the web, your desktop PC, and your mobile phone.Unification is the big idea behind "Wave 3" of Microsoft's online services, though much still seems to be in beta. In Microsoft's vision, everything is integrated, so you have a single set of contacts, and it can do things such as create birthday calendars.Like it or not, you may already be adopting Wave 3. The core applications are Windows Live Messenger – there are 460 million active Messenger users – and Hotmail. If you use these, Microsoft hopes it can get you to use the others "by making it easy to keep your life in sync".People usually adopt applications one at a time, so they end up with their mail, messages, blog posts, photos, files, groups and social network on different sites. Microsoft's Live strategy is to bring everything together and make it easier to manage.If you use Microsoft Windows XP or preferably Vista, Microsoft is also offering the Live Essentials suite of software to connect Windows PCs to these Live Services websites. The desktop programs include Windows Live Mail and Messenger, Photo Gallery, Live Writer (for blogging), an Outlook connector and an Internet Explorer toolbar. You're encouraged to download the whole lot at once – 154 megabytes, in my case. Some supporting software comes along too, such as SQL Server CE 3.1 and the Visual Studio run-time.The desktop applications look like souped-up versions of the ones already provided with Vista.If you already use Hotmail, it's a good idea to run Windows Live Mail. This collects all your mail from Hotmail, so you have a back-up copy on your desktop, and you can send and receive emails without going to the web site. WLM will also collect mail from other services, and you can see it all together in the Quick Views folder.Microsoft says it will provide unlimited Hotmail storage (subject to "fair use"), plus a SkyDrive to store files. You can store 25GB of photos free, and share them by email and Messenger. This could be the killer feature.Given an expert demo of the system, I was impressed. But I've never used Messenger and rarely use Hotmail, so I found I had a lot to learn. Also, with no contacts to message or "friends", I had no real incentive to set up a profile page. Existing users should find the going easier. However, in changing the interfaces for old, well-loved programs, Microsoft is risking a backlash from people who preferred them the way they were – as we have already seen with innovative products such as Vista and Office 2007.Wave 3 stuff looks prettier and Microsoft reckons it's quicker and easier to use, but computer users generally prefer what they already know.
The Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) is reviewing its decision to list as "child pornography" the image on one version of the album "Virgin Killer" by the rock band The Scorpions hosted on Wikipedia – and might yet add Amazon US to its list of "blocked" sites for hosting the picture.That could be disastrous for Amazon if it prevents people in the UK accessing its pages on the week that isexpected to be the busiest online before Christmas.The initial decision to block the image, taken on Friday, prevented UK contributors from editing the site, and blocked some people from seeing the site at all (although they were still able to view it through Google's cache).That is because theIWF's system adds both the URL of an image and of a page containing the image to its "blacklist" of pages to be blocked. "Illegal sites often hide images in pages," said Sarah Robertson, director of communications for the IWF.The decision to ban the page, which was taken after consultation with the UK's Child Exploitation and Online Protection (CEOP) agency, is now being reviewed, Robertson said. "The assessment was done in partnership with law enforcement."The Scorpions image was deemed to be "1 on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is the least offensive", said Robertson. The image was judged to be "erotic posing with no sexual activity". It depicts a young naked girl with her genitals obscured by a crack in the camera lens.Robertson declined to say whether Amazon would be the next to be blocked. She confirmed that the Amazon page containing the offending cover was referred to the IWF today, but that no decision would be taken while the review of the original decision was in progress.She could not say how long the review of the original decision will take. Typically it takes about 24 hours for a URL to go from initial referral to being added to the blacklist.The decision has put the IWF's methods and systems under the media spotlight. Normally the IWF, which is paid for by the EU and through a levy on the internet industry, works quietly away in its Cambridge offices. A team of four police-trained "analysts" plough through 35,000 URLs sent to them each year that are under suspicion of being obscene.That works out to an average of 700 per week, or 140 per working day, or 35 per working day per analyst - giving each an average workload for a seven-hour day of 5 URLs per hour. Typically about one-third of the URLs are deemed illegal.If an image or text page contains obscene content and is hosted in the UK, the relevant ISP is contacted and the content removed. But if it is hosted abroad, it is added instead to a "blacklist" to which access is prevented by BT's "CleanFeed" technology. Any attempt to access that page returns a "Page Not Found" response."We were notified of this [Wikipedia] URL last Thursday and added it to our blacklist on Friday," Robertson said.The image under consideration was previously considered by the FBI in the US.In an interview with a Portuguese magazine, the leader of the Scorpions said that the decision to use the image hadnot been the band's:It was the publisher ... we gave the lyrics to the publisher and then they said us that the idea was to put a broken glass in front of a naked girl. The most curious is that a few years ago we met the girl of the photo, who is now about 30 years old and she is very nice. In that time the publisher knew it would have troubles with the album cover, and the boss even said that the record would be published. Nowadays it would be impossible to make something like that especially with the actual outrage of children sexual abuse, and we wouldn't do it again, in that time it was already complicated, but as we were young we thought we had the right to go farther away.
