Even two years after I left Apple, I still feel like I celebrate two Christmases: the one I celebrate with my family, and the one in January that we celebrate when Steve Jobs gets up on stage and says: "I have a few things to show you today that I think you'll really like."When I worked there, the MacWorld speech was always the point at which most of us stopped work and gathered around the screens – there was always a big gathering and a special screen in the restaurant. Work would stop for a while as everyone enjoyed the surprise. And for most of us it was a surprise; only for those in the small teams working on, say, the iPhone or the new release of Apple's office suite iWork would know precisely what was coming; and even they didn't know what the other teams had. And afterwards people talk about it for days; and the staff discount means that there are plenty of orders right after the speech ends.Only, of course, this year it won't be Steve. It'll be Phil Schiller, Apple's own Vice President of Demos, as we liked to call him, because he'd always be the second guy who'd come out to help Steve out.I'll still tune in with great anticipation, and while people arealready predicting there will be no major announcements, I'm not so sure. Instead, I think this is the first step in proving to the Apple community (and investors) that while Steve's vision is important to Apple, Apple is not Steve, and Apple will not disappear when Steve retires from the company – which he is going to do, sooner or later.Lots of people are making noise about this change, because they find change unsettling – but Apple's history shows that these kind of changes are common, and once people settle in and get used to the changes, they generally find they had nothing to worry about and that the new Apple is pretty good. We'll probably look back to this event in a couple of years and wonder why we were so worried, too.The fact is, MacWorld causes all sorts of problems for Apple's workers, and is an expensive proposition for the company to be ready for. It usually meant a bunch of people had to work through the Christmas break to make deadlines, and then get compensatory time later. It's terribly timed to Apple's sales cycle: right after the holiday buying season. Who really wants to announce new stuff then? It tended to force products out on a schedule Apple couldn't affect, so sometimes products missed the deadlines and had to wait for another opportunity like WWDC, or it was pushed out the door early. Early on, Apple needed Macworld and the hype to generate interest and excitement, but it's been pulling back from it for about five years, moving introductions to other venues or tospecial events– or in many cases, just issuing press releases.The hype machine was part of the plan to get people interested in Apple again, back when Steve needed to save the company, but today, the need for flexibility in releasing things outweighs the advantage of the large stage Macworld presents Apple.Apple has proven it can create its own events when it needs them, too, which limits the need to continue supporting and being part of Macworld. Why is Apple pulling out now? The budget was probably the last nail in the coffin, but this one's been in the shop for years, being built for when it was needed.So it's going to change. But that's life at, and with, Apple. Most people don't know what to think when they find out I spent 17 years at Apple; in a time and an industry where job longevity sometimes seems counted in hours, spending that much time with one company seems almost impossible. When I'm asked how I stayed that long, the only honest answer I can come up with is "one day at a time".I went to work for Apple in February of 1989 for simple reasons: I loved the technology. It was a company that I felt could make a difference and improve society, and I wanted a chance to help make those changes. I think it's safe to say that most people who go to work for Apple go for similar reasons; Apple is a rare breed of company, one not afraid to try to improve the world around it. It is constantly reinventing itself – five years ago, it was a computer company; today, it's a consumer products company that also makes computers.When I joined, John Sculley was CEO and the Macintosh II was the state of the art. Few people had heard of the internet, and nobody had URLs or web pages, because they weren't invented until years later. Music came on CDs, videos came on VHS tapes, and the mobile phone was big, expensive and along with pagers more a sign of corporate servitude. Cable systems may have had 15, 20 channels. Your VCR probably had a clock flashing 12:00.When I left, Steve Jobs was in charge and the Macbook Pro was the best of the best, the iPod was a global success and Apple was reshaping the music industry (much to that industry's dismay).Life there wasn't always fun. Apple had its problems. I rode the rollercoaster through four different layoffs, and was laid off once in the summer of 1993 – but talked them out of it. I've never regretted that decision, even though I left a stack of money on the table to stay with a company whose future wasn't certain at the time. Why? Because I still believed Apple was worth fighting for.I came to Apple to work on its Unix products – at the time, a version of Unix called A/UX. I spent the first half of my time there working with a wide array of things, mostly enterprise products – A/UX, Data Access Language, AppleShare, AppleSearch, 3270 and Token Ring. Other than Unix, most of the products were at best marginal successes and generally soon cancelled. AppleSearch was by far my favorite – a technology to help you find content on your server. You may have heard of its grandson, called Spotlight, standard since April 2005 on Mac OS X. Ten years? That's a pretty long gestation for a feature.AppleSearch was considered an enterprise product, with an enterprise pricetag, and a hardware requirement a generation or so ahead of the computers Apple sold at the time. This was actually a common problem with Apple products during the bad years: really great ideas a bit ahead of the hardware or the market's ability to understand them. Many of the ideas, such as AppleSearch, got recycled later.I also built and managed things designed to help Apple communicate with its users, or to help users communicate with each other – some of Apple's first websites, Apple's first public mailing list server, Apple's first web forums, used for communicating with beta testers of various products. The list server eventually grew into lists.apple.com, the key communication tool for Apple developers. The forums were the model for what became the Applecare support forums; the goal for these systems to act as a way for users to support each other.The biggest criticism of the forums is thestrong moderation(some would say censorship). I can see both sides of this argument – inside Apple, I always lobbied for more discussion, more disclosure, more transparency. That's not always compatible with Steve's focus on controlling the message. When Steve was fighting to restructure the company and keep it relevant, that control really was necessary. Today, I believe it hurts more than it helps, but there are signs that Apple is slowly opening up and starting to move in these directions. Don't expect Steve ever to blog, though. But maybe his successor will.My not-so-covert goal was always to find ways to make it easier for Apple and customers to communicate with each other. I spent a lot of time and energy talking to whoever would listen about how Apple could use blogging and other communication techniques to reach out to users.That kind of informal communication just isn't in Apple's DNA, and won't be as long as Steve is in charge. If you look at how Apple's done, it's hard to argue it's wrong, too. Still, I have hope that some day, this will change and Apple will open up further.I built a number of custom email systems for Apple. If you get an email from Apple, it probably passed through a system that at one point I built or managed. Those tools have allowed Apple to rethink how it markets its products and how it communicates with its users – they bring the customer and Apple closer together. To me, that's my best accomplishment. It doesn't hurt that these systems have saved a huge number of trees from being pulped into paper along the way.But Apple doesn't always get it right. Remember the launch of MobileMe in June 2008? It was that rare reminder that Apple could, in fact,royally screw up. When Apple released it, it simply wasn't ready. Early users, myself included, suffered from committing to it before it was ready, and the Mac faithful had a field day complaining about it (legitimately) and using it to declare everything from the upcoming death of Apple to the impending nova of the sun and loss of all life in the solar system.Not that it wouldn't have felt like that internally. To people who wondered how what the atmosphere would be like inside 1 Infinite Loop, I said: "Just imagine Steve Jobs wandering the hall with a flame thrower in hand, asking random people 'do you work on MobileMe?'"I never had Steve's flamethrower aimed at me, although I came close a couple of times; all in all, I was close to getting my butt fired three times – and all three times, I probably would have deserved it. I do know friends who did. It wasn't always pleasant – but one thing I give Steve credit for is he held himself to the same high standards he held those around him. He is a perfectionist, and that's what makes him successful and what made Apple succeed. But that kind of perfectionism isn't easy, and isn't done with gentle criticism.Apple is a place where you work hard, but you get rewarded, and you help create things that are special. I found being part of something that was able and willing to fight to change society a real adrenalin rush. Seeing people react to what we did was even more of one.In the end, I left to look for new challenges. Even so: would I recommend people work for Apple? Absolutely, if you get the chance. Think about the things that Apple innovation has fostered, from the mouse and the graphical user interface we all take for granted today, all the way to the iPod and the iTunes store and the revolution of music into an online, electronic industry. And the iPhone, which is revolutionising how society works with data while on the move: I can do things with my iPhone that were difficult on a desktop machine five years ago, and were inconceivable in any way 10 years ago. How awesome is that?Which is why I'll even be watching Phil Schiller on Monday – just as I know hundreds of Apple staff will be too. If Apple keeps turning out the kind of products it's become known for, I'll keep buying them. And if the circumstances were right, I'd go back and do it again. So would most of the ex-Apple people I know. After all, how many companies will you work for that give you an opportunity to be part of something that fundamentally changes society?•Chuq von Rospach blogs atchuqui.typepad.com
Sorry for the intrusion, I'm just trying to meet demand!
US sales of CDs fell almost 20% from 449.2 million in 2007 to 360.6 million in 2008, according to Nielsen Co.'s SoundScan service, reportsThe Wall Street Journal.Unfortunately for the music industry, "CDs remain the most profitable and common medium for recorded music sales, accounting for nearly 85% of album sales." The WSJ says:US album sales including digital downloads fell 14% for the year, while factoring in individual song downloads, sales were off 8.5%.Finally, the story says:Vivendi SA's Universal Music Group remained the biggest player, with 31.5% of the market. Sony Corp.'s Sony BMG Music Entertainment was No. 2, with 25.3%. Both those companies' market shares were roughly equal to their 2007 levels. Warner Music Group Corp. gained more than a percentage point to reach a 21.4% share, while No. 4 EMI Group Ltd., amid numerous financial and operational problems, saw its share of the market fall below 9%.
The flaw that made Zunes freeze has been tracked down, it seems, to a piece of bad programming emanating from Freescale (the semiconductor company spun off from Motorola).Simply put, there was a loop to allow for leap years (as 2008 was). However, it didn't have any way to get past the beginning of the 366th day of the year.Some Zune owners have beenpoking around in the code for the clock chip, and they explain:The Zune's real-time clock stores the time in terms of days and seconds since January 1st, 1980. When the Zune's clock is accessed, the driver turns the number of days into years/months/days and the number of seconds into hours/minutes/seconds. Likewise, when the clock is set, the driver does the opposite.OK so far.  But here's the precise bit of bad programming (apologies, you'll have to do the indents yourself):year = ORIGINYEAR; /* = 1980 */while (days &gt; 365){if (IsLeapYear(year)){if (days &gt; 366){days -= 366;year += 1;}}else{days -= 365;year += 1;}}Can you see it yet? Yes, it's that (IsLeapYear(year) statement. In 2008, you fall into that loop on the last day: the days &gt; 365, and it's a leap year. On every other day of the year, you have days &lt;= 365.) But there's no wayon that particular dayfor the days to ever exceed 366 during the last day of a leap year. So the poor machine runs around that complete loop forever - or at least until the real-time clock shows that it's now 2009.Rather an elementary mistake, you might think. And it is. But it just goes to show that you should always test for edge conditions.So the fault here isn't Microsoft's; it's Freescale's, or possibly some programmer in a company that provided the firmware for the clock chip. Whatever, if Microsoft doesn't want the same to happen on December 31 2012, it needs a firmware update. True, it's got a little while to figure out what's needed...And of course the fact that last year was a leap year should have clued us to the cause; and also to this not being a Microsoft-derived error. I don't think there's a programmer there who would let such a simple error through. But it also points to incomplete QA testing: did nobody think to ask what happens on February 29th, or December 31st, of 2008?
Thesolution to the frozen 30GB Zune problemis to let the device run flat and then recharge it. Apparently the pause was caused by a date programming error: ie "a bug in the internal clock driver related to the way the device handles a leap year." Whether that was Microsoft's fault or the chip supplier's remains to be seen, but I'd suspect Microsoft on the gorunds that no other players appear to have had the same problem. On the good side, there seemed to be far more original Zune users than many people suspected. Pity Microsoft had to upset them to make them visible.* Google's year-endZeitgeist: it says: "We've compiled some of the highlights from Google searches around the globe and hope you enjoy looking back as much as we do."* Lake Superior State University's 34th annual List of Words to Be Banished from the Queen's English for Mis-use, Over-use etc is athttp://www.lssu.edu/banished/There's also anAP story.Five moretweets:* "How many atoms does it take to build a computer?" Far-future molecule-scale computing atScience Daily* OK, the EU-fundedOpenKnowledgesystem is explained atReadWriteWeb*Will Work for Praiseis a Business Week story abouthttp://www.thisnext.com/, a shopping/product recommendation site.* Paul Thurrott'sWindows 7 Beta 1 Screenshot Galleryin four parts* TheGreener Gadgets 2009conference will be held in New York on February 27
Sony's expensive Cell chip development with IBM helped Microsoft when Microsoft went to IBM for its Xbox 360 chip, according to a piece in The Wall Street Journal:How Sony inadvertently helped a competitor and lost position in the videogame market. It's based on a book published today:The Race for a New Game Machineby David Shippy and Mickie Phipps (Citadel, 240 pages, $21.95). The story says:In 2003, IBM's Adam Bennett showed Microsoft specs for the still-in-development Cell core. Microsoft was interested and contracted with IBM for their own chip, to be built around the core that IBM was still building with Sony.All three of the original partners had agreed that IBM would eventually sell the Cell to other clients. But it does not seem to have occurred to Sony that IBM would sell key parts of the Cell before it was complete and to Sony's primary videogame-console competitor. The result was that Sony's R&amp;D money was spent creating a component for Microsoft to use against it.It's not clear which bits the author has in mind, since the Xbox 360 chip is based on IBM's PowerPC architecture. The only logical conclusion is that the Cell is also based on the IBM PowerPC architecture. Anyway, I'm not going to argue with Shippy. IBM'sIntroduction to the Cell multiprocessorsays:He was one of the lead architects for the POWER2*, G3 PowerPC, and POWER4* processor designs. He is currently the chief architect for the power processing unit for the Cell processor. Mr Shippy holds numerous patents, has received an IBM Tenth Plateau Invention Achievement Award, and has been recognized as an IBM Master Inventor.The WSJ story concludes:For Sony, the Cell processor was such a debacle that two weeks after the Playstation 3 finally appeared in stores, the company fired Ken Kutaragi, the head of its gaming unit, who had championed the Cell and built the Playstation line. The lesson, lost on Mr Shippy and Ms Phipps, is that technical supremacy divorced from sound strategic vision is no virtue. It can even end up in disaster.Well, the PlayStation 3 was a debacle in other respects, too: even if the Cell chip had been ready earlier, Sony would still have been waiting for Blu-ray development, and the system was launched before the Blu-ray software specification was finished.
British housewives spend almost half of their free time online, far more than the average around the world, according to a study of internet behaviour.The poll of more than 27,500 people in 16 countries found that housewives in the UK spend 47% of their leisure time on the web, compared with 39% for students and 32% for the unemployed. Globally, the average across all occupations was 29%.Overall, the Chinese spend the largest part of their leisure time online - 44% compared with 28% for Britons, rising to 32% of those aged 18-24. Of the 16 nationalities surveyed, Scandinavians seemed the least inclined to while away their free time in front of the computer - Danes spent an average of 15% of their non-work hours on the net, with Swedes at 18% and Norwegians at 22%.The poll, conducted by international market research firm TNS, also found that the UK is the least trusting of information in its newspapers - more respondents said they "highly trusted" Wikipedia as a credible source (24%) than newspapers (23%). But it could be worse for the traditional media - only 6% of people in the UK said they "highly trusted" private blogs. The UK's favoured news source was friends (45%), followed by online news (40%) - an apparent contradiction, considering that much online news originates from newspapers. In Germany, 52% of respondents said they "highly trusted" Wikipedia.Of the 2,500 Britons who took part in the Digital World, Digital Life poll, 38% said they placed a lot of trust in TV news. In Italy, where three of the nine TV channels are owned by the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, the figure was only 24%.More than half (58%) said they had gone on to meet face-to-face with a contact first made on the internet, with 45% having had telephone conversations with friends they met online. Germans, meanwhile, were most likely to have met up with an online friend, at 76%. The figure for Chinese web users was the lowest, at 40%.UK respondents stated that on average 25% of their friends were "online-only friends" who they never interacted with in the "real" world. British internet users have an average of 17 friends who they first met online - rising to  25 friends for men under 25. Although younger age groups admitted to having more online friends, older web users had a higher proportion of their social circle online. Whereas 24% of 18- to 25-year-olds' friends were "online-only", this rose to 33% for 35- to 44-year-olds. Swedes claimed to have made the most online friends, an average of 39.Virtual friendships also span the globe. UK respondents reported having friends  from places as diverse as Azerbaijan, Nepal and Christmas Island. However, despite the nation's apparent ease with social networking, many people doubted the true identity of their online "friends". Thirty-seven per cent of all respondents admitted they could not be sure of an online friend's identity, though 57% of Germans strongly agreed with the statement "You can never be sure of an online friend's true identity".The study also found that many activities which we traditionally did in our spare time are now being done online. Three-quarters of Britons have used the internet for banking in the past month and two-thirds have also paid bills online. Seventy-five per cent of British respondents had read news online in the past month, while 62% had checked the weather. More Britons (55%) had watched a video clip on sites like YouTube than had listened to audio (44%) or participated in an online auction (39%). Social networking sites had been visited by 37% of people, while 32% had downloaded music.Seven per cent of Britons called themselves bloggers, with 16% saying they had "viewed or contributed" to a blog, compared with 88% of Chinese respondents. Germans seemed keener on chat rooms than other nationalities, with 51% describing them as "fun". Koreans were most into social networking, and Swedes into sharing photos and videos online.The TNS study also looked at how people liked to get in touch with one another. In Korea 80% of respondents said they called their friends on their mobile phones, but only 61% said they actually talked to them in person.Arno Hummerston, managing director of TNS Global Interactive, said: "If our leisure time is so precious, then why do we on average spend almost a third of it using the internet? We believe it is because we are making more efficient use of our valuable time, specifically by using the internet - thereby allowing us to fit more into our lives."Being online helps people fulfil certain tasks and activities quickly and efficiently. By spending productive time online, we are actually making more time for leisure. With more social and entertainment activities available online, it is also easy to understand why our lives are becoming more digital."For the poll, TNS conducted online interviews with 27,522 people aged 18 to 55 in Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the UK and the US.Net numbersIn June 2008, TNS asked 2,500 UK internet users which activities they had done online in the past month. Here are the results:Used a search engine80%Used online banking76%Looked up the news75%Paid bills66%Looked up the weather62%Used a price comparison site60%Watched a video clip55%Listened to an audio clip44%Visited a social networking site37%Shared photos33%Downloaded music32%Sold something22%Visited an adult-only website16%Used a chatroom13%Used an online dating site8%Entered virtual world/community7%
Silly Cluster Tricks - Vol 1byChrisDag,Some Rights ReservedJack was just saying that thePlayStation 3 didn't have a good Christmas in the US, but maybe the gaming console just found a new use as a poor man's supercomputer for cyber-mobsters looking tocrack the security keys of the internet.In a classic reminder to use your mad ninja geek skills for good and not evil, security researchers have used a supercomputer made of 200 PlayStation 3s to crack the keys of a fundamental internet security safeguard. It only took three days and some 'new math', says David Molnar, a computer science PhD candidate at UC Berkeley.We all know (or should know) that when sending sensitive details over the internet, we need to look for the little lock telling us that we're using a secure connection. The security researchers used their supercomputer to crack the MD5 hash and set themselves as a rogue security certification provider, basically VeriSign's evil twin. AsKevin Poulsenexplains so expertly onWired's Threat Level blog:Key to the signing process is a so-called hash function -- an algorithm that turns a digital file into a small fingerprint of a fixed size. To prevent forgery, the hash function must make it practically impossible for anyone to create two files that will boil down to the same hash.The proof-of-concept hack could have allowed the researchers to impersonate any supposedly secure site on the internet, Molnar said, but it probably won't come to that.The MD5 hash has known weaknesses, and the US moved to a new standard in 1993, the Secure Hash Algorithm. American officials are holding a competition to replace SHA with an even more secure algorithm.VerigSign, the world's largest security certificate company, was still using the MD5 hash in some of its products, but they expedited an already planned shift away from MD5 andmoved smartly to use the SHA-1 hash.What would you do with a supercomputer?It used to be that supercomputers were the rarefied stuff of weapons labs and corporate giants, but computing clusters have brought such computing powre within the grasp of mere mortals. Lashing together lots of off-the-shelf computers to make super-computing clusters has become a bit of a hacker hobby at computer science labs around the world. At my alma mater, the University of Illinois, they slapped together 2,560 Xeon processors to land themselves atnumber four on the world supercomputer chartsat the time it was introduced. If you had a bunch of computers going spare, what would you do with your cluster? That's a nice little thought experiment for New Year's Day.
Sales of high-definition Blu-ray discs hit a new high in the run-up to Christmas despite the recession, the British Video Association said today.About 1.5m were sold in Britain during December, up almost 400% on the same period in 2007, taking the total for the year to 3.7m.But a leading industry analyst warned that the economic downturn, which has already seen the demise of distributors Entertainment UK (EUK) and Woolworths, and Zavvi going into administration, could mean the discs take longer to achieve mass market status.The Blu-ray system uses a more expensive laser technology and offers better sound and picture quality. Blu-ray players can also play DVDs, but ordinary DVD players will not play Blu-ray discs.The format won the high-definition video wars early in 2008 when Toshiba, the main manufacturer promoting the rival HD DVD, pulled out. Other companies followed suit. But while it has settled the battle for the next generation of video discs, Blu-ray's slice of the market is still small compared with that of DVDs. Sales of Mamma Mia! The Movie in the older DVD format have reached 5.1m in just five weeks. By contrast, the best-selling title on Blu-ray, the Batman movie Dark Knight, has so far sold only 281,000 copies.Lavinia Carey, director general of the video association, said: "The growth in disc sales throughout 2008 reveals that the home entertainment market is showing resilience in a difficult economic climate … We are not surprised that home entertainment is generally bearing up well: as people tighten their belts, many have rejected more extravagant outings in favour of a cosy evening at home with their favourite titles."The media analysis firm Screen Digest predicted Blu-ray disc sales would rise to 17m over the next year, while DVDs would remain popular, with more than 240m discs being sold, a slight drop on this year's near 253m.Helen Davis Jayalath, its head of video, said that "even when faced with major supply chain problems in December, consumers simply bought the titles they wanted elsewhere".She added: "Although the economic climate means that Blu-ray will now take longer to achieve mass market status, demand is building for the hi-def discs."Meanwhile, the key challenges facing the industry in 2009 are managing the financial and inventory fallout from the loss of EUK at the same time as promoting video as an attractive and affordable entertainment option for cash-strapped consumers."
To keep my attention-deficit-disordered brain occupied, I haveTwitScoopopen on the wonderful window onto the Twitter-sphereTweetdeck, and suddenly I saw in huge type 30GB andZune. Reports were pouring into Zune fora thatfirst gen 30GB were failing en masse. They began failing at midnight last night, andusers are dubbing it Z2K9. Despite it happening around the New Year, Gizmodo throws cold water on the idea that it might be a date-based error.The proximity of the events to the New Year, which inspired the Y2K9 moniker, provides little more than a colorful backdrop; it's unlikely that the switching of years in the Zune's internal calendar has anything to do with the failures (besides, it hasn't even happened yet).It might be a firmware upgrade gone bad, but it's too early to tell. Neowin has the details of the problemfrom a poster on a Microsoft Zune support forum:"At exactly 2am CDT (12am PDT), the docked Zune made the "unplugged from USB port" bong-noise and went to the boot-up screen with the 100% loading bar...and froze. At 2:30am CDT, I decided to check the other Zune. Turned it on and...frozen at the 100% loading screen."For moreZune puns than you can probably tolerate, head over to Reddit. A bit of a sampler:Jones77: I wonder when normal service will rezune?Mosquito Wipes: Probably not anytime zune.nihilisticmonk: I wonder what the reazune for the crashing is?For the Blair Witch edition of Zune failure, check out this video. Does this look familiar to any Zuner owners out there?
British housewives spend almost half their leisure time online – more than any other social group in the world, according to research on internet social lives.The global online poll of more than 27,000 people in 16 countries revealed that UK housewives spend 47% of their free time surfing the internet, compared with 39% for students around the world and 32% for the unemployed.The survey, conducted by TNS, also revealed that six out of 10 adults in the UK have gone on to meet up in "real life" with a person they first met online.Overall, as a nation the Chinese spend the largest fraction of their leisure time online – 44% compared with 28% for Britons. Of the 16 nationalities surveyed, Danes spent the least amount of their free time on the net, just 15%.Of the 2,500 Britons who took part in the Digital World, Digital Life poll, 58% said they had gone on to meet face-to-face with a contact they first made on the internet, with 45% having had telephone conversations with friends they met online. Germans, meanwhile, were most likely to have met up with an online friend, with 76% of German respondents answering yes to the question: "Have you ever arranged to meet in person people who you've met through the internet?".UK respondents stated that on average 25% of their friends were "online-only friends" who they never interacted with in the "real" world. British internet users have an average of 17 friends who they first met online — rising to 25 friends for men under 25. Although younger age groups admitted to having more online friends, older web users had a higher proportion of their social circle online. Whereas 24% of 18- to 25-year-olds' friends were "online-only", this rose to 33% for 35- to 44-year-olds.Virtual friendships also span the globe. On average, each UK respondent reported having 17 online friends – from places as diverse as Azerbaijan, Nepal and Christmas Island.However, despite the nation's apparent ease with social networking, many people doubted the true identity of their online "friends". Some 37% of respondents admitted they could not be sure of an online friend's identity.The study also showed national differences in attitudes to online and traditional media and information sources.In the UK, online news sites were second only to friends as the primary source of trusted information; two-fifths said they considered online news a "highly trusted" medium.The UK was markedly less trusting of print media, with only 23% counting newspapers as highly trusted – roughly the same fraction who considered the Wikipedia site to be highly trusted. At the top were Finnish respondents, who were three times more likely to describe their newspapers as highly trusted.
Episode Eight: New Year, old jokes and the insincerest form of hackeryBy the time you read this, all being well, I will be drunk. Epic drunkenness is, after all, the true spirit of New Year, as much as the birth of Jesus is the true spirit of Christmas and giving old people something to keep their fingers nimble is the real meaning of Poppy Day.In fact, the idea of New Year's Eve - as we currently celebrate it - began, many Sundays ago, with an Englishman, an Irishman, a Scotsman and an Australian in a pub. After a few hours of drinking - around about noon - they were all twatted. "What's the date today?" slurred the Irishman. The Scotsman squinted at his watch for a moment - "Jings, crivens and help ma boab!It's 31st December. It's a new year tomorrow." "Bonzer!" shouted the Australian, slamming down his pint, "that sounds like cause for celebration!" The Englishman paused for a moment, a worried look spreading across his face - "Crikeychaps, if we keep drinking like this all day, I'm never going to make it to work tomorrow. And my poor wife and kids are waiting at home."Another pause."Ah, fuck it."And with those words, a tradition was born; an annual celebration of alcoholism where - unlike, say, Christmas - it's perfectly acceptable to forget you have a family and to spend all night getting absolutely trashed with your friends, safe in the knowledge that there's a public holiday the following day. I mean, come on, a public holiday specifically to cater for hangovers? Tell me that wasn't the idea of an Englishman, an Irishman a Scotsman and an Australian.For the Brits, of course, inventing New Year is just a continuation of our proud history of coming up with brilliant ideas in pubs. The pneumatic tyre? Pub. The steam engine? Pub. The television. Definitely the pub. In fact, the only British invention not to have come from the pub, was the pub. I can imagine Robert Baden-Powell waking up one morning with the mother of all hangovers and calling up his mates to see if, in the harsh light of day, they're all still up for founding the Scouts.(Another great example of a British idea so ill-thought-out it can only be the result of an epic session is Culture, Media and Sport Secretary Andy Burnham's plan to givecontent ratings to websites. Enough woodland has been raped and sufficient digital ink shed by columnists explaining exactly how unworkable the idea is, and I have no intention of adding to it. I will, however, remark on how curious it is thateverysingleoneof those columnists felt the need to point out that Andy Burnham is "a father of three". Because God knows, ifKaren Matthewshas taught us anything, it's that in matters of child welfare, only a parent knows what's best. It also puzzles me how no one picked up on the amusing fact that Andy Burnham's full name isAndy Murray Bernham- or that when pictured in hisglasses and checked shirt, he looks exactly likePaul Birch.)So, anyway, yes, New Year - and the second in a series of columns (the first beingChristmas Eve) when it's traditional to write bugger all about anything important, safe in the knowledge that no one is reading. At least on Christmas Eve there's a chance that a smattering of non-Christians might still be paying attention. Not so New Year's Eve. On New Year's Eve I could write a column proposing that the Palestinians be allowed to organise the New Year's fireworks in Golders Green, sponsored by the Iranian Rocket Company and no one would give a toss. The only people not getting drunk right now are the Chinese - and I reckon the Guardian's website is about as accessible in Beijing asWokthevote.com.But what to write in a week when nobody's reading? It's a tricky question and last night, hurtling towards my deadline and still absolutely bereft of inspiration, I decided to click over to the websites of theDaily MailandThe Sunto see how professional journalists deal with the problem. And sure enough there it was - a ruse so simple I couldn't believe I hadn't thought of it myself."Shameless Jonathan Ross still joking about Andrew Sachs messages" screamed the headline on the Mail's site. I quote..."In a post on the Twitter website [Jonathan Ross] used an expletive to describe BBC executives when discussing the concept of a film about his life... In another he made light of the obscene messages he and Russell Brand left on Sachs's answering machine on Brand's Radio 2 show, in which the pair claimed Brand had slept with the Fawlty Towers actor's granddaughter Georgina Baillie. Ross joked: 'I am very polite in person. I'm just not great with answering machines.'"Brilliant. An entire story created out of the fact thatJonathan Ross has a Twitter account, and occasionally uses it to make quite funny jokes about his personal situation.Meanwhile, Sun hack Cara Lee went one better, hacking out not one, but two pieces from that same non-story under the headlines 'Ross jokes about Sachs' and 'Ross: I'm having so much fun'. And never one to switch dead horses mid-flog, the paper then passed the bloodied news baton to Julie Burchill who wrotea whole columnstarting with yet another of@wossy's Twitter updates and ending with her calling Ross "a big ugly baby". The woman is nothing if not self-aware.You can imagine how stupid I felt reading all of this. There was me actually worrying about writing something original or interesting, while Britain's best paid hacks – including Burchill, who I would estimate is paid about 10,000 times more than me, and writes for an audience of 7 million – can just copy and paste someone else's Twitter posts, wrap them in shit and vinegar and call the job a good-un.And so, at 11pm last night – with just a couple of hours to spare before I was due to file – I postedthe followingto myTwitter followers..."Twitterers... tell me your favourite joke in 160 characters or less. Reason will become clear. Thanks."The fact that I was too lazy to even get the number of characters right (it's 140, you dolt), didn't stop the replies pouring in. Here are a few of my favourites, starting with the finest geek joke ever Twittered...LucPestille: What sits on your shoulder and repeats "Pieces of seven, pieces of seven!"? A parity error.P_Diamond: Why are we sure that carrots help with eyesight? Because you never see a rabbit wearing glasses.Jackschofield: A woman went into a bar and asked for a double entendre. So the barman gave her one.Hermioneway: What do you call a train filled with toffee? A chew chew train!Mweller: Why did the toilet roll down the hill? To get to the bottom.Zainyk: Egg and sausage in frying pan, egg says to sausage, It's hot in here. Sausage says to egg f$ck me, a talking egg!Tom_watson: Man walks into a butchers and asks for a pound of kidleys. Butcher said, you mean, kidneys. Man said, that's what I said diddle I?Great job, Twitter - but that's only half the job done. Having copied and pasted someone else's work, I still have to stir up some mock outrage off the back of it - otherwise it's just plagarism. Fortunately I happen to know thatTom_watsonis better known to his constituents asTom Watson MP- the Labour MP for West Bromwich East. And as a public figure - despite the fact that he Twitters in a personal capacity and is clearly joking - Tom is fair game for whatever accusation I decide to throw at him. In this case, I'd say that his joke (which I think he stole from the Two Ronnies) is almost certainly intended to mock those afflicted with learning difficulties. And, needless to say, I'm outraged.Outraged.Unfortunately, thanks to all of those jokes, I'm also out of space for this week - and for this year - so I'll have to leave the rest of this shamefully disingenuous journojism to the experts. What do you think, Julie? "Outrage at Cabinet minister's cruel disability jibe?" Go get him, you mental bitch.And for the rest of you - thank you for doing my job for me. I'm off to spend the money I just earned from your hard work to get absolutely hammered.Viva user generated content. And happy new year!•Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.comand cannot believe no one had registeredWokTheVote.combefore now
This week your Tech Weekly team is here to ponder the future 52 weeks ahead of us - what will be big in tech during 2009?We'll be taking a trip into the next 12 months to forecast what will become of theiPod,Yahoo!androbotics, and joiningAleks KrotoskiisJemima Kiss,Charles ArthurandBobbie Johnson.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Land gave a talk at Microsoft, calling itTough Love For Microsoft Search. Now he's blogged an adapted version, and it provides the best look I've seen Of Microsoft's problems in the search arena. Briefly, it has the wrong sort of commitment, and it may have the wrong view of search. The branding has been (and still is) all over the place, the products have been inconsistent, and too many executives have come and gone. And so on.One of Danny's beefs is that he's been able to get top execs from other search companies (Yang, Schmidt, Brin) to his search conferences but not Microsoft. He writes:For nearly four years now, I've diligently tried to get Microsoft to have either Bill Gates or Steve Ballmer do a similar keynote conversation. No luck. I ask well before each major conference. I know the PR folks at Microsoft do the best they can. But bottom line? Showing up at a search conference I've organized hasn't been deemed worth the time once in four years. Not once.I asked three times, for three different shows, this year. They weren't available. And yet, Ballmer and Gates were able to make it out together for The D Conference this year.Danny Sullivan has been covering search for 13 years, making a name for himself at Search Engine Watch, and in my view, nobody knows the industry better than he does. (He's written articles for, and been quoted extensively in, theGuardian.) He doesn't offer asilver bullet, so we can presume there isn't one, but Microsoft could certainly do better by fixing the things he says are wrong.Whether Microsoft will change into the sort of search company he wants (ie like Google) is open to doubt. Microsoft generally tries to build on existing strengths: even before its Xbox excursion, for example, Microsoft had a good handle on the PC games business. I think it's much more likely to follow a route that exploits desktop software such as Internet Explorer, Office, SharePoint Server and other business products than focus solely on the web.After all, if users are searching from the desktop or from inside applications, they can get their results without going to Google.The problem with that approach is that it's even harder to monetize than a web site….
Gizmodo has posted a rumour from one of its normally reliable sources under the headline:Steve Jobs' Health Declining Rapidly, Reason for Macworld Cancellation.This would be big news, if it were true, but the odds are against. Apple hasn't commented, even though its shares took a hit on the rumour.All Things Dpoints to aCNBC video response, as follows:But CNBC's Jim Goldman – who earlier this month reported that Jobs's decision to skip the Macworld keynote had nothing to do with his health – is calling BS on the Gizmodo report. "I spoke to Apple after these headlines crossed and the company, which officially doesn't comment on rumors, reiterated the reasons it offered two weeks ago: Apple was pulling out of Macworld because the company didn't see the need to continue its investment in the expo, which included Steve Jobs's keynote. I was told this morning (Tuesday) that nothing has changed since then. The same reasons apply today that applied two weeks ago. I was told two weeks ago by sources inside Apple that the decision had nothing to do with Jobs's health. I got the same message today. Period."Gizmodo had itself argued in October that by shifting the emphasis to other people in the company, Steve Jobs was "preparing his farewell".However, this doesn't look like a problem that's going to go away until Jobs actually retires.Someinvestors clearly think Jobs's health is a material factor, and Apple has a duty to disclose material factors that affect the company, but how much concern does there have to be to make that happen? Who measures it? Who decides?Well, it would be pretty simple to rig Steve up with health-monitoring equipment so everybody could track his condition on a minute-by-minute basis. The results could be distributed via a specialHow's Steve?icon on the iPhone. Or, of course, Apple could sell tickets….iHealth monitoringof some sort is likely to become a very big business as the US population ages, so it could help propel Apple into a whole new growth phase.
The headline in The Wall Street Journal reads:Hope Fades for PS3 as a Comeback Player. The problem is that "early results from this holiday season aren't promising. US sales of the PS3 fell 19% last month from a year earlier, while sales doubled for the Wii console and rose 8% for the Xbox 360, according to research firm NPD."Wii took most of the market, shipping 2.04m Wii consoles in the US in November. The Xbox 360 trailed in a distant second with 836,000, but the PS3 didn't even sell half as many as that, at 378,000. The WSJ says:The sales decline is a heavy blow to Sony, which was banking on the videogame division to provide a bright spot as its core electronics business is hit by the global economic downturn. Sony in May forecast that its games division would turn a profit this fiscal year after two years of losses since launching the PS3 in 2006. Meanwhile, poor sales of television sets and digital cameras are forcing the company to lay off thousands of staff and close factories.Basically, Microsoft gave the Xbox a boost by cutting the price, and Sony couldn't afford to follow because it's already losing too much money selling PS3 consoles at a loss.The PS3 costs a lot, of course, because it includes an expensive Blu-ray player. This gave the PS3 an advantage when standalone Blu-ray players were expensive. "But prices of Blu-ray players have fallen so sharply recently -- new players are available for less than $200 -- that it's possible to buy a Blu-ray player and an Xbox 360 for less than a PS3," says the Journal.Sony is trying to reduce the cost of the PS3 by, for example, leaving out PS2 compatibility, and increasing the integration of parts.A new report from iSuppliestimates the cost of a PS3 at $448.73, against its US retail price of $399, so Sony is still losing a lot on each one, if you bear in mind the distribution, sales and marketing costs. And it will never catch up with Nintendo (the Wii is lower technology and was profitable at launch) or Microsoft, which came out first and will always be a year further down the cost reduction curve.A graph with the WSJ article shows the impact the games division's losses are having on Sony, and with the company laying off staff and closing factories, it's not hard to see the games division eventually taking a hit.Sony desperately needs the November figures to be an anomaly, followed by an upsurge in December and, especially, through 2009. However, the current financial turmoil suggests that will not be easy.But what can Sony do? Drop Blu-ray and rush out a PS4? I don't think so.
Facebook has become the target of an 80,000-plus protest by irate mothers after banning breastfeeding photographs from online profiles.Facebook's policy, which bans any breastfeeding images uploaded that show nipples, has led an online profile by protestors - called "lactivists" in some circles - called "Hey Facebook, breast feeding is not obscene".Theonline petition, which accuses Facebook of instituting the policy to "appease the closed-minded", has attracted almost 82,000 supporters.The actions of the group came to a head over the weekend when the protesters organised a virtual "nurse-in" on the social networking website where for a day angry supporters posted a profile picture of an image of a mother breastfeeding and changed their Facebook status to say "Hey Facebook, breastfeeding is not obscene!".A small demonstration was also launched outside Facebook's office in Palo Alto, California.The campaign wasinitiated by the Mothers International Lactation Campaign.Barry Schnitt, a Facebook spokesman, said that no action was taken over most breastfeeding photographs."Photos containing a fully exposed breast, as defined by showing the nipple or areola, do violate those terms (on obscene, pornographic or sexually explicit material) and may be removed," he said in a statement. "The photos we act upon are almost exclusively brought to our attention by other users who complain."
Almost missed this one in the deluge of Christmas games, which would be a pity as Ninjatown is as cute and clever as many a blockbuster.It's a top-down strategy game tasking you with defending Ninjatown from Mister Demon's ever-increasing hordes. Each level is divided into square zones within which Ninja huts can be built to provide defence. Remember the Bitmap Brothers' underrated classic, Z? Well this is a cute, dayglo-coloured translation where success depends on balancing resources with placing and upgrading your defences.All this is implemented with considerable panache – for example, in its use of the DS mic. Blowing provides a helpful gust, while shouting will replenish your Ninja's energy. As your enemies take to the sky as well as swarming at ground level, it requires quick thinking to decide where best to place your structures – in defence of your own resources, or closer to where your Ninja appears. Luckily, it's easy to use the mini-map to flit from zone to zone, placing or upgrading structures with your stylus, which is also used to place the thoroughly diverting Baby Ninja icon that slows down nearby invaders.Ninjatown won't win too many prizes for looks, but it's just the kind of inventive, original game that keeps the DS pouring scorn on the underachieving PSP. And long may it continue.
Lord of the Rings Online has always lived in the shadow of World of Warcraft, its main competitor. Which is a shame, as LOTRO is an excellent game in its own right.Mines of Moria is the latest addition, and like all expansion packs – especially ones for long-running MMOs – the content is geared towards more experienced players. Veterans now get the chance to raise their characters from level 50-60, as well as pocket a host of new goodies. But the obvious attraction is exploring the mines themselves.And like the original game, Tolkien's world is brought beautifully to life. Huge staircases, looming statues, eerie lighting — LOTRO fans will love the exploration.  But as you'd expect from content aimed at top players, this is a challenging environment with numerous enemies awaiting your sword. And ideally your friends too, as grouping up with one or more players is highly recommended.Beginners get the benefit of two new character classes, including a controversial magic-dealing Runekeeper — but Mines of Moria is a beautifully realised virtual space for Lord of the Rings fans to live in.
It's not been a great year for film tie-ins. Actually, has it ever been a good year for film tie-ins? As a sub-genre, they're legendarily lazy, linear adventures, nailed together from bits of old games and cut scenes, and frequently designed to part unaware parents from their hard-earned in the run-up to Christmas.Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa, the game of the zoo-animals-in-the-wild animated sequel, doesn't quite fall into the cynical cash-in category: despite lacking the original voice cast, it's colourful and frequently funny, with varied games and great kid appeal. It's a shame then that the result is less cohesive whole and more disjointed collection of mini-games. Some of these – zebra v lemur football, a stealth mode with the sinister penguins – are genuinely good but, frustratingly, you have to suffer a lot of highly repetitive, simplistic action (and some awful camerawork) to find them. Anyone over 10 need not apply.
We hear so much about formats dying off these days - after all, 2007 was the year we saidbye bye to HD-DVD; abandoned almost before it was born.Some formats have more legs, though. Take the venerable Video Home System, which is finally done with after 32 years and assaults from Betamax, Laserdiscs, DVD and DVR,according to the LA Times:After three decades of steady if unspectacular service, the spinning wheels of the home-entertainment stalwart are slowing to a halt at retail outlets. On a crisp Friday morning in October, the final truckload of VHS tapes rolled out of a Palm Harbor, Fla., warehouse run by Ryan J. Kugler, the last major supplier of the tapes."It's dead, this is it, this is the last Christmas, without a doubt," said Kugler, 34, a Burbank businessman. "I was the last one buying VHS and the last one selling it, and I'm done. Anything left in warehouse we'll just give away or throw away."Kugler - who apparently specialises in "distressed inventory" - has decided it's all over.I do remember the days of watching films until the tape would degrade and fuzzy lines would start to invade the screen. But now? I've got some VHS tapes stuffed somewhere in a storage container in Sussex, but that's about it.I think screenwriter John August (credits include Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Charlie's Angels and some other films that don't have the word Charlie)captured it bestwhen he said that, despite his obsession with movies:I have almost no nostalgia for the VHS format itself. With its springs and gears, each tape was built to fail. I can't think of another technology that seemed so inelegant even when it was new.Still have a pile of cassettes in your living room? Are you sorry to see VHS go?
Meet Will Page and Andrew Bud. Their mission? Debunking the glossy Web 2.0 theory that underpinned Chris Anderson's book The Long Tail. Well, certainly that's the way they've painted themselves in a nice write-up inthe Times before Christmas, in which they say all the jabber about the value in niche markets isn't true.Sounds great, doesn't it? Debunking the pompous myths of internet blowhards is, after all, one of the most enjoyable activities known to man. But are Page &amp; Bud right?Some background, first. In essence, the Times story is a rehash ofpresented in November, which was the subject an Andrew Orlowski hit-job published in the Registerat the time.All of it is based on a piece of work by Page and Bud to look at whether the Long Tail theory is accurate or not - essentially to see whether the numbers stack up.The basic argument is this: Anderson says digital sales follow a power law curve, but Page says it's logarithmic. The difference, if you've not been looking, is that Anderson's ideas are predicated on the concept that a Long Tail curve is like a mullet: business up front and a party in the back. Page, meanwhile, says the head is big but there's not much else going on.I've read through Page &amp; Bud's arguments a few times over the past seven weeks, and all I can think is... that they're sort of missing the point.(A quick disclaimer: we've got alittlebit of skin in this game, since Orlowski decided to rope in something written by Jacka couple of years backas evidence of how people were suckered in by Anderson. No surprise that in quoting  Jack's point that the Long Tail "is a powerful idea that provides us with a new(ish) way of looking at the world", Orlowski failed to note the next sentence - which said that "The Long Tail isn't that significant" and that "it involves a mental rather than a physical shift".)Anyway, back to Page &amp; Bud. They say Anderson's numbers don't add up. Anderson says they haven't made their own data available. Others have weighed in too, arguing that there's a confusion between what is the head and what is the tail, and whether or not this is an apples-apples comparison.I'm not going to argue whether the Long Tail is big enough to be real, whether it's coming down the track or whether it's just economic bunkum.But it seems to me that theactual pointof the Long Tail (which seemed a one-note idea turned into a profitable speaking gig) was a fairly basic and straightforward one about the long-term shift from physical retail to digital: as the cost of storing and distributing digital files moves towards zero, the chance to profit from your back catalogue items becomes a distinct possibility.To my mind it's not so much the maths that matter, since it's predicated on the unalterable fact that costs are falling, but the interpretation of what that means. And that's where the disjointed nature of this comes in, because it's not the numbers that are fictional, but the idea that this lesson applies to everybody.That idea - of achieving success by plumbing the Long Tail alone? That's one of the great myths of Web 2.0. Services aimed at niche marketscansucceed, but the real thinking about the Long Tail should be  aimed at the retailers and distributors - like Amazon or Apple - who can mine both the head and the tail. They're the ones in control here.Quite how any of this tit-for-tat between Anderson and Page proves or disproves that concept - which seems fairly clear and uncontroversial to me - remains to be seen.In the end, as it is, I suspect that all of this is just a lot of self-promotion on both counts. Contrarian viewpoints thrive online, since people usually ignore the fact that two apparently conflicting ideas can exist perfectly happily together.But, hey, if Anderson's made a reputation for himself peddling this stuff, then I'm not shocked to see somebody try and build themselves up by debunking it. I'm only surprised that it's taken so long for somebody to come up with something that appears to be a more credible challenge than the screeds put out by the likes of Andrew Orlowski and Andrew Keen.
Playstation HomeVideo games are big business - but most of 2009's hot titles are simply bigger, brasher sequels to popular franchises. If you're looking for something innovative and interesting, it's worth looking to games that, well, aren't even really games at all. Take Home, a virtual world for owners of the PlayStation 3. Built by a Sony team in London, it's a three-dimensional universe in which you can wander round and meet other like-minded citizens of cyberspace. Think of it as the Second Life it's OK to like.Macworld and CESFor one glorious week in January, every self-respecting technophile and gadgethead in the world converges on San Francisco and Las Vegas to gorge on the latest gadgets at the year's two most high-profile technology showcases. This year's a little different, though: the recession is forcing many of the exhibitors to scale back and concentrate on staying afloat. Meanwhile, Apple boss Steve Jobs has shocked fans by deciding not to bother doing his annual keynote address - the same talk that's launched successes such as the iMac and the iPhone. Does it mean Apple doesn't have anything new up its sleeve?FreecycleMost of us usually associate technology with heavy spending - buying new mobile phones, iPods and computers, for example. But with belts getting so tight they're being mistaken for corsets, the hi-tech world could also help promote thriftiness. Multimedia swapshopFreecycle.orghas been around for years, but could come into its own as millions of us look to rein in spending. Meanwhile, watch out for the continued rise of online craft superstores such as New York's Etsy.com and British equivalent Folksy.com - inexpensive ways to find unique, handmade gifts.Eco-friendly vehiclesWhile Toyota and Honda battle it out to be kings of the hybrid car, a number of smaller car manufacturers are seeing their plans for eco-friendly cars coming to fruition. The most well-known is probably the Roadster electric sports car from Tesla, but Fisher's forthcoming Karma model (expected at the end of 2009) gives it a run for its money. All this new vigour could help reposition hybrid vehicles as sexy as well as sensible - after all, doing 0-60mph in less than six seconds is a lot more appealing than pootling around town in a pint-sized hatchback.Superspeed internetIf 2008 was the year that the BBC's iPlayer brought online television to millions of people, then 2009 promises to be the year we finally get internet connections that are fast enough to make the most of it. Virgin Media has already unveiled its plans to launch new cable broadband that could go as fast as 50 megabits per second - that's an entire episode of Doctor Who in less than a minute - and BT is carrying on the rollout of its next-generation connections. Surely it can't be long before we're able to watch high-definition documentaries streamed straight over the web.
Sony is rumoured to be launching a Vaio Pocket PC at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January, and there has been some support for this idea on the Sony Style website.The specification is for a system with a 1.33GHz Intel processor and an 8 inch screen running Windows Vista. If so,Gizmodoand other sites are probably wrong to call it a "netbook". It's more likely to be a subnotebook, and I expect it to appear at a subnotebook-type price of £/$999 or more.The 1.33GHz clock speed suggests an Intel Core 2 Duo chip, rather than the 1.6GHz Atom you'd expect in a netbook. Core 2 Duos with this rating have been available both in Low Voltage (L7200) and Ultra Low Voltage (U7700) versions, and neither is cheap compared to a 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270.It's not so easy to explain the 1600 x 768 pixel screen, but Sony has produced letter-box subnotebooks before. The Sony Vaio PCG-C1 subnotebook akaPictureBook, which Ireviewed in May 1999, had a 1024 x 480 screen with almost the same aspect ratio.Kevin (Kilmo) Kang from Korea has the best set of pics of the new Sony P-series machines atCNet Asia.But it does seem strangely hard for many people to understand that a subnotebook PC is just a smaller version of a notebook PC, which was originally defined by the A4(ish) size of the Compaq LTE and IBM ThinkPad 700 PCs. Machines that are larger than notebook PCs (such as the MacBook Air, whatever the Wall Street Journal says) are not subnotebooks, though I guess you could call them supernotebooks if you really wanted.As a matter of fact, almost all netbooks are also subnotebooks, just as they are also laptops and they are also portable PCs. What mainly distinguishes netbooks from notebooks is that netbooks do not use full-spec processors etc. They are intended -- at least by implication -- for use with online applications, and not for more intensive tasks such as video and audio processing. Sony, of course, focuses on video and audio: that's where the Vaio name comes from.Large PC manufacturers often have several ranges of notebook PC to cover different markets, including: subnotebooks, value notebooks, ultraportables, "thin and light," desktop replacements, entertainment and gaming notebooks. Value notebooks, such as Dell's Vostro range, start at similar prices to netbooks.
A new generation of designers and developers is putting the social element back into video games, using online networks such as Facebook as platforms to turn people from across the world into poker aces, boffins and the proud and sometimes obsessive owners of virtual pets.These new games give people the ability to play with their friends rather than strangers, which has sent usage through the roof.Facebook is already seeing over 2bn minutes of game play a month, and the longer people stay online the more chance the game's developer and the network itself have to make money out of them, most obviously through advertising.Investors have spotted the opportunity of social gaming and even as the economic climate turns chilly they have been putting funds into these businesses. Though most social networks have their roots, or at least owners, on the west coast of the US, one of the most successful social gaming companies is based in Britain.Using bright colours, animated characters and addictive quizzes, Playfish has already attracted 25 million registered users in its one year of existence. It is responsible for four of the top 10 games played by Facebook users worldwide, including Who Has the Biggest Brain? in which players compete to solve maths and memory problems.The first wave of social network games were essentially variations of tag and were based very much on the initial excitement of social networks - ie, who can get the most friends. They allowed players to "bite" or "tag" their friends to turn them into zombies or vampires and the person who did that to the most people was the winner, of sorts. In stark contrast, the second generation of social games is more friendly and collaborative - in the same way as many Facebook users now value the quality of their online friendships instead of merely measuring their online success by quantity.In Playfish's highly popular Pet Society, for instance, players design and decorate their own homes, visit friends nearby and earn points not by killing but by kissing them. Pet Society has more than 3 million members - it grew 30% in October alone.In the same month, Kidnap! went from nowhere to 2.5 million players. Context Optional, a social network marketing group, built Kidnap! for the Travel Channel as a marketing tool. The rather more traditional Texas Hold'Em Poker, by Zynga, meanwhile, has attracted almost 6 million players."We have added a vital new element to games - namely your friends," said Kristian Segerstrale, chief executive of Playfish. "That's not possible on any kind of console."He reckons the gaming industry is being reinvented by social networking. "Competition is great but to create social interactions - not about who is better but about social emotions - is much more complex ... it involves status and emotions. For the first time, games are where you hang out. This is a much broader audience."Geography funMany Playfish games also have an educational element. The company's latest release, Geo Challenge, requires users to memorise flags, learn the location of cities and guess a country's identity from its shape."Our guiding thought and vision was to transform video games from something sad that you do by yourself into something social and fun for everyone. We started on Facebook because it was the easiest, most mature platform."Of course, it has been possible to connect a computer to the internet and play a game with other people for a long time. Multi-player platforms such as World of Warcraft have been phenomenally successful and Microsoft has tried for years to persuade people to put their Xbox consoles online and interact with other gamers. But players have essentially been variants on the theme of teenage boys in their bedrooms.Nintendo has been one of the most successful in moving gaming out of the bedroom into the living room by widening its appeal. The advertising for its Wii console and handheld DS device is based around family and collaborative gaming.Whereas rival technology firms such as Sony and Panasonic have warned that profits are set to crash as consumers keep their cash in their pockets, Nintendo has bucked the trend. Its chief executive, Satoru Iwata, reckons the festive season will help the Japanese company to its third successive year of record earnings.But consoles are expensive and even the highly successful Wii has shipped only 35m worldwide. There are more than three times that many people on Facebook alone. Tying social networks and gaming together represents a massive opportunity.Gareth Davis, Facebook's platform program manager, believes the new style of Facebook games can take the concept of online gaming popularised by World of Warcraft and expand it into a much wider market in the same way that Nintendo has widened the appeal of console gaming."Many Facebook games would be categorised as casual game experiences," he said. "Casual games appeal to men and women equally and are popular among all demographics. Nintendo brought casual gaming mainstream with the Wii and DS consoles. Facebook games are of Nintendo quality but add the compelling social aspect of playing with your friends and family across the internet."People prefer to play with people they know, rather than strangers."It is an opportunity that investors have also grasped. Zynga attracted some high-profile backing a few months ago when it got $29m (£19m) from investors including Kleiner Perkins, who backed Google and Amazon. Zynga counts among its advisers Bing Gordon, who used to be chief creative officer at Electronic Arts, the world's largest computer games group.Then two months ago, as the world's stockmarkets crashed and a host of businesses found themselves with serious cashflow problems, Playfish raised $17m from Accel Partners, one of the companies behind Facebook, and Index Ventures."They already had fantastic momentum before the investment and are now well placed to consolidate their leadership position," said Ben Holmes, of Index Ventures, whose previous investments include music site Last.fm.MomentumPlayfish makes its money through in-game advertising and charging very small amounts for in-game items: allowing players to buy goods or upgrade their status on their favourite games. It is already one of Google's largest partners for the in-game variation of its Adsense advertising platform."We're already seeing the potential of both revenue streams, and monetisation of our games is an exciting area of innovation for us," said Segerstrale.Holmes added: "If players are willing to play 10 hours a month on one of these games, it is not unrealistic for them to spend €10."As for Facebook, the more time people spend on its site, the more chance it has of making money."Two billion minutes a month is an important traffic stream for Facebook," Davis said. "People who play Playfish games come back to the Facebook site frequently, spend a lot of time being entertained in the game and then spend more time on the site, sharing and connecting with friends."Games have been popular activities since the beginning of civilisation. As the usage of the internet and social-networking sites grows, games have found a new medium: you get to play with friends, family and colleagues."Games began as a social activity, a form of play, interaction, connection and sharing. On Facebook they have come full circle, using the latest technologies to connect us with each other and have fun doing it."
Britain is falling badly behind the rest of the world in the use of broadband technology and the consequences could prove disastrous for education, health care, entertainment and the fight against global warming, one of the country's leading computer experts has warned.Professor Christopher Bishop, chief scientist at Microsoft Research Cambridge, who will present the Royal Institution Christmas lectures this week, said the government now needed to launch an urgent programme to install fibre-optic cables across the nation and boost the country's broadband capacity."If we are looking for a government project that would stimulate the economy in the short term and help combat the impact of the credit crunch, while also bringing long-lasting improvements to the nation's infrastructure, then we could do no better than rewire the nation with fibre optics," he said.Bishop, who is also a professor of computing science at Edinburgh University, said the failure to begin a national programme to replace telephone copper wires with fibre-optic cables several years ago was now having a serious impact. "We can now shift huge amounts of data speedily around the country but cannot move it for the last mile into people's houses because there is not enough bandwidth in our domestic telephone cables, the only effective route we have for taking broadband signals into homes and small businesses. This is beginning to have serious consequences."In other countries, particularly in the Far East, fibre-optic cables - which can carry vastly increased amounts of data compared with copper phone cables - have been fitted to homes, schools, local hospitals, doctors' surgeries and small businesses. These are now giving teachers, doctors, householders and businessmen access to vast amounts of online data. Doctors can study patients' x-ray images and detailed health records; schools can download lessons illustrated with complex diagrams and video images, while video-conferencing may soon start to replace business trips, said Bishop. "This last advantage is particularly important because less travelling will mean less carbon dioxide will be emitted into the atmosphere."Bishop said it was also vital that Britain ensured a supply of good computer scientists from its schools and universities in the next few years. "There are some really exciting advances in the pipeline - including the development of machines that can see and identify shapes with the sophistication of humans. That will bring about all sorts of changes, from development of PCs that can recognise faces reproduced on digital photographs to machines that will be capable of highly complex design work."It was the need to stimulate interest in computing that led Bishop to approach the Royal Institution to present this year's lectures. "This is the first time in the 183-year history of lectures that 'thinking machines' have been the series's key topic," he said.The Royal Institution Christmas lectures were launched in 1825 by physicist Michael Faraday. Apart from a gap during the second world war, they have been held every year since. The lectures were first televised in 1966. A key feature of each set of lectures has been the inclusion of demonstrations and audience participation, a considerable problem if you are talking about computers.Bishop and his team have gone to considerable pains to get round this problem and this year's lectures include demonstrations of the making of jellyfish ice-cream with liquid nitrogen, the swinging of 14kg metal spheres to within millimetres of Bishop's head and a personal appearance - via a video link - by Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft.• This season's Royal Institution Christmas lectures will be screened on Five at 7.15pm from Monday 29 Dec until Friday 2 Jan. For further information, go torigb.org/christmaslectures08
Andy Burnham, the secretary of state for the Department of Culture, Media and Sports (DCMS), has givenan interview to the Telegraphin which he is quoted as saying that the government is considering "the need for "child safe" websites – registered with cinema-style age warnings – to curb access to offensive or damaging online material."(Pinch-of-salt warning: there's no link to the audio or a transcript of the interview, so we'll have to take it as read that what he's quoted sayingiswhat he said, and that context hasn't been lost.)ISPs would have to bear the cost of "child-safe" internet services, and there's a possibility - but I think it might be unwise to read any further than that - of age ratings being introduced for websites.Actually, let's quote directly from the piece:When asked directly whether age ratings could be introduced, Mr Burnham replies: "Yes, that would be an option. This is an area that is really now coming into full focus."So is he saying "we'll introduce age ratings for websites"? No. It's anoption. A pretty bad one, of course, since it would require everyone to go back and revise their website(s), try to consider what age they're appropriate for, and then move on.Well, here's a newsflash: peoplewon't even do that for browser compatibility, which arguably has more effect on the accessibility of their sites, so they're not going to do it for one country's desire for "appropriateness". The US has been there before too, with theCommunications Decency Act, which was comprehensively struck down. Even Barack Obama won't try to go against the Supreme Court.And another paragraph:Other safeguards mooted by Burnham include compelling websites such as YouTube and Facebook to remove offensive material within a specified time after they have been alerted to it, and changing Britain's libel laws to make it cheaper for people to sue publishers if they have been defamed online.The YouTube/Facebook ideas are nice, but you'll have trouble persuading Barack Obama that he needs to focus on that when the eceonomy is collapsing around him, and as for Britain's libel laws - if there's one thing Britain doesn't need, it's to make it easier for people to run off to courts. On the internet, Mr Burnham, good information tends to drive out bad. Information drives out misinformation. Time instead for people to remember that childhood rhyme about sticks and stones, I think.The cluelessness of so many of these ideas hasn't been lost on all ministers, however. Tom Watson, of the Cabinet Office, is inviting views about Burnham's comments on his personal blog. As he points out,Internet regulation is not in my policy area but I promise you I will forward your views to Andy Burnham and Lord Carter.One would have to say that the comments aren't really running in Burnham's favour so far, but possibly theDaily Mail's commenters haven't been alertedabout the blogpost's existence. Except eventheydon't think it's workable.I think, Mr Burnham, that if even the Daily Mail's commenters don't think it's worth trying to do, then it's not worth trying to do.(We should point out, by the way, that Watson emphatically does get the net. Perhaps Andy Burnham should drop by for a quick briefing.)
Internet sites could be given government-approved age ratings to prevent children accessing inappropriate material, a cabinet minister has suggested, in a move that is likely to trigger fears over web censorship.The culture secretary, Andy Burnham, says in an interview today that the government is considering the need for  "child safe" websites – registered with  cinema-style age warnings – to curb  access to offensive or damaging online material.He plans to approach US president-elect Barack Obama's incoming administration with proposals for tight international rules on English language websites, which may include forcing internet service providers, such as BT, Tiscali, Sky and AOL, to ­provide packages restricting access to websites without an age rating."There is content that should just not be available to be viewed. That's my view. Absolutely categorical," Burnham, the MP for Leigh in Greater Manchester, told the Daily Telegraph. "If you look back at the people who created the internet, they talked very deliberately about creating a space that governments couldn't reach. I think we are having to revisit that stuff seriously now."Other safeguards mooted by Burnham include compelling websites such as YouTube and Facebook to remove offensive material within a specified time after they have been alerted to it, and changing Britain's libel laws to make it cheaper for people to sue publishers if they have been defamed online.  Internet providers will be urged to adopt the proposals in the new year, but if that failed to work, Burnham said the proposals might have to be enshrined in law.Burnham, a father of three, insisted his proposals were not intended as an attack on freedom of speech, but were a necessary counterweight to the proliferation of "unacceptable" material on the internet in a similar mould to the 9pm watershed on television. "It worries me – like anybody with children. Leaving your child for two hours unregulated on the internet is not something you can do. The internet has been empowering and democratising in many ways, but we haven't yet got the stakes in the ground to help people navigate their way safely around what can be a very, very complex and quite dangerous world," he added.He said the change in administration in the US gave an opportunity to set new standards across the internet industry. "The more we seek international solutions to this stuff – the UK and the US working together – the more an international norm will set an industry norm."His comments are likely to spark a row with those who are opposed to government interference in online publishing.Admitting his proposals might be criticised as "heavy-handed", Burnham said: "I think that there is definitely a case for clearer standards online. More ability for parents to understand if their child is on a site, what standards it is operating to. What are the protections that are in place?"
Street Fighter IV: PC, PS3, Xbox 360The biggest fighting game in the world gets new characters to join its lineup, a somewhat more forgiving control set-up and a 21st-century makeover that retains its famous character and idiosyncrasies.Heavy Rain: PS3A beautiful and highly original-looking crime thriller from the makers of Fahrenheit, in which you take multiple roles in a story that evolves as you interact with it.Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars: Nintendo DSThe juggernaut of Grand Theft Auto gets reinvented for DS, complete with mini-games and an entirely new art style. Set in Liberty City, this promises to be another labour of love from Rockstar.Resident Evil 5: PS3, Xbox 360After the unadulterated zombie-annihilating joy of Resident Evil 4 comes a new African setting and faster and cleverer "infected".MadWorld: Nintendo WiiFrom the people who brought you the beautiful role-playing game Okami comes something just as stunning and a lot less peaceful: an arthouse action game guaranteed to freak out the tabloids.
Humans are creatures of habit who invariably follow the same daily routines, so discovering how the rich, famous and notable organise their days is intrigiung. Do they rise at 8.15am, scarf down some Cheerios in front of GMTV before purchasing the Guardian (the second from the top copy, not the top one) on the way to the train station, or is their higher purpose served by some alternative method of starting work? Here you'll find daily routines culled from books, newspapers and magazines that provide the answer. Some of the best entries focus on those no longer with us: PG Wodehouse began each morning with "the daily dozen" calisthenics before preparing his toast and honey; Napoleon had several valets who "rubbed him down with a coarse brush and doused him with eau de cologne".
The blogging equivalent of the Justice League of America, MBV finds five stars of the indie MP3 scene joining forces to create one single, all-conquering blog - surely the way forward for similarly minded bloggers. Dealing mainly in music that's left of mainstream, a nice touch is a "play the page" tool so you don't have to risk downloading. Beyond the MP3s are links to oddities such as Ella Fitzgerald remixes, Sufjan Stevens Flash games and the worst album covers of 2008. An interesting strand highlights interesting music posters for no other reason than they're nice to look at. Despite being US-based, it's Anglo-centric enough for us to feel right at home.
With its big touch-screen, accelerometers and internet-connected applications store, the iPhone promised a lot for mobile gamers. TapDefense may not be its killer app, but it's a great game that comes free of charge. Using the same mechanics as countless online Flash games, this sees you protecting the Pearly Gates from hordes of demons by setting up sequences of weapon emplacements along their route. The more you dispatch, the longer you survive, and tactically upgrading your guns in the face of antagonists proves to be an endlessly fascinating task.
When Harry met SallyIt's not because he's on his own on New Year's Eve, it's just that Harry's got to rush over to the big party to tell Sally that he loves it when she gets that little crinkle above her nose. Bonus points for shoehorning in a fine, scattergun rant about Auld Lang Syne - "Should old acquaintance be forgot? Does that mean we should forget old acquaintances or does it mean that if we should happen to forget them we should remember them, which is not possible because we already forgot them."The Millenium DomeFinally the big moment had arrived: we really were going to party like it was 1999 and two thousand zero zero would indeed be outta sight. But instead, with the eyes of the world focused on the Millennium Dome at one minute to midnight, what do we get but Queenie looking as if she was sucking on a lemon-flavoured wasp unclipping a rope barrier (ribbons were so last century) and releasing some confused children. Trumpets parped, cheers were tinged with confusion and the whole thing was a typically British mess. And the so-called "river of fire" didn't work.ABBAAbba weren't just there for the jolly things like dancing, men after midnight and discovering which one of three middle-aged karaoke singers is your biological father. No, the Swedish pop masters were also there for the sad things like divorce, crippling debt and finding yourself at the most miserable New Year's Eve party ever - like this one populated by freaky clowns and a sing-along chorus of "we might as all lay down and die". Even Agnetha and Frida's heads-together singing bit is laden with suicidal doom.Balloon madnessThe band this audience is watching - Chicagoan prog rockers Umphrey's McGee - is fairly unimportant. The thing is the sustained joy these revellers enjoy at the midnight hour, drowning out the cacophony onstage. It's a multicoloured balloon drop, but it's as if the entire audience has just won the lottery and the gift of eternal youth is falling on their heads the way they are going absolutely apeshit mad. Watch this clip tinged with regret in the knowledge that nothing you do on Wednesday night will make you feel as good.Frank and DeanWe had Morecambe &amp; Wise and in the US they had Sinatra and Dean feeding each other an inexhaustible supply of bizarre one-liners. "Cover up the parakeet, I think there's going to be an ugly scene," guffaws Frank. Eh? This sketch is about a wild New Year's Eve bash at Frank's place where there were 87 women but only two pounds of potato salad. Why this line is so hysterical remains unexplained. Maybe it all made sense in 1965.FriendsThe best episodes of Friends always returned to the Gellers's gawky childhood. Here Ross and Monica find themselves on the set of the pre-taping of Dick Clark's New Year's Rocking Eve dance show. Having received an honorable mention in the brother-sister category at their middle school dance with their killer moves, they're convinced that they'll "wanna build us our own platform!" but are tragically misguided. Happy new year!
Like its predecessor, Loco Roco 2 gets you to use the PSP's shoulder buttons to tilt its world left and right to guide a friendly blob through a series of pleasingly colourful cartoon mazes. As before, the blobs sing at intervals, split up to negotiate narrow passageways or swirl away on the wind, but this time you can also commandeer special little vehicles. Its essence is the same, though, and provides a joyously simple and beguiling walk in the park for dabblers, while those who like to court repetitive strain injury will uncover myriad secret tunnels leading to an array of increasingly hard to find collectibles. Appealing in the extreme.
4 Color RebellionAlmost every Wii game is subject to guidelines that state "can be played with your thighs".WiiWiiThe unstoppable rise of Professor Layton, what's hot in Japan and Nintendo chic for kids.Tiny CartridgeInteresting Nintendo DS tidbits, retro junk, homebrew previews and overlooked games such as Air Traffic Chaos and Bangai-O Spirits.Wii Weight Loss PlanOne man's attempt to lose weight by playing Wii Fit and Wii Sports.Eclectic GamingA blog about playing Animal Crossing: Let's Go To The City so you don't have to. It's a game where you can buy virtual turnips.Remi GailardFrench comic Remi dresses up as the popular plumber for a real world version of Mario Kart.
It was interesting to read about the humanitarian use of variable power spectacles (Report, 22 December). But it was strange not to see Dr Martin Wright mentioned. Martin was a prolific inventor of devices for medical use - and these included variable-power spectacle lenses. Martin worked in several Medical Research Council establishments and was a colleague of mine at the Clinical Research Centre in the early 1970s, when he invented fluid-lens spectacles, initially for his own use. Martin wanted to be able to adjust the focus while working with machine tools, so the syringes used to vary the fluid content of the lens were built into the spectacle side-pieces. As far as I can recall, the main problem he faced was leakage past the minute syringe pistons. Martin died in 2001, but he would have strongly approved of this humanitarian use of his spectacles.Professor David PeggUniversity of York
Thousands of British jobs are expected to be lost across the mobile phone industry in the first few months of next year as the networks look to cut costs in the face of fierce competition and the worsening economic slowdown.Management consultants are being used by several mobile phone companies to advise on where cost savings can be made and a series of announcements on restructuring are expected early in the new year.The five UK mobile phone networks - 3, O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone - employ almost 45,000 people in Britain, from managers and network engineers to call centre staff and shop assistants. Two of them - Vodafone and O2 - count Britain as the centre of their international operations.Last month Vodafone announced its intention to cut costs by &pound;1bn, mostly in the mature markets of Europe, as it reduced its annual sales forecast for the second time in four months.The company - which employs about 10,000 in the UK - has already axed 450 middle managers at its corporate headquarters in Newbury, Berkshire, this year. More job losses are likely in the new year as it integrates functions such as IT, testing, logistics and distribution across the continent.O2, which employs slightly more than Vodafone in the UK, reduced its middle management ranks by a similar amount a few years ago, but further job losses are expected by union insiders.Just over a year ago Britain's fourth-placed network, T-Mobile, which employs just over 6,000 people in the UK, announced plans to pool its mobile phone network with its fifth-placed rival 3, which employs just under 4,000. That deal has allowed them to reduce costs, but there may be scope for further cuts. It was also seen as a possible precursor to a merger of the two companies, which if it happened would lead to huge redundancies.But some of the biggest job losses are expected at Orange, which has 12,000 employees in the UK. Management consultants are understood to have been working their way round the business, which is owned by France Telecom.Although a radical shake-up involving the closure of the former Wanadoo internet service provider business has been rejected, a significant number of job losses are believed to be on the cards.There have already been 2,200 job losses announced at Virgin Media, which owns Virgin Mobile, but most are part of the repositioning of the business after the merger of the NTL and Telewest cable television operations.The Virgin Mobile business, which has a large call centre in Trowbridge, Wiltshire, has been relatively unscathed.The industry has held up relatively well in the face of the economic slowdown, with some executives saying the mobile phone has become such an integral part of people's lives that it will be one of the final areas of consumer spending to see a slowdown.But the outlook is worsening, storm clouds are definitely on the horizon and there is no doubt that the industry's boom times are over.After a brief hiccup after the dotcom bubble burst in 2001, the mobile phone market has experienced rapid growth, but next year analysts and industry executives are predicting sales of handsets to drop at their fastest rate.Sales of mobile phones are expected to be down somewhere between 6% and 10% next year. The world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, Nokia, which makes four out of every 10 mobile handsets sold worldwide, has already warned twice on market growth.UK-based Laird, which makes components for mobile phones, has announced plans to dump 5,000 people, or almost half its work force. There have also been profit warnings from Samsung and Texas Instruments, which makes chips for mobile phones.But the mobile phone operators, who would not comment, are also facing a structural shift in their industry this year as regulators across Europe get to grips with the thorny issue of mobile termination rates in a move that could take billions of pounds away from the industry. These are the charges the mobile phone companies charge each other and fixed-line network operators to connect calls. Because rates to fixed-line phones are much lower than the charges for making a call to a mobile phone, fixed-line companies pay hundreds of millions of pounds to the mobile phone companies every year.This disparity between the fixed-line rate and the mobile phone rate has long been challenged by BT and 3, which as the smallest network is a net payer of termination rates, and now it has come under fire from the European commission.Ofcom has already slightly reduced termination rates in the UK, but if the commission succeeds in bringing them down to the sort of levels seen in the fixed-line industry, mobile phone companies will have to slash costs to make up the shortfall in their businesses.
After Wii let you create your own Miis and Xbox 360's recent makeover included customisable avatars, Sony's social plans for gamers let you interact with other people's characters in a Second Life-style, anodyne CGI-simulated town. Redecorate your flat, buy property, acquire new clothes, watch film trailers or simply wander about and meet people. Without a keyboard or headset, communication is severely hobbled, trailers take an era to download and paying real money to buy a simulated summer house won't be for everyone. But then this is only the beta version, before a full release in the new year.• PlayStation 3
Dark Knightwas most pirated movie of 2008Diablo Cody'sfavourite moviesSome interesting usesfor Gwen Stefani's discarded crapThe difficultyof dubbing The Wire into GermanAnimal contestshave reached new heights of campness.How condomsare madeReaders ofThe Guardian Games Blog have invented their own gameFinally, a blogdedicated to signs above wash basinsThere are moreLego mini-figs than people in the world
Here are some news links you might have missed (fromTwitter):* A "best of" list of the "best of 2008" technology lists, atNetwork World* Happy Christmas from AKQA (video): a tune played using 49 microwave ovens* TheBuzzwords of 2008in The New York Times, including FAIL* Moore's Law illustrated -- just pictures of chips! -- atTechnology Review*Best of Yanko Design 2008-- 50 fabulous (sometimes perhaps too fabulous) designs on one page*Microsoft Answers(beta) now online for community answers to Vista questions* For Windows/cloud geeks, atAeroXperience: a Q&amp;A with Amitabh Srivastava, head of Windows Azure* Tweebay -- Buy and Sell Your Stuff On Twitter (in 240 characters, plus a pic)http://www.tweebay.com/
Amazon says: "the 2008 holiday season finished as its best ever, with over 6.3 million items ordered worldwide on the peak day, December 15, which is a record-breaking 72.9 items per second."Thepress releaseincludes a number of "fun facts" such as: "Amazon sold enoughMunchkin Mozart Magic Cubesto fill every seat in the Sydney Opera House five times over."As for the key consumer electronics section, Amazon says:Top sellers in consumer electronics included Samsung's 52-inch 1080p 120Hz LCD HDTV with RED Touch of Color, the Apple iPod touch 8 GB (2nd Generation) and the Acer Aspire One 8.9-inch netbook (1.6 GHz Intel Atom N270 processor, 1 GB RAM, 160 GB hard drive, XP Home, 6 cell battery), sapphire blue.Nintendo dominated games sales, as you'd expect.Amazon seems to be doing better than traditional retailers in the US. AsReuters reported:Retailers' sales fell as much as 4 percent during the holiday season, as the weak economy and bad weather created one of the worst holiday shopping climates in modern times, according to data released on Thursday by SpendingPulse.Amazon hasn't said anything about its profit margins, but we'll see how it's doing when it announces its next financial results.
M Lavinashree has passed the exam to become a Microsoft Certified Professional and she has become, at 9 years of age, the youngest to do so. (The record was held previously by a 10-year-old from Pakistan.)From her appearance in a local TV news bulletin (above), she seems to have achieved quite a bit of fame: she's been breaking records since she was three. The video asks if she could be the next Bill Gates. Somehow I don't think an MCP qualifies you for that….viaPC World
The North American Aerospace Defense Command tracks Santa every year fromhttp://www.noradsanta.org/-- and this year, he's also being tracked onTwitter. Bitz the Twittering Elf currently has 2,150 followers, which is pretty good going. Latest tweet:The Reindeer are energized! Santa has made it all the way to Yakutsk, Russia. Brrrr, looks cold over there!Twitter is in the news at the moment, partly becauseMike Wilson"tweeted" hisplane crashin Denver. (Just afterwards, not during.)The HubSpot marketing blog, which runsTwitter Grader, has just published its first shortState of the Twittersphere Report. It estimates that 5-10,000 new accounts are being opened each day, and that 70% of Twitter users joined this year.TechCrunchhas a summary.I'm a newbie on Twitter, having signed up last week asjackschofield, and I've written about it for Monday'sNetbytes column. If you need a 500-word catch-up, that does the job.Update: Too late when I saw it, but Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Land posted the much more comprehensive8 Santa Trackers For Christmas Eve 2008, From NORAD Santa To Twitter. This includedGoogle Earth: Track Santa In 3D.
Psion has sent "cease and desist" letters to some netbook-oriented web sites ordering them to stop using the term "netbook".jkOnTheRun says: "The letters claim that the term netbook is trademarked by the firm that produced the Psion netBook in the early 2000's."jkOnTheRun has reproduced a letter from an intellectual property law firm which says Psion has trademarks on the term in the US, EU and other places.It's certainly true that Psion produced a pioneering product, thePsion NetBook, almost a decade ago. However, it wasn't a netbook in today's terms: it was really a Psion Series 7 organiser, a scaled-up Series 5, running EPOC not a scaled down notebook PC. (The later NetBook Pro -- launched in 2003 -- ranMicrosoft Windows CE, Psion having failed to keep up with the times.)But Psion abandoned its NetBook line long before Asus came out with the Eee PC, aka RM MiniBook, and was rapidly followed by Acer, MSI and several other manufacturers.It wasn't clear at the time whether we'd go with minibook, netbook, or subnotebook, but clearly it was the market that decided, rather than a particular company. This suggests that netbook is just the most obvious generic term: there was nothing very original about it in the first place.I therefore think threatened sites should be looking for pre-Psion uses of "netbook" and I won't be surprised if they find some.I am not a lawyer, obviously, but I did once testify on behalf of a small British company that was threatened by IBM for calling its PCs PowerStation. IBM was claiming rights over the name of its Power architecture (this was before Apple used it), but I'd already suggested PowerStation, in print, as a possible name for a powerful PC/workstation. As with PlayStation, it's a completely obvious construction, and the kind of thing we do in English all the time.Whether the argument is a sensible use of Psion's resources is another matter. There's no money in threatening fan sites, and the netbook ship sailed a long time ago. The most likely result may be that, instead of us thinking kindly of good old Psion for its Series 3a and Series 5 organisers, we think of them as litigious twits.
Episode seven: taking stock, eating puffins, Counting Crows"Are you here for the nature ... or the exchange rate?" asks the sign in the arrivals lounge of Keflavik airport. To which the only sensible reply is: "It's two days before the winter solstice, there are four hours of sunlight, it's minus three outside and you eat puffins. Yeah – I'm here for the nature; pass me a fork."Actually, they should have signs like that in all airports: "Welcome to Riyadh. Are you here to be beheaded over a minor drug offence or for the highly-paid jobs?" Or: "Welcome to Nottingham! Arson or old lace?"Anyway, asregular readerswill know, the reason I travelled to Iceland last week had nothing to do with the favourable exchange rate (which, by the way, is total bullshit – unless my £70 cab ride from the airport was part of the country's bail-out plan) and everything to do with wanting to spend the week-or-so before Christmas somewhere with a decent internet connection. And on that score, Reykjavik did not disappoint. It really is everywhere. My hotel boasted both wireless and wired connections – with the latter proving unbelievably fast, free and reliable, once I'd managed to fix the Ethernet plug with aplastic coffee stirrer.Since my columnlast week, I've been bombarded with questions from people curious about the strangetrainlessisland to the North but reluctant to suffer the arduous three hours of travel and bank-breaking £150 airfare it would take them to explore it first-hand. And so, before I go on, and with the patronising sigh of the "expert" who has only visited a place once, I'll generously pass on my wisdom. Here are the top five things you need to know about Iceland...Fact One:They eat sharks and puffins. The puffin, by the way, is the only animal in the world that doesn't taste like chicken.Fact Two:Almost all of the energy in Iceland is geothermic. This means there's no pollution, electricity is as cheap as water – and the water stinks of sulphur. If Dennis Nilsen had lived in Iceland, he'd never have been caught.Fact Three:Iceland operates a visa waiver scheme for travellers which is described in my guide book as "similar to that operated by the USA". And indeed, the empty arrivals hall and unbelievably lax immigrations process at KEF echoes almost exactly that of JFK. If JFK were to be hit with an apathy bomb, planted by Stephen King's Langoliers.Fact Four:Iceland hates Gordon Brown, but in a brilliantly childish way. One of the best-selling T-shirts in Reykjavik reads (in English) "Brown is the colour of poo". By way of retaliation, I wee-d the words "Bjork: yer mum" in the snow outside the town hall.Fact Five:On Saturdays and Sundays, the bars and clubs - all of which are in walking distance from each other - stay open until 6am. This makes me suspect that the reason booze is taxed so highly is to keep British stag weekenders away. After all, it's freezing cold, it's dark and the locals try really hard to speak intelligible English. Take away the ridiculous cost of getting wasted and Iceland is basically Birmingham.And so to Iceland's technology startup culture - and there's a fascinating story to be told about the country's growing entrepreneurial class, fuelled by the scores of technically skilled, highly motivated workers being laid off by the banks. Unfortunately, it's a story I can't tell you - and it's all the fault ofBrian Suda.Brian is a displaced Missourian, now working in Reykjavik as a software developer. He'd heard about my tripvia Twitterand suggested that we meet in the bar opposite my hotel for a drink and a chat about the Icelandic tech economy, how cheap electricity and a frigid environment makes it the ideal place for American and European companies to relocate their server farms, and how Iceland being home to the world's oldest parliament - the Althing - makes it perfectly logical that the Reykjavik-based MMORPG,Eve Online, has recently switched to asystem of democratic rule.Unfortunately, Brian also suggested - quite early in the evening - that I tryBrennivin; a local schnapps that literally translates as 'burning wine' (an alternative name is svarti dauði or 'black death'). Fast forward two hours and, with all thoughts of technology forgotten, I found myself standing at the back of a gig by Magni Ásgeirsson - the only Icelandic contestant of the CBS reality showRock Star: Supernova. In case you missed it, the show's 'aim' was to find a lead singer for a new rock supergroup featuring Mötley Crüe's Tommy Lee and former members of Metallica and Guns N' Roses. Ásgeirsson made it all the way through to the final, largely because the entire population of Iceland set their alarm clocks for the middle of the night to phone in and vote for him. Sadly, as the entire population of Iceland is just 302,000 people, Magni finished in fourth place and is now back playing gigs in local Reykjavik bars. Bars like the one Brian and I had found ourselves standing in.After a few more shots of black death, washed down with a pint or two of Viking beer, I decided that Ásgeirsson must be fed up of playing his usual rock set every night and wandered up to the stage with a few requests. Requests that, Magni being a typical hospitable Icelander and me being a visitor to his country, he was too polite to ignore. One of my last clear memories of the night is of a shaven-headed semi-celebrity Icelandic rocker clearing his throat, apologising (in English) that "I'm a little rusty because I haven't played this for a while," picking up his acoustic guitar and breaking into the jaunty opening bars ofMr Jones by Counting Crows. "Maybe we should have pushed his repertoire to Hotel California" said Brian before wandering to the bar to see if they had any shark meat for me to try.Fact six:4am drunk dials to old flames are even more painful to recall the next morning when you realise you made them from Iceland, to America, using a UK cellphone.Still, the next day of enforced downtime - with just a £12.50 hangoverSubway mealfor company - gave me the perfect opportunity to do what, I'm told, columnists are contractually obliged to do at this time of year. To reflect on the events of 2008 and to imagine what 2009 will hold. Apparently these reflections and imaginations must take one of two forms: either a list of bold "predictions" for the year ahead, none of which will actually come to pass - or a 'quiz of the year', with a series of ridiculously "inside baseball" questions about events and industry players that demonstrate how well-connected the columnist is, while making the reader feel dumb as dogshit for not even recognising half the names of the people featured.Well screw you, convention. If Magni Ásgeirsson's has taught me anything, it's that you don't get to the top (five) of your profession by lounging about in comfort zones. Why should I choose between two tired old formats when I can combine them both into one all singing, all dancing tired new format?So here it is - the five quiz questions that I predict technology columnists will be looking back and asking at the end of 2009. I call it "Don't Look Forward To The Past Of The Future With Anger: Paul's Annoyingly Insidery Technology Industry Quiz Of The Year 2009." Snappy, right?Email your answers toquiz@paulcarr.com- and don't forget to complete the tie-breaker. Best set of answers wins the bottle of Brennivin I brought back from duty free.(Fact Seven:Iceland still has both inbound and outbound duty free.)Ready? Excellent! Let's go...Question One:Loic Le Meur's LeWeb 09 (Theme: "Pride") once again failed to live up to the high expectations ofcertain membersof the international press. But what was the most common complaint levelled at the conference by attendees...a) All of the first day's speakers were members of Le Meur's immediate family.b) The eight hour music and pyrotechnic show by Jean Michel Jarre that filled the whole of day two contributed almost nothing to the debate around the future of the technology industry. Also, the dry ice made it almost impossible to live blog.c) Despite Le Meur having paid 4.3m Euro to erect a giant cellphone mast on stage to ensure wireless coverage for the event, it was rendered ineffective by his choice of conference venue: a former nuclear bunker, 120 feet below the streets of Paris.d) For the second year running, there was a party inMarc Canter's pants and they weren't invited.Question Two:April 2009 was the month when anonymous Internet commenters were finally driven from their parents' homes by angry mobs and forced to live underground like thesnivelling, cowardly sub-human verminthey so obviously are. But when even HG Wells' Morlocks declared them "too repellent" to share their caves, where were these fetid, sexless outcasts forced to seek refuge?a)Second Life.Question Three:In July of 2009, Aaron Sorkin's long-awaited Facebook movie,Charlie Wilson's Wall, was released straight to XBox 360. But which unforeseen event meant the film almost never made it to the small screen...a) A filming delay after Matt Damon (playing Sergey Brin) was injured falling off a giant inflatable ball during a high-octane "bounce and talk" scene.b) A script problem caused by the fact that Mark Zuckerberg has still not uttered enough words in his entire lifetime to fill a single page of Aaron Sorkin dialogue.c) A legal threat fromMashable.comfounder Pete Cashmore after the Aberdeen-based journostud discovered he was portrayed in the movie by an upturned shovel in a waistcoat.d) A marketing problem because, by July 2009, no one could remember what Facebook was.Question Four:In September 2009, having already replaced his public blog with a private email list to foil anonymous comment trolls, which American egotrepreneur decided to take the personal approach one step further, making personal visits to individual fans' homes and yelling his business opinions directly into their ears?Question Five:There were few surprises in Google's list of the most popular search terms for 2009, with "Fail Whale Sex Tape" and "Obamagate" predictably taking the top two slots. But which of the following phrases - surprisingly - didn't make the top five?a) iJustine new Yahoo! CEOb) Two girls, 12 Secondsc) Steve Jobs :(Tiebreaker: Complete this sentence: "If you ask me, the most exciting technological trend of 2009 was..."Closing date for entries: 31st December 2008. I'll announce the winner onTwitter.And once you've sent in your entry, for Christ's sake shut down your laptop, switch off your smartphone and enjoy the last Christmas this decade when we can all still afford decent booze. Come January, it'll all be lay-offs, bleak forecasts and scavenging for puffins... and that's a prediction you can take to the bank.Fact eight:there will be no banks.Merry Christmas, and God help us every one.Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
Well, it's Christmas Eve and Aleks, Greg and I are clearing out for a few days to see what Santa brings (a new Xbox 360 controller please!). We'll be back on January 5th, but until then, we'd like to wish you all a very merry Christmas and a happy 2009. We'd also like to thank everyone who's placed a comment on the site this year; extra special thanks must go to our Chatterbox regulars, who have created and maintained such a welcoming, busy and intelligent community, as well as the Spaceship! crew and the chaps who've handled 'Best of Chatterbox' this year - Limni, Office Pest and Fantomex.Really hope you enjoyed the blog through 2008 - let us know your highlights!Oh and what are you playing over Christmas - share your festive gaming experiences in the comments section below.All the best to all of you,The Gamesblog teamxxx
The Christmas edition of Chatterbox! Back Jan 5th!
For many it may be the only way of participating in the anniversary of a story that shaped the world. The likes of Tony Blair and George Bush, who were banned for life by Greek Orthodox monks over the Iraq war, or Palestinians unable to get past Israel's checkpoints to the holy Palestinian city, can now tune in to live pictures of Christmas in Bethlehem.For the first time this year, yuletide celebrations in Christ's birthplace will be streamed live on the internet - and if you're busy feasting on turkey or watching the Queen's speech you can revisit the scene a couple of days later when it is repeated.The online broadcaster IPrayTV.com, which says it wants to strengthen Christian ties with "Israel and the Holy Sites", has mounted a permanent camera in the Franciscan section of the Church of the Nativity.The broadcaster, founded by a pro-Israeli evangelical, has also placed a camera overlooking Manger Square in the centre of the Palestinian town.IPrayTV.com's main audience is evangelical Christians, who believe the messiah will only return after the Jews have reoccupied the holy land, but the company is hoping its transmission of the celebration of the birth of Jesus will attract all denominations.The streaming will begin on Christmas Eve and continue through to Christmas evening. The service will build on IPrayTV.com's existing website features, which already feature live streaming of the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem.
