If you thinking you spend a lot on video games, you're clearly not alone. Research firmGartnerhas predicted this week that sales of games hardware and software will hit $74bn this year, up 10.4% from the 2010 figure of $67bn. Within the software segment, the company expects mobile gaming to become ever more important: driven by the rise in popularity of smartphones and tablets, its share of the sector will grow from 15% in 2010 to 20% in 2015. Here's a chart I threw together in Google Speadsheets:Source: Gartner (June 2011)Online gaming is expected to experience growth at the expense of retail sales, as the popularity of digital distribution and free-to-play browser games explodes. Interestingly, Gartner expects the revenue from subscription-based titles like World of Warcraft to fall as micro-transactions and other freemium elements gain strength, thanks in part to the huge popularity of freemium-based social games like FarmVille."Users have become multichannel-oriented by choice and expect vendors to continue to deliver quality content and experiences by extending their gaming possibilities across multiple platforms," said Brian Blau, research director at Gartner. "If today's mobile technology does not evolve quickly enough, the gaming industry is set to see the rate of innovation severely decline. Alternatively, it will provide opportunities in technology and content genres that we can't foresee today."So, we can probably expect an era of cross-platform entertainment, in which games arrive on console, PC, smartphone and tablet, with lots of interconnectivity between them. We can also expect a lot more high profile buyouts as traditional gaming giants such as EA and Activision attempt to gain more leverage in the emerging social and smartphone markets.Meanwhile, a report compiled by games market research firm Newzoo suggests that the majority of UK nationals are now active gamers. 31 million of us now pay for games in Britain, and we're likely to spend £3.6bn on them this year (slightly less than the £3.7bn we spent last year.) UK gamers apparently play on games for a total of 43,000,000 hours a day with 21% of that time spent on consoles and 18% on social games; again, it seems social and online gaming are catching up with the traditional console sector.You can study the infographicshere.
Where, exactly, are all the other tablets? Besides the iPad. Yes, we've justreviewed HP's TouchPad, which is a far more promising device (in my opinion) than RIM's PlayBook, but according to Net Applications, Apple's device makes up 0.92% of all browsing across the web. Doesn't sound much - until you compare it to the nearest competitors, whichaccording to Netmarketshare(and matching the rough calculations of sales) are the Samsung Galaxy Tab, with 0.018%, the Motorola Xoom (we've reviewed it), with 0.012% and the PlayBook (yes, we've reviewed it) with 0.003%.Or, in relative terms:306: iPad6: Galaxy Tab4: Xoom1: PlayBook.In other words, for every thousand page views by a tablet, 965 would come from an iPad, 19 from a Galaxy Tab, 12 from a Xoom and 3 from a PlayBook. (In market share terms, that would show up as Android having a 3% share.)With 25m iPads sold, that would imply (on a like-for-like basis) that there are something like half a million Galaxy Tabs in use, and 325,000 Xooms.Net Applications says "We collect data from the browsers of site visitors to our exclusive on-demand network of live stats customers.  The data is (sic) compiled from approximately 160 million visitors per month."The amazingly low numbers for the Android tablets may however mirror how their sales are progressing in the west. (China seems to be a market unto itself: DisplaySearch suggests that an enormous number of lower-grade Android tablets with inferior screens which were rejected for use in the West are being sold there. They don't, however, seem to show up in the Net Applications numbers - which might imply that though they're being offered, people aren't using them.A possible confounding element on this stat is that if there are loads of Android tablets out there but people are using apps on them, or email, or watching video, then they would be underrepresented in the figure. This seems unlikely: there doesn't seem any reason why iPad users would be heavier browsers than Android users, especially given the argument that Android tablets can do Flash where the iPad can't (or won't).Net Applications'snumbers for mobile and tablet togetherseem to back this up: they show the non-desktop share growing since last August from 2.6% to 5% now, which would mirror the increasing number of Android smartphones out there driving browsing. (Consoles remain minimal, and have even fallen slightly - though the total browsing market has probably grown, so consoles' overall use has likely remained roughly constant.) During the same period the iPhone's use has doubled (from 0.7% to 1.4%) compared to both desktop and mobile operating systems; "other" mobile OSs have risen too, from 5.9% to 7%, more than the iPhone - which would also back up increased use on mobile by Android users.The only sensible conclusion, then, is that Android tablets since aren't getting traction with buyers. For manufacturers, they're easy enough to build; you don't have to be Apple. But the bigger challenge is finding retail outlets that want to sell them, and customers who want to buy them. It seems that "can play Flash" isn't enough of an attraction.The graph below comes directly from Net Applications:
If twenty- and thirtysomethings have adopted mobile apps in their millions, how much more app-savvy will teenagers be? Perhaps not as much as you think, judging by an ethnographic study conducted bySerco ExperienceLab.The company conducted its research into the technology habits of early to late teenagers, interviewing and spending long periods with them to identify how they used apps and mobile technology."It was really shocking," says Lucy Neiland, senior consultant and ethnographic researcher at ExperienceLab. "I had really bought into the idea that I would be a luddite, but I'm probably much more techie than I thought I was compared to these guys.""One student had built his own computer from scratch, yet when we talked to him about apps, he had an Android phone and had never downloaded one through the Android Market. He thought you had to go to the computer to download apps," she says.Note, this study didn't show that teenagers don't use mobile apps at all. In fact, Neiland says they were voracious users of BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) in particular, BBMing throughout the interview process with no shame.Neiland stresses that this study was based on a small sample of teenagers – ethnoghraphy is based on walking in people's shoes through their daily life, rather than wide-ranging surveys.Neiland says that there was also a definable functional use for apps among the teenagers covered by the ExperienceLab study - musicians using guitar tuning apps for example.She also highlights a wider issue for teenagers around social networking on all platforms - not just BBM, but Facebook too."Some of the girls get distressed about how much social networking they have to do," she says. "They can't opt out of it, because friends will get annoyed and they'll get in trouble with their social group."She tells the tale of one interviewee who admitted to wearing a dress to a party once, and then resolving never to wear it again, because someone had taken a photo and put it on Facebook."Your life is really there before you, and while these teenagers seemed aware that it wasn't really the way they wanted to live, they have resigned themselves to this inevitable state of affairs."While ExperienceLab's research didn't specifically cover young children, Neiland says that while embedded in the houses, she did notice some behaviour from parents."We saw a real babysitting thing, while people are cooking dinner or at the hairdresser's, they'll give their kids an iPhone or iPad," she says. "People want their kids to be technically adept, but at the same time they want them to be safe. Apps don't let you go and type 'bum' into Google, and that's a real plus for parents."She also cites an interesting trend: while some parents are very aware of how much "screen time" their children are getting every day, often they apply that just to TV, rather than apps and mobile devices. Indeed, some parents in the study encouraged their children to use tablets in particular, seeing it as a skill that will serve them well in the future.
Hey, where did Wednesday come from?!
A burst of 8 apps for your considerationSmartphone@pokemon.co.jpWe'll be clear here: an app called smartphone@pokemon.co.jp went live on the App Store early this morning, and was picked up by Appshopper. It has since been removed. But the reason it's interesting is that it was published by The Pokemon Company - the official licensor of the gaming franchise that has so far been restricted to Nintendo's platforms. The app's Japanese description appears to indicate the app is about video trailers for Pokemon films rather than a game. But the fact that The Pokemon Company appears to be getting involved in iOS apps is what's interesting.iPhoneXperia VisualizerWhat is Xperia Visualizer? We'll let Sony Ericsson's Android Market listing for its new app explain itself: "Communication is constantly taking place all across the globe at every moment. The words used to communicate create a dynamism that surges across borders. By getting an overview of your everyday activity, you get more freedom in how you see and interact with the world.&#10;The Xperia processes your everyday experiences and information you input,to create new forms of personalized entertainment." Make of that what you will.AndroidI Can Has CheezburgerOnline publisher Cheezburger Network has launched its official iPhone app, catering to people's on-the-go LOLcats needs. Yes, they do have them. At least, we think they do...iPhoneSpiegel OnlineGerman news site Spiegel Online has made the leap to Android with its smartphone app. The German-language app offers news, analysis, features and interviews, and is free to use.AndroidLast.fm FestivalsMusic service Last.fm has released a new Last.fm Festivals app that digs into users' scrobbling history and points them in the direction of music festivals that they might like. It is US-only for now, but will launch elsewhere in the world shortly.iPhone / AndroidThe Concorde ExperienceNational Museums Scotland has released an app with Toura based on the Concorde airplane, with an audio tour, photos and technical data. It's promoting the real Concorde that is on show at Edinburgh's National Museum of Flight.iPhone, AndroidBitcoinAndroid app Bitcoin claims to be a "fully functional bitcoin wallet", allowing people to send and receive the virtual currency from their handsets, while including use of QR codes to initiate transactions. One rather important warning: "This app is still under development and may lose your coins!" Er...AndroidDiscoverHongKong-ARHong Kong has a new augmented reality travel guide app, letting users point their phone at the real world to find tourist hotspots. It's the work of developer XS2TheWorld, working with the Hong Kong Tourist Board, Cathay Pacific Airways and agency McCann Erickson. In itself, a sign of the kind of partnerships emerging around branded apps.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
BlackBerry-maker RIM lost more than 1 million users in the US in the three months to May, as Google's Android platform cemented its lead as the most-used smartphone platform there and Apple gained more than 3 million users, according to new statistics from market research company comScore.The figures confirm trends that are now becoming endemic in the US market for Android and RIM, which has struggled with falling profitability and handset prices as it tries to retain customers.Smartphone ownership in the US has risen by 11% in the three months, from 69.1 million users to 76.8 million people, representing 32.8% of the 234 million Americans aged over 13 using a mobile phone, comScore says.In the period from February to May there were nearly 6.5 million new Android users, up to 29.2 million, while iPhone users rose from 17.4 million to 20.4 million. Apple thus passed RIM, which fell from just under 20 million to 19 million.US smartphone share and usersshare (%)share (%)absolute numbers (million)absolute numbers (million)three months endingFeb 2011May 2011Feb 2011May 2011change in users (million)Android3338.122.829.266.46Apple25.226.617.4120.433.02RIM28.924.719.9718.97-1Microsoft7.75.85.324.45-0.87Palm2.82.41.931.84-0.09total users69.176.867.4474.96Share source: comScore. User numbers: calculatedThe data suggest that all platforms except Android and Apple lost users as well as share in the three-month period. ThecomScore dataare collected through a survey of more than 30,000 US mobile subscribers. It is not clear whether that includes pay-as-you-go customers, though BlackBerry users would probably only be a small proportion of PAYG users.The data suggest that the Microsoft platform – principally the ageing Windows Mobile – lost 860,000 users. Palm, which last produced a phone nearly two years ago, dropped from 1.93 million to 1.84 million users, according to the data.RIM now faces serious challenges both external and internal. In its last quarter, to the end of May, it reported a 9.6% fall in profits despite revenues up nearly 16% year-on-year, and a dramatic fall in the average selling price of its devices.But worse may be ahead, according to internal memos that have leaked to the web recently. In anopen letter sent to the website BGR.comlast week, a RIM staffer – apparently in a senior position – criticised the company's lack of focus."I desperately want RIM to regain its position as a successful industry leader. Our carriers, distributors, alliance partners, enterprise customers, and our loyal end users all want the same thing … for BlackBerry to once again be leading the pack," the executive wrote. (The Guardian has not been able to verify the identity of the writer – but the content chimes with criticisms of RIM's operation made by other previous RIM staffers.)The RIM executive suggests that:Let's obsess about what is best for the end user. We often make product decisions based on strategic alignment, partner requests or even legal advice – the end user doesn't care. We simply have to admit that Apple is nailing this and it is one of the reasons they have people lining up overnight at stores around the world, and products sold out for months. These people aren't hypnotized zombies, they simply love beautifully designed products that are user centric and work how they are supposed to work. Android has a major weakness – it will always lack the simplicity and elegance that comes with end-to-end device software, middleware and hardware control. We really have a great opportunity to build something new and "uniquely BlackBerry" with the QNX platform.He also suggests cutting back on projects to increase focus, and "becoming developer friendly" because there "is no polite way to say this, but it's true – BlackBerry smartphone apps suck. Even PlayBook, with all its glorious power, looks like a Fisher Price toy with its Adobe AIR/Flash apps. Developing for BlackBerry is painful, and despite what you've been told, things haven't really changed that much since Jamie Murai's letter." Murai's letter in February 2011complained about the excessive complicationof developing for the PlayBook.He also suggests that the concentration on Flash as a differentiator from the iPad is "lazy marketing". "I've never seen someone buy product B because it has something product A doesn't have. People buy product B because they want and lust after product B."RIMrespondedto the publication of the memo with a long statement saying in part that "it is fair to say that the senior management team at RIM is nonetheless fully aware of and aggressively addressing both the company's challenges and its opportunities. RIM recently confirmed that it is nearing the end of a major business and technology transition. Although this transition has taken longer than anticipated, there is much excitement and optimism within the company about the new products that are lined up for the coming months."But that only prompted more letters from RIM staff, two more of whomwrote to BGR. The key one complained that a small core of 200-300 employees have to ensure that the core services – RIM's servers for email and messaging – work around the clock, a process "made worse by poor management decisions we deal with every day".RIM has not responded to the second set of letters.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHalf of US smartphone users access social networks daily via mobile &gt;&gt; The Realtime Report"Smartphone owners around the world are rapidly adopting mobile for internet use, according to new research from Google and the Mobile Marketing Association (MMA). While PC use for internet access is still prevalent, smartphones are increasingly popular for social networking, online video access, and even making purchases.&#10;"The survey found that 31% of US internet users had a smartphone, similar to the UK's 30%, but far above Japan's 6%. According to an eMarketer estimate, 31% of US mobile users will have a smartphone by the end of this year, rising to 43% by 2015."The smartphone number for Japan is stunning; yet they use them to go online all the time. A peculiar wrinkle to the days when Japanese phones were seen as leading the world.Do Bad Guys Ever Sleep? » Trulia Insights"After we brought crime maps into the world, we decided take a deeper look at when crime typically happens throughout the day in 25 big cities across the country. What did we find? Well, as the old adage goes, crime doesn't pay…but it sure does look like it's working 9 to 5 (plus a nightshift) in some cities."Fascinating graphs.2011 World's Most Ethical Companies &gt;&gt; Ethisphere Institute"The World's Most Ethical Companies designation recognizes companies that truly go beyond making statements about doing business "ethically" and translate those words into action."Winners in the computer software: Adobe Systems, Microsoft, Salesforce.com, Symantec Corporation, Teradata Corporation.Hewlett-Packard's TouchPad teardown: its deepest secrets revealed &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"It's also clear from the teardown, Rassweiler said, that there's room for the addition of other components in the future. And other things are missing."We noticed there's a gyroscope chip and an accelerometer, but we couldn't find any GPS chips," he said. "Plus, when we looked at the design we noticed there seems to be a lot of breathing room inside to add additional parts without having to change the design." More stuff to expect from a future 3G-ready TouchPad."Google+: is the juice worth the squeeze? &gt;&gt; Stowe Boyd"Because the folks you add to your Circles are not in on the taxonomy you are using, there is no shared context: it's not a little cocktail party where all the guests are aware they've been invited, and know who the others are. It's a one-sided filter, and so no shared context or conversation can arise. Circles are like cutting out pieces of books by different authors, pasting them together, and pretending it happened at a salon.&#10;"I think Circles might be helpful on a different level. Imagine if I could use Circles as insta-context for other tools, though. If I could create a Hangout limited to Social Tools Maniacs, for example, or a Huddle involving Big Thinkers (as defined by me). Then the point of a Circle would become evident operationally to the circle of people invited, and the object and context of the discussion becomes shared.&#10;"Until tools can use Circles, I think they are just a filtering device: useful for some, but pedestrian."Why can't we have court listings made public? FOI result &gt;&gt; WhatdotheyknowA company called Courtel has the contract for putting court listing information on the courtserve.net site. But it seems to have... misread its contract in a restrictive fashion.Android is blowing everyone away &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Android's share of the smartphone market is still blowing away all competitors in the U.S. according to new data from comScore. The only company that's hanging on is Apple, which saw its share of the market tick up ever so slightly."The graph goes back to May 2010, and seems to suggest that Android is taking share purely from Microsoft and RIM. (And Palm and Symbian.)There's an expired yoghurt in your company &gt;&gt; Bonkers WorldIf there was an expired yoghurt in the fridges at Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Adobe...BackType Has Been Acquired by Twitter &gt;&gt; BackType"What happens to BackType?&#10;"The BackTweets product will now be offered to current users for free. However, as we begin to focus on our work at Twitter, we will not be accepting any new registrations for BackTweets, and we will discontinue the BackType product and API services."BackTweets let you find out if people were tweeting links you'd put out. This landgrab by Twitter begins to feel a bit worrying.Yes, Firefox is chewing up your memory (but is getting fixed) &gt;&gt; Mozilla bugsEmail thread from the Bugzilla dev list showing that (on OSX at least) Firefox swallows memory and won't release it in an orderly fashion. Happily, a fix is in the works, and should go through very soon.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
A disgruntled customer appears to have taken control of PayPal UK's Twitter account and has used it to complain about the service in a series of angry tweets on the service.The person, who has not given any clue to their identity, has put out a series of tweets complaining that PayPal froze their account and seeking to embarrass the company by linking to paypalsucks.com, which says it is "an anti paypal site exposing the nightmare of doing business 'the paypal way'." It is not known whether the customer has any link to paypalsucks.com, which was first registered in 2000 and has remained under the same owner since.A spokesman for PayPal UK said that the company is looking into what happened but emphasised that it was only the Twitter account, and not any of the sensitive customer systems with credit card or other data that had been breached. Twitter accounts are protected by a simple password which can sometimes be guessed or stolen and means that the service can be accessed by anyone with that password.Earlier this week theTwitter account of Fox News politics was hacked by a group with links to the Anonymous hacker collective, and used to falsely claim that Barack Obama had been assassinated.One way to prevent such account hacking would be to introduce "two-factor authentication" to certain accounts. That would require anyone who tried to log in from a different computer, or after a specific delay, to get an authentication code sent from Twitter to a mobile phone, or use a preset code. The Guardian has asked Twitter whether it plans to introduce this, though so far without response.Ebay-owned PayPal has more than 100m credit card accounts.Update 10.10pm:Twitter hassuspendedthe PayPal UK account.
Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss are reunited in the Tech Weekly studio this week to discuss the latest headlines across the technosphere.Google+ is top of the agenda, as the social network is rolled out to early adopters. Charles and Jemima are sceptical: what really makes a crucial social networking space? Facebook's relationship with Skype is also under the microscope, as is the future of the 6,000 patents won by a consortium of tech companies versus the coalition between Google and Intel.The team dissect the implications of the extradition requests coming from the US for a 23-year-old British student whose .com website streamed unlicensed television material. The case has been brought forward by the US authorities because the domain is registered in the US, but the server and the site reside outside that country. Does this hearing represent the future of domiciled copyright ownership, and what will happen when Icann's plans to roll out domain registration mean that countries won't have jurisdiction, but companies will?And Charles uncovers the Android and Windows 7 tablet market with Henri Crohas from Archos.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Love Call of Duty? Love Star Wars? German modding outiftBlack Monkeyshas a treat for you. After two and a half years in development, the team has releasedGalactic Warfarea Star Wars-themed 'mod' for Call of Duty: Modern warfare.It's a total conversion so all the environments, weapons and characters have been re-skinned to fit within the Star Wars universe. Players can choose to become troopers in the Imperial Forces or soldiers of the Rebel Alliance, before scrapping it out over seven maps including Mos Eisley, Bespin and Jundland. Of course, as it's a mod, you'll need the PC version of CoD: Modern Warfare, but if you already own the game, you have little excuse not to download, install and start deathmatching on the deadly sands of Tatooine. I just hope the legal depts at LucasFilm and Activision are feeling benign...Here's a video trailer, anyway. Let us know what you think...
Samsung, the South Korean electronics giant, is about to be crowned the new leader in the mobile phone world after selling more than 3m units of its Galaxy S II smartphone since its debut in late April, and around 19m smartphones in all during the past quarter.Analysts think that the Android-based Galaxy S II could be the company's best-selling model ever, with sales potentially hitting 20m units. Overall, the company could have captured 17% of the world smartphone in the past three months.The handset business, and the Galaxy range of phones and tablets, are turning out to be the bright spots in the company's business, which is expected to report lower second-quarter earnings due to losses at its LCD display unit and weak demand for its semiconductors for computers. But the phones division, which saw its profits halved just a year ago due to a lack of compelling products to compete against Apple's iPhone, has staged a strong comeback to become the company's major profit centre.Analysts reckon Samsung will be ahead of the struggling Nokia, which is trying to shift from its Symbian platform to Microsoft's Windows Phone in a phased manner over the next 15 months. In the first quarter of 2011 Nokia sold 24.2m smartphones, but it admitted at the end of May that its mobile phone business could fall into loss as prices came under pressure and it is having difficulty selling them.The expectation is that Nokia's smartphone sales will fall further in the third quarter of the year, when Apple could overtake it to rank second behind Samsung in the sector, which is rapidly growing within the overall mobile phone market. In the first quarter of 2011, smartphones made up 23.6% of the market, according to Gartner, but the number grew by 85% where the market grew just 19%."Samsung's smartphone shipments would have jumped 67% from the previous quarter and topped market estimates ... because there were few products in the market that can match Galaxy S II, as Apple appears to be delaying new iPhone debut due to disruptions in parts supply, while Nokia continues to fail to introduce competitive lineups," said Jin Sung-hye, an analyst at Hyundai Securities.Samsung is expected to maintain strong profit growth from smartphone sales in the second half as it introduces the Galaxy S sequel in North America and expands sales of Galaxy Tab 10.1, which is thinner than Apple's iPad 2 and carries the same retail price. In the mid-end smartphone segment, Samsung is pushing for Galaxy variations such as the Ace and Mini, a market that Apple has ignored so far. Samsung wants to boost its volume shipments and lift the portion of the more profitable segment in its overall handset portfolio.Patent warsHowever there may be other threats to Samsung's longer-term revenues following the outcome of an auction of Nortel patents at the weekend, which waswon by a consortium of Apple, Microsoft, RIM, Sony, Ericsson and EMC for $4.5bn. Google, which was an early bidder and formed a consortium with Intel, fell at the last hurdle."Given that these are essential patents for wireless telephony standards within the portfolio, everybody who sells a device that accesses the mobile network will infringe the portfolio," said Richard Windsor, financial analyst at Nomura Securities in London. "We believe that the going rate for this part of the portfolio will be somewhere between 0.5% and 1% of the wholesale price of the device and much of the mobile industry is probably already licensed." But he pointed out that Samsung, HTC, Motorola and LG Electronics - the biggest of the Android handset makers – were not represented in the winning consortium. "With the exception of Motorola, these companies are all very weak in terms of intellectual property rights, which means that they will likely be easier targets for the consortium in terms of seeking royalties."Samsung and Apple arelocked in a bitter battle in the US courtsover claims by Apple Samsung has copied the "trade dress" of the iPhone. Samsung has made a number of counter claims, invoking a number of patents. Despite the case, Apple is still – at present – a key customer for Samsung, which makes 40% of the world's DRAM memory chip supplies."Patent litigation by the likes of Apple, who are major customers of Samsung, but also in direct competition with it in such areas as PCs, TVs and smartphones, have raised business risks for its component operations," Lee Sun-tae, an analyst at Meritz Securities, said.Flatscreen woes and slow PCsThe robust sales of the Galaxy II may have saved the South Korean firm from a third consecutive drop in quarterly earnings. But its earnings recovery is forecast to be slow, because of its loss-making flatscreen business and a bleak outlook for computers and TVs in the second half."There'll be little usual seasonal demand boost in the second half of this year as manufacturers brought forward their inventory buildups right after the Japan earthquake for fear of tighter parts supplies," said Lee Min-hee, an analyst at Dongbu Securities. "Component prices had a temporary pickup in the second quarter due to the unusual restocking activities and that will lead to relatively lacklustre component demand even ahead of the holiday season. Manufacturers are also concerned about the uncertain economic outlook, keeping the overall demand for televisions and computers weak," Lee said.PC sales areforecast to grow only 3% this yearby Windsor at Nomura Securities. That will constrain Samsung's wider growth. But the company's biggest drain on earnings remains its underperforming LCD business. The operation vies for the top position with local rival LG Display. Each company has about one-quarter of the global market.Reflecting a growing urgency to turn around the business, Samsung recently named the head of its semiconductor business to take over from LCD chief Chang Wonkie and combined the underperforming operation with the chip division."The restructuring reflects Samsung's two main headaches – how to restructure the LCD business, which is now entering a low-growth phase due to chronic oversupply and slowing demand growth from flatscreen TV makers, and how to better deal with its component clients," said Lee Sun-tae.Analysts expect Samsung to miss its second-quarter shipment guidance of a mid-teen percentage rise for DRAM chips and over a 30% gain for NAND chips, due to weak PC demand and because smartphone production was crimped by the Japanese earthquake in March.Research firms are slashing global estimates for PC shipment, which have grown by double digits in the past few years except for 2009. They are now forecasting single digit growth this year due to economic uncertainties as well as a lack of compelling PC products.Figures forecastSamsung, Asia's most valuable technology firm with a market value of around $134bn, is due to report April-June guidance on Thursday or Friday before it announces detailed quarterly results in late July.It is likely to report 3.9tr won ($3.7bn) in April-June operating profit on revenue of 40.3tr won, according to a consensus of 32 analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.According to StarMine SmartEstimates, which places more weight on recent forecasts by top-rated analysts, Samsung's operating profit may show a downside surprise of 6% to 3.67 trillion won. That would be down 27% from a year ago's record 5.01 trillion won but up 24 percent from the preceding quarter.The stockbrokers UBS expects PC DRAM (dynamic random access memory) chips, Samsung's main memory chips, to decline another 15 to 20% in the second half of this year. Samsung controls around 40% of global DRAM market.
It seems that finally, the Conservative party is learning to love video games.  Education secretaryMichael Goverecently delivereda speech on the future of educationto the Royal Society. Towards the end, he recognised the importance of using digital technology in the classroom, and highlighted the role games can play in teaching:"Computer games developed by Marcus Du Sautoy are enabling children to engage with complex mathematical problems that would hitherto have been thought too advanced. When children need to solve equations in order to get more ammo to shoot the aliens, it is amazing how quickly they can learn. I am sure that this field of educational games has huge potential for maths and science teaching and I know that Marcus himself has been thinking about how he might be able to create games to introduce advanced concepts, such as non-Euclidean geometry, to children at a much earlier stage than normal in schools."The Department for Education is working with the Li Ka Shing Foundation and the highly respected Stanford Research Institute on a pilot programme to use computer programmes to teach maths. We have not developed the programme – we are just helping them run a pilot. Stanford says it is one of the most successful educational projects they have seen."The argument caught some in the games industry by surprise. Ian Livingstone, the life president of publisher Square Enix and co-author of Nesta'sNext Genreport on the games industry, tweeted, "Michael Gove in favour of technology AND computer games in the classroom as a learning tool for maths! WOW. Art next?" He has been lobbying parliament for better computer education in schools, including the addition of Computer Science to the National Curriculum. It seems Conservative party thinking might be moving in that direction.But there are very important limits to the way Gove talks about the use of games. Mary Matthews, the strategy and business development director at UK developer Blitz Games Studios summed it up perfectly in her commentbeneath a Gamesindustry.biz storyon the Gove speech:"Great to see Michael Gove actually talking about games, but sad that he still thinks their best use is carrot and stick – do the equation and get ammo to shoot the aliens – eat the brussel sprouts and then you can have the Christmas pudding. Using games for motivation is only one facet, let's get him thinking about exploration, experimentation, team building, problem-solving and independent, personalised, differentiated experiences – then we'll really be tapping into the full potential games can offer for learning ..."The problem is, Gove's speech represents an outdated concept of technology and learning; it is part of a lingering belief that computers should be used merely as information retrieval and reward systems within the traditional education system. But this is a massive waste. Simplified programming languages likeScratchandKoduare showing how computers and games can be building blocks in all facets of education, allowing children to construct their own interactive experiences. It's not just about surfing the web or using other people's software; computers are a tool for developing and exploring ideas. It's a fundamental shift in thinking.And as part of this shift, the current line between ICT in the school and entertainment computer use at home needs to be blurred. Livingstone wants to see the return of extracurricular programming clubs, which were hugely popular during the home computer boom of the 1980s and taught today's high-ranking video game developers that technology is about creativity as much as information. He also mentions the work of forward-thinking teachers like Avril Denton at Girvan primary school in South Ayrshire who gets her pupils to use game design applications in a variety of projects.In interviews after his NESTA report, Livingstone dispaired at schools where mobile phones are confiscated or banned during classes, when they could be embraced as part of the modern learning process. And finding out how to develop applications for both computers and smartphones has benefits that reach farther than computer programming. As Antony Cain, a lecturer in games development at Lancaster and Morecambe College, points out in his response to the Gamesindustry.biz story, computer code requires pinpoint written accuracy, so children also pick up literarcy and grammar skills; they learn structure and logic, they learn to organise thought.But there is something more fundamental here. Learning is no longer a linear commodity, and – like it or not – traditional skills that rely on memorisation and repetition are becoming obsolete in the era of instant information retrieval. Games can teach ushowchildren will need to learn in the digital age; as active agents, using multiple simultaneous interactive resources. In his rather radical paper 'Rethinking Learning in the Digital Age' MIT professor (and creator of Scratch)Mitchel Resnickproposes a total re-think of the classroom space, adopting the modes of the multimedia, multi-tasking era:"Instead of a centralised-control model (with a teacher delivering information to a roomful of students), we should take a more entrepreneurial approach to learning. Students can become more active and independent learners, with the teacher serving as consultant, not chief executive. Instead of dividing up the curriculum into separate disciplines (maths, science, social studies, language), we should focus on themes and projects that cut across the disciplines taking advantage of the rich connections among different domains of knowledge."Resnick envisions a shift from a "knowledge society" to a "creative society" in which the general population are active, imaginative participants. This is exactly what is happening in games at the moment, with the rise of "user-generated" content, and build-it-yourself games like LittleBigPlanet and ModNation Racers. Lots of titles now come with level editors allowing users to create and share their own stuff – and in the era of social networking, social news aggregation and interactive TV passive consumption is over. So what place does it have in the classroom?Gove's view is certainly a step forward – games should be, and indeedare, an important part of education: there are lots of software companies making great educational software, whileChannel 4 Educationhas produced some amazing online titles. But the way games work, the way they're structured, the way they teach players their systems, the way they ask players to engage with the virtual world, and the way they allow social interaction, should also be important pedagogical pointers. Games are, after all, among the most complex systems that children are exposed to – just look at the labyrinthine structure of titles like Lego Star Wars, or the masses of information in RPG games, or the social economies at work in Club Penguin and Moshi Monsters.Schools shouldn't be more like games in terms of meta-structure. I'm not talking about gamification – I don't mean that children should get points or badges for turning up; they shouldn't earn XP that unlocks new areas of the building. Margaret Robertson of innovative game design studio Hide&amp;Seekmakes a great caseagainst mistaking reductive "pointification" for games-based learning. No, games teach us that complex systems, and the provision of choices, and working together in co-op groups, can make really tough problems easy and fun to deal with.Of course, I'm no expert on education. But in a few years time, I'll have to start helping my young sons with their maths homework – I'm secretly hoping that, by then, it will involve playing Angry Birds or Left 4 Dead, or designing an Android app to solve equations. I still have nightmares about SMP text books. Don't make me go back there.
A burst of 7 apps for your considerationSinister PlanetSinister Planet is a lovingly-crafted retro shoot 'em up that's just gone live on Android Market, and is picking up some review buzz.Platform: AndroidMoopEyeballing bars in Leeds remotely via streaming webcam feeds? There's an app for that. The idea presumably being to check out how busy venues are before settling on an evening destination. Moop also ties in Facebook check-ins and offers.Platform: iPhoneMTV PushMTV Push is US-only for the moment, and spotlights a different emerging artist every week with videos, photos, news and tour dates.Platform: iPhoneJam SoloJam Solo is a musical app that helps iPad owners play the songs in their library by scanning the web for guitar tabs and chords.Platform: iPadITV PlayerITV has launched the iOS and Android versions of its ITV Player catch-up service. Both are free to download and use, providing seven days of on-demand shows from all four of ITV's channels.Platform: iPhone / Android / iPadNokia 3D World GazeThe latest Symbian app to emerge from Nokia's Beta Labs is 3D World Gaze, which promises the ability to "learn about different cities or countries on the planet just by pointing your phone in its general direction".Platform: SymbianFanBridge Fan CollectorMusic startup FanBridge helps bands connect with their fans, including by building their mailing lists. Its Fan Collector app has just come out for Android, and makes it quicker to collect fan details at gigs on a smartphone or tablet.Platform: AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMystery of the missing Honeycomb apps &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Google's much-anticipated tablet operating system, Android 3.0 Honeycomb, made its splash in late February with the launch of the Motorola Xoom. Few Honeycomb-optimized apps were available at launch, but no matter: The expectation was that they'd follow soon after. Why wouldn't they, given the ever-growing popularity of Android?&#10;"But instead of an explosion of Honeycomb apps, the fuse burned down to the powder keg...and then nothing happened. Four months later, we're still waiting: The number of Honeycomb-optimized apps remains in the low hundreds. By comparison, there are over 100,000 apps optimized for the iPad."So, what gives?"Interesting exploration of what's behind this lack of excitement.Apple rumored to feature high-speed 400MBps flash memory in new MacBook Air &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"Apple is said to adopt "Toggle DDR 2.0," a 19-nanometer process for NAND flash memory offering 400 megabyte-per-second speed, in its next MacBook Air, according to a new report.&#10;"The high-speed NAND flash memory is said to appear in Apple's new MacBook Air, rumored to see an imminent release, according to Macotokara. Citing a person with an "Asian electronics component company," the report said that the new technology will replace the Blade X-gale found in the current MacBook Air models."Likely effect: make you feel even slower as your computer waits for you to do something. And today is Tuesday.Top level domain explosion could wreak MAYHEM on NET &gt;&gt; The Register"A plan to populate the internet with hundreds or thousands of new top-level domains has security researchers pondering some of the unintended consequences that could be exploited by online criminals. Some of the scenarios aren't pretty.&#10;"Consider the mayhem that might result from addresses that end in "exchange," "mailserver," "domain," or other strings that are frequently used to designate highly sensitive resources on corporate and government networks."Consider that they'd have to stump up hundreds of thousands of dollars to begin with. Non-starter. But there are certain security foibles which make some scenarios slightly worrying.Khan Academy does Computer Science &gt;&gt; UMBC Computer Science and Electrical EngineeringThe modern way to learn: "The Khan Academy is starting to publish a series of short instructional videos on computer science topics. The Introduction to Programming and Computer Science category currently has just 18 videos and these are all on basic programming topics in Python.&#10;"Salman Khan's popular Khan Academy site has more than 2100 short videos covering "everything from arithmetic to physics, finance, and history." The Academy is a not-for-profit organization."Funded by Bill Gates, among others.Twitter fragments account capabilities with DM changes &gt;&gt; All New Musings"In a practical sense, the news that verified accounts on Twitter can receive direct messages from any Twitter user without the verified account having to follow them means that it's really easy to get in touch with the intern running the social media engagement project that's been commissioned by the management of someone who's big in Hollywood (and Robert Scoble, presumably)."Not clear why Twitter has done this at all. But it means you can now DM Stephen Fry. Assuming you have a need to.SwagSec Upload Bieber Fan Passwords &gt;&gt; Spartan Drive-BySomehow "hacking Justin Bieber's fan site" doesn't have the same ring as "hacking the Chinese government's list of locations of political prisoners". Just us?From 2008: BlackBerry vs. iPhone, or why RIM might be seriously screwed &gt;&gt; Daring FireballWhat's interesting about this - from May 2008, when RIM was on the up - is how Mike Lazaridis denies the usefulness of a touchscreen phone &lt;em&gt;even while RIM whad nearly completed the touchscreen Storm&lt;/em&gt; - which it built at the urging of Vodafone. Fascinating analysis, in retrospect.Google Yawn &gt;&gt; Scripting NewsDave Winer's rather insightful version: "I've been to so many big earth-shaking events from BigTechCo's -- today's Google thing is making me yawn, while my eyes glaze over in boredom.  &#10;"Here's how products like this are conceived..."A must-read, even for Winer-haters.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Miguel de Icazahas had the sort of distinguished career that any professional software engineer would be proud of. In 2010 he was named one of the five most powerful voices in open source for his work onGNOMEand theMonoprojects. The fact he is clearly a capable developer and manager makes it all the more surprising when in May he was taken to one side and fired by his employer, Novell.At the time, Miguel was heading up the Mono team at Novell. This team was responsible for a number of projects – specifically the properly open source Mono project, but also the closed-source MonoTouch and MonoDroid projects. In fact, it wasn't just him that got fired; anyone in his team related to MonoTouch and MonoDroid also got the axe.Mono is in and of itself an interesting project. Back in the early 2000s when Microsoft was bringing .NET to market, Microsoft decided to submit portions of .NET (notably the C# language) toECMA– the European standards organisation. Those with a cynical bent (myself included) at the time saw it as a proactive move to protect the corporation from antitrust action. (At the time, Microsoft was fielding action from the EU with regards to Internet Explorer.) A side effect of sorts of having C# accepted an ECMA standard was that it created the environment for the Mono project, headed up by Miguel, to come into being.Mono meant that it was now possible to build .NET applications that ran on Linux and other non-Microsoft servers – which arguably could reduce Microsoft's server license sales as now you no longer needed Windows on the server. However Microsoft has always publicly welcomed the existence of Mono; at the very least it has never been openly hostile to it. In fact Microsoft took steps to formalise its relationship with Novell, particularly with regards to patents seemingly to support Mono.Skip forward to the end of 2010 and we see Microsoft as lead organiser within a consortium of companies that are involved inAttachmate buying Novell. Microsoft went on record as saying that it looked "forward to continuing with Novell in the future" but it became clear that Microsoft now has interest and influence over a number of important open source patents. Mono is not regarded as being of very much interest in this sale.This period of time also finds Miguel and his team putting the finishing touches toMonoDroid– a software toolset that puts Mono onto Android devices and makes it possible to write .NET applications that run natively on Android. MonoDroid follows hot on the heels of MonoTouch, this being the same beast but for iPhone and iPad (the name of the shared operating system for these two being called iOS). .NET also happens to the be only way to write applications for Microsoft's new phone platform – Windows Phone. As we'll see, with MonoTouch and MonoDroid in the market developers can use C# to write software for Android, iPhone/iPad and Windows Phone.iOS and Android are clearly the dominant, and commercially the most attractive of the current crop of mobile phone platforms. However the tools used to write applications for both could not be more different. Apart from concepts of how one writes software and a very small amount of technical features there's almost no overlap between the two. You certainly can't write for one platform in its native tools and easily port it over to the other.(There are intermediate layers that all you to do this – PhoneGap and Titanium are two important ones – but my own view is that intermediate layers require the developer to make too many compromises. The only way to get the maximum out of each phone is to specifically target each natively.)Today, what we're starting to see is businesses directing their software development resource not just to "build an app for the iPhone" or "build an app for Android", but rather will demand that apps are built for both of what is today the two dominant mobile platforms. MonoTouch and MonoDroid offer a hugely compelling argument in this scenario. You can use C# and .NET to write (most) of your application for iPhone. You can then cross-compile the same source and be mostly done for Android. (And vice versa, plus you can't move everything over but you can move a lot. Certainly enough to make MonoTouch and MonoDroid hugely interesting.)My view on this is that whilst Microsoft felt confident and dominant about its server position with regards to Mono, it feels decidedly shakier with regards to mobile client platforms. Specifically I feel there's a possibility that Microsoft asked Novell to kill off MonoTouch and MonoDroid because it makes development for iOS and Android significantly easier. It also makes it easier to support multiple platforms.I don't believe that Microsoft wants Windows Phone to be an "also ran" platform – I think it wants to be the best platform with the most revenue and the most profit. Everything about its heritage tells us that if Microsoft knows how to do anything, it's how to get developers to believe that their lives are easier building apps for their platforms. After all, this is how Windows became dominant in the desktop market in the first place: it had the best apps, arguably because it had the best developer tools and relationships with developers.So we know why MonoTouch and MonoDroid are important to mobile developers. We know that Microsoft almost certainly doesn't like it, although whether someone there instructed that it be killed or not we might never know. But what did Miguel de Icaza do after being fired?He set upXamarin, a company with one purpose: to recreate the MonoTouch and MonoDroid products and create something called Xamarin Studio.This idea seems strange when you look at it. Often when an employee of Company A leaves and sets up Company B that produces identical products those that he built whilst working for Company A, Company A will sue Company B out of existence. It's hard to see how Xamarin Studio can possibly have anything other than a very short life, unless of course Novell grants or sells the appropriate intellectual property over to Miguel's new organisation. I, for one, would feel far more confident about recommending MonoTouch and MonoDroid if they were more upfront about this.To me this comes down to whether it was deliberately killed or whether it just stopped being of interest to Novell. Obviously if it was deliberately killed, Miguel and his team can expect to be spending much time in the company of lawyers. If Novell is just not particularly interested, I'm sure they'd welcome to competition. Perhaps they would even gift the IP over.I've repeatedly asked Xamarin and Novell to comment on this issue, to no avail.As a community of engineers of mobile software we used to have a promising toolset in the shape of MonoTouch and MonoDroid which meant we could use one set of skills to write applications for the two most commercially interesting platforms. It also meant that we'd made our lives less risky is the Microsoft/Nokia gamble pays off and Windows Phone makes the big time as we can reuse our investment. But with a total lack of clarity as to whether Novell will allow Xamarin to sell their new products, or whether agreements exist to facilitate such a scenario, we're left in an unpleasant world of not having a compelling or workable solution for compromise free, multi-platform development.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded UK technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Well, that's Monday over, let's have a go at Tuesday.
Microsoft has signed a deal with Baidu, the biggest search engine in China, to provide English-language search results — but they will be censored to meet the Chinese government's demands.The announcement of the deal is a boost to Microsoft, which has been struggling to boost the position of its Bing search engine against Google's dominance in almost every country around the world. It will also be a boost for Baidu, which has ambitions internationally.Baidu has roughly 83% of the Chinese search market, but there are also up to 10m English searches per day, the company said. The Chinese market comprises roughly 470m users, despite only about 30% of the population having internet access.Bing — which filters out results in China relating to controversial subjects, such as political dissidents, Taiwan or pornography, to be able to operate in the country — has a negligible share of the market, while Google has nearly 20% counting visits to its offshore sites, making it the second-biggest in China. Yahoo has 6% and Microsoft's Bing 4%, according to Net Applications.English-language searches to Baidu will be redirected through Bing.Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Baidu, said that Bing searches would not be censored any more "than they already do".Google shut down its search service on the Chinese mainland in March 2010 after alleging that government-inspired hackers had broken into the systems for its email and source codes to its wider network. Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, had been unhappy at the idea of submitting to China's censorship for search results, and declared after the hacking incident that they would stop censoring them. Instead the company added a simplified Chinese service for mainland users to its search operation in Hong Kong.Some analysts were sceptical over how much demand there would be for English search on Baidu."It's a good thing, but I see very minimal impact for Baidu. I don't see a lot English keywords going through Baidu. It goes through Google," said Wallace Cheung, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse.Search engine marketing company Greenlight said it saw the deal as positive for both sides, and could envisage the new partners dominating the Chinese search-advertising market."Whilst it represents an opportunity for Bing to make more money from the Chinese market, Baidu gets what it needs to expand overseas when it is ready to do so," said Greenlight Chief Operating Officer Andreas Pouros."Microsoft has entered the Chinese market slowly and has made some friends, in a way that the Chinese government will have no issue with. This should leave Baidu and Bing to control the Chinese search ad market without too much difficulty."Baidu made $1.2bn in online marketing revenues last year, up 78% from 2009. Microsoft's total online advertising revenue in fiscal 2010, including a small contribution from Bing, was $1.9bn. However Bing loses almost as much money as it takes in.Microsoft may be satisfied with delivering censored results. It acknowledged as long as as 2006 that it filtered certain words, including "democracy" and "freedom" from the Chinese version of MSN. At the time Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, said that it was better to do business inside the country than to boycott it."We certainly think it is better for us to be present around the world rather than not,"Smith said in 2006.• This article was amended on 5 July 2011. The original said "Google withdrew from the Chinese market in 2010". This has been clarified.
FEAR 2 may have survived the transition from PC to multi-format relatively unscathed, but with its formulaic shocks and ridiculously lazy ending, things clearly had to change for the three-quel. And change it has, but not in the way we were expecting.The plot still sees you after the spooky child/woman Alma – now pregnant, but hardly the clear and present danger she once posed. And then there's the rather boring Point Man, returning from the first game but this time accompanied by his more interesting brother, Fettel – seen first in flashbacks yet immediately becoming a playable character (with very different abilities) once a level is unlocked,In play, FEAR 3 feels much more like a conventional FPS than its predecessors; less dependent on thrills and far more tactical, although this proves to be a saving grace. Enemies are not just rock hard, but gifted with possibly the most convincing squad AI yet. They chatter about your hiding places, they flank, reload, lay down convincing suppressing fire and pepper you with grenades in ways you can't hope to match.It almost seems unfair, yet that's what makes the combat so incredibly satisfying. You, meanwhile, have no more than a snap-to cover feature and two chunky weapons at a time, at least until you rediscover your super slo-mo function – leading to short but perfectly formed John Woo moments.Graphically, while boasting more varied locations than its prequels, FEAR 3 still paints from a fairly drab pallet – if it's not near darkness, it's maroons, greys or beiges. So, if you're expecting Crysis 2 eye candy, you won't find it here; indeed, without a HUD map and little in the way of destructible scenery, you'll be lucky to find anything quickly. However, once again, this is one of the few action games that genuinely feels like it's you against the world.Late arrival of the game left me little time to explore the multiplayer side, but this too marks a departure from the expected. The first thing you notice is that staples like Deathmatch are missing, replaced by four new four-player modes; Convulsions (one team against 20 waves of grunts), Soul King (where you all play as super-fast wraiths, possessing enemies for energy), Soul Survivor (a similar mode, except one wraith must possess the other human players) and the brilliantly titled Fucking Run, where your team has to stay ahead of Alma's fog of war – fighting enemies as you go.All the modes seem more constrained than you may be used to, but developer Day 1 deserves credit for trying something more than just another Call of Duty clone. And, of course, you can play as Point Man or Fettel in a very entertaining online co-op mode.Ultimately, FEAR 3 is beautifully balanced, challenging and absorbing game, albeit lacking the constant tension that its prequels relied upon. Certainly, the horror increases as the storyline unfolds, but these days it barely justifies an 18 certificate – and, for me, that makes it a much stronger game with plenty of replay value.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Sencha, those testers of all things HTML5-ish (and also CSS3-ish), haveput the HP TouchPad under the microscope. (A reminder: here'smy review, and here'sSencha comparing the iPad 2 to the Motorola Xoom.)Their conclusion, briefly, when compared to the RIM PlayBook, iPad 2, and Motorola Xoom? Not so amazing on the Acid3 test (which is of course fairly artificial), where it scores 92/100 - principally due to a lack of SVG support in the browser. Fairly good overall. In fact, "good enough" about sums it up.Some interesting points:Like all other tablets, the TouchPad and webOS use WebKit as their core browser technology. However what's unique about webOS is the whole operating system is built on web technology, so the entire UI is built using WebKit. The browser reports in its User-Agent string that it's running WebKit version 534.6, which is a very recent build, too. On the hardware side, HP has married that core software platform with a 1.2GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon dual-core processor. This is an interesting choice of speed, since the Qualcomm data sheet lists the processor at 1.5GHz which implies they've under-clocked the CPU, possibly for reasons of battery life or heat emission.Fascinating that WebKit is now de rigeur for tablets (and almost overwhelmingly for all new smartphones; we may take a look at what the prospects are like for Opera now that Nokia is throwing Symbian down a deep hole). Who would have thought so all those years ago back in 2003, when Apple announced it wasintroducing its own Safari browserbased on open source technology... which everyone expected would use Mozilla's Gecko? Instead it was WebKit, which is gradually taking over the world.Back to Sencha:At 1.2GHz, we expected the JavaScript engine on the TouchPad to be on par with any of the other recent browsers we've tested, so we were a bit surprised when we ran the SunSpider tests and saw the browser fell behind its competitors. The Motorola Xoom, the iPad 2 and the PlayBook are all within about 10% of each other. However, the TouchPad is on average 70% slower in terms of JavaScript execution as measured by SunSpider.HP TouchPad benchmarked for Javascript by SenchaActually, what looks more surprising in that graph is the performance of the RIM PlayBook, which seems to do far better (shorter bars) than the iPad or Xoom: in my own experience, the PlayBook was horribly slow when it came to rendering a page.In general, the TouchPad isn't great at CSS3, especially the more demanding versions.Which means that when Sencha threw the TouchPad into its "kitchen sink" tests...One of the more interesting things that we found is that while running our Kitchen Sink through the browser, the app had decent speed and decent performance, but we had issues with scrolling and touch events. The browser captured swipes as viewport pan gestures and does not pass them through to the application, so swiping your finger to scroll lists caused the whole window to move. However, when we packaged a Sencha Touch app into an IPK (webOS' packaging format) with the Palm developer tools, and ran the app in a native shell, the overall performance was significantly better, and the swipe gestures were detectable by the application. For now, this remains the most satisfactory way to deploy and run web apps on this device.In other words, native apps run better than web apps. This is the sort of thing that will crop up again and again, and is staringly obvious in any discussion of "will mobile web or mobile apps win?" The answer is obvious: if what you're offering depends on performance, then an app is always going to be faster, because it has much better access to the silicon. Any web app first has to get over the hump of getting onto the device, and then being rendered, which is always - always - going to impede performance, because the browser has its own issues to deal with. A mobile web app is always going to be an app-within-an-app (performing inside the browser), whereas a native/downloaded app will be there on the device, and so can get more access to CPU cycles.Sencha's overall conclusion? The TouchPad's browser is "rough around the edges, but there's definitely a lot of potential in the webOS platform, and we look forward to future updates". Pretty much what everyone's been saying, in fact.• Meantime... someone in HP had a brainstorm, quite possibly after seeing Russell Brand in "Arthur" (the remake of the far better Dudley Moore film). Dudley Moore being unavailable, they decided to go with the same flavour of English-flunky-chamber music and have Russell telling you his most intimate thoughts about how he uses his HP TouchPad.There's no words we can find that adequately express how we feel about this video. Watch it for yourself. If you can. Warning: does not contain Katy Perry, so keep that expectant look off your face.
One view held within the mobile industry is that the operators had their chance at selling mobile apps but flunked it, and would be better off leaving it to platform owners like Apple and Google now. Another view – unsurprisingly that held by most of the operators – is that the sheer size of the app store catalogues is giving them a second bite of the cherry, bringing some curatorial discipline to the crowded market.Vodafone is certainly in the second camp. It has launched its own content channel within Google's Android Market in the UK, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain, with Greece, Ireland and Portugal to come. The channel will highlight Vodafone's own range of apps and services, as well as picking out news, sport, information and gaming apps, with a promise of regular exclusives and price discounts."Together with Google, Vodafone has made it really simple for customers to get to the essential apps they can trust," says the operator's group content services director Lee Epting. More than 75 million Vodafone customers around the world are regularly using the mobile internet, and we are committed to giving them the best possible experience. This focus on quality over quantity helps deliver on that commitment."Quality over quantity. Those three words neatly summarise the operators' pitch to clamber back onto the apps bandwagon. Games developers in particular may raise eyebrows at Epting's quote, remembering a time when the operator portals were the dominant channel for mobile entertainment, but where tightly managed quantity did not always mean better quality. Vodafone has already flopped publicly in the apps era too, with its Vodafone 360 initiative.Apple has neatly shut operators out of its iOS apps ecosystem, although they are able to launch their own apps for customers on its App Store. Google has proven more accomodating, with operators able to launch their own independent Android app stores, or take their own slots within Android Market on devices they sell to their customers. In the US, both Verizon Wireless and AT&amp;T have opted for the latter, and now Vodafone too.In early July, AT&amp;T gave a hint at what may lay ahead for Vodafone by announcing a partnership with social games publisher Zynga. The latter will customise some of its games exclusively for AT&amp;T's Android Market channel, although exact details of that customisation are somewhat vague – it could simply involve a few exclusive virtual items.For its part, AT&amp;T will be promoting these games in that channel, while also promising to "improve the social gaming experience through network and battery life optimisation". A few years ago, operators were mighty gatekeepers in the mobile content industry, but announcements like this do not dispel the feeling that now, deals with app developers can be as much about coolness by association.That is not to say that the operators' desire to become bigger players in the apps world should be treated with disdain. Smartphone users will increasingly need help navigating through hundreds of thousands of app choices, and their operator's channel on the app store preloaded on their handset may be a logical place to start.Operators can also play a valuable role working with developers to open up their internal APIs for apps. This blog's sponsor Telefonica has been pushing the latter idea with its BlueVia initiative, to increasing interest from its rivals.Even so, the greatest impact that operators have on the apps space will not be with their own channels on Android Market or with their APIs. They still set the pricing and limits for mobile data tariffs, and have been rowing back from offering unlimited data at precisely the point at which app usage is surging among their customers.Research by Nielsen in June 2011found that the average US smartphone user  consumed 435MB of data a month in the first quarter of 2011, up from 230MB a month in the same period in 2010. With fair-use data caps of 500MB not uncommon for smartphone buyers, operators's biggest impact on apps will come not through selling them, but from how they charge the people who use them.
That didn't take long: Graham Clulely at Sophos isreportingthat he has seen spammers sending out bogus invitations to Google+, the search giant's latest attempt to jemmy its way into social networking.The problem is that if you click on the links you aren't taken to the Google's site (which you can reach – if it's open to you yet – athttp://www.google.com/plusat any time), but to online pharmacies looking to sell you all manner of "enhancement" pills.Of course, this does raise the question of quite how many people would actually find themselves tempted to "buy" some of the rubbish being peddled there when they had thought that they were coming to join the latest thing in social networking. (Note also that if you provide your credit card details to one of those sites, you're likely to (a) see that credit card being used to buy all sorts of things all around the world (b) never see any products or (c) if you do, they're likely not to do what you hoped they would do.)If you need a reminder on this, there's always theAustralian government's Scamwatch site.
A group loosely connected to the hacker collective Anonymous says it took control of the Fox News Politics Twitter account to claim that President Obama had been assassinated while campaigning in Iowa.The Fox News Politics account –@foxnewspolitics– was used to put out a number of fake tweets saying that President Obama had been shot in the head and died, and that vice-president Joe Biden had been installed in his place. The tweets went out at around 2am Pacific time (5am EST, 10am BST). Obama is in fact thought to be in Washington at the White House, where his schedule shows he is due to give a speech in the Rose Garden at 6.30pm.A representative of the group 'Scriptkiddies' said in aninterview with Stony Brook University's Think Magazine: "We are looking to find information about corporations to assist with antisec [a concerted hacker attack on corporate and government security]. Fox News was selected because we figured their security would be just as much of a joke as their reporting."He warned too that Fox News might see more attacks: "I've looked into their security, and site defacement does not seem to be an option. Everything else is fair game."The Script Kiddies representative added: "I would consider us to be close in relation [to Anonymous], two of the members of our group were members of Anonymous ... I was a member of Anonymous. We hope to be working with them soon."'Script kiddie' is a generally insulting phrase used by hackers about inexperienced would-be hackers who used ready-made programs to attack sites. The group's name here plays on that.The attack is the latest in a rapidly growing list of attacks this year on the online presence of corporations and governments sinceSony's PlayStation Network was hackedin April, exposing the details of more than 75 million users. Since then many other game and company sites have been hit, with varying degrees of disruption.The Script Kiddie representative told Think Magazine: "It will be a never-ending battle. The names change from time to time, like LulzSec and Anonymous or Script Kiddies. But there will always be a group of people that need to stand up for everyone else and attempt to keep the government in balance with its people. Without groups like Anonymous, what is there to prevent corruption?"The group tried to create a number of Twitter accounts, but they had all been suspended wtihin hours of being created.Meanwhile, "AnonymousIRC" – thought to be composed of some of the leaders of LulzSec – has continued to attack web systems belonging to the Arizona police. They alsoleakedthe user names and encrypted passwords to a survey system belonging to Apple, saying: "Apple could be [a] target, too. But don't worry, we are busy elsewhere."
The "Give As You Live" campaign is trying to get people to give some of the money now spent on internet shopping to help charitable causes - the idea being that every time someone shops online, a percentage of the spend can be donated to any UK charity of their choice.Which leads us to our infographic for today.. on online shopping. Click for a larger version.UK internet shopping infographic. Source: giveasyoulive.com(Updated with clearer version of infographic, clickable link to larger version.)
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 2 JulyPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (90)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (1)142 (5)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (28)DS (25)Xbox 360 (24)PS3 (15)83 (2)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)74 (3)F.E.A.R. 3(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (32)PC (6)25 (20)Virtua Tennis 4(3+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (41)Wii (10)36 (17)Transformers: Dark Of The Moon(12+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (34)27 (4)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)68 (10)Top Spin 4 (3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)Wii (4)49 (9)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (35)PC (7)810 (7)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (30)PSP (6)DS (6)40UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A burst of 8 apps for your considerationMagic SafariMagic Safari styles itself as a location-based game for kids. The idea: they take photos of their current location, and then have to spot 3D animals inserted into the shot.VeggiePlacesiPhone app VeggiePlaces is a global guide to vegetarian and vegan-friendly restaurants, cafes, hotels, guest houses, pubs and shops, with location-based features.EDGEBobby2EDGEBobby2 might not look like an amazing game from its screenshots, but expect iOS developers to pay it close attention. Why? It's the work of developer Edge, whose boss Tim Langdell has attracted widespread criticism for his trademark claims regarding any game with the word 'Edge' in its title. Long accused of not releasing any games in recent years, now he has.Roodie Noodies and the Rubbery RingsThe title doesn't sound like the sort of thing Steve Jobs would allow on the App Store, but relax: this iPhone and iPad game is entirely innocent. Aimed at children, it involves dive-bombing beach creatures.LokyPrivacy apps firm Loky has teamed up with dating site Illicit Encounters for an Android, BlackBerry and Symbian app to help spouses keep their extra-marital affairs secret, hiding calls and text messages from view.Gadget Show LiveThe UK's Gadget Show Live has got its own iPad magazine, blending embedded video footage from the TV show with editorial coverage of the gadgets and people who attended the recent exhibition.Stay Lit MusicStay Lit Music appears to be the first Google Music Beta app for the BlackBerry PlayBook, in the absence of an official client for Google's new cloud music service. Although available in all countries, we're guessing it'll only work fully in the US.Foursquare for Windows Phone 7Foursquare has revamped and relaunched its official Windows Phone 7 application, using version 2 of the social location service's API.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUS flag made of tweets &gt;&gt; Codeforamerica.orgNeat.Chrome Hits 20% Share As IE Continues Slide &gt;&gt; SlashdotIt's the discussion, rather than the raw numbers, which is interesting here: lots of organisations are now getting paid to include Chrome in package installs or PCs.Seven things human editors do that algorithms don't (yet) &gt;&gt; Harvard Business ReviewEli Pariser (of the Filter Bubble) on stuff that machines still lag at doing when it comes to offering you news.Crowdsourcing: where the Chattanooga.gov redesign began &gt;&gt; ChattaratiThe city of Chattanooga wanted a redesigned website. The people questioned the cost. They investigated the RFP (what was requested) and found.... well, see the comments:"To me the biggest expense, by far, involved in the RFP is the creation of the interactive 3D fly-through."The what? Yup, the city had asked for an interactive 3D fly-through. Obviously, it's the first thing you want in any city's website, right?Flipboard stakes Its claim as the newsstand of the future &gt;&gt; BusinessWeek"Flipboard, one of the first iPad applications to take real advantage of the new device's touch interface to create a kind of digital magazine, released a series of updates and new features Thursday that turn the app into even more of a tablet newsstand."Unlimited RSS feeds and more links with publishers.Where Have All the Spambots Gone? &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityMostly offline as owners have been jailed or gone into hiding. Spam volumes have fallen by 90% over the past year. But there's a new rootkit around, called TDL-4, infecting millions of machines: "Getting infected with TDL-4 may not be such a raw deal if your computer is already heavily infected with other malware: According to Kaspersky, the bot will remove threats like the ZeuS Trojan and 20 other malicious bot programs from host PCs. "TDSS scans the registry, searches for specific file names, blacklists the addresses of the command and control centers of other botnets and prevents victim machines from contacting them," wrote Kaspersky analysts Sergey Golovanov and Igor Soumenkov."Makes it sound like a boon.7 cloud services compared: How much control do you give up? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott searches the licence agreements so you don't have to.Dropbox Kisses and Makes Up? &gt;&gt; Roland Schorr"Now I don't think the Dropbox guys are evil or that they're trying to steal your content.  I'm sure they're perfectly nice guys just trying to provide a useful service. And it *IS* a useful service.  I wouldn't hesitate to use Dropbox for any non-confidential data/documents that I needed to sync to multiple devices. Just as I wouldn't hesitate to use the free Google Docs to coordinate a family reunion or maintain the stats for a little league baseball team.&#10;"But when it comes to confidential data, ESPECIALLY confidential data that belongs to clients or customers - data that, if leaked publicly, could do some real harm to my clients or customers...there is no way I'm going to willingly upload it to a service that acknowledges that their staffers (none of whom I've ever met) and the unspecified people and companies they work with can access (or even "monitor") that data. Not going to happen."Note: you can encrypt before you upload. Then they can't read it.Google+ and its two-pronged relevance problem &gt;&gt; The Next Web"Despite a positive early reception to the service, the big challenge for Google+ isn't pleasing users in its first few days, it's finding a solid place for it in their lives in the long term. What will that place be? At present, it's difficult to say. Looking at the currently big social networks, they fit into a few core categories:&#10;• Sharing and communicating with friends: Facebook, Hyves, Orkut etc.&#10;• Sharing quick thoughts, news and opinions: Twitter&#10;• Business-focused networking: LinkedIn, Xing, Viadeo etc.&#10;"So where does Google+ fit into this? It manages to sit across all these verticals. The use of 'Circles' to organise friends and contacts means you can share business-focused information with your colleagues and photos of a night out with your friends in the same place without too much fear of them crossing over into the wrong audiences. The big question is, can Google convince a groundswell of people to make the switch from their existing social networks?"Macs &amp; Mac OS X: The Two Faces of Lion &gt;&gt; TidBitsGlenn Fleishmann on some of what you can expect later this month from Apple.How to read tech analysts' shipment reports and forecasts &gt;&gt; Mobile OpportunityFrom 2006, but just as relevant today. It will be interesting to see how the big analysis firms will handle the fact that Acer says it's going to do a fire sale of millions of machines that were part of something that's almost inventory fraud in Europe.February 2006: Gartner says to Nokia : start making Windows Mobile phones or forget North American market altogetherAnd almost exactly five years later, they took Gartner's advice, more or less.The enemy of my enemy &gt;&gt; I, Cringely"Google would have preferred to win the auction, but with the consortium sitting on more than $100bn in cash, the outcome came down to determination, not resources. Google stayed in it only long enough to make sure of the consortium's intentions and to make the purchase more painful for them...&#10;"It certainly mattered to Google, because that $4.5bn number will be at the heart of the inevitable anti-trust lawsuit Google will file almost immediately. Every good anti-trust lawyer in America just cancelled his or her July 4th holiday to prepare their pitch for Google, which will probably claim Restraint of Trade as well.&#10;"..Google can probably operate unfettered for another 2-3 years, during which they'll try to build their own mobile patent portfolio. Google may well be able to use the courts to slow the actual Nortel transaction, too, according to my lawyer friends.&#10;"So the "Android is dead" story here is way premature."&#10;Interesting too on who gets what in the winning consortium."By 2012..." &gt;&gt; 2012 PredictionsA site that collects all sorts of wonderful predictions that have been made down the years for 2012. None seem to include the end of the world, but there are some doozies in there.Yet another "People plug in strange USB sticks" story &gt;&gt; Bruce SchneierCommenting on the Bloomberg link from elsewhere, about how people plug malware-infected USB sticks into computers: "People get USB sticks all the time. The problem isn't that people are idiots, that they should know that a USB stick found on the street is automatically bad and a USB stick given away at a trade show is automatically good. The problem is that the OS trusts random USB sticks. The problem is that the OS will automatically run a program that can install malware from a USB stick. The problem is that it isn't safe to plug a USB stick into a computer."Quit blaming the victim. They're just trying to get by."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Japanese scientists have discovered huge deposits of "rare earth" minerals, crucial for making electronics products such as smartphones, tablets such as the iPad and flat-screen TVs, on the floor of the Pacific Ocean around Hawaii – and they say they are easy to extract.The discovery could expand the known deposits of the materials by a thousand times, immediately reducing concerns about supply."The deposits have a heavy concentration of rare earths. Just one sq km (0.4 sq mile) of deposits will be able to provide one-fifth of the current global annual consumption," Yasuhiro Kato, an associate professor of earth science at the University of Tokyo, said.The discovery, made by a team led by Kato and including researchers from the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology, could have important implications for the production of materials requiring "rare earths" such as tantalum and yttrium. China has the largest land-based deposits of the crucial metals, and produces about 97% of the global supply. But itannounced in Decemberthat it was slashing exports of the materials – leading to fears of a shortage or of much higher prices for products that use them.Sony said at the time that the move was a hindrance to free trade. Japan, which accounts for a third of global demand, has been stung badly, and has been looking to diversify its supply sources, particularly of heavy rare earths such as dysprosium used in magnets. The announcement did boost shares in non-Chinese mining companies with proven rare earth resources, such as Lynas, which has the world's richest non-Chinese deposits. Those shares could now fall back with the huge expansion in available sources.The new research, published on Monday in the online version of the journal Nature Geoscience, found the minerals in sea mud extracted from depths of 3,500 to 6,000 metres below the ocean surface at 78 locations. One-third of the sites yielded rich contents of rare earths and the metal yttrium, Kato said.The deposits are in international waters in an area stretching east and west of Hawaii, as well as east of Tahiti in French Polynesia, he said.He estimated rare earths contained in the deposits amounted to 80bn to 100bn tonnes – compared to global reserves currently confirmed by the US Geological Survey of just 110m tonnes that have been found mainly in China, Russia and other former Soviet Union countries, and the US.The level of uranium and thorium – radioactive ingredients that are usually contained in such deposits and can pose environmental hazards – was found to be one-fifth of those in deposits on land, Kato said.A chronic shortage of rare earths, vital for making a range of high-technology electronics, magnets and batteries, has encouraged mining projects for them in recent years. Kato said the sea mud was especially rich in heavier rare earths such as gadolinium, lutetium, terbium and dysprosium. "These are used to manufacture flat-screen TVs, LED (light-emitting diode) valves, and hybrid cars," he said.Extracting the deposits requires pumping up material from the ocean floor. "Sea mud can be brought up to ships and we can extract rare earths right there using simple acid leaching," he said. "Using diluted acid, the process is fast, and within a few hours we can extract 80-90% of rare earths from the mud."The team found that sites close to Hawaii and Tahiti were especially rich in rare earths, he said.
It's Monday! Tell us what games you've been playing over the weekend!
What links two computer scientists in Luxembourg with the Burmese freedom movement? Of all things, it's a new software application that&nbsp;aims to preserve the anonymity of activist-photographers in totalitarian regimes.The program, which will be available to everyone, but is yet to be named, takes two pictures of the same event – snapped roughly simultaneously but from different angles – and creates a third, composite image from which it is much harder to discern the photographer's position. One&nbsp;picture might be taken at 90&nbsp;degrees to an event; the second at 80. But the amalgamated image could in theory be "taken" from an angle of 120.The program [http://arxiv.org/pdf/1106.2696v1] is the brainchild of Professor Shishir Nagaraja, who is the professor of computer security at IIIT Delhi. He shared the idea with Peter Schaffer and they recruited Djamilla Aouada, an imaging expert. Prof Nagaraja was shocked when photographers at&nbsp;the 2007 Burmese protests were identified and arrested by government officials who used their photographs to track their positions at the demonstrations.The team has only just finished its coding, so the software is yet to be tested. But the team hopes it could be used in a range of contexts. Schaffer quotes a scenario in which, "You are one of the few journalists who has managed to infiltrate [a mafia] group and are secretly recording footage to do an exposé. Now, if you were to publish the footage on YouTube, their security would know the angle from which you took the footage and determine your location, then study their own CCTV imagery to identify you." The software, Schaffer argues, has the potential to stop this happening.Would this kind of software help British protesters? Not especially, says Emily Apple, co-founder ofFITWatch, a group that highlights the shadowy work of&nbsp;police surveillance teams in the UK [fitwatch.org.uk]. Photographers are frequently hassled by police at protests, she says, but they don't need to stay anonymous to avoid being locked&nbsp;up. Nevertheless, Apple continues, such technology could conceivably help with something else. At present, British police are allowed to seize photos they suspect may document criminal action. So if a photographer could publish composite photos that didn't identify where they were standing, the police might be less interested in what other images they had taken.Internet-savvy activists may be&nbsp;wary, however, after being burned in the past by technologies that were supposed to help them. In 2010, it emerged that Haystack, a much-vaunted programme that&nbsp;supposedly allowed Iranian internet users to bypass web censorship, failed to hide activists' identities.• This article was amended on 13 July 2011. The article named Peter Schaffer as the originator of the idea of the software and suggested that all three members of the team were inspired when photographers at the 2007 Burmese protests were identified and arrested by government officials who used their photographs to track their positions at the demonstrations. This has been corrected.
For so long the hills of Twitter have been alive with the sound of "bantering" footballers, tub-thumping activists and self-promoting singers/actors/journalists. Men of the cloth have been thin on the ground. The balance shifted a little last week when you, Pope Benedict XVI (@news_va_en), sat down in front of your new iPad and sent the very first papal tweet. Marking the launch of the Vatican news website, you typed: "Dear Friends, I just launchedhttp://t.co/fVHpS9yPraised be our Lord Jesus Christ! With my prayers and blessings, Benedictus XVI." And with one&nbsp;click of the "Send" button, Hallelujah!, history had been&nbsp;made.But mastering Twitter is no breeze and all new members of the flock need a little guidance. So here's a little bit of divine twintervention, just for you.Sign up for your own Twitter&nbsp;accountSending your first tweet via the Vatican's official account was a bit half-hearted. You must get your own. Once you are signed up and logged in you can really let us get to know what makes the man beneath the cassock tick.Unfortunately our own Twitter name may prove tricky. Some beardy guy in Valencia (who I wager was not christened "The Pope")has already taken @thepope. Luckily @thepopeofficial or @the_real_pope are both still free. Sign up quick, Benny, before someone else claims them.Let others help youBeing the pope must be a stressful job at times. The hours are long, the lifestyle lonely and the white robe/communion wine combo is a spillage nightmare. To help find ways to cope with some of the strain why not follow Kerry Katona's (@mskerry katona) life coaches Nik and Eva Speakman (@the_speakmans)? Riding high on the back of the Katona success story (COUGH), their self-help could prove an invaluable source of inspiration on the matters the bible doesn't deal with. They have already dealt with  – trying to achieving a work/life balance ("Time is a dressmaker who specialises in alterations"), companionship ("When you're looking for a friend don't look for perfection, just look for friendship"). I'm also sure they would give you tips for getting red wine stains out of your whites if you asked. Let others help you for a change, dude. You can't just keep on giving.NetworkingOne of the great functions of Twitter is that it allows you to network with peers and  colleagues on the opposite side of the world. No more work drinks with the Dalai Lama (@dalailama) for you. Instead you can share tips and horror stories about dealing with stroppy cardinals and Buddhist monks from the comfort of your respective sofas. Going out is&nbsp;overrated anyway, man. Get&nbsp;tweeting! Lots&nbsp;of love@scouserachel.
British website owners could face extradition to the US on piracy charges even if their operation has no connection to America and does something which is most probably legal in the UK, the official leading US web anti-piracy efforts has told the Guardian.The US's Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE) is targeting overseas websites it believes are breaking US copyrights whether or not their servers are based in America or there is another direct US link, saidErik Barnett, the agency's assistant deputy director.As long as a website's address ends in .com or .net, if it is implicated in the spread of pirated US-made films, TV or other media it is a legitimate target to be closed down or targeted for prosecution, Barnett said. While these web addresses are traditionally seen as global, all their connections are routed through Verisign, an internet infrastructure company based in Virginia, which the agency believes is sufficient to seek a US prosecution.As well as sites that directly host or stream pirated material, ICE is also focusing on those that simply provide links to it elsewhere. There remains considerable doubt as to whether this is even illegal in Britain – the only such case to be heard before a British court, involving a site called TV-Links, was dismissed by a judge in February last year.Barnett's comments followthe case of Richard O'Dwyer, a 23-year-old British student who faces extradition to America for running another popular site, TVShack.net, which provided links to non-licensed streams of films and TV shows. O'Dwyer's family say they are baffled as to why American authorities want to try a British national with no US connection and whose site used servers based elsewhere.Barnett, who heads ICE's efforts on intellectual property enforcement, said he could not comment on the O'Dwyer case. But in an interview with the Guardian he explained the broader thinking behind it."By definition, almost all copyright infringement and trademark violation is transnational. There's very little purely domestic intellectual property theft," he said.The agency has been running a year-long campaign,Operation In Our Sites, which has thus far "seized" 125 of the most popular unlicensed film, TV and sport websites, including TVShack, as well as ones selling counterfeit physical goods.Aside from the contravention of US trademarks, website names are central to deciding which are chosen, Barnett said: "The jurisdiction we have over these sites right now really is the use of the domain name registry system in the United States. That's the key."The only necessary "nexus to the US" is a .com or .net web address for which Verisign acts as the official registry operator, he said.Decisions on seeking extradition are down to the US department of justice. But Barnett said his agency – which has more than 7,000 criminal investigators – is actively pursuing those within its perceived jurisdiction: "Without wishing to get into the particulars of any case, the general goal of law enforcement is to arrest and prosecute individuals who are committing crimes. That is our goal, our mission. The idea is to try to prosecute."In Our Sites has already prompted controversy elsewhere, witha Spanish company launching a lawsuitafter two of its sports streaming sites were seized, even though they had been found not to contravene copyright law in Spain.Barnett defended the decision to also go after linking sites: "I'll give you an analogy. A lot of drug dealing is done by proxy – you rarely give the money to the same person that you get the dope from. I think the question is, are any of these people less culpable?"Civil rights and internet freedom organisations said they were alarmed at the apparent intention to enforce US copyright laws around the globe.Isabella Sankey, director of policy for Liberty, said: "Many countries, including the US, are increasingly asserting jurisdiction over alleged actions that take place in other parts of the world. The internet increases our risk of falling foul of the law, making it possible to commit an offence on the other side of the world without even leaving your bedroom."She called on the government to amend the UK's extradition agreement with the US so a British judge could decide where an alleged crime should be best tried. "It would allow UK courts to bar extradition in the interests of justice where conduct leading to an alleged offence has quite clearly taken place on British soil," she said.Jim Killock, executive director of theOpen Rights Group, which campaigns on web-based freedoms, said that domain names such as .com were usually regarded as generic."This seems absurd," he added. "If you don't have some idea that there's a single jurisdiction in which you can be prosecuted for copyright infringement that means you're potentially opening an individual to dozens of prosecutions."Online piracy is, undoubtedly, a huge business. The 125 sites initially targeted for seizure by ICE – the majority of them selling counterfeited physical goods, almost all made in China – recorded between them around 60m visits even after they were replaced with a government warning notice. As well as TV shows and films, there is a huge trade in unlicensed video streams of sports events: just 10 of these sites received almost half the 60m hits.While physical counterfeiting tends to be dominated by criminal gangs, Barnett said, entertainment sites are often run by the proverbial teenager in a bedroom – who can make a lot of money.He said: "We seized one bank account for one individual running one sports streaming site. He lives with his parents and has no other source of income. He had $500,000 (£311,013) in his bank account. Most of the individuals that we've targeted were earning estimated amounts of between $10,000 and $20,000 a month. You've got to remember that the overheads are fairly low – your product isn't being paid for."
"Paedophobia" is sweeping the globe apparently. Films, television and newspapers bombard us with images of hoodied children ready to crack skulls and steal iPhones, while grannies are left cowering at the horror of modern youth. So of course here comesEgg vs. Chickentaking this fear of youth to a whole new level, by pitting avian foetuses against their fully-grown brethren.This is a puzzler that wears its inspiration proudly on its sleeve, with menu, cut scenes and graphics all reminiscent of the popularAngry Birds. But here, rather than inter-species conflict, it's adult versus ovum. As the fowl march towards the eggs' barricades, you must line up eggs of the same hue, and when three or more are connected they can be flung towards the feathered enemy. Difficulty increases smoothly, with chicks followed by tougher poultry and roosters, and power-ups available to aid you on what really is an egg-cellent adventure.
In the old days (he says wistfully) it was all so simple. A "dot com" was a company, usually American, while ".co.uk" indicated a British outfit. ".org" denoted a not-for-profit organisation, ".mil" meant a (US) military site, ".edu" a US university and ".ac.uk" a British one. And so on.You knew where you were with these so-called "generic top-level domains" (gTLDs). In the end, there were 22 gTLDs, administered by theInternet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers(Icann), a not-for-profit corporation based in California which administers the domain name system of the internet under a contract issued by the US&nbsp;government.In essence, Icann is the body that manages the internet address space. It determines what the top-level domains shall be and assigns blocks of address spaces to regional internet registries (the organisations to whom you and I apply for a domain name).Its functionsare to preserve the operational stability of the internet, to promote competition, to be broadly representative of the global internet community and to develop policies appropriate to its mission through bottom-up, consensus-based processes.In the early days of the web, most of the action was in the gold rush for domain names within the gTLDs. Large corporations were often slow off the mark and discombobulated by the discovery that domain names relevant to their businesses had already been registered by quick-witted entrepreneurs. Thus McDonalds.com wasinitially not owned by the fast-food chainand Nike didn't own JustDoIt.net. And thechequered history of sex.comdoesn't bear thinking about. But after a time – and massive applications of money and legal fees – this "cybersquatting" became less troublesome and now no start-up will choose a business name without first checking that a suitable domain name is available.Given that most words in most languages have now been registered as domain names, that explains some of the weird monikers that now abound in cyberspace. Mention of Google, Plaxo and Zynga, for example, brings to mind Bertie Wooster's observation upon learning the name of his chum's newborn babe: "There's some raw work done at the baptismal font,&nbsp;Jeeves."Given the pressure on namespace within the existing gTLDs, it was inevitable that Icann would come under pressure to expand their number. The first foray came from those who wanted to establish ".xxx" as cyberspace's red-light district. After&nbsp;numerous spluttering rows, this wasfinally approved a few months ago. You may be reassured to know that applicants for a .xxx domain must first&nbsp;complete an application process that will be overseen by theInternational Foundation for Online Responsibility(Iffor), a body set up to "promote the development of responsible business practices and conduct within the online adult-entertainment community". So that's all right, then.But the .xxx stuff was really just the overture to the main business, which is accommodating the needs of corporations. Icann has now announced that it will allow them to apply for new gTLDs, such as ".fashion" or ".drinks", for example. Or perhaps even ".coke" (though cocaine dealers might have something to say about that). The decision was energetically spun by Peter Dengate Thrush, chairman of Icann's board of directors, as one that "will usher in a new internet age". Henceforth, internet addresses will be able to end with almost any word in any language, "offering organisations around the world the opportunity to market their brand, products, community or cause in new and innovative ways".Note the word "brand".Upon further examination, it turns out that only organisations with hefty financial resources will be able to avail themselves of this amazing creative opportunity. Applicants must pay a $185,000 evaluation fee, for example, of which $5,000 is immediately payable. They may also be required to pay even more "in certain cases where specialised process steps are applicable". Then there's the small matter of the $25,000 annual fee. Evaluation of applications could take between eight and 18 months, and if you want to apply for two similar gTLDs, you have to file two applications – and pay two $185,000&nbsp;fees.So guess who's going to be able to take advantage of this great new opportunity? Amnesty International (for ".torture", perhaps)? The Campaign Against the Arms Trade (for ".stopkilling")? Don't hold your breath. The main beneficiaries of Icann's decision will be the corporations that are already screwing us and the planet. If I had $185,000 to spare, I'd be tempted to apply for my own gTLD: ".con" has a nice ring to it, don't you think? And it would cover most of what Icann proposes to unleash on an unsuspecting world.
Joining Handsis a sedate game. The task here is simply to allow peaceful "peablins" (pea-shaped goblins) to hold hands with their chums in the dark woods in which they dwell. You move peablins around a grid adjacent to each other, enabling the joining of hands; however, this is much trickier than it sounds. Peablins come with a differing numbers of hands and just one stray appendage will leave their little faces crumpled in misery. Obstacles increase as you progress and there are more than 90 levels, presenting a long-lasting challenge.
If generic "bums'n'tums" DVDs don't provide sufficient motivation,UFC Personal Trainermay have the answer. Mixed martial artists achieve peak physical condition by training in several fighting styles which require endurance, strength and conditioning – attributes that are equally beneficial in fitness terms to gamers not actually looking for a rumble.While previous UFC games focused training and fighting on arcade-style simulations, THQ has now chosen to hone and tone here in the real world with gruelling, full-body MMA workouts and, while the testosterone-fuelled UFC theme may be a turn off for some,Personal Traineris essentially just an exercise programme using Xbox Kinect or PlayStation Move motion-capture.As British middleweight favourite Michael Bisping explains, fighters must vary their workouts with aerobic exercise and muscle-specific strength training, translating here as guided routines using either just the body or while also holding weights.Each exercise is demonstrated on screen and movements are tracked to ensure they are correctly achieved; fail to stay with it and the on-screen trainer will berate you and demand more reps (doubly frustrating on the occasions Kinect unfairly fails to register movement). It's an intriguing take on the work-out genre. Even more intriguing is the possibility that THQ might combine its UFC games to create a fully interactive fighting experience.
That the peak of the Nintendo Wii's popularity has passed seems hard to dispute. There haven't been many new games out for the system in the past year or so, leaving many families with a console in the front room that's rarely used for much more than the occasional bout of Wii Sports. For the more dedicated gamer, titles such as last year'sSuper Mario Galaxy 2andKirby's Epic Yarnhave kept the console alive for involving, captivating single-player and co-op experiences, but sinceWii Sports Resort, there haven't been any real multiplayer classics – with the possible exception ofWii Party.Wii Play: Motionis a bid to reverse this trend, especially when there are friends or children to entertain. It's a collection of (mostly) great mini-games designed primarily for multiplayer. A fineGhostbusters-esque challenge, "Spooky Search", requiring players to move around the room using the Wii remote as a sensor to detect ghosts before grabbing hold of them and wrestling them into a trap on-screen, stands out. "Skip Skimmer" is simple but weirdly compelling – tracking wrist movements with astonishing accuracy while skipping a virtual stone over a lake, with novelty stones in the shape of love hearts or with a kitten's face stamped upon them creating special effects. "Cone Zone" sees you trying to keep an ever-growing giant ice cream from toppling to the floor.Play: Motioncomes with a Wii Remote Plus, a snazzy red Wii remote with extra motion sensitivity that allows for much more varied and complex gaming but, frustratingly, to enjoy it with more than one player, extra Remote Plus controllers or a Motion Plus accessory for the old ones will be required. Fortunately, sinceWii Sports Resortcame packaged with Motion Plus, it's likely that the tally for most households will now be up to two.There are 12 games in all and the general quality here is as high as might be expected from a Nintendo-developed title. Most, such as the diving game "Treasure Twirl", are lovingly designed, with their own gimmicks that show off what the Motion Plus can do. But one or two others, the "Trigger Twist" UFO shooting gallery for example, don't quite work – there's just not enough room on the screen for two players to get an adequate view of the targets.A collection of  lovely and inventive mini-games, then, and more than enough of an excuse to fire up the Wii a few more times before its successor, the Wii U, is released early next year.
Price£76,758MPG26.6Top speed190mphA fortnight ago, at the tender age of 81 and after more than 600 races, Sir Stirling Moss experienced something he'd never felt before. "It suddenly came over me. I just thought: 'Gosh, this could be dangerous.' I&nbsp;pulled into the pits, got out and said: 'That's it!'" One of Britain's greatest ever drivers had just retired. The car Stirling was thrashing round the track that day was a vintage Porsche. A fortnight ago Ialsohappened to be driving a&nbsp;Porsche – a brand-new Carrera GTS. I wasn't on the race track – the M4's challenging enough for me – and the only person who seemed frightened was my wife. But then she finds my driving scary even when I'm helming a Nissan Micra.Porsche is thene plus ultraof rear-engined sports cars – and has been for decades. It exudes such authority it seems almost impertinent to venture an opinion on what its cars are actually like to drive. So many thousands of hours of research, so much pointy-headedness, so much racing experience has gone into making them what they are that you'd have more luck giving Roger Federer a few pointers about his backhand.So where to start? Last year 6,784 Porsches were bought in the UK; half of these were Cayennes – the butt-ugly off-roader many purists feel isn't really a&nbsp;Porsche at all. The remaining sales were made up of the other four genuses of the Porsche species: the Boxster, Cayman, 911 and Panamera – but it is the 911 which contains the true essence of Porsche. Its distinctive shape, from the double bubble of its front wings to its bunched back, is so unmistakable you can conjure it up with a single line drawn in the sand.The 911 (pronounced Nine Eleven or, in German,Neunelfer) was introduced in 1963. Since then it has undergone continuous refinement, but the basic concept has remained little changed. And they're so well built – 70% of all Porsches ever made are still on the road.There are 23 variations of the 911 currently fighting for your attention – ranging in price from £67,000 to £350,000 – but the one that truly sums up Porsche's blueprint is this Carrera GTS. It's at the lower end of the price spectrum – a mere £75,000 and change – yet it combines enough racetrack performance to scare Stirling with the day-to-day usability that a driver of my modest abilities can cope with. Porsche says the GTS is its sportiest Carrera ever. Others describe it as being stiffer, grippier, tougher, sexier and racier – ah, the poetry of petrol journalism – than any other. And they're right. Its 3.8-litre flat six produces 402bhp and blasts you from 0-62mph in 4.6 seconds. Could this be the most versatile 911 Porsche has ever built?Climb in, which is the only hard thing you ever have to do in a Porsche, and you are greeted by a&nbsp;world of suede, rubber and steel. That sounds a bit S&amp;M, but the car feels as safe, warm and comfortable as a slipper. It's your mother's skirts on wheels. Turn the key and the engine's tenor rumble will lift your spirits. Squeeze the accelerator and the note turns to a&nbsp;whine and then on up to a&nbsp;great high-pitched flatulent shrieking raspberry. It's as if you are driving a giant whoopee cushion – and it's impossible not to laugh out loud.Revved up Reg: meet the nation's oldest bikerCountry's oldest biker: Reg Scott with wife. Photograph: ObserverReg Scott, 94, from Ludham, Norfolk, has been named "Britain's Oldest Biker" by Bennetts, the bike insurance specialists. He started out in 1937 when he bought a Norton 16H 490cc for £73. Seven bikes later, Reg reckons he's covered almost 400,000 miles. And he's no intention of slowing down. "Riding gives me a sense of freedom," he says. "Age has nothing to do with it; I'll be on my bike for as long as I can."
Time to transform the traditionally dire film tie-in game? Sadly, no. The usual rushed development to meet wider franchise deadlines has leftDark of the Moona muggy, incomplete and frustrating experience, with only intermittent moments of fun.At its core, this is a third-person shooter. The level design is dull and rigidly linear, worsened by having to see some levels twice just from different directions. Shooting mechanics are solid if predictable, while the relatively low damage threshold and manoeuvrability of characters require many desperate retreats to await health regeneration. Even the sound design is poorly implemented, with scripted moments occurring before a non-player character has had a chance to introduce them.And yet despite all this, a certain dumb fun shines through. The joy of transforming from a massive robot into one of several different sleek vehicles is as undeniable now as it was in the 1980s, and the inclusion of a half-transformed "stealth force" mode – with all the speed of a vehicle and all the weaponry of a battle-ready Autobot – produces the game's most satisfying action. Worth a look for fans, but hard to recommend, this is another one for the cutting-room floor.
Facebook is reportedly planning this week to team up with Skype to launch a video chat function for its millions of users.It would mean that Facebook members, already accustomed to posting status updates and photographs, sharing news stories and sending messages via their profiles, would also be able to video chat live with other members.The news was reported by a respected technology blog,Tech Crunch, in a story written by its editor, Michael Arrington, a well-known figure in social media circles across the world. "Next week, says a source with knowledge of the partnership, Facebook will launch a new video chat product, powered by Skype," Arrington wrote.Rumours about a tie-up between Facebook and Skype have swirled for several years without a finished product emerging. But this latest round of speculation is given credence by the fact that Facebook's young founder, Mark Zuckerberg, has announced a major news conference for a new product this Wednesday.Zuckerberg told reporters that the firm would "launch something awesome" that had been developed by the firm's Seattle research engineering office. Predictions that this would involve video chat were also boosted by the fact that press invitations to the event were decorated with a small chat icon with a silhouette of a person in one of them. "Suddenly those chat icons in the invitation have a lot more meaning," Arrington commented.Another influential tech blog,Mashable, confirmed the story. "While Facebook and Skype aren't saying anything officially, our sources confirm that Skype-powered video chat on Facebook will indeed be launching next week," the website reported.If true, the move is likely to cement Facebook even further into the lives of its growing number of global users. The company, founded in 2004, is already one of the biggest and most influential in the world, with an estimated 500 million-plus active users.Through the exploding industry of social media, Facebook's influence is spreading through the media, entertainment and advertising industries. Having a video chat function using Skype would extend its reach even further, potentially encroaching on the mobile telephone sector.Facebook's success has turned 27-year-old Zuckerberg into one of the richest self-made men in the world, worth billions of dollars. Last year he was the subject of the Hollywood filmThe Social Network, which was nominated for eight Oscars.
How much did Google bid for the collection of patents that Nortel Networks was selling off in its bankruptcy auction? At one point, $3.14159bn - which you don't have to be much of a maths whiz to realise is a billion dollars timespi, thefundamental mathematicalnumber relating a circle's radius to its area and circumference.And that wasn't all; at other points in the auction, in which Google was ranged against a six-strong consortium including Apple, Microsoft, BlackBerry maker RIM and Sony, the search engine company offered other amounts - $1,902,160,540 and $2,614,972,128 - which to mathematicians will jump out asBrun's constant(the number obtained by adding the reciprocals of the odd twin primes) and theMeissel-Mertens constant, another prime-related number.To the people involved in the auction, though, the apparently random figures were puzzling. "Google was bidding with numbers that were not even numbers," one source involved with the auction told Reuters. "It [then] became clear that they were bidding with [numbers such as] the distance between the earth and the sun. One was the sum of a famous mathematical constant, and then when it got to $3 billion, they bid pi - $3.14159bn," the source said. "Either they were supremely confident or they were bored."It is not the first time that Google has shown a liking for obscure mathematical jokes in its public acts: when it filed in 2004 to float on the US stock market, it sought to raise $2,718,281,828 - a multiple of e, the exponential constant. The company's founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin are both computer scientists, and the company is proud of the exceptional talents of its staff, who go through a rigorous interview process in which Page, the chief executive, still gets final approval.Google lost the bid to a $4.5bn bid from the six-strong consortium. It had initially been expected to win the patents outright - which it was expected to use to shore up the competitive position of its Android mobile operating system against threats from Apple, Oracle and Nokia - when it made a $900m bid in April. But on Monday an auction began which saw 20 rounds of bidding between five consortia over four days. Google was finally outbid. Sources told Reuters that it had set a ceiling of around $4bn for the patents, despite having $36.7bn in cash at the end of its last financial quarter. Intel, its partner in the bid, had about $4bn in cash. But the opposing consortium had about $100bn in cash reserves.Part of its tactic in choosing the mathematically-flavoured figures was that there would be almost no chance of being equal to a rival's bid - while also retaining the company's delight in showing off its prowess in handling figures.But losing the patent bids may have serious longer-term effects. The patents relate to a number of communications protocols and methods which are increasingly useful, including so-called 4G communications, or "Long Term Evolution", and will therefore mean that their owners can extract licence fees from companies which want to use them. For Google, which faces a court challenge from database giant Oracle over its Android mobile operating system in which Oracle is seeking damages of $6.1bn, having the patents might have been a way to fight back - or at least bring in revenues from other companies in the mobile space."This is a sizable, strategically relevant portfolio," saidFlorian Mueller, an intellectual property analyst and blogger who has followed the progress of the bid through. "The bidding price presumably skyrocketed because bidders didn't just want to secure the patents for themselves: they also wanted to keep them out of the hands of at least some of the other bidders. There were two kinds of bidders: those who wanted to buy those patents as a strategic weapon and those whose mission was to clear the market and prevent these patents from being used in all the wrong ways. I guess the winning consortium made a defensive, market-clearing purchase."But he said that missing out would hurt Google. "No major industry player is as needy in terms of patents as Google. There are already 45 patent infringement lawsuits surrounding Android and makers of Android-based devices have to pay royalties to dozens of right holders. Just this week Microsoft announced that three more Android device makers, in addition to HTC, arealready paying royalties on Google's Android to Microsoft."Mueller suggested that winning the auction could have solved all of Google's patent woes at once: "There are many entities asserting rights against Android whose calculus wouldn't have changed if Google had bought those patents. Oracle is a good example. Its lawsuit would have continued at any rate. But Google lost an unprecedented opportunity to acquire a major bargaining chip that would strengthen it at the mobile industry's intellectual property negotiating table. I'm afraid it won't get a similar opportunity in quantitative and qualitative terms anytime soon. It will have to continue to buy up smaller quantities of patents from failed startups and similar kinds of sellers. Those entities typically don't sell patents that read on a technology as essential as LTE [Long-Term Evolution communications standard]."In light of Android's patent problems it's surprising that Google didn't outbid everyone else. It could have afforded more than $4.5 billion but it doesn't appear to be truly committed to Android."It is not clear how ownership and licensing of the patents acquired by the winning consortium will be divided.Five parties, including two consortiums, initially started bidding for 6,000 of the bankrupt Canadian telecoms company's patents - Apple, Intel, Google, a consortium of Ericsson, RIM, Microsoft, Sony and EMC, and a group led by patent risk solutions provider RPX, the sources told Reuters.Intel started the bidding around 9 am on Monday with a $1.5 billion bid, one source said. The RPX-led consortium, which included Chinese firm Huawei, dropped out after the first round of the auction, held at the New York offices of law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton LLP. The consortium remained on the sidelines looking to partner with someone else but never did."It did become clear to us very quickly that this was something that a bunch of big companies with humongous balance sheets had decided was strategic for them," RPX Chief Executive John Amster said. "Clearly at a price at this level it had to be strategic, and they could afford that."The auction tested the limits of even the giants, and it took behind-the-scenes manoeuvring and a series of alignments for a winner to emerge. On Tuesday night, the Ericsson consortium stopped bidding, and started looking for a partner, which it found in Apple, the source said."When people drop out, you try to partner people," another source said. "It is pretty common in auctions because you are trying to get together people who have reached their individual limits and they still have interest in the assets." By Wednesday, Intel dropped out as well - a move that was followed by heated negotiations over the next 24 hours as the two remaining parties both tried to court the chip giant to join their side. Intel chose Google, one source said.The field narrowed to two - the Apple consortium called "Rockstar," and the Google bidding vehicle named "Ranger", the sources told Reuters."Then it was fast and furious $100 million allotments until they got to $3 billion, at which point Google asked for permission to bid more," a source said. "They bid through $4 billion and tapped out."Google declined to comment to Reuters, but called the auction results "disappointing."
NoiseyIt's a shame that TV channels keep on making reality shows following Paris Hilton around or scripting the lives of the young and dumb for our amusement when they could be catch a psychedelic hippy skiffle group as they surf a drug- and BBQ chicken-powered wave across America. Fortunately the aforementioned beat combo, the Growlers, are one of the attractions of this entertainingly swish new band video discovery site. The other dozen acts here are less enjoyable – and docu-drama worthy – but if you're searching for angry teen punk, Chinese grunge pop, or Canadian electro-goth then Flats, Hedgehog and Austra will fill the appropriate holes in your life.The Hair Hall Of FameThe Hair Hall Of Fame.Considering how often hair preoccupies the human race, there is little of note about the subject online. Addressing the balance is this terrific celebration of hairstyles in popular culture which rejoices in the good as well as the bad: be it the secrets of Donald Trump's fluff-over, Gaga's hair bow or the Ronettes' beehives. Retro ads for hair products and gadgets include one which attempted to sell the concept of using tape to cut a straight fringe, while among photos of salons of the world is the distinctly un-erotic Texan men's hairdressers Sexy Scissors.Blog roll: Snap!The Internet K Hole.The Internet K HoleAn incredible abyss of odd amateur photography with random appearances from 80s icons.SchallplattenHomage to vinyl including stars relaxing with their collections.Babies Making FacesBaby-based hilarity from the people who brought us cat based hilarity.Them ThangsPage upon page of mind-blowing black-and-white images, celebrity smut and photo surrealism.Drawing v PhotographyBen Heine's photostream of drawings interfacing with photos.Awesome People Hanging Out TogetherFamous meetings from Elton and Freddie to the less expected Colonel Sanders with Alice Cooper.What we learned on the web this weekAbout theunsung heroes of biscuit embossingPulp Fictionhad lots of swearing in it13 memorableopening scenes from the moviesCelebrities picktheir noses tooWhat boardgames can teach usRaymond Chandlerwas a Bond fanMacho Man'sfinest momentsHow musicworksWhere tobrowse 10,000 newspapersWhat willhappen in the future
Mobile phones almost certainly do not lead to brain cancer in adults, scientists on the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection committee have concluded.The incidence of brain tumours was not increasing, even though mobiles were introduced 20 years ago and have been popular for a decade, the committee found."The trend is increasingly against the hypothesis," said Prof Anthony Swerdlow who chaired the committee which reviewed previous studies of potential links between mobiles and glioma and meningioma, the two main forms of brain tumour."Mobile phones appear not to cause brain cancer in the first 10-15 years after people start using them", said David Coggon, a professor of occupational and environmental medicine at Southampton University. This new study comes weeks after the World Health Organisation's International Agency for Research on Cancer said mobile phone signals were "possibly carcinogenic" because some studies had linked them to some types of brain cancers.
The Ford Focus arrives bearing impressive statistics. It was the bestselling car in Britain for 10 of the past 12 years. Even last year, when it slipped down the rankings to third, Ford still shifted 77,804 of them: more than eight an hour. Of course, nothing gets to be that popular without surrendering a&nbsp;degree of cool. The Focus is the car for people who aren't concerned with expressing their personalities through their car. It is, Jeremy Clarkson recently sneered, bought by people "who just want some car", as opposed, presumably, to his kind of guy (and it's bound to be a guy) to whom passersby turn, stunned, as he hares past in a blur of metallic red, before whispering to each other in low, awed tones, "That bloke has exceptionally small genitals."Perhaps Clarkson's criticisms stung, or perhaps Ford noted that the Focus was lagging behind the sportier-looking Fiesta, because it's been given quite a makeover: "Whichever way you look at it," offers the blurb, "it's impossible to ignore." You can say that again: the one I drove was a shade of yellow that made your eyeballs ache. When you drive it to Sainsbury's – the kind of scintillating journey most Focuses are destined for – it gives the faintest hint you might pop back later, when the supermarket's shut, and do a few handbrake turns in the car park while listening to a CD called Clubland X-Treme 3.You can't argue with the actual driving: confident handling, powerful braking, a 1.6 EcoBoost engine that's both economical and surprisingly pokey, great steering, effortless six-speed gearbox and a plethora of electronic safety features. Mine came loaded with a Driver Assistance Pack, which, among other things, meant the dashboard told you what the speed limit was, what the road signs you'd driven past said, when to change gear and, with Active Park Assist, how to park.These safety measures are clearly aimed at motorists such as myself, blessed with a unique driving style that accumulates dents and scrapes at an alarming rate: as a friend once noted, within six months every car I&nbsp;buy has the look of an unlicensed minicab. I'm not being deliberately awkward when I say I found the Driver Assistance Pack made matters worse. It was spectacularly distracting. The dashboard's like a&nbsp;Nintendo DS. A little orange light kept coming on and going off on the wing mirror. I became so intrigued by it, and what was making it go on and off, I nearly rear-ended someone, took a wrong turning and ended up driving, listless and lost, around a&nbsp;retail park outside Worthing.Meanwhile, I'm proud to say the Active Park Assist was no match for my unique driving style: I managed to scrape one alloy wheel along the kerb while reversing. Back to Ford the new Focus went, looking a little bit more like an unlicensed minicab than when it arrived.Ford Focus Titanium 5dr 1.6 EcoBoost 150 PSPrice£19,795Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.6 secondsAverage consumption47.1mpgCO2 emissions139g/kmEco rating7/10In a wordDistracting
Zynga has filed for its long-awaited stock exchange flotation, with the initial public offering valuing the company at $1bn.This storyhas the full details, including Zynga's $91m in profit on revenues of $600m in 2010, and its 60 million daily active users. But there is some interesting detail in the company'sSecurities and Exchange Commission filingon Zynga's mobile strategy.That detail does not include any data on mobile revenues, or even downloads, however. The only mobile statistic is the claim that "Our DAUs [daily active users] on mobile platforms grew more than ten-fold from November 2010 to June 2011."There is no doubting the increasing importance of mobile to Zynga though. The filing reveals that its November 2010 acquisition of mobile developer Newtoy - the creator of popular mobile game Words With Friends - was worth $53.3 million, with $44.3 million of that in cash, and the rest in shares.On 15 June, Zynga had 11 games available on mobile devices, although that will presumably now be 12 thanks to the launch of CityVille Hometown a couple of weeks later. A further snippet reveals that Amazon, eBay and HBO have all advertised within Zynga's mobile games.The filing makes it clear that mobile growth is one of Zynga's priorities going forward. "We believe there is a large opportunity to extend our brand and games to mobile platforms such as Apple iOS and Google Android," it explains."We will continue to make our games accessible on a large number of mobile and other Internet-connected devices and invest in developing and acquiring mobile development talent, technologies and content."Mobile also looms large in the business risks section of the S-1 filing, with Zynga warning that "our growth prospects will suffer if we are unable to develop successful games for mobile platforms", and also that "we expect to devote substantial resources to the development of our mobile games, and our limited experience makes it difficult to know whether we will succeed in developing such games that appeal to paying players or advertisers"That includes the admission that mobile poses a challenge for Zynga because "we will need to move beyond payment methods provided by social networks and successfully allow for a variety of payment methods and systems based on the mobile platform, geographies and other factors"The filing cites these companies as key competitors in mobile: Electronic Arts, DeNA, Gameloft, Glu Mobile and Rovio Mobile, and says more companies are expected to enter the market too.Here's an interesting point though: mobile may be bumping up some of Zynga's key metrics.In the filing, the company says that at the end of March 2011, it had 62 million daily active users (DAUs), 236 million monthly average users (MAUs) and 146 million monthly unique users (MUUs) - the difference between the last two is due to individuals playing more than one Zynga game.Here's the thing: later on in the S-1 filing, Zynga explains that "an individual who plays the same game on two different platforms (e.g., web and mobile) or on two different social networks on the same day would be counted as two DAUs".The same is true for monthly active users: "An individual who plays the same game on two different platforms (e.g., web and mobile) or on two different social networks in a 30-day period would be counted as two MAUs".But crucially, people playing Zynga's games across web and mobile - which will surely be an increasing body of gamers over the coming months - will also count twice. Or as Zynga puts it:"Because we cannot distinguish unique individuals playing across multiple platforms, an individual who plays any of our games on two different platforms (e.g., web and mobile) in a given 30-day period would be counted as two MUUs."There is nothing underhand going on here: the information is in Zynga's IPO filing after all. But if the company is planning to use MUUs as a key metric, it's interesting that people playing on their phone as well as their computer may count twice.
Zynga, the maker of hugely popular Facebook games such as FarmVille and CityVille, has filed for a $1bn (£622m) stock exchange flotation.The initial public offering is one of the most eagerly awaited floats of the year and unlike a number of other tech startups to go down this route of late it is making good profits.Last year the company made about $91m in profit on revenues of $600m selling virtual products to players and advertising to brands, according to its Securities and Exchange Commission filing made on Friday. In the first quarter this year Zynga made profits of $11.8m on revenues of $235m.A breakdown shows that $222m came from gamers paying and just $13m came from advertising.The company was founded four years ago by the chief executive, Mark Pincus, who signed-off the company's SEC filing "let's play".While Zynga is seeking to initially raise $1bn, this figure is an indicator filed to regulators and could change. The company also did not say how many shares or at what price.However analysts believe this to be the tip of the iceberg with ultimate plans thought to be to offer up to 10% of its shares at a valuation in the region of $20bn."While I'm humbled by the size of the audience we enable to play today, we're just getting started," said Pincus. "With this offering we are inviting you to join our mission".Zynga said it has 60 million daily active users, who collectively spend 2bn minutes each day playing its games.The filing provides some interesting nuggets including that despite the huge popularity of Zynga games – it owns the four most popular apps on Facebook – the average number of daily users peaked in March last year at 67 million.By December that number had dropped to 48 million, however, usage has crept up again more recently to 62 million in March. FarmVille achieved "record" revenue in the first quarter while Empires &amp; Allies, Zynga's first move into "combat social" games, became the second most played game on Facebook with the first month after launch.The filing also highlights the complete dependence the company has on Facebook, which is expected to float early next year, with all five threats to Zynga's business model related to what Mark Zuckerberg's social networking site does."If we are unable to maintain a good relationship with Facebook, our business will suffer," the filing says.Threats include if Facebook limits access to games developers, establishes "more favourable" relations with rivals or launches its own competitive games.And if Facebook somehow begins to struggle, it recently posted the first fall in users in several key markets, Zynga admits it would be in real trouble."If Facebook loses its market position or otherwise falls out of favour with internet users, we would need to identify alternative channels for marketing, promoting and distributing our games, which would consume substantial resources and may not be effective," the company said.The impact of a fall from technology grace was highlighted earlier this week with the selloff of Myspace, the one-time darling of social networking which Rupert Murdoch acquired for $580m in 2005, for just $35m to an investor group including Justin Timberlake.
Twitter is being investigated by US regulators over its dealings with third-party companies including UberMedia, the firm behind popular BlackBerry and iPhone apps.The Federal Trade Commission is investigation whether Twitter's business relationships with other companies comply with US antitrust laws.UberMedia, the firm behind popular Twitter apps UberSocial, Echofon and Twidroyd, has confirmed that it has been contacted by the FTC in relation to the probe."We have been contacted by the FTC and we intend to fully comply with their request for information," said a spokesman for UberMedia. "Beyond that, we have no further comment."UberMedia, which has a fraught relationship with Twitter, is the first supplier to comment publicly on the FTC probe.In February, Twitterbanned a number of UberMedia's mobile appswith little notice.Twitter made a number of changes including demanding that UberMedia change the name of its BlackBerry app, called UberTwitter, to UberSocial.Weeks later, Twitter introducedstrict new guidelinesfor all third-party developers using its data in a bid to retain more control over the platform.Twitter also swooped to buy London-based Tweetdeck after reports emerged that UberMedia was close to sealing a deal.Twitter sees its own official mobile apps and other "add-on" services, traditionally offered by third-party companies, as an important revenue stream while it tentatively introduces more advertising across the site.Industry research firm eMarketer calculates that Twitter, which does not provide financial information, generated an estimated $45m (£28m) from advertising in 2010 and was expected to generate about $150m this year.The importance placed by Twitter on third-party companies was underlined in May as itpaid $40m to snap up TweetDeckThe FTC and Twitter have both declined to comment.
Are we witnessing the newest forms of swings and roundabouts, with mobile carriers – forced by the European Commission to lose on the swings by lowering their roaming charges for voice and data – gaining on the roundabouts by upping pay-as-you-go charges?At first glance, you'd think so. But it's not the case. It's down to something else entirely – driven by the UK communications regulator Ofcom.According to billmonitor, which has analysed 28,000 contract customers' bills, contract customers (who make up about half of UK mobile users, but are the majority of data roaming users) spend about £61 per year on roaming costs; 39% of contract customers make at least one roaming call every year. For texts, it's 27%; for data, 24%. (Voicemail is hardly used at all.) Nellie Kroes is forcing wholesale prices on calls and data down from 80 euro cents to 50 euro cents.That means that mobile roaming charges are about 75% cheaper, on average, than six years ago.And at the same time, Orange and Vodafone have announced swingeing rises in the costs of pay-as-you-go calls and text – up to 66%. O2 has also pushed up its prices. So has 3, though "only in line with inflation", it says.Why the disparity? Because the rise in the PAYG charges are because of the new "mobile termination rates" (MTR) imposed by Ofcom.MTRs are the reason why for years it has been more expensive to call a mobile phone from a landline, rather than a landline-to-landline call. The carrier accepting the call charges the operator making the call to complete it; and MTRs were, in Ofcom's opinion, acting as a barrier to entry for new operators, while giving the larger operators (notably O2) free money because they would receive more incoming calls from other networks.BT and 3, the smallest mobile carrier, hate MTRs: "In 2009, Vodafone, O2, Orange, T-Mobile (now Everything Everywhere) made a big profit from the charges, raking in around £2m in income per day, or £750 million a year between them,"according to CCS Mobile.With MTRsbeing forced down by quite dramatic amounts– almost halved for the big three (Orange &amp; T-Mobile, Vodafone, O2)over the next year, and then nearly halved again, until by 2013-14 they will be roughly a quarter of their present cost – the carriers aren't getting the influx of money that they had become used to. And it adds up to millions every year.So now they're having to take a hard look at their PAYG customers, who form about half of their customers but only generate 10% to 20% of their revenues, and find a way to convert them to more lucrative (and longer-lasting) contracts. The obvious way to do that: push up the price of making calls, so that PAYG customers have a strong incentive to shift to contract instead.So why aren't contract prices going up? Nick Wright, marketing director of billmonitor, says it's because of the legal ramifications: "They'd have to change the terms and conditions, and that would mean people could leave their contracts because the terms had changed." Far simpler just to hike the PAYG prices: there's no contract to break. But you might see new contract prices begin to edge up as the big four (or three, since Orange and T-Mobile are the same company) operators try to recoup that £750m hole in their accounts. Especially since they won't be able to make it up from roaming charges.Update:An Ofcom spokesperson said: "There is a lot of competition in the mobile market and we urge consumers to shop around to get the best deal for them. When we cut wholesale mobile termination rates – the high rates that mobile operators were charging each other to end calls on their networks – we did so in a way that would increase choice for consumers and lead to cheaper landlines calls. We have already seen some operators improving deals for consumers as a result of our decision."Here's Ofcom's graph of how MTRs should fall as a result of its ruling (taken from itsreport on the matter; PDF, head to page 107):Mobile termination rates 2000-2015* (est) following Ofcom ruling. Source: OfcomWho knows how the carriers will make up the lost revenues – a new, lower data cap, perhaps? Stay tuned.
Yes, here's another in our occasional series of slightly more offbeat gaming stories, as well as a few interesting events for you to attend. This week, we have the Guardian Gamesblog pub quiz, an interesting ARG, a Scottish games festival, a game about sweatshops (pictured) and more!The Guardian Gamesblog pub quiz at Develop BrightonAs you may have seen, I'll be hosting a games quiz on Monday July 18 as part of theDevelop Brighton conference. The event is an unmissable industry get-together with keynotes from the likes of veteran game designer Clint Hocking and Britsoft legend, David Braben. But the important part is our quiz! I need lots of teams of four, and you can pre-register your crack squad of gaming experts with me beforehand at my Guardian email address (firstname dot surname dot guardian dot co dot uk). There will be cunning trivia questions, audio rounds and even some creativity tests. It all kicks off at 8pm.Dare ProtoPlay computer games festivalTaking place from August 12-14 at Dundee's Caird Hall,Dare ProtoPlayis a chance for the public to try out all the finalists in this year'sDare to be Digitalgame design competition, run by the University of Abertay. The event is free and will also feature games from the likes of Sony, Crytek and Blitz (as well as Scottish studiosCobraandTag), as well as video game talks and workshops and a professional gaming tournament.Eurogamer Indie expoTheEurogamer Expois one of the UK's finest consumer video game events, and this year they're running another Indie Arcade, which showcases a range of the best new indie titles. The organisers are currently looking for submissions, so if you've been sitting in your bedroom for the last six months, coding the next Minecraft or Angry Birds, let them know! You can find more detailshere.Channel 4 opens SweatshopAward-winning digital entertainment agencyLittleloud(responsible for great, thought-provoking titles likeThe CurfewandBow Street Runner) has just launched its latest game for Channel 4 Education. Sweatshop is a web-based tower defence-style strategy game in which players have to run a clothing manufacturer fulfilling orders for a major Western highstreet brand. As the production line runs, you need to make quick decisions about whether or not to employ fire stewards, how you should train staff and if you should motivate staff with nice treats or with unreasonable threats. It is, of course, a light hearted (but fact-filled) look at a key retail topic – should poorly paid and poorly treated garment workers in the Far East lead miserable lives so that we can wear cheap T-shirts? You'll be able to play the gameherefrom Monday July 18.Green Lantern and the quest for galactic knowledgeI'm really late with this, but wanted to mention it, as it's such a neat example of clever - ahem - 'transmedia' marketing. Last month, Warner Bros commissioned the brilliant London-based studio Hide&amp;Seek to create an ARG around its Green Lantern Movie. The team set up a website for a fictitious star gazing club named The Newton and District Astronomers Guild, which claimed to have found strange anomalies in the night sky. The site cleverly linked in withThe Milky Way project, a citizen science endeavour in which viewers can analyse photographs from Nasa's Spitzer space telescope and then submit their data to researchers for analysis.The feature that participants have to look for in these is photographs are 'bubbles' produced by the formation of stars. These bubbles appear in photos as green rings, which of course, ties in with the iconography of the Green Lantern universe. In effect, Hide&amp;Seek was encouraging comic book fans to help with scientific research - which is a far more profound and useful way of engaging with super hero fans than sticking plastic toys in Happy Meals.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWant Google+ Circles on Facebook? Try Circle Hack &gt;&gt; circlehack.comExactly the same experience. Except it's Facebook lists. If you missed out on a Google+ invite so far, this will give you the feeling.Spam volumes show massive drop - but why? &gt;&gt; The Register"Spam levels have dropped massively in recent months, though researchers fear this is simply because botnet operators have switched their attention to more lucrative activities.&#10;"Junk mail volumes - which reached 90% last summer - are down to 75% this summer, net security firm Symantec reports.&#10;"The 15 percentage points drop in spam has led to a 60% decrease in total email volumes, helping reduce network congestion and server load in the process.&#10;"Symantec reports that junk mail volumes that reached a high of 230bn spam messages per day in July 2010, 90% of all email traffic, are down to 39.2bn messages per day, 72.9% of all email."Spam was 9 out of 10 - now it's only 3 out of 4! We're back to... 2001?Human errors fuel hacking as test shows nothing stops idiocy &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"The U.S. Department of Homeland Security ran a test this year to see how hard it was for hackers to corrupt workers and gain access to computer systems. Not very, it turned out.&#10;"Staff secretly dropped computer discs and USB thumb drives in the parking lots of government buildings and private contractors. Of those who picked them up, 60% plugged the devices into office computers, curious to see what they contained. If the drive or CD case had an official logo, 90% were installed."Market Intelligence Centre predicts Windows Phone will have 17% of the market next year &gt;&gt; Windows Power User"Taiwanese Market Intelligence Centre has joined IDC in predicting Windows Phone 7 will be very well next year.Noting that HTC will be doing very well from Android this year, the institute predicts Windows Phone 7 will jump to 17% of the market next year.&#10;"This will be largely at the expense of RIM and Symbian, who Chang Chi, deputy head of MIC predicted will see sharp market share declines, eventually being ousted by HTC as the 4th biggest phone brand."The forecast: Android 40%, iOS 19%, Windows Phone 17%. Wonder how he sees the other 34% being split.In US, Smartphones Now Majority of New Cellphone Purchases &gt;&gt; Nielsen blog"Smartphones continue to grow in popularity. According to Nielsen's May survey of mobile consumers in the U.S., 38% now own smartphones. And 55% of those who purchased a new handset in the past three months reported buying a smartphone instead of a feature phone, up from 34% just a year ago.&#10;"Android continues to be the most popular smartphone operating system, with 38% of smartphone consumers owning Android devices. However, while Android also leads among those who recently purchased a new smartphone, it is the Apple iPhone that has shown the most growth in recent months."Nielsen's conclusion: Apple is now driving smartphone growth in the US.What Google+ Learned from Buzz and Wave &gt;&gt; SmarterwareGina Trapani: "After a half day of using Google+ with the limited number of people I know in the field test so far, I like it a lot. I will love Google+ when and if all my friends show up and stick around.&#10;"I've been been watching Google flail around social web apps for a few years now, so what I appreciate most about Google+ is that it's a well-thought out product informed by past experience. The more I use Google+, the more I see just how many lessons Google learned from Wave and Buzz.."Smart Meter Madness &gt;&gt; TechMarketView"According to the NAO, the UK rollout of smart meters "would save a typical dual fuel customer £1.92 a month, assuming that the householder's use of gas and electricity falls in line with predictions". A princely sum indeed. And note the caveats – dual fuel customers and a fall in gas and electricity prices.&#10;"Now look, I am not saying smart meters aren't a great thing for the energy suppliers. But the suggestion that any cost reduction they achieve by eliminating (eventually) 'feet on the street' meter readers, and by being able to micro-manage supply, will then be passed to consumers is just pipe-dream stuff."Finding RSA keys in long bit strings (PDF) &gt;&gt; John Hopkins UniversitySummary: "In this paper we consider the problem of efficiently locating cryptographic keys hidden in gigabytes of data, such as the complete file system of a typical PC. We describe efficient algebraic attacks which can locate secret RSA keys in long bit strings, and more general statistical attacks which can find arbitrary cryptographic keys embedded in large programs.&#10;"These techniques can be used to apply lunchtime attacks on signature keys used by financial institutes, or to defeat authenticode type mechanisms in software packages."Scared yet? Worse: it's from 1998. One co-author is Adi Shamir, part of the RSA team.Open letter to BlackBerry bosses: Senior RIM exec tells all as company crumbles around him &gt;&gt; BGRUsually a site whose exclusives are better taken with tongs (in our experience), but this chimes with other things we've been hearing about RIM. A dramatic letter, on a par with the Yahoo "Peanut Butter" memo.Full of good ideas - such as "let's start an internal innovation revival with teams focused on what users will love instead of chasing 'feature parity' and feature differentiation for no good reason (Adobe Flash being a major example)."RIM's staff now know its platform is about to catch fire, and they don't want to be immolated.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Apple, Microsoft, Sony and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion are part of a winning consortium of six companies which have bought a valuable tranche of patents from the bankrupt Nortel Networks patent portfolio for $4.5bn (£2.8bn), in a hotly contested auction that saw Google and Intel lose out.Early signs had suggested that Google might be the winning bidder for the patents, which will provide valuable armoury for expected disputes in the communications – and especially smartphone – field.The result could give Apple and Microsoft the upper hand in any forthcoming patents rows. Microsoft is already extracting payments from a number of companies that use Google's Android mobile operating system on the basis that it owns patents that they were infringing. Oracle has big court case against Google alleging that Android infringes a number of Java patents, and claiming $6.1bn in damages.Had Google won the bidding for the patents, it would have been in a better position to protect Android from patent infringement claims.Large patent portfolios are often used in a tit-for-tat manner to defend a company and its intellectual property from patent claims by rivals: cross-licensing deals effectively create a ceasefire. As a relatively young company, Google has comparatively few patents that it can use for such deals.Storage company EMC and Swedish communications company Ericsson were also part of the winning consortium, for which the result was announced late on Thursday night.The sale includes more than 6,000 patents and patent applications spanning wireless, wireless 4G, data networking, optical, voice, internet, semiconductors and other patents. The most prized ones relate to mobile broadband technology used in emerging 4G standards such as long term evolution (LTE).Google had opened the bidding at $900m in April. Apple and Intel then quickly entered the auction. The three companies are relative newcomers to the increasingly litigious mobile industry which is seeing booming demand for smartphones and tablets.Apple recentlycompleted a cross-licensing deal with Finnish handset maker Nokiafollowing a long-running patent infringement row. The settlement is expected to cost the American company many millions of dollars every quarter."The size and dollar value for this transaction is unprecedented, as was the significant interest in the portfolio among major companies around the world," said George Riedel, chief strategy officer and president of business units at Nortel.RIM's portion of the purchase consideration is about $770m, while Ericsson paid $340m, the companies said in separate statements. Apple and Microsoft have not said how much they paid or how ownership of the patents will be split – though the most likely scenario is that if the patents are licensed then the companies will receive payments in proportion to their contributions.The sale is subject to Canadian and US court approvals which will be sought at a joint hearing expected to be held on 11 July, Nortel said.Earlier on Thursday, Nortel obtained a court order to further extend the stay of proceedings under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act to 14 December.The patents are the last major assets to be sold by Nortel Networks, a once-giant Canadian technology company that imploded as the tech bubble burst, and filed for bankruptcy protection in January 2009.Nortel raised around $3.2bn for creditors by selling business units since then.
