So, you may have noticed that Apple stood up and made a little announcement last night. The iPhone 4S boasts a dual-core A5 Chip, a new camera and full 1080p HD video recording, as well as an 'intelligent' voice recognition service named Siri that will help you browse the web for location-based info and other stuff. But what will all this mean for games?Gears of War creator Epic is certainly excited. The company was at Apple's Cupertino headquarters yesterday showing off Infinity Blade 2, sequel to the phenomenally successful iPhone RPG hack-'em-up. Developed by Chair Entertainment, the title is set to make full use of the handset's beefed up processor, as well as the new iCloud feature of iOS 5, which will allow game saves to be stored remotely so that players can swap the action seamlessly between devices.What does everyone else think? Chatting to several UK developers this morning, it seems the increase in processing power is a key attraction. "It's an amazing piece of hardware," enthuses Chris Byatte, co-general manager of smartphone publisher,Chillingo. "With twice the power of the previous iPhone and seven times faster graphics the possibilities for gaming are very exciting.""I think parity with the CPU/GPU of the iPad 2 is great for those of us working with these top-end devices," says Simon Barratt of Bradford-basedFour Door Lemon, which has just released its latest iOS title,Tic Toc Body Pop. "I wasn't expecting the RAM to be increased to 1GB, versus the iPad 2 with 512MB, so that was a welcome surprise and should allow for more working memory to be available to developers. As with iPad 2, having the extra core allows us to either make specific content that targets multiple cores only, or it lets us add extra effects or polish for 4S owners. Developers could also provide a solid FPS boost by offloading work to one core."However, Barratt adds a proviso to this: "It is interesting to see Apple actively segmenting the market in this way. Developers do need to now consider which users they are targeting with new titles and how much effort they spend on newer device features – especially when devices from a few years ago are still being pushed to new users."It's a point of view echoed by other studios I spoke to.Hogrockethas just released its first iOS title, Tiny Invaders and co-founder Ben Ward is keen to keep his iOS options open. "With Tiny Invaders, we made the extra effort to support iPhones and iPods all the way back to iOS 3.1.3. We made our game run at full speed on older hardware, such as the iPhone 3G and iPod Touch rev. 2, because we feel it's important that those people don't get left behind. Don't get me wrong - eventually it will be impractical to support every version of iOS hardware, but I think developers shouldn't be too quick to make games exclusively for the 4S. There is a huge existing iOS user base out there and they still need new games."Because of this emerging sense of fragmentation in the iOS family, then, it could be a while before we see the newer elements of the tech being exploited by the vast majority of smaller teams. "It will be the least-common hardware under the iOS banner for quite a while so taking advantage of the new features and power will be the remit of people like Epic," says Andrew Smith, founder ofSpilt Milk Studios. "Small studios like mine would be mad to spend too much time, effort or money on features that the 4S allow, if it's at the expense of the older handsets."Meanwhile, iOS 5 promises a couple of major new developments for games. The iCloud functionality, which allows data, photos and music to be saved to a remote saver and then automatically synced between Apple devices, will obviously be useful for game saves. And Epic is not the only company eyeing up the possibility of developing games that can be played on iPhone, then picked up on iPad or Mac later on. As Barratt points out, "Our game, Cricket Captain 2011, is cross platform on PC, Mac, iPad, iPhone, and it already has cloud save support to allow users to switch between devices while playing the same match. I think gamers are going to come to expect this ability to switch between devices with ease."Alongside remote game saves and the possibility of running seamless cross-platform titles, a few developers are seeing other possibilities. "Maybe some form of user-generated content sharing," suggests Smith. "That would be the start of something very interesting indeed – a version of our gameHard Lineswith some LittleBigPlanet-style editing functionality would be something to see!"Also, Apple's connected gaming service Game Center is set to get some new features under iOS 5. The developers are under NDA so can't discuss these, but last night's press statement declares, "with iOS 5, you can get your game face on with even more Game Center features. Post a profile picture. Meet your match with new friend recommendations based on the games you play and the players you already know. Discover new games without leaving Game Center. And size up an opponent on the spot with new overall achievement scores." Essentially, Apple is picking up yet more tips from Xbox Live and PlayStation Network, seeking to create a much more comprehensive, socially integrated system.As for Siri, none of the developers could say whether Apple would be making  the tech available in its game APIs. However, there's certainly interest out there. "Voice recognition is one of the strongest, but also most under-exploited features of Kinect so I'm keen to see what people do with it on iOS," says Sean Taylor, a producer at Dundee-based developerDenki, responsible for the excellent word puzzler,Quarrel. "An iPhone 4S augmented reality game with intelligent use of voice recognition and gestures certainly gets my juices flowing. Being Scottish, however, I can't help but think my Siri experience will turn out likethis Burnistoun sketch..."Ian Harper, Managing Director ofFuture Games of London, has some more ideas. "If Siri works well – and early reports indicate that it does – it could be an interesting option for a variety of different uses. I can imagine that the guys who made [the audio game]Papa Sangrecould make a very interesting sound and voice only game with the technology. For most developers, I imagine it could be used as an elegant alternative to including cluttered HUD buttons all over a beautiful game, instead of having a rarely used pause button, players could simply tell their iPhone to pause the game."But then maybe we are not thinking far enough a field. It could be possible to have speech-based RPG games where people interact directly with NPCs by speaking to them; it would take a significant amount of work into possible dialogue trees, but I'm sure it would be worth it. Or puzzle games where you have to move through an environment dealing with physical puzzles whilst simultaneously being engaged in riddles with a mad GLaDoS type AI super computer? Simpler children's games would be conceived of quite easily that prompt the child to name colours, shapes, letters and numbers that pop-up, or to mimic the sounds of animals as they parade across the screen."He does, though, sound a note of caution. "The possibilites are many, but it does all rely firstly on how well the technologyreallyworks and secondly on how much of a pillock people are willing to look as they vocalise bizarre commands into their iPhone whilst sitting on the number 25 bus."Although, judging by several recent journeys on pubic transport, it seems to me that having to scream repetitive phrases into a handset for an entire journey is not going to be a deal-breaker for a lot of phone users...iCloud vs Wii U?One interesting point that Ian Harper, Managing Director of Future Games of London, brings up about iCloud is that it could offer multiplayer experiences like those emerging on current and next gen console platforms..."Looking at the demo of the new Nintendo Wii U, the possibility for multiplayer games where one player is afforded much more information through the use of a separate tablet screen than the rest of the players who share splitscreens on a single TV, seems like an interesting trend that could take off. In the demo games from the Nintendo promo video, the group of players might be tasked with working together to hunt or defeat the loner, or the loner could act as a dungeon master who plots out the adventure for the rest of the players in real time."iCloud would allow for games that revolve around very similar situations as they are now making it much easier to share data between all your different Apple devices.""With iCloud, this type of game could take the form of some sort of geo location game where one user perhaps organises a scavenger hunt through their iMac and then monitor's teams of hunters who are fed riddles through their iPhones and then must locate and photograph specific objects or landmarks to advance to the next stage of the hunt. The organiser at their iMac could track the teams locations in real time and offer Warmer/Colder hints as they go or even engineer situations where two teams might arrive at the same thing at the same time to compete in some sort of challenge."
Apple'snew iPhone 4Sfaces the prospect of court injunctions in France and Italy from the Korean electronics firm Samsung, which says the phones breach patents it owns on wireless communications.It is an escalation ofthe struggle between Samsung and Apple, who are fighting a number of increasingly bitter court battles in various territories around the world. Samsung, which is challenging Apple for the title of the world's biggest maker of smartphones, says it plans to file preliminary injunctions in Paris and Milan on the basis that the iPhone 4S, announced in California on Tuesday night and expected in a number of countries including the UK from 14 October, infringes its patents onWCDMAtechnology.The iPhone 4S combines both GSM and CDMA systems – the two principal methods of connecting to mobile networks – in a single phone, so that it can be used on almost any mobile network in the world without modification. Apple has been selling a CDMA version of the iPhone 4 since January, initially for use on the US Verizon network, though it is not sold in either France or Italy, which use GSM networks. Samsung filed a suit against Apple in the US in April claiming infringement of its WCDMA patents."Apple has continued to flagrantly violate our intellectual property rights and free ride on our technology, and we will steadfastly protect our intellectual property," Samsung said in a statement.The South Korean company did not say when the French and Italian filings would take place, but did say it plans similar moves in other countries "after further review". Under the laws of France and Italy, companies can seek and courts can order a ban on sales of a product even before the product reaches markets, Samsung spokesman James Chung told Reuters.Apple did not have any comment at the time of publication.Samsung is set to report sharply lower quarterly earnings on Friday on persistent declines in chip prices, while investors look for signs that its telecom business can sustain its booming growth. Samsung has been a supplier to Apple of parts including touchscreens and memory chips, but the two companies have also been at odds through the courts since April, when Apple took legal actions claiming Samsung's Galaxy line of smartphones and tablet computers, claiming that they copy its iPhone and iPad.Samsung has responded by taking Apple to court over what it alleges are violations of its patents covering wireless communications. Samsung said the technology it claims Apple infringes "is essential to the reliable functioning of telecom networks and devices" and that it sees the alleged violations as "too severe and that (the) iPhone 4S should be barred from sales".Apple has won sales injunctions against Samsung products in the Netherlands and Germany and is seeking one in Australia. Samsung has asked a court in the Netherlands to stop Apple from selling iPhones and iPad tablets in that country.
CK Lu, Gartner, on the iPhone 4S"Apple no longer has a leading edge – its cloud service is even behind (Google's mobile operating system) Android; it can only sell on brand loyalty now. Users may wait to buy the next iPhone; if they can't wait, they may shift to brands with more advanced specifications."Thomas Husson, European consumer mobile analyst, Forrester Research"Apple's smartphone product strategists face an ongoing paradox: maintaining premium leadership with an annual product renewal while tapping the rapidly mainstreaming global smartphone market. Apple's product strategists have opted to satisfy the premium position with an iPhone 4S that, like the3GS at its introduction, relies on improved processing power and a new interaction paradigm, but eschews technology upgrades that their Android competitors rely upon today such as LTE and a larger screen."Apple's new Siri Assistant, unique to the new 4S, is a powerful harbinger of the future use of mobile devices – not just the power of voice but, more importantly, the ability to contextualise a statement or request. However, Forrester believes that consumers will be much more slow to adopt this new interface than they did Apple's revolutionary touchscreen of its first iPhone."Richard Windsor, Nomura Securities"Apple diehards and hypesters waiting for a big revision of the hardware were disappointed on Tuesday when Apple launched an upgrade to the iPhone 4 rather than a brand new model. None of this is likely to keep the Android community up at night and we suspect that even Nokia may be sighing a breath of relief … After weeks of fevered speculation about a low-end model and multiple SKUs [stock-keeping units] of a new iPhone, very little has come to pass explaining the 3% decline in the share price, making the total intraday swing of 5%."While this has disappointed the Apple fans, it is good news for the Android camp. We think It makes complete sense for Apple to address the low end. The longer it delays, the better it is for the Android operators."We think that a low-end iPhone would be highly detrimental to the proposition of Android, but this time around it has been spared. Hence we remain comfortable with our choice of the Asian Android vendors as the best way to invest in the smartphone market: we have 'Buy' ratings on HTC, Samsung, ZTE and TCL."Francisco Jeronimo, IDC European Mobile Devices research manager"Despite the upgrades and the new iPhone 4S released, this announcement is all about price positioning. The new prices announced to the new iPhone4S and previous iPhone versions allow Apple to compete in the price segments where Android is fiercely growing, the mid-range. Apple will attract first-time smartphone users and users from mid-price Symbian devices looking for an upgrade, but will it attract current iPhone users to replace their current iPhone's? Definitely not!"In the previous announcements, Apple implemented significant software and hardware changes able to seduce users to get the latest version, but this is not the case with the iPhone 4S. This device represents an opportunity for Samsung and HTC Android premium handsets. The Samsung Galaxy S II has been a major hit around the world and a serious competitor to the iPhone."HTC has also been increasing market share in the high-end segment. Without a significant hardware differentiation there's no strong incentive for a massive replacement, as users can just upgrade their iPhone 4s with the new iOS 5. Samsung and HTC have been pumping the market with new handsets every quarter, if not every month. Their devices deliver strong user experiences based on Android OS at lower prices."Although Apple will be better positioned to compete in the mid-range segments and increase its presence on the emerging markets, where price stills a major factor on the purchasing decision. Nokia and Research in Motion should be the most threatened phone makers with Apple's announcements today. If price was an inhibitor for consumers to move from their Symbian or Blackberry based devices to the iPhone, now they have the change. Today Apple entered the mass market game, hopefully not leaving the innovation and coolness to their competitors!"Frank Gillett, cloud analyst, Forrester Research"Apple's iCloud is an important new software platform and service that will integrate Apple's customer experiences across their iPhone, iPad, and Mac products. This first version creates a personal cloud experience of the individual's work, personal, and purchased content being seamlessly available across all their Apple products, in contrast to the fragmented experience of Google, Microsoft, and Amazon."I believe the Siri Assistant feature is the beginning of a new user experience built around context that will eventually create a much more personal, intimate experience for using all of Apple's mobile and Mac products. Both of these offerings will have enduring impact beyond the latest model of the iPhone." A recent Forrester report forecast that the number of Americans subscribing to personal cloud services would jump from 65 million today to 196 million in 2016. We peg the personal cloud market at $12bn by 2016."Jan Dawson, chief analyst at Ovum"Though the announcement was relatively meaty in terms of hardware, Apple has been a victim of the hype that surrounds all of its announcements. With so many false rumours about what it would announce, it was almost inevitable that the announcement itself would disappoint. The hardware upgrades should improve performance considerably and keep the phone competitive with the latest Android and Windows Phone devices, but none will blow users away. This represents a significant upgrade for 3GS owners, but many iPhone 4 owners will be content to stick with what they've got until something less incremental comes along, especially as many will not yet be eligible for subsidized upgrades from their carriers."In some ways, the more interesting announcement was the continuation of the iPhone 3GS, which is now available for free on contract with many carriers, and which now represents Apple's low-cost strategy for emerging markets and smartphone laggards. Rather than making a new lower-functionality, lower-cost device for such markets, Apple simply continues to sell a more than two-year old device which was market-leading at the time it launched. For a company which prides itself on the quality of its products, this strategy has always made more sense than producing a new, sub-standard device for such markets. The strategy should also keep iPhone shipment numbers growing as ever more first-time iPhone users join the back of the ranks."Lastly, Apple introduced a new 'personal assistant' feature on the iPhone 4s, which is based on its acquisition of Siri. While similar to other voice recognition apps in the market such as Vlingo, Siri differentiates itself by being baked into the fabric of the OS, and by its use of natural language processing. The demo of the feature certainly gave the announcement event a wow factor it was otherwise lacking, but it feels like another Facetime in that regard – something that makes for good demos, but which few people will actually use in practice."Kim Young-chan, financial analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp, Seoul"Major concerns for Samsung had been that its smartphone momentum would decelerate with Apple's new iPhone, but that is now less of a concern as the new iPhone failed to excite many."Ming-chi Kuo, analyst at Concord Securities in Taipei"There are still many consumers who don't have the iPhone experience, and Apple still has a lot of markets and carriers to enter, so when there's a new model with better specs, it helps to lift shipments. The iPhone 4S targets users who are expiring on their two-year 3GS contract."
Apple's latest iPhone launch is all about putting the product into as many hands as already hold iPods.And to achieve this Tim Cook, officially handed the reins in August after Steve Jobs retired, has clearly decided he needs to let the iPhone become a little less premium.The focus at Tuesday's iPhone 4S launch was on price. The oldest iPhone not to be discontinued, the 3GS, will now be free with a two-year contract. The iPhone 4 range will be reduced to just one model, with a mere 8GB of storage – the biggest 4S has 64GB – but will cost just $99 on a two year tie-in.The changes to Apple's European smartphone market share for the first half of the year show why Cook needs a wider economic catchment. Samsung is gaining ground and fast. As Nokia committed hara-kiri by abandoning its Symbian operating system and letting its market share fall from over 40% in the first quarter of 2010 to 11% in the second quarter of 2011, research by analyst IDC shows that Apple did not benefit.Its share of sales fell from 25% to 21%. Samsung's rose from 2.5% to overtake Apple, with 22%. HTC gained too, rising from 8% to 14%.The east Asia contenders have allied their manufacturing expertise with Google's programming power, using the Californian company's Android operating system in an alliance that has dominated sales of mid range smart phones.It's hard to believe that Apple could be losing market share when so far this year it has sold 55m iPhones, more than twice as many as it did in the first nine months of 2010.The speed at which smartphones are being adopted can, as BlackBerry maker Research in Motion's sudden fall from grace has shown, make or break even the biggest of players in a handful of quarters.Including new numbers from Tuesday, there have been about 325m individual iPods sold around the world since 2002. According to Apple's third-quarter results, 129m iPhones have been put into consumers' hands since 2007.So Apple will need to sell 200m more phones if they are to reach as wide a public as the music players.No rival ever really matched Apple on the iPod, and the market for MP3 players remained its own. That has never quite been the case with smartphones, thanks mostly to Google's intervention.Differences in the quality of the products are beginning to melt away. Microsoft has yet to launch its updated phone operating system, dubbed Mango, in a big way. It is awaiting new handsets from Nokia on which to show it off.But as an early user, on an HTC handset, I believe it will raise the bar. Jobs used to rightly deride Microsoft products for poor aesthetics and clunky usability. Mango's graphic design, the deep integration of popular tools such as Facebook and Twitter, and its ease of navigation make the iPhone 4 look out of date.Sales of the iPod have already begun a double-digit decline. It is nearing the beginning of the end of its life cycle. Apple sold 20% fewer in its third quarter than in the same period last year.Cannibalising iPod Touch sales with a cheaper smartphone is a risk that must now be taken. While hardcore Apple addicts may be disappointed at the lack of a handset called iPhone 5, Cook has picked the right time to address a wider audience.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMichael Dell Advises Hewlett-Packard &gt;&gt; New York Times Bits Blog"'There are many reasons to stay committed,' said Mr. Dell, who did not need to mention H.P. to make the distinction to the tech-savvy crowd. He said that 5 percent of the world's microprocessors go into servers and storage and 95 percent go into PCs. The same is true for disk drives and other components, he said."Google's Management Doesn't Use Google+ &gt;&gt; the understatement"It's been over 3 months since Google+ launched, and he's only made 7 public posts, including just one since mid-August. Turns out that's still 7 more posts than Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt has ever made. Since Google+ launched, Mr. Schmidt has found time to retweet Ivanka Trump's promotion of "Snow Flower &amp; The Secret Fan", but apparently couldn't find time to even join Google+. He's nowhere to be found in the search results, and one can only assume he's using his real name. He's apparently also still using a Blackberry, so he's hardly been a leader in the eat-your-own-dogfood department."iPhone 4S hands-on impressions &gt;&gt; This Is My NextJoshua Topolsky: "...Otherwise, the performance of the phone seemed very snappy compared with the older model, though I wouldn't say the iPhone 4S appears to be obviously faster if you're just darting around the homescreen and opening apps. Siri did seem to speedily pull up answers and forms for text messages and the like -- but it wasn't exactly blowing my mind. "Other iOS 5 improvements were obviously on-board, and they do make the iPhone feel significantly more modern. Particularly, the new notifications are a welcome break from the previous, annoying interstitials which iOS offered. Everything I saw today, however, is the kind of feature which you need to live with to fully appreciate. At least, that was my strong impression."Kindle Fire searches twice as big in UK as iPad &gt;&gt; Experian Hitwise"It was only a couple of months ago that I was blogging about the online battle between the iPad and Kindle. Back in August, iPad dominated the UK search market, with twice as much search volume as the Kindle. Amazon's announcement last week of a new backlit tablet to challenge the iPad, called the Kindle Fire, has turned the market on its head." People really, really want to know about Kindle Fire. This isn't actually good news for Google, but it's great news for Amazon.Google Chrome browser 'is becoming Number Two' &gt;&gt; The Register"Google's Chrome browser will edge past Mozilla Firefox in a matter of months, web stats poking firms have concluded. Irish company StatCounter foresees the Google browser becoming the second most used browser on the net by December. "In the StatCounter predictions, relayed to Computer World, Chrome will sweep 26.6% of the market share by December and Firefox will be sitting on 25.3%. Internet Explorer will retain its dominance through user inertia, holding approximately 40%." Could have knock-on effect on Mozilla's funding: it gets per-search revenues from Google.Why Apple should make iCloud open &gt;&gt; Kate Craig-Wood"Essentially Apple sees iCloud as a consumer rather than a business service - and Apple have never really been interested in enterprises or business, despite the work they done to support policies and enterprise standards like Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync on the iPhone. "In addition to the closed, proprietary, non-interoperable system being likely to put off serious business users there are two other issues. It does not look like iCloud will not come with a substantial service level agreement, which guarantees iCloud uptime or quality of service, and they don't seemed to have paid a huge amount of attention to security. CIOs aren't going to entrust important data to a service that may or may not be available when needed. "Still, even if it is a consumer service, Apple is a quality brand so one would have thought that security would be a priority, and these days consumers are increasingly aware of the need for keeping personal data safe, especially online."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's the middle of the week. Let's just stop for a second and talk about games.
Siri is now only available on the iPhone 4SUntil Tuesday evening, Siri.com was the home page for the company which Apple already owned, and you could download a free app which would work on older iPhones (back to the 3GS:here's a review) and offer you much of the Siri functionality. Now it's been withdrawn – and its servers turned off for old versions of the app – and Siri's pages redirect to Apple's site.If you think about it, this means that Apple's taking software that did run on old hardware and limiting it to new hardware. For a company that makes its money out of selling hardware, this might not be surprising. For those who had the free app, that's probably annoying. As far as we presently know there's nothing 4S-specific about Siri (although possibly the voice recognition depends on the A5 chip).Siri really works, and it's quite cleverI got some time to test it hands-on, in a booth in a fairly busy room of journalists. "What's the weather like outside?" I asked. It came back with the weather in London (where I was). "What's my father's email address?" It came back with two email addresses for the person designated in the address book as "father". Not what you'd call a comprehensive test, but it shows that it's location-aware, context-aware, and works without training. (By contrast, I just tried "Siri app" on voice search on my Google Nexus S running Gingerbread: it took me to the web page for Syria.)Siri is integrated through the whole phoneYou press the home button and the interface comes up. Then ask it anything. It's very neat. It uses Siri's servers, so you'll need a working connection.Siri will search Google, but Apple gets to see searches now tooYou can ask it to "search the web", but note that Apple is now an intermediate, which can see what searches are being done. That's useful to Apple. Add in location data (which it doesn't have to pass on to Google...) and it's prising Google's fingers off mobile search, at least if done via Siri.The iPhone 4S really does look and feel exactly like the iPhone 4There's no difference at all, externally. Apparently the iPhone 4S is very slightly heavier – 139g (4.9oz) v 136g (4.8oz) – but you'd need a very sensitive hand to detect it.Taking pictures on the 4S is much quicker, and taking extra pictures is tooI tried the camera on taking pictures, and the setup is really fast. It takes more pictures quickly too – almost like firing the motordrive on an SLR camera. Apple says it takes 1.1 second to get to the "click" part – faster than any in a list it provided – and that it's then just 0.5 second to take another one. It's impressive: camera setup delay is one of the niggles of modern life (especially smartphone life) that has crept up on us without anyone doing very much.The claims on battery life and antenna response are remarkable, but we'll have to seeClaims about improvements in battery life and antenna "intelligence" make it sound like this will actually improve the user experience a lot. Phil Schiller didn't refer to any "problems" with the iPhone 4 antenna, but of course the idea of improvements includes the suggestion that things weren't perfect before.iCloud is going to be good…Just as with the iOS4/iPhone 4 release, Apple is releasing the next version of iOS two days ahead of the iPhone 4S so that its servers won't conk out. (My interpretation.) The ability to have your pictures and documents and apps synchronised without the tedious plugging and unplugging of wires is going to be a great relief to millions – and iCloud is applicable for phones back to the iPhone 3GS from 2009, and iPod Touches released after that period too. Ian Fogg, a mobile analyst, reckons there are about 200m applicable iOS devices (iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads) in use. That's a very big platform.We don't know precisely how quickly syncing over Wi-Fi and especially 3G will work (especially with larger photos from the newer iPhone 4S). This makes it feature-competitive with Google+'s photo syncing on Android.…but hurry up and wait for music syncThe record labels don't seem to have quite got this tied up over here: we want to be able to synchronise our purchased music (at least – and all our music, actually) across phones. Every time you have to plug your phone in to shift some music across, say a little curse to the record labels. (Unless you work for one, obviously.) Apple UK isn't offering any timing, even though our sources were indicating imminent agreement on Tuesday.Notifications is more comprehensive than Android's offeringNotifications on the old iOS have always looked clunky ever since Android's elegant "something's changed" icons in its top menu bar came along. But on iOS 5 (available across those 200m devices, remember) you just swipe downwards from the menu bar and you get a view on everything that's changed, with granular detail including what emails have come in (so you can go to them individually) or what events there are to deal with and so on. It's going to be a more effective shortcut to stuff that needs doing, and leapfrogs Android.iMessage is being stealthily positioned as a BlackBerry killerIf you watch the video (link below) you'll see that in talking about the iPod Touch, Schiller makes a great deal of its potential appeal for "kids". Among the things he points out are that it doesn't need a phone contract (hooray!) but that it has all the app functionality - for games etc - of an iPhone (er, hooray?). And iMessage will work (over Wi-Fi) without needing a phone contract. He was positioning it as a way for kids to keep in touch with parents without having to spend money on a phone contract, because it will work on the iPod Touch too.That's platform thinking: 200m devices far outnumbers RIM's 70 million subscribers worldwide for BlackBerry Messenger. Make your own estimate of how many of each of those are in the hands of teenagers, but it's clear that Apple wants to get BBM to be replaced by iM. RIM though has the advantage that its devices can get phone contracts. At the (3GS) low end, it could turn into a scrap for customers. What would be interesting to know if the overlap between iPod Touch owners and BBM users.You know what? Apple has left a gap in its numbering schemeIt could release an iPhone 5 next year along with the iPad 3. Just saying.Apple hasput the video of the event upon its site.
A selection of 4 apps for you today:Central Park (Listen to the Light)US indie band Bluebrain made headlines earlier in the year when they released a location-based album as an app. The National Mall was designed to be played while walking around the National Mall in Washington DC, with the music changing according to the listener's location. Now the band have released a second app with a new location: Central Park in New York. "To create the app, Bluebrain and contributing musicians composed a multitude of distinct musical segments, each of which corresponds with a designated geographic zone in the park," explains its App Store listing. "As the user traverses these zones, Central Park (Listen to the Light) tracks their location via the iPhone's built-in GPS capabilities; the melody and rhythm of the music varies in accordance with the user's path."iPhoneHard LinesSplit Milk Studios' glowing-lines game Hard Lines has been critically acclaimed on iOS, but has now made the leap to Android. "Kill all lines, pick up lovely glowy things, fight for survival... and most importantly don't crash."AndroidSwarovski RefractOne of the quirkier branded apps we've seen in recent times comes from jewellery firm Swarovski. Its Refact app for iOS gets people to tap their screen to trigger colours and sounds, while sharing the generative music with friends.iPhone / iPadJabberwockyJabberwocky looks interesting, if distinctly creepy. It's an iPad app based on Lewis Carroll's poem of the same name, with hand-painted creatures and voice narration from actress Lani Minella. It's aimed at 8-12 year-olds.iPad
A mop up of the big tech stories from the last fortnight - including some of the ones we weren't able to cover in last week's programme while we looked at the ideas for a Digital Public Space.  There have certainly been some important announcements - from the launch ofAmazon's Kindle Fireto theunveiling of the new Apple iPhone 4S. FromFacebook's Museum of MetoGoogle's new startup centrein East London - Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and paidContent's Robert Andrews break down big stories for thirty minutes of tech chat.There'salsodetails of our series of live podcasts in front of an audience that are taking place over the next month -why not come along to the first one?Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
After months of speculation about the iPhone 5, Apple chief Tim Cook took his audience by surprise by announcing instead the iPhone 4S, an updated version of the iPhone 4 described as "entirely new from the inside".Promoted in TV ads featuring British singer Adele, the iPhone 4S is more than a reissue. Univeiled on Tuesday night by Cook from Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, California, the phone will be faster and have a longer-lasting battery life than the iPhone 4, which is already the world's best-selling smartphone.It will contain the latest in voice activation technology, which Cook and his team took the risk of demonstrating live at the launch. Users will be able to speak requests for the time, a weather update, setting the alarm clock, or finding the nearest restaurant.The new handsets will be available in black and white and in three price bands, depending on memory size. UK prices are expected to be revealed on Thursday, but Apple last night announced the US prices. With a two-year contract, a $199 upfront payment will buy a handset with 16GB of storage. For 32GB, the price will be $299, and for 64GB, $399.The iPhone 4 and 3GS will remain, but only with 8GB of memory. The price has been lowered to £99 for the iPhone 4, bringing it into direct competition with cheaper and faster-selling Android models, while the 3GS will be available for free with a contract.Described by Apple marketing boss Phil Schiller as "entirely new on the inside", the phones will run on iOS 5, the latest version of the iPhone operating system, which was also unveiled on Tuesday and will be available to download to existing iPhone 4 and 3GS handsets on 12 October.The new phones will no longer need to be hooked up to a PC to be activated, but will work straight out of the box. They will also come with iCloud, a content hosting service which will let customers store music, films, TV shows and photographs on Apple's servers rather than on their hard drives, and download them to multiple Apple devices at no extra cost.The phones will arrive in the shops on 14 October in the UK, US, Canada, Australia, France, Germany and Japan. Apple will sell them out of contract from its own stores, while all five of the UK's mobile networks will offer the handsets under contract. It is also understood that Carphone Warehouse has struck a deal with Apple to sell the handsets out of contract. Phones4u is also hoping to stock the range and has opened pre-registration on its website.By the end of the year, the 4S will be available in 70 countries on 100 carriers, in what Cook described as Apple's fastest ever rollout. In the US, it will be available on Sprint Nextel Corp, besides the existing carriers AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless.Described at the launch as a "world phone", the 4S will have two antennas to ensure that it works on both the world's dominant mobile phone technologies – CDMA, widely used in America, and GSM, which dominates in Europe.Apple has used its specially designed A5 chip, developed for use in its iPad, in the new phones. The chip makes the new models two times faster at loading information than the iPhone 4, and allows a battery life of eight hours of talk time on a 3G network or 14 hours on a 2G network. It can browse the internet on Wi-Fi for up to nine hours, and 3G for six hours.Rather than launching the handset himself, Cook took the opportunity to put his team to the fore. Schiller announced the name, while demonstrations of the voice activation technology were led by Scott Forstall, who heads the development of iOS. Named Siri after the startup company which developed it and was bought by Apple in April 2010, the voice activation also links through to a non-Google search engine, Wolfram Alpha, which offers a type of online encyclopedia database of facts and theories.With the iPhone 4 now the most-used camera on Flickr, Cook highlighted new features such as the 8MP sensor, which has 60% more pixels than the iPhone 4."Only Apple could make such amazing hardware, software and services and bring them together into this experience," Cook said in his closing remarks. "I am so incredibly proud of this company."
Apple's iPhone has gotten some improvements, keeping it in the forefront of the mobile industry. But the much more important meaning ofTuesday's flurry of product announcementswas the way the company is slowly but surely swallowing its customers into the larger Apple ecosystem.The build-up was standard Apple fare: a torrent of rumors from the countless Apple acolytes in the media amid the company's standard lockdown security. This gave the company, as usual, the best of all worlds – massive pre-event coverage and then a massive amount of coverage about what actually was being announced. And, as usual, there was genuine meat in the announcements led by Tim Cook, Apple's CEO for real now that Steve Jobs has stepped down permanently due to declining health.The updated iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S, as the new model is called, are fairly impressive, enough so that Apple may have made a marketing error in not naming it the iPhone 5. Not doing so has caused any number of commentators to ask, "Is that all?" I suspect it's enough, even so – at least for the company's legions of diehard fans who will race to buy anything new. In the American market, adding Sprint to the companies selling the phones will bring millions of new users (and Sprint is betting the company on this, having made a purchasing deal,according to the Wall Street Journal, that is grossly balanced in favor of Apple.The 4S hardware has a lot of improvements: better processor and camera; an allegedly better antenna system; the ability to use GSM and CDMA networks, making it Apple's first true world phone; and much more under the covers. There's plenty of competition even now for most of the hardware features, and Apple continues to refuse to offer features users like on other phones, such as the ability to add external memory. Still, this is a state-of-the-art device, by any measure.But the more important news on Tuesday was the stream of advances Apple has made behind the scenes – on computers other than iPhones (they are personal computers, after all), located and controlled by Apple itself.The "iCloud" online storageand management of personal media and documents is a key initiative in this regard.But iCloud needs to be understood in the context of what may be the most interesting element in Tuesday's announcements: Siri, a system using voice recognition and natural-language processing that, if it works as demonstrated, will give users a much more useful way to interact with the devices and the larger environment.Google has been ahead of Apple in this arena. I've been dazzled, for example, by the ability to speak English into my Android-powered phone and have it translate – in text and sound – what I've said into other languages, with great accuracy. On Android, you can also get directions and perform searches, among other things. Apple is taking this further with Siri, with a series of demonstrations including the setting of an alarm clock, making an appointment, finding a restaurant, checking stock prices and more. The integration with Apple's other iPhone apps is key to this.That integration should be seen in the context of Apple's plans to keep its customers entirely inside the Apple ecosystem. Why go outside, except for things Apple doesn't (yet) provide? Apple wants customers to answer that question in this way: "No reason at all."One of the most interesting aspects of Tuesday's announcement, coming just a week afterAmazon announced its entry into the tablet market via the Kindle Fire, was how it demonstrated the parallel trajectories the two companies and others are taking in at least one key way. As more and more products move from the physical to the digital realm, the race is on to create new distribution systems – choke points, in reality – that give enormous power to a tiny number of distributors. Apple and Amazon are poised to be among them.They won't be alone. Their major competition, at least as things look today, will be companies like Google, Facebook and perhaps Microsoft, along with the telecommunications carriers that believe they have the right to decide how (and what) data should flow on their networks. All of them are collecting a huge amount of data from their customers. In Apple's case, Siri will give the company rich new ways to mine the meaning of what its customers are doing on an everyday basis, including what they read and watch, plus how they spend their money. Queries into Siri may well be the foundation for an Apple search engine, as well – and we already know how valuable that is.Apple and its peers at the top of the new tech pyramid are also poised to help the "content" industries – this includes movies, video, music, software and more – emphatically end all notion that customers of their products ever actually own anything. In the future, they intend for us to rent everything. Oh, we may download a file and we maytechnicallyown that file. But they'll have the ability to restrict the way we use that file, not to mention the ability to reach into our devices remotely and change or even remove it.Apple's greatest advantage in this world is the high quality of the hardware it designs and the way it marries that hardware with elegant software. Apple products are great-looking, easy to use and useful. (Like every other western technology hardware vendor, Apple doesn't make what it designs; it pays other companies, mostly in China, to manufacture the actual goods.)I have no plans to be captured by the Apple ecosystem. It is the height of control-freakery, with Apple telling app developers and even journalists whether what they sell through its storefront is acceptable. Apple wants customers to live in its gorgeous walled garden. No thanks, I prefer to make my own decisions.Apple doesn't care in the slightest about what I prefer. It can count on the brand and product loyalty it has engendered among the countless millions of other people who are perfectly happy to be in its embrace. They will find it more comfortable than ever with the latest products. Apple's fabulous marketplace success suggests that it will be some time, if ever, before it will need even to consider anyone else's wishes.
Apple unveiled a souped-up and faster version of last year's iPhone 4, dubbed the iPhone 4S, as new chief executive Tim Cook aimed to cement its position as the world's largest phone maker by revenue.The phone is expected to go on sale from all five UK networks from 14 October, though none was able to give details of pricing. The Guardian understands that no one knew precisely what was coming until it was unveiled.Apple also said that a new version of its "iOS" software, iOS 5, to run existing iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS and iPad models will be available from 12 October, bringing its "iCloud" system which synchronises pictures, documents and user video across devices without needing a PC.While the rumour mill – and the name of Apple's software – had led many to expect that the phone would be called the "iPhone 5", Philip Schiller, the head of marketing, demonstrated the 4S and insisted that it was a complete overhaul of the iPhone 4 released 14 months ago.A key element in the iPhone 4S is a "voice assistant" called Siri which Scott Forstall, head of the iOS division, demonstrated. It answered complex queries asked by voice such as "what's the weather like today?" and responded in real time with a synthesized voice."There's so much you can ask. Compose and dictate emails, ask questions about the weather, stocks, set timers. It's not perfect, but there's a huge amount it can do," said Forstall.The launch was the first for Apple, the highest-valued company in the world, without Steve Jobs as chief executive after he stepped down in August.Apple is seeking to stay ahead of its South Korean rival Samsung, which is challenging Apple for the crown of the company selling the most smartphones worldwide. The two are expected to be neck-and-neck when figures for the third quarter, to the end of September, are announced. The majority of Samsung's smartphones run Google's Android software.Apple is aiming to bolster its position in the mobile business, where Cook pointed out that despite its position in the smartphone market it only has 5% of the total market by volume, by targeting the fast-growing Chinese market as well as European and US buyers.The iPhone 4S includes the A5 processing chip also used in the iPad 2 released earlier this year, making it significantly faster than its iPhone 4 predecessor. Schiller said that the antennas – the subject of a bitter row when some customers claimed that the external antenna led to worse reception – have been redesigned to improve call quality. The camera had also been improved compared to the iPhone 4.One other change is that the phone will work on any phone network in the world through the inclusion of chips which boost compatibility.Speaking in the room where ten years before Steve Jobs launched the iPod – the music player which revived Apple's fortunes and helped it gain a dominant position in consumer electronics – Cook said that "I consider it the privilege of a lifetime to have worked here almost 14 years."Apple also updated two of its 10-year-old iPod line, the internet-enabled iPod Touch and the miniature iPod nano, which will now be offered in watch form – something that a number of Apple fans had demanded last year when it was released. But the "classic" iPod and the tiny "shuffle" were not mentioned, though they are still on sale.• This article was amended on 5 October 2011 because the original incorrectly said the iPhone 4S is a slimmed-down version of the iPhone 4.
In this week's catch-up with the Indie Dozen developers, I've spoken to Vancouver-based designer Jack Nilssen and Gordon Midwood from UK studioDifferent Cloth.Alongside his game projects under the studio name Dark Acre, Nilssen has also been writing fiction, self-publishing a full-length novel,Ambia, which works as a prequel to the coder's ongoing 'opus' game project. As he explains, "It follows the adventure of an ex-interstellar trader holidaying in backwater Solarus, only to find that his past is harder to escape than he bargained for."Midwood, meanwhile, is overseeing a joint project between his studio, digital artistRONZOand another developer,Tuna. The result will be the Screen Yorkshire-funded downloadable game,Derrick the Deathfin– "essentially a parable about the futility of existence," he says.The ChildCan you tell us what you've been working on over the summer?Jack Nilssen:Work has been continuing apace onThe Child, the isometric adventure game that got its start in theLudum Dare 48 #20game jam. I've been spending a lot of time in 3D Studio Max and Photoshop improving the quality of the artwork, and learning the complex ins and outs of 3D animation systems. I would love to have access to a proper motion capture studio, and apparently one can be had on the cheap using a plug-in for Max and a Kinect, so I've looking into that for future projects.I've also just recentlyparticipatedin the Ludum Dare 48 #21, and came away from that with an interesting concept that I may develop further once The Child has been released.Concept art from Derrick the Deathfin.Gordon Midwood:This summer we have been working very hard on getting the core look and feel and gameplay of Derrick up to the highest standard possible before moving into level production proper. We've got there now, and have all the assets and designs we need to produce the game. We've built about a third of the levels already – sufficed to say they look amazing and all the trees have eyes.What development packages are you working with at the moment?JN:I've been working withUnitysince before I went indie, and continue to enjoy its ease of use and growing popularity. A while ago they added support for Allegorithmic's Substance system, a procedural texture generation system.Seriously, if you want to do rapid development and know any .JS, C#, Boo, or Python you're doing yourself a disservice by not investigating the Unity toolset. Also, I've found that even though I have the Pro license I haven't strictly needed it at all in this first year of my indie life, so don't let that get you down. Make what you can with the free license, you can still publish to desktop and web, which means you can get your game into challenges like the Ludum Dare 48 and up on sites likeKongregateandFlashgamelicenseso there's no excuse other than the inability to execute on a design.GW:Working with Unity has been an amazing experience. Frankly nobody on the team has the time or ability to build their own engine, so I can't imagine how we could have got to this stage so smoothly without it. It is much more flexible than people assume, and the fact that it publishes to so many platforms is also a big bonus. Moreover, the staff at Unity are also extremely helpful and very attractive, and I am certain they will give us a large discount on the console license we are about to negotiate...What are some of the key game design issues you've faced over the summer?JN:The Child is my first game with an official "beauty pass", meaning I'm taking the time to really polish up the visuals. This has required me to spend much less time coding and designing gameplay, and far more pushing pixels and vertices around. The decision to leave off one for the other was hard, as I think it's critical to be constantly improving the coding side of the business, but at the same time I need that thorough understanding of 3D to really make my games sale-able.Within the Child's gameplay I decided to allow "backtracking".  In other words, the player can now move to and fro between rooms, whereas before it was a very linear experience. This new system has allowed me to design a "realistic" layout for the game environment and create more complex puzzle elements. It's also forced me to create dynamic environments that change, so that when the player comes back through them they're not just slogging over old terrain.GM:The key issues that we resolved over the summer were gameplay related. We have all felt for a while now that we have a compelling visual style, but some of the core gameplay was not as engaging as it should have been. To resolve this we've introduced more time pressure – through constantly rapidly declining health, introduction of obstacles and more frequent, smaller shoals of paper fish. Now you are constant under pressure to move around and destroy everything you see – which of course science has proven is exactly how real sharks behave.We have also laid down the rules for our level production. We are building our levels in strict accordance with an original in-house methodology we call, 'the perfect round of intercourse'. This method dictates that all levels:* must last around one or two minutes, certainly no longer than three* must arouse player interest from the outset, drawing them in and engaging them almost immediately* must implement a variety of techniques to ensure momentum is not lost half way through* must build up to a crescendo, ideally ending on an explosive set pieceHave you taught yourself anything new in terms of programming?JN:With the polishing and improvement of the visual side of things I've been spending a lot of time working with particle systems and modifying textures and materials through code. I can now do up fancy flickering sparks and clouds and so forth using Unity's built-in particle system. This was something I've wanted to learn for a long time, and glad I've finally had the opportunity to do so.A paper model of the diver character from Derrick the Deathfin.Have you been to any interesting events since we last spoke?GM:In July I had the pleasure of attending iDEAME, a conference in Madrid aimed at getting more Spanish students involved in game design and development, courtesy of Nintendo. They treated us insanely well and it was very inspiring to meet up with students  and other fellow indies. It was especially great to hook up with Alex fromGaijin Gamesagain – he is such a great guy and very inspiring, even if he does walk like a malfunctioning robot on acid. Gaijin's ability to put out so many beautiful, innovative games of consistently high quality is massively inspirational for me.I also took part in a discussion on the importance of finishing games for the students at Ideame – I believe it to be massively important if a little arse-wipingly obvious. It is very easy to fall into the trap of unnecessarily extending the time it takes to finish your game, a trap many indies fall into of course. I would strongly advise finishing your game according to your original intended schedule, releasing it, learning from it and moving on. In fact, rather than dispensing any more ridiculously obvious tips I should better take my own advice and get back to finishing Derrick!Jack, whose work is inspiring you at the moment?I'm really looking forward toHawken– that's a small-team indie studio doing amazingly beautiful things with Unreal. It's the level of polish and quality that I aspire to, but I realise that I'm only going to get there once I start collaborating with people better than me, and that's still a ways off...To find out more about our Indie Dozen project, head overhere.
Block 15.35pm:Welcome: and is your popcorn popping? It's iPhone launch time. It seems so long since we were last here.We know some details already: there's going to be a new iPhone. Given that at WWDC in June, Steve Jobs described the next version of the software powering the iPhone as "iOS 5", and since every launch of a new number of iOS has seen a new version of the phone (3G, 3GS, 4 –see Wikipedia), the idea that there won't be a new iPhone just doesn't hold any water.Then there's the question of whether the crowd has managed to figure this out ahead of time – if you're reading this before 6pm UK time, then ourcrowdsourcing experimentis still open (and if you're reading it later, it's closed: tick off the results as they come by).We also know that:• thephones will be in the UK from 14 October: reserve your place outside the stores now;• "iTunes in the Cloud" (so you can get your purchased music on any iOS device, without syncing with a PC or Mac) iscoming to Europe, and to the UK first. Why no iTunes Match to sync all your music library? Still being negotiated with record labels, we understand.We suspect that the iPod Classic is for the chop, but that's not certain. Sales of iPods are tailing off at about 5% annually, and iPod Touches (the app-enabled ones) taking more and more share - now up to 50% of iPod sales.There's a huge amount at stake today. Apple is presently the world's largest mobile phone company (by revenue; Samsung is expected to be the biggest in terms of shipments). It's possible that Samsung will have overtaken it in smartphone shipments in the third quarter (July-September) just ended; it will be interesting to see if Cook announces any iPhone shipment numbers for the quarter, because this should be the "quiet period" ahead of the financials. Possibly he'll announce "iOS shipments", which would be iPod Touch, iPhone and iPad.Being biggest is no guarantee you'll continue, though: just look at Nokia, which just one year ago could claim the title. Now it's plunged into loss and we're still waiting for its first Windows Phone device.Everyone knows that with Steve Jobs having stepped down as chief executive, Cook needs to keep the executive team and the staff weaving the magic that has made Apple the biggest company by value in the world. That's no small order. Everyone will be looking for the slightest flaw.And now, on with the show...Block 25.50pm:Journalists, commentators and plain-old fashionistas are filing into Apple conference halls in Cupertino and Covent Garden, London. Our man on the ground,Charles Arthur, is setting up his stall in central London, while myself (Josh Halliday) andJuliette Garside, the Guardian's telecoms correspondent, will keep you fully informed from the office.Mark Mulligan, the former Forrester analyst, is one of the privileged few invited to Apple's biggest store in Covent Garden. Surprisingly,he reportsthat it's a "very intimate sized" event for Apple announcements. Well, certainly, it's no Cupertino ampitheatre.Block 35.53pm:Just in! Among the leading lights at Cupertino isDick Costolo, chief executive of Twitter, according tohis Twitter page. Smartphones running Google's Android software have stolen a march on iOS with deep Twitter integration – expect Apple to launch a riposte.Block 46.01pm:CA:I'm installed in the Apple Store in Covent Garden, where Apple has gone to a lot of trouble: four-way power adapters at every chair, including Continental adaptors: plenty of European journalists here. Apple, one senses, is treating this as very big indeed.Latest expectations:Siri, a "virtual personal assistant", to make some sort of appearance in the new software. As long as it's not as dire as the "Knowledge Navigator" personal assistant in those way-off Apple imaginings of the future from 1987.Block 56.01pm:Crowdsource results time...over at the poll.Here's they're just starting. Applause of course and it's Tim Cook: "This is my first product launch since being made CEO.. I'm sure you didn't know that. It is a pleasure to host you today ... I consider it the privilege of a lifetime to have worked here almost 14 years."Welcomes folk to the campus: "a sort of second home to some people." They're in the town hall where theylaunched the original iPod 10 years ago.Block 66.04pm:Showing stores in China – Nanjing. Largest store in Asia. It's a bit amazing – 100,000 visitors on the opening weekend. (By comparison in LA they got 100,000 in a month.) "There is amazing momentum here."The Hong Kong one is in the airport. Getting the idea that this is going to be pushing the China connection. That's where the real volume is to be had.Video already. Tai-chi, baby.Block 76.08pm:Updates time. OSX Lion. "The reviews have been incredible." Walt Mossberg of the WSJ is cited. Digital download only, 6m have been downloaded: "this is 80% more than Snow Leopard, our previous release." (That doesn't so much to me. Anyone else?)Measuring installed base: took Windows 7 a total of 20 weeks to reach 10% of installed base; two weeks for Lion. (Um, yeah, smaller base to reach, Tim.)Now looking at the computers which are "the best we've ever shipped". Well, yes ... "iMac and Macbook are best-selling notebook and desktop in the US. Points to Mac growth of 23% over the last four quarters v 4% for the (Windows) PC market."We are now approaching 60m users around the world." That's about triple what it used to be back in 2000 or so, I think. (Any cites for Steve Jobs and the 20m user numbers?)Block 86.12pm:Music: "for us this is iTunes and iPod.." A shot of the 2001 iPod. "It reminded all of us how much we loved music." (Sort of, but the iPod was the result of an internal study – if the cards had fallen differently it might have been video or photos.)Cumulative iPod sales over 300m; "it took Sony 30 years to sell 220,000 Walkman cassette players." OK. "The MP3 player market is a mature market. We sold 45m iPods in the last year ending in June." (Note he's giving no numbers for just-past quarter; financial quiet period.) Almost half go to people as their first iPod.Block 96.14pm:iTunes started in April 2003, now has 30m songs, 16bn songs downloaded. "It's mind-boggling. And that's our music business, we're very happy with our music business.""Next: iPhone. This may be the reason why the room is full now." Now: "iPhone 4 has sold almost half of the total iPhones sold." Gartner Q2 numbers show iPhone 125% growth, smartphones 74% growth. So outpacing the market. (Yes, yes, but what about the third quarter? Any analysts want to kick in?)Now a big graph of "very satisfied" for different manufacturers – 70% iPhone, next is HTC with 49%.Notable thing: Cook does his slides in different colours from Jobs. He uses greys and blues, where Jobs was greens and greys and blacks.More broadly: iPhone is 5% of the whole mobile phone market, of 1.5bn units: "it's an enormous opportunity for Apple."Block 106.18pm:And so we turn to iPad. Will we get any knocking of Android? Note there wasn't even a mention of Android (or Windows Phone) in the mentions of mobile phones just now.)"iPads in schools ... can change how teachers teach and children learn and many educators agree with us. Every state in the US now has an iPad deployment scheme in place."(Observation: his voice isn't as mellifluous as Jobs's; Cook's is more of a croak, with a Texan twang. Jobs's would range up and down the scale, but Cook's is more direct. It's less relaxing to listen to.)Block 116.20pm:"92% of the Fortune 500 companies are testing or deploying iPad. This is in less than 18 months. This is unheard of." (Obviously he's not going to discuss competitive positions vis-a-vis Windows or Metro.) Oh wait.."Despite everybody and their brother trying to compete with iPad, three out of four tablets sold in the US is an iPad." Quotes AllThingsD: "Consumers don't want tablets, they want iPads." (Interesting that he called the iPad a tablet there.)"We have passed the quarter of a billion unit sales mark" – for iOS devices. (Yes, I predicted he'd give you something like that.)OK, now Scott Forstall, head of iOS, is up.Block 12Scott Forstall introduces App cards Photograph: Robert Galbraith/Reuters6.23pm:Forstall: "iOS accounts for 61% of mobile browser usage." Didn't get the location. "500,000 apps on the App Store. "140,000 of these are developed specifically for the iPad."18bn downloads from the app store; now being downloaded at 1bn per month. Apple has now paid $3bn to developers. (That means Apple's taken $1.28bn in its 30% slice.)He's talking about "cards" which lets you create a physical card via an app which you can send to someone. What's he after, the postcard market? It seems really retrograde. Is this Apple looking to revive the postal services somehow?Block 136.28pm:Recap of iOS 5 – notably iMessage, which we might call a BlackBerry Messenger killer, which is pushed to any iOS device, securely encrypted, and so on.Location-based reminders(Yes, we recall that – sure to kill your battery by checking GPS all the time.)Twitter integration:"we have integrated Twitter deeply into the OS." Integrated into photos – take it and tweet it directly. (All the pictures being used to demonstrate it are, of course, on an iPhone 4 – they haven't changed since WWDC 2011 in June. Don't do the reveal too early!)Newsstand:which lets you find all the subscription newspapers in one place and will download them in the background.Camera:"making it even better." A shortcut on the screen to let you bypass the screen lock, or use the volume button. (Isn't that going to get misused? I keep thinking of burglars/toothbruses/holidays.)Picture editing on board ... one-tap enhancing ...Block 146.32pm:iOS 5 recap redux: Game Center will have recommendations. (Shove Ha'penny?)Safari. Has a new "Reader" button which will reformat the page you're reading. "Fantastic on the iPhone." (Something of a catch-up to the Android double-tap when reading, where text is reflowed to fit the screen rather than just to the column size.)Mail: rich text formatting (blah), searching entire messages (er, Android can do?), and a swipe to the inbox (more for iPad, that one).And the big one: "PC-free". (Love the icon for this one: cutting the cord to a PC with scissors.) "You take it out of the box and it's good to go. And we've added the option for wireless updates."Nothing about Notifications? Thought that was the thing.iOS 5 will be available on 12 October, next Tuesday. (Very like what they did with iOS 4 which came out a couple of days before the iPhone so that the servers wouldn't fall over from demand.)Block 156.36pm:Eddy Cue, the guy who made the iTunes Music Store happen in so many parts of the world, is up now talking about iCloud.Explains how purchased music just syncs between all your devices. "See the songs you've purchased... with a tap of one button you can download them at no additional cost." Same for TV shows. (Not sure if TV shows in the Cloud is coming to the UK though.)Camera roll and syncing to the cloud. (But after 30 days if you don't download there somewhere then it gets zapped. Wonder how many people are going to get bitten by that.)App developers... documents in the cloud... free update. (It's not quite getting the excitement level you might hope for just yet, but Tim Cook is probably getting ready to come out juggling chainsaws in a moment.)Block 166.41pm:Oooh, new app: "Find my Friends". Shows you where your family is. On a map. "I can even see if my son made it to school today." Interesting. (Soon to be "Find my Stalker"?)People show up as purple bubbles on the map, which gives it a sort of Wall-E post-apocalyptic feel. You can turn it off though. Free unlimited storage, 5GB of mail, documents and backup. (Is 5GB enough?)Now talking about iTunes Match, where your iTunes contents can be streamed to your devices. (Streamed only? Or downloads?) "Will be cached intelligently on your device." Sounds like it's not a download then. (And our indications are that iTunes Match isn't coming to the UK, at least not until next year.)Block 176.45pm:Video time! "How iCloud makes your life easier through the day."Looks ... well, impressive. Less functional and utilitarian than Google Docs or indeed Windows "in the cloud" adverts.OK, Phil Schiller is up "to talk about the iPod." (He's the guy who came up with the scroll wheel.) Is he going to kill it?"First, iPod nano." (On the edge of our seat. He doesn't seem to have an axe in his belt. (Also: Phil looks thinner than in the past. Fitter thinner, not ill thinner.)Block 186.50pm:So Phil is talking nano, which comes as a watch: 8GB $129, 16GB $169 (I think) "available today"."Next: iPod Touch. Our most popular iPod." (Somewhere out the back, the iPod Classic and shuffle are waiting for their call, saying "are you sure they wanted us to wait in this room and ... where's the door? Hey, let us out!")Schiller talking about how iMessage on the Touch means you can do phone-like functionality "and on Wi-Fi it's free and unlimited so parents like it". Games, apps... "it is perfect for this great mobile gaming device." Aimed at da kidz."Now comes with iOS 5 and iCloud... and in black and white.8GB version: $199 "a key price point"32GB $299, 64GB $399.Block 196.53pm:"So that's iPod and the iPod lineup. We love music and we're going to continue to make the world's best products."(Downstairs in the basement the shuffle and Classic are hammering on the door, but nobody is coming.)"Now, iPhone." Yes, Phil, iPhone. "People have been wondering how you follow the iPhone. I'm really proud to tell you about the brand new iPhone 4S." Ah-ha.Block 206.55pm:"Inside it is all-new. A5 chip inside. And to show you here's the president of Epic Games." OK, thrilled.(So you're thinking OHHH NO IPHONE 4 HAHAHA. Um, Tim Cook still to come back. Thank you.)He's playing ... Infinity Blade. His aim: to kill the evil Sam-Sung. (Not really.)Block 216.58pm:(He's still playing the game. iPod Classic to iPod shuffle: "Do you think maybe we're the One More Thing? That's it, isn't it? We're the One More Thing, right? Steve Jobs will come out and save us?")Schiller is back: A5 CPU, 2x faster, 7x graphics better, and battery life now 8 hours talk time on 3G - 14 hours 2g talktime, 6 hours 3G browsing, 9 hours Wi-Fi browsing."The wireless system... as you know" (oh yes we know) "the band ... " Yes?"Can now intelligently switch between the two antennas to send and receive to make even better call quality."Also faster: 2x faster downloads. Used to be 5.8Mbps up, 7.2 down; now 14.4up. They're matching the HSDPA speed that's touted in 4G phones. "We're not going to get into the debate about what's 4G and what's next.."Block 227.02pm:"Next: a worldphone." It's both GSM and CDMA. Works on both. Lot simpler for Apple - one less SKU (stockkeeping unit) to follow.Camera system: he's pointing to the Flickr data about the use of iPhones that we linked to this morning (good, Phil, reading Tech Newsbucket, all the sensible people do).8MP sensor, 60% more pixels than iPhone 4, can gather 73% more light, so faster to take the picture. (Lot of camera wonkery here; Schiller isn't usually a specs guy, so I'm thinking this is because people who like cameras REALLY REALLY LIKE NUMBERS). It's f2.4, 30% sharper, and can shoot moose. Well, two of those anyway, you figure it out.Gasp! He forgot what he should include! Ah, face detection because of the A5 chip. "26% better white balance." (I've never heard Schiller tout so many meaningless specs, honest.)Block 23Phil Schiller talks about the camera on the iPhone 4S Photograph: Paul Sakuma/AP7.07pm:Comparing time to take pictures: HTC Sensation takes 2.1s to take the first, 1.3 to get the second; iPhone 4S is 1.1 and 0.5s.Now he's going to show you some pictures, so this text-only effort is going to render it well. Oooooh. Wooooow. Ahhhh. Mmmm. SQUIRREL! Sorry.Block 247.11pm:Video! This being HD recorded on the handset.(Look, after all this if they don't have an iPhone 5 then people are going to lynch someone. All that just for this?)Phil Schiller is talking AirPlay, where you can stream music to your TV... and also AirPlay Mirroring where you can see what's on the iPod (Touch) or whatever on your TV."So the new iPhone 4S... entirely new on the inside ... dual antennas ... it's a worldphone ... twice as fast downloads ... camera ... 1080p video camera ... and of course iOS 5. And of course" (again?) "comes with iCloud. It's the best iPhone yet."Pause."The best feature... is about voice." NOOO Phil.Block 257.13pm:Voice is "such a letdown". "We want to ask a simple question - what is the weather like today, what's the upcoming forecast... your phone will figure out what you need and get it done.."That's a feature we call Siri, it's an intelligent assistant that gets things done."Scott Forstall comes out and shows off how he can ask "what's the weather like today?"Ladyvoice thing comes back going to the app for the weather. (Will it have lots of different voices?) He's starting to look like a weather obsessive. (The ladyvoice sounds like something from a GPS.)Oh, now a clock question. "What time is it in Paris?" (It doesn't say "Paris, Texas? Or Paris France?" Shouldn't it?)Block 267.17pm:"Wake me up tomorrow at 6am." Damn, it did it. Then again, this is in a quiet room. (Then again again, I once saw Bill Gates completely flounder on a voice recognition attempt. Though it was 1999.)"Find me a Greek restaurant." Yes, does that too. "I'm blown away by how it understand requests." (Have they tried it on Scottish accents? Geordie accents? Anyone tried it? It's an app you can download, or was until about 5pm today.)Block 277.27pm:Scott Forstall has been showing off Siri which also links to Wolfram Alpha - one of the best non-Google search engines in my opinion.Phil Schiller is back. There's going to be voice built in which means that "wherever you see a keyboard, you'll be able to input with voice." Dictation. Like Google Voice has been offering (though of course the interesting thing is that this doesn't go through Google, it goes through Apple, so Apple is getting information about what people want to know.)VIDEO TIME. For the iPhone 4S? So they're really not doing an iPhone 5? (That's going to be a bit of a shock. How are people going to know that you're walking down the street with anewphone if it doesn't look different? Oh, wait, the point isn't about that. Remember when phones were just for phone calls and nobody much cared what they looked like?)(What's also interesting is that Apple, Google and Microsoft are all converging on voice as a neat way to control your mobile phone; but from what one sees around and about, there aren't that many people who are yet using it. A big space for someone to grab as a feature, or somewhere that most people simply don't want to go because it feels a bit weird to talk to your phone, rather than into your phone?)Block 287.34pm:Price: 16, 32, 64 ... "it's not the best phones in our lineup" … hope rises … "we also have the other phones, the iPhone 4 and 3GS." GAAAH.$199 16GB, $299 32GB, $399 64GB.14 October confirmed in the US, UK, Canada, Australia, France, Germany, Japan."By the end of the year we're going to broaden to 70 countries and 100 carriers, this will be the fastest rollout we've ever had for an iPhone. And that's the iPhone 4S. Thank you."Cook is back. "Pretty incredible isn't it?" (Crowd of journalists agape like the audience in Springtime for Hitler.) (Then again, we hear that the iPod shuffle and Classic are still available on the Apple Store, so there's good news for some.)"When you look at these they're great and industry-leading, but what sets them apart is how they're engineered to work so well. Only Apple could make such amazing hardware, software and services and bring them together into this experience. I am so incredibly proud of this company … for bringing this to reality. Thank you very much."Block 297.38pm:So that's it: lights up. Can't tell if they fell on Cook, Forstall and Schiller like zombies in the Walking Dead.Then again, why not just call it the iPhone 5? It would be so much simpler. But hey - that's Apple.
For the last twenty years, the Brighton-based artist groupBlast Theoryhas been exploring the liminal realm between art and interactive entertainment, producing some astonishing works that cross large-scale installations with video content and game mechanics. From December 10, Exeter gallerySpacexis holdinga survey exhibitionof the group's work, including one of their earliest works,Stampede, about the politics and psychology of rioting.Four of the five key works relied heavily on location and so will be presented as non-participatory collections of video footage and still photos capturing the original venues they appeared in.Kidnap, an unsettling mixture of theatre and urban gaming carried out in 1998, saw two volunteers being abducted and then confined in a secret location for two days, watched via interactive CCTV cameras. Elsewhere, the 1999 installationDesert Rainput viewers into a collaborative virtual world where they had to decipher images of the Gulf War to journey through a range of surreal spaces.The BAFTA nominated,Can You See Me Now?(2003) is another 'urban game' in which Blast Theory artists are set to play out a cat-and-mouse chase around the streets of Oldenburg, Germany, with players participating via the web, and sending commands to the runners. A three-screen projection in the gallery space will show the game taking place.The review exhibition coincides with the re-opening of theRoyal Albert Memorial Museumin Exeter, which will also get its own Blast Theory accompaniment. The group has produced a kind of interactive audio guide to the building, namedGhostwriter, in which players follow a disembodied female voice around the museum as she describes each object and its role in her life. The audio guide story will apparently flip between the past and present day, and listeners will be able to leave their own recordings on the devices – like the messages left by players for other players in the RPG game, Demon's Souls.We've followed Blast Theory on the Guardian Gamesblog for several years (seeAlek Krotoski's interviewwith them from 2005), and would thoroughly recommend getting along to this exhibition if you're at all interested in alternative reality gaming, urban games or interactive art.The Blast Theory review exhibition runs from December 10 to February 18, 2012. The Royal Albert Memorial Museum re-opens on December 15, and Ghostwriter will be available to visitors until June 2012.
Mobile phone networks have been told to expect two new iPhones and announce prices on Thursday, with the first phones available only in-store on Friday 14 October.Negotiations with Apple over pricing will begin at 6pm this evening, when Tim Cook takes the stage for his first product launch as chief executive."All we know is, there will be two devices, we will put our pricing in to Apple as soon as Tim Cook goes on stage, and we hope to get agreement to announce prices on Thursday," said a source at one UK operator, who also confirmed the 14 October shipping date.Secrecy surrounding the launch has been such that none of the five UK networks has any details of the handsets to be released. Apple is thought to be ready to reveal two: an all-new iPhone 5, and an "iPhone 4S", an updated iPhone 4 where the base model will be priced to take on cheaper Android phones in the mass market.All five UK networks will have access to the new phones on day one, and it is understood that independent retailers Carphone Warehouse and Phones4u will also be stocking the handsets. Carphone is understood to have done a deal directly with Apple for the first time, which means it will be able to sell phones "unlocked" – free from contracts with particular networks. The company declined to comment.Outside Apple stores, supplies of the new handsets are likely to be so restricted that carriers and retailers will only sell them in-store, rather than via their websites. Apple's flagship stores are understood to be preparing to welcome shoppers at 7am on 14 October, with a number staying open until midnight.According to pages accidentally released early onVodafone's German website, the 4S will be available in 16GB, 32GB and 64GB models, compared with the iPhone 4 which comes in 16GB and 32GB versions.According to Apple fan blog9to5Mac, the price of an unlocked 4S will replace the price of the current 32GB iPhone 4, which retails from Apple at £612. The 32GB model will retail at about £510, the current price of the 16GB iPhone 4.In the US, it is expected that prices with subsidies from mobile carriers on a two-year contract could range from $99 for the cheapest iPhone 4S to $199 and $299, putting it in competition with a number of Android phones.
The government says it wants to import a version of Silicon Valley to East London, but does the UK have the people with the skills and the right attitude to deliver this ambition? In the face of education funding cuts and with a legacy curriculum that's not yet delivered a British Google or Facebook, what must the system do to develop global technology leaders?Are Universities equipped to prepare the next generation of digital entrepreneurs? What culture shift has to happen in schools and HE to encourage innovation and make it relevant to the new digital economy, and produce global innovators? This debate brings together policy leaders, education professionals and industry to dissect where UK enterprise fails and where it gets an A*.The panelists are:David Willetts MP(Minister of State for Universities and Science),Professor Jeff Magee(Principal of the Faculty of Engineering at Imperial College London),Emma Mulqueeny(Rewired StateandYoung Rewired State) andDan Crow(Chief Technology Office at Songkick)Join Tech Weekly for the live recording of this debate at 6.30pm on Monday 10 October at Imperial College London, South Kensington Campus, Exhibition Road, London SW7 2AZ (Find it!).FREE. This event is now fully booked, but you canadd yourself to the waitlist in case tickets become available. You can also find out details aboutour second talk.Do you have a question to ask? Add it to the commentson this post belowor send it totechweekly@guardian.co.uk.OnTwitter? You can tweet us your thoughts @guardiantw and contribute to the discussion and follow the debate now and during the event with the hashtag#TWTC1.
HTC says it is working on a fix for a major security vulnerability in its Android smartphones which could let apps access a user's personal information. The data exposed includes their email account names, last known network and GPS locations, SMS data including phone numbers, phone log details and system logs.HTC, which sold 11m smartphones worldwide in the second quarter of this year, did not give a timescale for the fix.The flaw,discovered by Android Police, is limited to HTC handsets rather than any Android device. But with HTC offering some of the most popular Android handsets, the revelation may mean a race against time to patch the flaws before they are exploited by criminals.According to Android Police's checks, the list of known affected phones is:• some of the HTC Sensation models• EVO 4G• EVO 3D• Thunderbolt• EVO Shift 4G• (possibly) MyTouch 4G Slide• (possibly) Vigor• (possibly) View 4G• (possibly) the upcoming Kingdom.According to Justin Case, Trevor Eckhart and Artem Russakovski at Android Police, who discovered and confirmed the flaw, they notified HTC on 24 September of their findings but after receiving no response decided to go public.In a statement, the company subsequently said that"HTC is working very diligently to quickly release a security update that will resolve the issue on affected devices… Following a short testing period by our carrier partners, the patch will be sent over-the-air to customers, who will be notified to download and install it. We urge all users to install the update promptly. During this time, as always, we strongly urge customers to use caution when downloading, using, installing and updating applications from untrusted sources."The flaw was actually introduced by HTC itself, Case, Eckhart and Russakovski say that a suite of logging tools added by the company to collect user information is not secure. "Any app on affected devices that requests [internet access], which is normal for any app that connects to the web or shows ads, can get its hands on the data," they wrote. "When you install a simple, innocent-looking new game from the Market that only asks for internet [access] permission (to submit scores online, for example), you don't expect it to read your phone log or list of emails."Russakovski said: "I'd like to reiterate that the only reason the data is leaking left and right is because HTC set their snooping environment up this way. It's like leaving your keys under the mat and expecting nobody who finds them to unlock the door." The trio created a simple proof-of-concept app which was able to replicate the accesses they feared.HTC acknowledged the flaw but said it was not aware of any exploits:"In our ongoing investigation into this recent claim, we have concluded that while this HTC software itself does no harm to customers' data, there is a vulnerability that could potentially be exploited by a malicious third-party application… A third party malware app exploiting this or any other vulnerability would potentially be acting in violation of civil and criminal laws. So far, we have not learned of any customers being affected in this way and would like to prevent it by making sure all customers are aware of this potential vulnerability."Russakovski however wasunsure how effective it would be. "While I applaud HTC's desire to fix the situation quickly, I do have to wonder whether the patch will simply apply some sort of an authentication scheme to the service while letting it continue collecting the same kind of sensitive data to be potentially reported back to HTC or carriers."Furthermore, I'd like a clarification on what the Android VNC server, which allows remote access, is doing on affected devices."
Apple is to announce a European rollout of the music storage service iCloud, with the UK expected to be the first major market outside the US to get authorisation.Industry sources also indicated that Apple would discontinue the iPod Classic, which launched 10 years ago this month, as it focuses on a new generation of internet-connected devices.The Apple chief executive, Tim Cook, will announce the rollout in a press conference at the company's Cupertino headquarters on Tuesday, along with theiPhone 5.The expansion of "iTunes in the Cloud" from the US, where it was made available in the US in June, will allow people who have bought songs from Apple's iTunes Music Store to synchronise them among multiple devices such as PCs, iPhones and iPads via wireless connections. Previously they would have to connect them to a computer and synchronise them.The technology giant has been locked in negotiations with the four major music groups – EMI, Sony, Warner and Universal – to seal the "iTunes in the Cloud" deal in time for Tuesday's announcement."Apple has been sitting at tables to get this through, as opposed to Amazon and Google who have just been seeing how much they can get away with," said one person with knowledge of Apple's plans. Amazon and Google launched their own "music locker" schemes in the US, letting people store their music online, but there is little evidence that they have seen any broad takeup. Neither service is available outside the US.The "iTunes in the Cloud" service is part of Apple's broader free iCloud service, which will synchronise users' photos and videos to its servers and allow downloads to registered devices.The expansion of iCloud marks Apple's biggest European move since the introduction of the iTunes Music Store by Steve Jobs in 2004and the iPhone in November 2007. However, no UK launch is expected yet for iTunes Match, the subscription system by which all of a user's library – including songs from CDs or downloaded from filesharing networks, as well as purchased songs – can be downloaded to devices.The expected discontinuation of the "classic" iPod has been expected for some time. Sales of the iPod family – consisting of the shuffle, nano, classic and internet-enabled iPod Touch – have been dwindling since the beginning of 2009, and the iPod Touch now makes up half of all units shifted. The focus on the internet-enabled Touch, which can also be used to buy and download apps, acts as an "entry point" to Apple's App Store, and as a junior partner to the iPhone.Applefirst unveiled iCloud at its Worldwide Developers Conferencein San Francisco on 6 June.The so-called "cloud-based locker" stores peoples' photos, films and purchased music online so that they can be accessed on a number of devices. It will be tied into new software for Apple devices, called iOS5.The music aspect of iCloud, called iTunes in the Cloud, has been available only in the US since its launch in June. Legal difficulties that prevents the copying of music files has prevented its launch in the UK, where it is still technically unlawful to store copies of music on an mp3 player.A UK launch for iCloud began to look more likely in August when the business secretary, Vince Cable, confirmed plans to relax current laws around the copying of musicin response to the Hargreaves report.Major record labels are understood to have privately agreed to "turn a blind eye" to Apple's iCloud player, given the influence of the technology company's music services.In the US, music fans can pay $24.99 a year for an iCloud service called iTunes Match, which replicates tracks stored on a user's computer with better-quality alternatives in the cloud. Unlike iCloud, iTunes Match is not thought to be introduced outside of the US on Thursday, but will follow at a later date.Only last week Apple announced that iTunes was now available in all 27 EU member states, after adding 12 more territories on 29 September, including Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic and Poland.Sony Music, Warner Music, Universal Music and EMI had not returned a request for comment at the time of publication. Apple declined to comment.
Makers of Android tablets should throw their lot in with Amazon rather than Google to avoid being squeezed out of the market by the internet retailer and Apple's iPad, says Richard Windsor, technology securities analyst at Nomura International.Amazon's announcement of the 7in Kindle Fire, presently slated for US release in November, is expected to galvanise the lower-priced tablet market, and offer a challenge to Apple that none of the existing tablets based on Google's Android have.Amazon however is not using a Google-authenticated version of Android, but its own "fork" of the mobile operating system which does not include the search engine giant's services."The main effect of the potential sea change triggered by Amazon could be a change in roadmap to cheaper products or possible tie-ups with Amazon," Windsorsays in a research note issued on Tuesday morning. "With the advent of the Amazon Kindle Fire, many of the other tablet makers are in a bit of a quandary as they are left with expensive tablets without a comprehensive content offering."But for existing tablet makers to start shifting over to Amazon would threaten Google's strategy in the market, where it wants to get its services as widely used as possible. Though Google is the default search engine on the Kindle Fire, some believe that Google has had to pay for the position - rather than having it by default, as happens on other Android tablets.Windsor says that there is "a real possibility that the existing tablet makers [will] team up with Amazon and offer its experience on their hardware. But, in the meantime, they seem to be remaining resolute, stating that they have no intention of cutting prices."He suggests that keeping prices high is "living in denial".Among those which say they will not be cutting prices are Asustek, whichtold the Taiwan trade paper Digitimesthat it would not be cutting the price of its Eee Pad Transformer, nor the second-generation version, also expected to sell at $499 - the same entry price as the iPad.Asustek's chief executive Jerry Shen said that the company was sticking with its forecast that it will ship between 1.5m and 2m tablets for 2011, having shipped 1m in the first three quarters of the year.He suggested that Android 4.0, known as "Ice Cream Sandwich" and expected at the end of this year, would improve Android competitiveness with the iPad.Shen forecast that the Kindle Fire will take "20-30%" of tablet shipments - though he didn't specify whether that was for Android, or included the iPad. He said though that 10in screens will still be the mainstream specification.But Windsor thinks that if Asustek shifts its ground, it could benefit. "If content dominates the user experience, then industrial design will become even more important, which puts Asustek in an even better position to gain share than before." Windsor has a "buy" rating on Asustek, but says that in the PC space "we remain very cautious overall."
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat's wrong with Android &gt;&gt; grumpy bozo"Apple's business ecosystem is different. Apple wants a world with a lot of iPhones all running the latest iOS so that they can run the App Store and iTunes without much complexity and take their cut of every little 99¢ purchase iPhone users make. Sure, they like people swapping out old hardware for new, but they are not solely focused on that for revenues. "Speaking as a sysadmin who has to support smartphone users connecting to email, I can testify to the fact that while Android may have the overall highest market share, that metric is deceptive because there really isn't one system under the Android umbrella. There are enough variations between manufacturers, models, and OS versions that I can't offer "Android" support: that isn't one thing. Making it all worse, the base Android OS has a design flaw in its X.509 certificate trust model that makes it unsupportable in some workplace environments (particularly ones with stringent security needs.)" Read the article it quotes too.Most popular cameras used on Flickr &gt;&gt; FlickrWhat's remarkable is how two companies dominate these statistics so thoroughly.The Entrepreneurial Failure of Eastman Kodak &gt;&gt; Forbes"After 120 years of life, Eastman Kodak (NYSE:EK) is about to become a distant memory like the images its innovative technology captured in photography. What caused the downfall and demise of this iconic company? "Entrepreneurial failure."Whatever happened to the iPad rivals of 2010? &gt;&gt; Technologizer"The (mostly) sad fates of 32 early answers to Apple's tablet." Something tells us that in a year's time the Amazon Fire will not be among the dead.Apple's iCloud enables a post-PC world that will boost iPad &amp; iPhone sales &gt;&gt; if connectedIan Fogg thinks iCloud is going to make it feasible for Apple to offer many more device features because of its hardware margins: "Apple still makes the vast bulk of its revenues from hardware sales despite having by far the most successful app store, music download store and various other services initiatives. Example: In the first three years after the launch of the Apple App Store Apple generated $8.3bn in revenue from iOS apps (1). But this figure is dwarfed by their iOS device revenues of over $100bn in the same period (2). Apple has great margins on those hardware revenues too. "Because of that hardware model, Apple has enormous incentives to create new product features to drive device sales, even if that means offering those new features or services for free. Apple can be disruptive with "free" offerings too. The 'contagion of free' business models are not just the preserve of Google and Valley-based VC-funded startups."64m iPod Touches &gt;&gt; Benedict Evans"[So] minimum iPod Touch revenue in the last 9 months was $4.7bn, and total revenue since launch is probably between $15bn and $17.5bn. "Just for (slightly unfair) comparison, Nintendo has sold about 148m DSs since 2005, and 87m Wiis since 2007. In the last 9 months (the period in which Apple sold 20.5m Touches), it sold 17m DSs and 12m Wiis. So the Touch is now comfortably outselling Nintendo. "The iPod Touch has little meaningful competition. There are several Android based devices with notionally similar features, but they often lack an integrated music store and Android in general has a far weaker games selection than iOS, so I would expect these devices to have limited appeal for the time being. "If nothing else, that is not a positive sign for the prospects of non-Apple tablets."Tweet science &gt;&gt; New York magazineThis lengthy piece nails it. Go read the whole thing.Sony Ericsson CEO: We Should Have Taken The iPhone More Seriously &gt;&gt; TechCrunchTechCrunch helpfully pilfers choice quotes from paywalled WSJ interview with Bert Nordberg. The Sony Ericsson is "quite curious" about Windows Phone and doesn't rule out adopting it in the future, and he confesses that SE should have taken the iPhone more seriously in 2007. That's not an exclusive club he's in.Groupon's Stumbles May Force a Smaller IPO &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"The valuation might need to drop to as low as $3 billion to $5 billion to entice shareholders, said Josef Schuster, founder of IPOX Schuster LLC, which invests in IPOs. That's a fraction of $25 billion that was said to be discussed as a potential valuation when Groupon met with underwriters earlier this year. It's also below the $6 billion Google Inc. (GOOG) offered last year." Regrets, I've had a few, but then again...Apple loses to RIM in Indian smartphone market &gt;&gt; BloombergSells fewer there than to Norway: "Sales for the world's biggest company by market value are hindered because Indian wireless carriers, which started third- generation networks this year, have yet to offer nationwide services fast enough to take advantage of iPhone features, said Gus Papageorgiou, an analyst at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A selection of 6 apps for you today:NBA 2K122K Games has launched a new iOS version of its popular NBA 2K basketball franchise, based on the same engine as the console editions. It includes the latest rosters, and a choice of quick matches, a full season and a Michael Jordan-branded challenge mode. The link above is to the iPhone version, but there is also aseparate iPad edition.iPhone / iPadNew Look FashionUK retailer New Look has launched an official iPhone app, which complements its existing mobile website. Developed by MIG, the new app includes information on products, offers and a store-finder. However, there's also a barcode-scanning feature designed to be used in-store to find out more about individual clothing items. Meanwhile, the app connects to New Look's m-commerce site to actually buy items.iPhoneCounting With The Very Hungry CaterpillarGenerations of children have grown up with the Very Hungry Caterpillar books, and now there's an app starring its many-legged hero. The game, by Night &amp; Day Studios, aims to teach children foods and counting, with a Mozart soundtrack to keep things classy.iPhone / iPadYammerBusiness-focused social network Yammer already has apps out for other platforms, but its Windows Phone edition has just gone live on Microsoft's Marketplace store. As elsewhere, it taps into private business social networks created using Yammer, with the ability to view messages, post updates and get notifications.Windows PhoneGolf Putt Pro 3DGolf Putt Pro is the latest pick-up-and-play game from British developer Neon Play, offering a 3D take on golf where you swipe to hit the ball. The game is free, but uses in-app payments for a hole-skip feature, and to buy virtual cash to speed up the upgrades of your equipment.iPhone / iPadSharePoint HubMicrosoft has released a Windows Phone app for its own SharePoint community, pulling in product blog posts, news and the ability to connect to Facebook and Twitter.Windows Phone
Tuesday is a good day to talk about games – so let's do it.
Apple has rejected an offer from Samsung to help settle their tablet computer row in Australia, and is hoping instead for a court victory there in its global campaign of patent litigation.Apple claims Samsung's Galaxy line of mobile phones and tablets "slavishly" copied its iPhone and iPad and has launched an international legal battle which is expected to hurt growth at one of the South Korean firm's fastest-growing businesses.Samsung has rejected the accusations and has shot back with claims of its own. The Galaxy gadgets, powered by Google's Android operating system, are seen as the biggest challengers to Apple's mobile devices.Samsung had hoped to launch the new Galaxy tablet in Australia in late August or early September, but this has been repeatedly delayed as it awaits the Australian court's ruling.Last week, Samsung agreed to withdraw two features from the Galaxy 10.1, leaving just one disputed Apple patent over touch-screen display technology. This patent deals with how finger movements are used on tablets to generate a software command.Apple has alreadysecured a block on the latest Galaxy tablets in Germanyand someSamsung smartphone models in the Netherlands.A win in Australia could hurt Samsung's bid to close the gap with Apple in the global tablet market, with another high-stakes ruling expected from a US court next week.Samsung approached Apple last week, offering to help secure a quick court ruling in their Australian dispute, in return for being able to immediately launch the new Galaxy tablet there.But Apple told the Federal Court in Sydney on Tuesday that Samsung's proposal provided no basis for a settlement."It is one we don't accept and there is no surprise. The main reason we are here is to prevent the launch and maintain the status quo," Apple lawyer Steven Burley said.He said Samsung should anyway agree to an expedited court process, not impose conditions on its cooperation to that end."The decision as to not being available to conduct an early final hearing is no more than a tactical one - a tactical one which is designed to maximise the chances of Samsung launching what we would submit is an infringing product," Burley said.Samsung suggested to the court that the prospects of an immediate settlement were now bleak."It is not going to be achievable your honour, given the positions advanced by each party," a Samsung lawyer said.It emerged last week that in mid-2010 Steve Jobs, then Apple's full-time chief executive, approached Samsung to try to defuse the brewing row over the close resemblances in appearance and function between the devices. But the two sides couldn't reach agreement and in April 2011 Apple filed suit against a number of Samsung devices, including its tablets and some of its mobile phones.Samsung and Apple are suing each other in nine countries over 20 cases, but few of them holding as much significance as the California court ruling expected next week.Samsung may seek legal measures to ban sales of Apple's new iPhone, a source familiar with the matter has told Reuters. Thehighly anticipated iPhone 5is to be unveiled later on Tuesday.Samsung's smartphone business has been growing furiously, powered by its flagship Galaxy lineups. Some analysts expect Samsung to have overtaken Apple in unit terms as the world's No.1 smartphone vendor and report record profits from mobile business in July-September.Samsung is due to report its third-quarter earnings guidance later this week, saw smartphone sales soar more than sixfold in the second quarter, easily eclipsing Apple's 142%  growth, though Apple sold about 1m more handsets. Apple is due to release its quarterly results for its fiscal fourth quarter on 18 October.
id Software has been making video games for 20 years now, and for as long as it has been around, the name has been a byword for quality. If this team's founders aren't the out and out creators of the first-person shooter (FPS) genre, they can certainly take the credit for popularising and revolutionising it.Many of the Texas-based developer's games represented the high-water mark of the shooter genre on their release and their DNA is present in most of what's on offer currently in FPS games. They have pedigree, there's no doubting that. But how does Rage, the newest triple A release from id compare when stacked up against rival high-fliers in the FPS genre?In a word, "weirdly". Rage looks the part and it plays very well, but it's littered with kinks and quirks that may strike contemporary shooter players as, at best, odd and at worst, horribly out of date.Why, for example, is there no checkpoint system? Why can't players pick up the weapons of their victims when they can loot their bodies? Why, given id Software's legacy with regards to the online deathmatch is there no competitive shooter multiplayer mode? And who thought it was a good idea to place the biggest and best boss battles in themiddleof the storyline?Then there's the issue of the game's level design that recycles environments and enemies, and really deflates the experience in the final stages – the ending is abrupt, unimaginative and abysmal. The story isn't up to much, either; while the post-apocalyptic world of Rage is filled with imaginative environments and interesting, larger-than-life characters, the plot chugging along underneath it all doesn't really go anywhere.By the time the end credits roll, there's no sense of resolution to be had. Before this happens, players spend all their time picking up fetch quests from NPCs, which mostly involve driving somewhere, shooting some enemies and collecting an item or two.Then again, compelling narratives have never been id Software's strong suit, and it's likely the Quakecon faithful won't really be all that bothered, as long as the shooter mechanics are up to scratch. And if that's the case, they're in for a treat, because what id Software does excel at, is crafting incredibly balanced, beautifully smooth and, above all else, fun shooters.As a showcase of the new id Tech 5 engine, Rage is a spectacle and a half. Movement in the game feels incredibly slick and precise, there's no clipping and the frame-rate never slows. The visuals initially look very similar to those in Gearbox's FPS/RPG Borderlands, but after about three hours in, Rage distinguishes itself by adding increasing layers of viscera, urban wreckage and industrial grit.The weapons in Rage are all FPS staples, but they've also all been tweaked or modified in some way that sets them apart from your average shooter. Furthermore, there is no weapon that the player will feel is made obsolete by a new addition to their arsenal. This is largely down to the occasional weapon augmentation or the amusingly brutal ammunition the player will inevitably come across.The handgun isn't particularly interesting when it's first introduced, but load it up with some Fat Boys (large, high-calibre rounds) and slap half a telescope on it and hey presto! You have a gun that can tear an opponent's noggin off from some considerable distance.The shotgun starts off feeling exactly like it would in any other shooter, but once the player collects some Pulse Rounds or Pop Rockets, they have a short-range weapon that can deliver either a debilitating electrical shock, or turn an attacker into paint, depending on what they've loaded. There's even a crossbow bolt that, upon hitting a target, allows you to pilot the victim towards a group of their comrades, and then blow the lot of them to pieces.As the game progresses, players will be able to find or buy schematics, allowing them to craft a whole host of items ranging from new ammo types to performance boosts to sentry bots to Wingsticks (three-bladed boomerangs) to loads more besides. Players have four utility slots they can assign an item to, and can then switch between them easily by using the D-Pad. Tapping the left bumper deploys the active utility, while tapping the right, opens up the four main weapon and ammo slots allowing the player to switch their guns and ammo types quickly and easily.It all adds up to an incredibly fun and addictive shooter, which can satisfy pretty much any style of play. If you fancy fast-paced run and gun action, augment your shotgun to take clips, build a bunch of Pop Rockets and keep the Wingsticks handy. Fancy a bit more range on your attacks? Grab some armour piercing rounds, augment your machine gun to reduce kick-back and build some turrets, sentry bots and remote-controlled bomb-cars. From further away, the sniper rifle, augmented handgun and crossbow will become your best friends.For our money, Rage shines brightest when players juggle through their weapons, finding exactly the right death-dealing combo for each group they encounter. Anyone can shoot a charging attacker down with machine gun fire, but popping their helmet off with a single headshot and then decapitating them with a Wingstick induces the same warm glow that can only be replicated by pulling off a well orchestrated set-piece in Fifa 12.The FPS action at the core of Rage is rock-solid and such fun that it's almost a pity id Software decided to bolt a driving game on top of it. Players navigate the game's post-apocalyptic environment in an assortment of vehicles, starting with a quad-bike, and working their way up to some augmented muscle cars Mad Max would be proud to own.They can also beef up their cars, by buying better armour, tyres, fenders, paint-jobs and, weapons such as rocket launchers, machine guns and pulse canons. These last items are worth keeping ammo stocked up for, because the wasteland in Rage is a dangerous place filled with bandits keen to blow players off the road and pick their bones clean.The catch to all this is that no mechanic in the game will sell the player car parts and weapons for cash. The only currency they're willing to take are racing certificates and these can only be earned by competing in and winning the many in-game races. There are a variety of races on offer, including straight races, time trials and combative competitions. These aren't too bad to begin with, but as things progress, the races – due to the poor handling of the cars, the weird design of some of the racecourses and the increasingly difficult opponents – become irritating wars of attrition.Racing isn't the only mini-game in Rage, but it's arguably the most taxing. Aside from that, players can make money from doing side-missions for NPCs, playing a variety of pub games including a card-collecting game that bears some resemblance to Magic: The Gathering and taking part in Mutant Bash, a TV show run by a bleached madman in which they have to shoot snarling freaks.Outside the campaign, which will take around 12 hours to zoom through if players do the bare minimum, Rage offers two multiplayer modes. The first is a separate co-op adventure, whose missions are based on some of the stories the player will hear from NPCs in the main campaign. The second, is a competitive racing mode in which up to six players can hurtle round tracks, blowing each other to smithereens.Rage is a decidedly mixed affair. It isn't perfect, some of it feels quite antiquated, and it is by no means the high-water moment in the FPS genre that Doom and Quake were in their day. But it is still a very eye-catching and incredibly fun shooter, and in its best moments, it can't be matched for pure entertainment value.It's true that other shooters will probably sell more units than Rage, but do any of them have a crossbow bolt that, upon hitting a target, allows you to pilot the victim towards a group of their comrades, and then blow the lot of them to pieces?No. No they do not ...• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Secrecy surrounding Apple's announcement of its "iPhone 5" on Tuesday evening UK time is so strong that UK mobile networks admit even they do not know precisely what will be unveiled, and so may not even be able to give prices until Friday.Expectations are high, though, with carriers telling the Guardian that they think the phone will be the most highly anticipated to be launched this year. "In terms of interest, we had some for Samsung's Galaxy S II, but that was nothing like we saw for the iPhone 4 last year," said one source.Unlike previous iPhone releases, some carriers do not propose to offer web pre-ordering ahead of their price details because they expect so many orders that it could overwhelm their systems.The iPhone 4 is the best-selling smartphone in the world, and in the second quarter Apple became the world's largest maker of smartphones and its biggest by revenue. But despite the mounting anticipation Apple has managed to keep details about the product secret, despite obsessive interest from the media and from accessory makers, which anticipate a bonanza in fresh sales if the phone is shaped differently from the existing iPhone 4, and so needs a different enclosure or cover.The secrecy extends to carriers in the UK, which say they will only be able to begin negotiations over pricing with Apple after Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive sinceSteve Jobs stepped aside for medical reasons in August, has unveiled the new product line at Apple's campus in Cupertino."Unlike other handset makers, where we know what products they have coming months ahead and we can negotiate subsidies, prices and numbers, Apple makes it all happen in a matter of days," one UK carrier source told the Guardian. All spoke on condition of anonymity for fear that they would be pushed to the back of the queue in negotiations for the next iPhone release.That lack of preparation means prices for the handsets might not be available until Friday at the earliest, as the carriers figure out how to price them to retain and even win customers while making a profit. "I doubt you'll see much variation in prices between carriers," said one source. "Probably only £5 per month one way or the other."Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director at the research company Kantar ComTech, said "when the new iPhone is released there will be a significant bump in sales due to pent-up demand." But he said that it would not be evenly distributed: O2, which was the first UK network to carry the iPhone in 2007, stands to benefit most from the release because it still has 45% of all UK iPhone owners, and 38% of O2's UK customers have owned their device for at least 18 months – which would make them eligible for an upgrade.Sunnebo said "iPhone consumers are very loyal when upgrading – in Britain, over 70% of iPhone owners who changed their device chose another iPhone".Separate data released last week by Nielsen from a survey of 1,000 UK smartphone users found Google's Android OS comprised 44% of purchases in the past six months, ahead of RIM's BlackBerry (25%) and iPhones (18%).But Apple appears to inspire the most loyalty, with 86% of iPhone users saying they were "highly satisfied" compared to 74% of all smartphone users."Consumers still seem to love the Apple iPhone over any other device brand," said David Gosen, Nielsen's European telecoms managing director, noting that 90% of iPhone owners rate Apple as their favourite brand, the highest loyalty. Nokia had the next highest, at 75%, followed by HTC at 68%. BlackBerry at 65% and Samsung at 57%.The iPhone upgrade will also bring theiOS 5 software update trailed by Jobs in June, will make Apple's device more competitive in features with Google's Android by adding a "notification" system and cloud connectivity to let users store and download photos, apps and music directly from Apple's servers without using a PC.The cloud connection could allow Apple to offer phones with less storage, because data would be stored online. That in turn could let it offer much cheaper phones to penetrate into new markets, especially China, where smartphone use is growing rapidly.Data seen by the Guardian suggests the Three network, which only began selling the iPhone last summer, has gained significant market share from other carriers through its "unlimited data" offering. Vodafone, which has imposed data limits and more recently said it wouldround up contract users' bills, now has the smallest monthly share of the iPhone market, behind Three, Orange/T-Mobile and O2.
The Guardian'sTech Weeklyis going live, with a series of public podcast recordings debating the UK's most important political issue in today's technology industry: our future digital economy. Throughout the month of October, running up tothe anniversary of Prime Minister David Cameron's launch of the Tech City initiative, we will host the first series of live debates between front benchers and the people on the ground at Imperial College London. In this series, we'll be talking about Skills, Access, Enterprise and Intellectual Property: what are the government's policies on these issues, and how realistic are their ambitions? Is there anything behind the Tech City talk or is it just hot air?Thefirst debate is onMonday 10 October:Who Will Build the Future Digital Economy?The guests tackling this question, and discussing the skills shortfalls in the UK's education system, includeDavid Willetts MP(Minister of State for Universities and Science),Professor Jeff Magee(Principal of the Faculty of Engineering at Imperial College London) andDan Crow(Chief Technology Office at Songkick).  If one of the Tech City objectives is to produce the next Facebook or Google, how can our schools and universities develop the people with the right skills and the right attitude to deliver this ambition?Over the following weeks, Tech Weekly will tackle key questions in the digital economy agenda.  OnMonday 24 October, our panel will beEric Pickles(Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government), Google'sPeter Barron, DesignSwarm'sAlexandra Deschamps-SonsinoandTara Solesbury(a digital, media and creative industries consultant who helped develop and support the digital media sector in Sussex).  We'll be asking themwhat government, investors and the people at the coalface should do to inspire innovation and to generate globally competitive enterprise within and East london-based Tech City.Then, onMonday 31 October, we're askingEd Vaizey(Minister for Culture, Communications and Creative Industries) and others how we should respond to theHargreaves report on Intellectual Property:what should the business model for creativity be within the UK?And finally, we will soon be announcingour final debatewhere we will be askinghow the government intends to get the whole of the country online, and how the digital refuseniks can be engaged.Our Tech City Talks bring together the policy makers, the business stakeholders and the people on the ground to dissect the Tech City proposition. Join us at Imperial College for one or more of the evening sessions, send in your questions totechweekly@guardian.co.uk, follow the coverage onguardian.co.uk, and - of course - listen to theTech Weekly podcasts, available to download every Tuesday.
Facebook has hired a leading web security firm to help combat a continuing rise in malware on the social network in the past year.Users of the world's biggest social network will be warned not to follow links posted on the site which lead to locations known to harbour malware, as part of the partnership with US security firm Websense.Another web security firm, Symantec,said in its annual report in Aprilthat malicious links accounted for two-thirds of all shortened links on social networks in 2010, and that almost nine in 10 of them had been clicked at least once.While Facebook has grown exponentially, it has also struggled to steman increase in opportunist scamsthat target the site's 800 million users. Attacks range from tricking users into revealing their password to more serious attempts to extort money from people using plausible-sounding email addresses via information gleaned from their profile pages.One of the biggest threatson Facebook is shortened links that could unwittingly take users to websites that could infect their computers with viruses. Websense says it will vet out shortened links that hide viruses in "real time", warning users against visiting the site if it is harmful."Facebook cares deeply about protecting users from potentially malicious content on the internet," said Dan Rubinstein, Facebook's product manager for site integrity. "We are excited about our partnership with Websense to provide industry leading tools to help our users protect themselves."The security firm Sophosreported in Julythat Facebook was increasingly seen as the "biggest risk" online among users, with 81% of survey respondents voting for the website, up from 60% in 2010. Twitter and Myspace received 8% of the votes in the same study.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos, told the Guardian the partnership was not a "significant change of direction" by Facebook, and said his firm sees "a lot of malicious activity" there."Certainly I think there's room for Facebook to improve when it comes to fighting spammy and malicious links," he said. "The likes of [Google's] Gmail, [Microsoft's] Hotmail and Yahoo do a pretty good job at blocking most of the spam in the first place – so it would be good to see Facebook offer a similarly mature approach to the problem. One challenge for Facebook is they have a very laissez-faire attitude to what goes on on their network."For instance, anyone can become a Facebook developer and apps are not vetted, which is one avenue for criminals to earn income and access users' personal information."In May, Facebook announced a similar partnership with theonline security firm Web of Trust, whose chief executive Vesa Perala told the Guardian: "Websense work on the traditional technical security, which is quite different compared to what we are doing."She added: "We know that Facebook is using multiple sources for different purposes. According to my understanding they have two major data providers: McAfee on the anti-virus area and [Web of Trust] in the area of reputation and trustworthiness but are using 'bits and pieces' from other sources as well."WOT [Web of Trust] is unique as we combine data from trusted sources (including multiple anti-virus companies and other organisations fighting cyber crime) with real experiences from real users (WOT community of over 25 million users), who rate websites using our safe surfing tools."Carl Leonard, senior manager of security research at Websense, described Web of Trust as a "very different" system to the real-time Websense technology, which will be integrated into the site from Monday.He said: "[Web of Trust] is a community-powered free protection system.  Users of the tool essentially rate websites in how safe they think they are ... Websense uses the most advanced data identification, content classification, and security filtering available to lessen risks to customer data and productivity."
It's rare these days for a major video gamenotto have a tie-in novel series – but it's even rarer for the writer of those novels to be drafted in to the development team. Yet, that's exactly what happened whenKaren Traviss, the author of several Gears of War books, was invited to pen the storyline for Gears 3.Previously responsible for a series of Star Wars novelisations, Traviss started out as a journalist, working as a defence correspondent for both print and TV. Her experience of writing about the armed forces has clearly come in useful for her work in the games industry: alongside the Gears novels, she's also working on a series for Halo.So what can a writer bring to a major games series, and how should a story be told through the medium of interactive entertainment? Here's what Karen had to say…So the story is, you first fell for Gears of War when you sawthe TV advert for the original gamewhich used the Gary Jules version of Mad World as its soundtrack. How did you get from there to actually writing novels for the games?In January 2008 I got a call from a publisher I'd done some work for who told me they needed a book to be written urgently. They said it was a game tie-in, a shooter… Sometimes they're a bit cagey about what the IP is before you show interest, but it was a publisher I was a little wary of so I said I wasn't going to commit myself until they told me what it was.When they said Gears of War, it just rang no bells at all, which is good because if I know too much about a project I can't come to it clean and cold. So I told them I was going to check it out; I mean, when someone comes to you with a rush job you think, 'oh God, what's the problem with this?!'So I sent a very discreet email to Jerry Holkins at Penny Arcade. I wrote, 'I can't tell you why I'm asking, but if I said Gears of War to you, what would your response be?' He shot back an email saying, whatever it is, do it! So I did a search for YouTube clips, and the first one that came up was that Mad World advert. I just thought, yes, I'm having that! It was meant to be! And in the first conference call I had with Epic, we just hit it off so well, it was instant.What was it about them that you liked?My first call was with Rod Fergusson and Mike Capps and they were just… everything they said made feel that they cared passionately, not only about their product, but also about story and quality. And it seemed they'd be very hands on, which is good – very frequently, when you're doing work for hire, you don't get to talk to the IP. That's not something I often do anyway – there is a problem of constantly going through a third-party. But when an IP holder is willing to have its top people talk to the writers doing novels, which don't directly impact their product, if they're prepared to sit down and put hours of discussion time into it, it says something about how they do business.And just the conversations we were having, the amount of scope they were giving me... I mean, every IP these days feels it has to have spin-offs, and a lot relate directly to the main product, but they're often side-stories, or they're more of a translation of the movie or game itself. Mike Capps was very clear from the start that he wanted the books to inform the game – he wanted them tocreatestoryline and give fans an extra dimension so when they came to play the games they actually new the characters, the situation and the background better.And that's exactly what we've done. I was getting emails from gamers saying, I already loved Gears of War, but when I read the books and then played again, I got a totally different game; I was engaged with the characters, the stakes were higher, I got upset about what was happening… That's what Epic wanted me to do.Where does your inspiration come from? Do you read other sci-fi writers?People lose it when I say this, but I'm a novelist who doesn't read novels. There are lots of good reasons for not reading novels! I'm also a game writer who doesn't play games – I keep everything very separate. The only crossover with me is comics, I write them and I read them passionately.But it does seem, though, that games are embracing more complex stories these days…Games are getting more interesting. I mean, when we talk about books, they can be anything from a summer blockbuster to War and Peace – well, games are the same. I think the creative side is catching up with the technology. When Charlie Brooker did his Gameswipe programme for C4 he interviewed Graham Linehan who said something that really stuck with me: we've advanced so much technically over the last thirty years, but storylines haven't kept up. He had strong views about the writers being people who had only seen movies and hadn't read any books.There's also a point that Jim Swallow who worked on the Deus Ex novels made to me about the cultural reference group that the games industry works in. One of the reasons I can bring something fresh to Games of War is that I'm English working for an American company. I didn't get any of their cultural references. We'd be in meetings and I'd be saying, 'I don't know who that character is! I don't know that TV show!' But that was a good thing – they gave me huge space to explore Gears and come up with my own answers.At the same time as all this, there are people who fell that narrative has no place in games, or at least that it is there just to serve atmosphere, like a good soundtrack…The thing about games is, players often say they don't care about story, but then if you took the story out, what would their reaction be? If no one cared about story we'd all still be playing Pac-Man. There's nothing wrong with Pac-Man, but the point is, there's a genre of games in which you want to become part of that world. Immersion is the same whether you're talking about games or movies or books – you want to be able to dive in and story is how you enable gamers to do that.As a writer, I think that Epic made a really smart decision in not filling in gaps with the Gears chronology. I have worked for IPs where they want to produce a massive story bible in which every single detail is laid down for the next 400 years. I'd say, don't do that, because when you explore this story it never pans out the way you think it will when you first come up with your story shopping list. Don't put in the dates of battles, don't put in detailed biographies, come up with a few strong foundations like three or four good characters and a single story arc that you can describe in a single sentence, and then start toorganicallytell the story. Epic had a policy of doing that and it's worked really well.I've done it the other way where I've been presented with what I call a book of barriers – you always get to a certain point where you say, 'you know by doingthisyou've closed offthat? I can't go down that path now!' Epic didn't do that – they said, let's start of with these characters and this vibe – a decorated war veteran who falls from grace and gets the chance to redeem himself; he has the relationship with his father, the world going to hell in a hand basket… that's the sort of thing I can latch on to.Has it been challenging moving from novels to in-game writing? It's got to be a very different discipline, surely?Oddly, it didn't fell like that because when you're writing novels for the game you still want to know what's going on in its creation. I'm not involved in the writing for Halo 4, but I'm writing books that impinge on the game and lead up to it, so I have to talk to 343 Industries on a regular basis.So there weren't any real shocks. I'd already looked into game development – I knew the technical and narrative limitations. I'm a visual person – when I write, my input is always visual. I worked in television for several years. It wasn't a massive culture shift. The thing that you have to bear in mind though is how people play games. My first question with any form of communication is how will the customer use the product –what do I have to do to make sense to them?And vitally, no one finishes a game in one setting; they'll do a little every day or every week, or they'll leave it for six months and start again. It has to be like a TV series: every time you come to a key point you're almost saying, 'previously on Gears of War…', but you're doing it in such a way that the player doesn't feel like they're having the story repeated to them.The other interesting thing with games is, you can't just tell the story in a straightforward way; you can't guarantee the player will go through the game in the way you want. The timing in movies, the gradually revelation of facts in a thriller novel… you don't have those. Gears is a thriller in the most difficult medium of all: it's a whodunit with a complex plot and somehow you have to ensure that no matter what path a player takes, and no matter how many cut scenes they skip, they still can't hide the story! Or at least they get enough story, enough characterisation, to understand the ending.How do you do that then?You have to keep them engaged, they have to wonder what's going to happen to that character next, to feel that sense of risk. There's always a very high risk in Gears; Gears isn't a cosy story, it's not a happy ending story. It might have ahopefulending, but there are real risks for every character.To keep the audience interested, you have to keep reminding them in subtle ways what the stakes are, what's gone wrong, what the characters don't know… and that has to be in the cut-scenes, the game play, the environment, the dialogue… Reflecting the mood of the whole game in the chatter between characters –that'san interesting one.The thing that really brought it home to me, is when I watched all the cut-scenes from Gears 3 in a single sitting, and really it's a 90-minute movie. I didn't realise I'd written that much story!Was there a huge sense of responsibility with Gears 3? You were effectively closing this epic, hugely successful trilogy…In terms of being given a triple A game as my first outing into games writing, I felt a massive sense of responsibility. For Epic to hand this game to me, that's faith! When Rod asked if I'd like to write it, my first thought was, oh God, I'd better not balls this up. It's not just letting Epic down, who I have a huge regard for, it's respecting the IP. I don't mean that as a fan of the games. I love Gears for different reasons, for writer reasons – the depth and complexity of the story. I didn't want to be the one to screw up this beautiful thing. I mean it hit me so hard from the first frame.And you had a framework to operate in, I guess? They didn't just hand you a blank slate?Right from the very start we knew what the arc was – Epic are very good at the high-level vision thing. On the way, we changed things, but it is basically the same story. Once the characters start doing things, once you're past the first game, you're narrowing the number of options, the story is driving itself to a certain extent. You can't go off on crazy tangents – if you're serious about the story and doing what is logical for the characters then it's a relatively clear run.Obviously, there were meetings where we sat down and debated what would happen to certain characters and how they'd react. It was mostly along the lines of 'well, Marcus wouldneverdo that' or 'if he did that, then she would react like this'. These were the sorts of conversations we were having – it was never, 'this is what happens in the story', but 'what will the characters do'. And that's how I write books, too, so it was easy to have these discussions. There has to be a little bit of tension – have we taken this as far as we can? Have we gonetoofar? If you're not having these debates then you don't care enough.Gears of War 3 is available now on Xbox 360.
George Osborne has promised £150m of government money to get mobile coverage to 99% of the UK, ensuring even the most remote beauty spots will no longer escape the chirping of portable phones.The chancellor's money, to be gathered from government department underspends, will ensure up to 6 million more people will be able to get a signal. Mobile coverage reaches 95% of the UK, although in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland masts only reach 90% of locations.The money will be used to pay for new masts, with procurement expected to begin next year. Osborne hopes to improve coverage for voice calls and data connections for internet services.Voice signals should reach more rural areas by 2013, while data connections will come when the networks begin to roll out 4G spectrum. The government's auction of 4G airwaves is due to take place next summer, with faster data networks up and running by the following year, although there are fears it could be delayed.Osborne said: "In consultation with local communities we will install new mobile phone masts, which will improve coverage for 6 million people. This will improve connectivity and productivity across the country."The Conservative press release was careful to note that councils and local communities would have a role to play in ensuring new masts were sensitively located and designed to blend into their surroundings.The money is in addition to the subsidy being handed to fixed-line operators such as BT Group to ensure fibre broadband reaches rural locations. A total of £530m has been committed in this parliament, with a further £300m mooted for the next, to meet the government's target of creating the "best super-fast broadband network in Europe" by 2015.By that date, 90% of homes should have a super-fast connection, and 100% of the UK should have a basic connection of at least 2 megabits per second. The money will be allocated via local councils, which expect to treble the size of the pot with this funding matched by the winning network builders and from public sources such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.As part of the 4G auction, communications watchdog Ofcom, which is running the process, is proposing to require one network operator to build out mobile broadband of at least 2 megabits per second to remote locations so 95% of the UK population is covered.Vodafone welcomed Osborne's announcement, saying it was selling so-called femtocell technology to expand coverage in rural areas. Its Sure Signal product allows anyone with a fixed broadband connection to plug a device into their phone line and get mobile phone reception. Numbers using the signal must be registered, although Vodafone is trialling a version which could be used in public places.A company spokesman said: "We warmly welcome the government's ambition to bring mobile services to as wide a portion of the population as possible. We have already run trials in rural locations of the next generation of Sure Signal, which could be used to provide enhanced coverage in villages, pubs and other public areas."
Top 20 UK video games, week ending September 30 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)12 (1)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)23 (2)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (48)PC (1)24 (4)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)275 (3)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (31)PC (2)46 (5)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (40)PC (7)67 (–)Ico & Shadow Of The Colossus Collection(12+)PS3 (100)18 (6)Driver: San Francisco(12+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (47)59 (9)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (29)DS (28)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (13)2110 (11)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (47)PC (4)Wii (1)4411 (7)Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine (15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (34)PC (14)412 (10)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)613 (8)Resistance 3(18+)PS3 (100)414 (12)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (29)PC (7)3715 (13)Cars 2(3+)DS (47)Wii (33)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (9)1116 (16)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)4317 (14)The Sims 3(12+)PC (41)Xbox 360 (18)DS (13)Wii (12)4518 (–)X-men: Destiny (16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)119 (17)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (37)DS (30)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (14)3120 (–)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)98UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Netflix's background in DVDs-by-mail means it is often seen as mainly a movies service. However, the balance has tipped more towards TV shows in its streaming operation."50% and sometimes 60% of viewing is TV episodes now," said Netflix's chief content officer Ted Sarandos, during ajoint keynoteat the MIPCOM conference in Cannes with Miramax CEO Mike Lang.This is the key factor behind Netflix's high-profile deal tostream episodes of Mad Men, and also its decision to ink an exclusive deal for David Fincher's new remake of BBC drama House of Cards."That can be mis-perceived as Netflix giving up on movies, which it's not. It's just consumers saying what they want," said Sarandos during his keynote. He also announced a new exclusive deal for a TV series calledLilyhammer, starring actor/musician Steven Van Zandt.Sarandos said that Netflix intends to use its recommendation algorithms to seed the show with users who are most likely to enjoy it. "We really think we can use these same algorithms to launch a show very rapidly, and put it in the hands of the people who'll love it the most," he said, citing the previous example of Starz' Spartacus show being promoted to Netflix users who had enjoyed the film 300.Miramax is one of Netflix's key partners, with Lang having joined as CEO in December 2010 with the ambition of striking a series of digital distribution deals. He previously worked as executive vice president of business development and strategy at Fox Entertainment, where he was closely involved in the acquisition of Myspace and the creation of online TV service Hulu."In a way I'd like to believe our company is a bit more Silicon Valley than Hollywood," said Lang during the keynote, while outlining Miramax's strategy of working with traditional TV partners, new services like Netflix and Hulu, and launching its own direct-to-consumer offering on Facebook, iPad and Google TV."We believe that cross-platform is key to growing the digital transactions business," he said. "We believe that all these different platforms can be complementary and co-exist together. We think everything starts with the consumer. They're not focused on windows or on what schedule they can watch something or on which device."Lang also said that when he joined Miramax, the studio was "basically closed for business", despite having a library of more than 700 films. "It was a case of innovate or die," he said, before outlining why this means he loses little sleep worrying about piracy."Piracy really is not the bigger issue for our company or for our library. It's been lack of exploitation, just not getting it out there," said Lang. "Most consumers at some point in their life don't want to pirate. The way to then react to that is to offer legitimate, great services for them."Lang noted that there is still a "robust market" for ownership of films, even in the physical world, citing the upcoming Blu-ray release of Pulp Fiction with a raft of extra content as a good example.He also drew on his experience of the music industry when launching Myspace Music to suggest a key lesson that the film and TV industries need to learn."Apple is the strongest company in the music industry, and because there was not enough competition, and still to this day is not enough competition, as an industry it can't then influence, packaging, merchandising… all the things that are vital," said Lang."As the movie business we have to be very cogniscant of that. That's why we did our deal with Netflix, and why we also did our deal with Hulu. We want multiple players to be successful… Our goal as an industry should be to have as many as possible, ad may the best service win."
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft neutralizes Kelihos botnet, names defendant in case &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft Blog"Microsoft also alleges that Dominique Alexander Piatti, dotFREE Group SRO and the John Doe defendants committed some of the same violations made in the successful legal cases against the operators of the Waledac and Rustock botnets. Kelihos infected users' computers with malicious software which allowed the botnet to surreptitiously control a person's computer and use it for a variety of illegal activities, including sending out billions of spam messages, harvesting users' personal information (such as e-mails and passwords), fraudulent stock scams and, in some instances, websites promoting the sexual exploitation of children. "Similar to Rustock, some of the spam messages also promoted potentially dangerous counterfeit or unapproved generic pharmaceuticals from unlicensed and unregulated online drug sellers." 41,000-strong botnet, could send 3.8bn spam emails per day, also hosted Mac scareware. One up for Microsoft.Amazon's media strategy: leak the almost-as-good news &gt;&gt; The AtlanticPointing out how Amazon's media strategy - leak little bits here and there, trail the breadcrumbs, watch the media eat it up - worked so well for the Fire.Various and Assorted Thoughts and Observations Regarding the Just-Announced iPad &gt;&gt; Daring FireballFrom January 2010, but interesting in retrospect: "Lastly, a thought regarding the iPad's aggressive pricing. Apple is obviously leaving money on the table here. They could easily charge $999 as the starting price and have hundreds of people lined up outside every Apple Store ready to buy one on day one. Then they could drop the price later in the year, as the holiday season approaches. "Clearly they're more interested in unit sales than per-unit margin. The mobile computing landscape is in land-grab mode, and Apple is trying to stake out a long-term dominating position." The problems rivals have had making 10in tablets that beat the price suggest he was right.Kindle Fire-bug tablet forecast caution &gt;&gt; if connected"At the event, Amazon controlled access to the Fire. Attendees were not able to test it out free form. Amazon staff showed it, yes, but they also pressed the buttons, browsed the web, scrolled the screen, and played the music and videos. PC World columnist Harry McCracken tweeted about Amazon's demo control first. Now, Engadget reports it wasn't able to go hands-on, as do Venturebeat, Gizmodo, and This is my Next and others. Kindle Fire tablet demo videos from the event all have in common Amazon staff holding the Fire, they look similar. "This lack of access to the Fire this close to launch is suspicious. "By not allowing attendees to try it, Amazon is implying that the current Kindle Fire software is sluggish, buggy, or not yet fully implemented. The last time I saw a tablet shown in this way was behind closed doors at HP's Mobile World Congress booth back in February. There they showed me the Touchpad but wouldn't let me use its apps myself." Unlike the 2010 iPad launch.When a bug fix can save a journalist's life &gt;&gt; Committee to Protect Journalists"One of the most exciting aspects of working on Internet technologies is how quickly the tools you build can spread to millions of users worldwide. It's a heady experience, one that has occurred time and again here in Silicon Valley. But there's also responsibility that attaches to that excitement. For every hundred thousand cases in which a tool improves someone's day, there is another case in which it's used in a life-or-death situation. And for online journalists working on high-risk material, or in high-risk places, that life may be their own or that of a source. "You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Wha... what? Monday already?!
TV producers like FremantleMedia are setting up app divisions in the hope of making the next Angry Birds, but book publishers are more wary about the likely return on investment from apps. This, at least, was the upshot of the MIPJunior conference in Cannes over the weekend.Apanel sessionon how TV producers and book publishers are working together veered into a discussion of whether these partnerships will spawn a new wave of apps. John Rice, CEO of Irish animation studio Jam Media, said it's inevitable, "particularly tablet books and around animation where you can use the assets from your TV production and put them into the books".Not everyone agreed, though. Helen McAleer, UK managing director at publisher Walker Books, was distinctly wary about whether apps can be lucrative spin-offs for books. "I'm not 100% convinced that apps is the right way to go," she said. "I'm still not convinced that for the investment one has to make for an app, that the return on that investment is good enough."McAleer went on to say that she is more interested in the ePub 3 e-book format, which is expected to launch in 2012, and will provide more flexibility for publishers of picture books. She was backed up in her app scepticism by Emma Cairns-Smith, licence acquisition director at publisher Egmont UK."With an e-book you can sell it at pretty much the same price as the book, but as soon as you put that on an app you have to sell it at 99p," she said. "There are real commercial issues around it. It is far more expensive for us to make an app than an e-book, and yet we can charge far less for it. That's the conundrum."In a later session at MIPJunior, Random House Children's Screen Entertainment's head of acquisition and development Fiona Macmillan mirrored Cairns-Smith's views. "With an app, you spend a huge amount of money developing it, and you sell it for a very small amount of money. An e-book is much closer in pricing philosophy to a traditional book."Meanwhile, Penguin Group publishing director Eric Huang said he doesn't think there is currently much mileage in trying to launch new intellectual property as an app first, before it becomes a book or TV show. "Apps have worked for mega brands like Peppa Pig and Thomas the Tank Engine, but launching something with an app is very risky," he said.There is a real contrast here, though. TV production companies are increasingly keen to do exactly that, and they all cite the same mobile-originated IP as their inspiration: Angry Birds. Producers have taken note of that franchise's 350 million downloads – not to mention its booming sales of plush toys and developer Rovio's promise to turn it into a TV series and/or films – and are wondering if they can follow suit.Bob Higgins, senior vice president of kids and family entertainment at FremantleMedia, put this ambition most clearly inanother panel sessionat MIPJunior. "Can we create the next Angry Birds and then raise it up through the rest of the media?" he asked, referring to the idea of launching something as an app or mobile game, and then turning it into a TV show.Higgins also said FremantleMedia is keeping a close eye on the hits being created online and on app stores by games developers. "We definitely look at what's hot in games and gaming, and is it something that we think can become a TV show," he said. "Can it become more than just a game, and should it? You see a lot of movies based on games that should never have been done… We look at everything and see if there's a reason for this to become a TV show – and a good TV show."In the same session, Nuno Bernado – managing director of production company beActive – delivered a warning for Rovio that spending too long making the Angry Birds TV series or film is a risky business."If you take two years to create the movie or TV show, probably the audience for Angry Birds has found another cool thing to play or follow," he said. There is evidence that Rovio realises this though, having acquired animation studio Kombo and hired veteran Hollywood executive David Maisel to speed its entertainment ambitions.Angry Birds was not the only non-TV brand to be regularly cited during the weekend's MIPJunior sessions. Virtual worlds Moshi Monsters and Club Penguin were also highlighted for their popularity among children – and for their expansion into other forms of entertainment and merchandising.In another MIPJunior debate focusing on the convergence between e-books and animation, CBeebies controller Kay Benbow talked about apps in a less commercial context."It is still really important to generate a love of reading and the ability to follow a narrative," she said. "Technology allows us to interact with compelling stories in new and different ways. Content, stories or narrative activity on tablets can engage children at a pre-literacy stage. Two year-olds can use iPads very easily: it's totally intuitive for them. We hope that by putting content out there in different ways we can stimulate a love of reading later on."However, Benbow said that for shows screened on CBeebies but made by external producers, apps are usually the responsibility of the latter. "They retain the IP and go and find the deals to make it work [on other platforms]," she said. "It's up to them to work with appropriate partners who will extend that title, but they do keep me informed."Random House's Macmillan confirmed that when the publisher is acquiring books that have the potential to become TV shows, it wants the rights to make the spin-off apps and other digital products."We try to acquire all of those electronic rights, and try to keep continuity over all the publishing, to keep the equity of the character strong so it doesn't get diluted," she said. "All publishers are doing that: we're looking to acquire a bigger bucket of rights."
A selection of 14 new apps for you today:PES 2012: Pro Evolution SoccerHot on the heels of the iOS release of FIFA 12 comes the latest iteration of its traditional competitor, Pro Evolution Soccer. PES 2012 has an interesting pricing model too, going the freemium route. The game is free to download, but limited modes and features are available, with players paying £3.99 to unlock the full game. A new Super Challenge mode includes the ability to download friends' teams to play against, before bragging on Facebook if you beat them.iPhone / iPadRio FerdinandHis private life may have beenmaking headlinesrecently, but the footballer is using his own app to provide a more authorised view of his daily life for fans. The Rio Ferdinand app offers videos shot by himself, as well as tweets and music recommendations. Its iPhone release follows its debut on Android earlier in 2011.iPhoneThe X Factor 2011The X Factor already has an iPhone app for its current series in the UK, but now there's a BlackBerry version too. Video highlights and news are included, as is the "Tap to Clap" feature that has proven popular on iPhone: users can virtually cheer or boo contestants as they perform.BlackBerryFunpark FriendsUK developer Tag Games has launched its first freemium game for iPhone. Funpark Friends has players running their own theme park, building rides and attractions, completing quests and showing off to their Facebook friends. It's free to download and play, with in-app purchases to speed things along. Tag will be hoping it finds a big audience before the iOS release of EA's Theme Park, which is also being given a freemium revamp.iPhoneTap! The Magazine for iPadUK magazine publisher Future has launched an iPad app version of its magazine about iPad and iPhone apps. Tap! offers reviews, features and tips, with multimedia and interactivity. What's most interesting about the app, though, is the way it was put together. Future has apparently created a platform to enable the mag-app to be designed on an iPad itself, rather than using desktop publishing software.iPadUltimate Ministry of SoundDance brand Ministry of Sound has apps on a number of devices already, but now its flagship app is available on Android too. It offers streaming radio, previews of new MoS album releases, news and the ability to buy tickets for club events that are delivered directly to the phone.AndroidcolourDNAcolourDNA is the latest iPhone app to offer personalised recommendations: in this case, for books, music, restaurants, games and a host of other content. It works by getting users to rate the things that they love, then matching them with other people to recommend new stuff. However, as the name implies, colour is also in the mix: "Our secret sauce is that the discovery experience is based around colour. What does your colour choice say about you?"iPhoneCyberMentorsCyberMentors is an anti-bullying app for Android, which aims to help victims improve their self-esteem and confidence, while providing access to a "CyberMentor" through messaging features when advice is needed. A diary feature and list of emergency contacts is also included. The app is the work of a team of 14 year-old schoolgirls in the UK, working with Apps For Good and funded by the Nominet Trust.Androidebookers HotelsTravel service ebookers has launched a native iPad app to help people book hotels, including location features to find the nearest ones, and the option to compare hotels and prices on a map-based interface.iPadUntappdUntappd is a social mobile app for drinkers, which has been around as a mobile web app for some time, but has now gone native. The idea: check in to the beers you drink much like you'd check in to locations on Foursquare, earning badges and getting recommendations for other tipples you may fancy.iPhone / AndroidLost MonkeyLost Monkey is the first iPhone game from Sulake, the company behind virtual world Habbo Hotel. It's a fun-looking collection of mini-games, but what's interesting is the way it links back into the parent virtual world: people who complete the iPhone game get a free pet monkey within Habbo Hotel. This idea of earning rewards for a virtual world within a mobile game is also being tried by Disney with its recently released Puffle Launch game and Club Penguin.iPhoneBlackBerry DevCon Americas 2011 Mobile GuideResearch In Motion will soon hold its BlackBerry DevCon conference in the US, and there's an official BlackBerry app offering session details, a personal schedule and social features to connect with other attendees. A number of the early reviews on the BlackBerry App World store have criticised the app, though, for its user interface and not making the most of the BlackBerry platform.BlackBerryPaparazziPixel Punch's Paparazzi is an augmented reality game that won an AR award from tech giant Qualcomm earlier this year. The Android version has been joined by an iPhone edition this week. The idea: shoot photos of a virtual celebrity who appears on your real-world desk.iPhone / AndroidWill It Blend?Blendtec's videos showing how various gadgets and products cope with being shoved into a blender have been viral hits online, but now there's an iOS app for them too. It serves up the videos, with a feature to suggest new blends to the team behind them.iPhone / iPad
The mobile phone that a Danish firm hopes will last for ever.Some things, such as furniture or jewellery, are made to last a lifetime – yet despite being equally pricey, it is hard to find an electronic gadget that can hope to outlive a goldfish. Mobile phones are usually upgraded every few years, and there are few personal computers that aren't riddled with viruses or just plain knackered after a decade.But now a counter-movement to technological disposability is emerging, promising electronics that can last for ever. Leading the charge isDanish firm Æsir, which claims to have invented a&nbsp;mobile phone that will never need to be replaced. It has a pared-down design carved out of surgical-grade steel. "There's a long tradition in Denmark to build things that will last," says Thomas Møller Jensen, Æsir's founder. "So we tried to design our mobile phone like you would a chair, boiling it down to the essence of what it should be."And it turns out that the essence of a mobile phone … is a&nbsp;phone. Æsir's device does little more than make calls and send texts, like a luxury watch that only tells the time (and like a luxury watch, it costs €6,000/ £5,200). It is proof, though, that simplicity is the key to longevity.Despite having the sophistication of a pocket calculator, for example, Pac-Man has remained one of the world's most popular video games for 30 years. And Amazon's Kindle comes closer than any multifunctional tablet computer to achieving lifelong appeal by sticking to the basic job of displaying books.Everlasting gadgets, however, need tough hardware. In the future, science may provide us with machines that don't wear out. This year, researchers at the Fraunhofer Institute for Environmental, Safety and Energy Technology in Germany  unveiled a plastic that heals itself like skin, while Australian researchers have shown it is possible to design batteries that never need recharging.Jensen, whose favourite gadgets include his 20-year-old handbuilt turntable, believes that consumers and manufacturers must first change the way they think about electronics. "There's an obsession with obsolescence. I'm sick of opening the newspaper and having adverts for 200 new televisions in my face," he says.
Fancy yourself as a hairy-chested gamer, hardest of the hardcore, with extensive knowledge of the arcane conventions of RPGs? If not, look away now, as trying to play Dark Souls may well turn out to be the most frustrating experience of your life.Its predecessor, Demon's Souls, prided itself on being one of the hardest games ever. And if anything, Dark Souls is even trickier to negotiate. It's the games equivalent of playing rugby: strictly for the masochists.At least, that's what I thought of it when I first started playing it. You begin (having chosen one of a wide variety of classes, such as knight, thief or wanderer) in a dank cell in the Undead Asylum. Although undead yourself (you can regain humanity as you progress), you learn that you're some sort of chosen one, who must rid the land of its impressively extensive undead infestation.Before you even leave the Undead Asylum, which is effectively a tutorial (tips are written in orange on the ground), you must kill a giant demon; indeed, the first time you encounter it, you haven't even acquired a sword and shield or the means of casting spells. But that demon teaches you what Dark Souls is all about – working out how to chisel out, through strategy and persistence, a means of killing seemingly unassailable enemies.A number of things help you in that regard. Bonfires provide home-bases where you can restore your health and fill up your Estus flask with health-restoring draughts. But to increase the capacity of your Estus flask, you must acquire some humanity, reverse your so-called hollowing (becoming temporarily human), then kindle your bonfire.Dark Souls revels in its abstruseness: it goes out of its way to make those who wouldn't say they were RPG veterans feel like they missed a crucial class at school. To prosper in it, you almost need to operate like a detective, seeking out hidden areas and objects, and mining its endless menus (in gloriously old-school fashion, they can only be traversed using the D-pad) for tiny little edges that eventually add up.If ever there was a game for which buying the accompanying strategy guide was a no-brainer, Dark Souls is it. Although it helps if you hook your console up to the web: players can leave tips for each other online.At first, the combat feels clunky, but it clicks when you realise it's all about timing your strikes to when enemies are just about to attack, or parrying their attacks and replying while they are still off balance. Each type of undead you face has a distinct way in which it acts, and things start getting really fun when you're beset by several different types at once.The bosses are, of course, ridiculous, and very satisfying to overcome. Several aspects of the game are harsh: you can only have one save per character and, as in Demon's Souls, whenever you die (and that's a very common occurrence), all the dead souls you've collected, bringing precious levelling-up Experience Points, is left as a green wisp to be collected from the point at which you died. So if you fall short next time out, you lose it. Also, if you return to a bonfire to level up or restore your health, all the undead around it respawn.Dark Souls doesn't lack elements ranging from niggly to sloppy. It looks OK, though by no stretch of the imagination spectacular. The undead you kill end up sprawled like rag-dolls and can become caught underfoot. You have to work the camera a lot, and sometimes – usually when up against a particularly gigantic boss – it's still impossible to see what is going on.But such concerns pale into insignificance for Dark Souls' intended audience: people who want to play what might just be the hardest game ever. So is it?Probably not – because that would surely be incompatible with being so addictive and entertaining. Sure, it makes you work for your rewards like a forced-labour camp internee. But would discovering a masochistic streak be such a bad thing?• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
The dire performance of a £3bn contract to upgrade NHS computer systems had been "fraudulently concealed" from investors in American IT contractor Computer Sciences Corporation for years, according to a class action claim being brought by angry shareholders.Besieged executives at CSC, a company listed on Wall Street with a market value of $4.25bn, now face the possibility of litigation on two fronts – from shareholders and the British taxpayer. The group's existing NHS work is running years behind schedule and has racked up huge costs, much of which have yet to be divided between CSC and British taxpayers. At the centre of problems has beenCSC's much-delayed acute hospital software package, Lorenzo.According to the class action complaint, brought on behalf of a number of investors led by a major Canadian fund, the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, as early as May 2008 CSC knew, through reports and testing, that Lorenzo was "dysfunctional and undeliverable".The complaint cites one member of an internal CSC "delivery assurance review team" which visited the UK and India, where Lorenzo was developed, in early 2008. He said the team were "very consistent in [the] message that we [CSC] could not meet our deadline. We could not deliver the solution set that we had contracted with the NHS."The review team member added that, at the time, "costs were building up on the balance sheet and the project was behind schedule. [The review team] knew that the contract was a loser and CSC should have recognised a loss in 2008." A second delivery review team visit in September was told by Lorenzo's deputy head of testing that test results were "abysmal". According to court filings, the test official was later told by his boss to "shut up", which he took to mean he should no longer criticise testing.Shortly before retiring in April this year, the deputy head of testing emailed CSC chief executive Michael Laphen saying: "The project is on a death march where almost as many defects are being introduced as are being fixed. Look at the defects reports." Despite these internal concerns, Laphen repeatedly told investors that Lorenzo and CSC's work for the NHS was on track.Investors said they dismissed negative media reports on the basis of reassurances from CSC bosses that the NHS work was "on track", making "significant progress" in testing, and receiving "very positive feedback" from the NHS". In response to press coverage, CSC is said to have told investors: "The press speculated wildly and inaccurately on the status of the NHS programme."TheObserverand its sister paper theGuardianhave for years sought to raise concerns about troubledNHS IT contracts. In December 2009, an email was sent to CSC's head of investor relations detailing a series of concerns about the state of the company's NHS work and asking for comment on the following statement: "All other firms with comparable contracts have booked provisions in their contracts… CSC is the only local service provider not to signal to investors that profits from these contracts may not ultimately be as high as anticipated." In response CSC emailed: "CSC has decided not to provide comment for your article."Earlier this year, failure to have Lorenzo installed in sufficient NHS trusts meant CSC missed out on a $175m revenue payment. So frustrated did the Department of Health become that it declared CSC in breach of contract, and continues to deliberate on whether to terminate the contract altogether. In June, CSC was forced to write down the turnover value of its NHS contract by about a third, from £3.1bn to £2.1bn.The Department of Health last month publicly sounded the death knell for Labour's ill-fated £11.4bn national programme for IT, which began in 2002 and was said to be the largest civilian computer project ever undertaken. The CSC contract had been a centrepiece of this contract.CSC said it would not comment on company litigation.
During my masters, I had the opportunity to take an optional module in environmental psychology (EP). In my ignorance, I thought I was going to learn how to convince people to hug trees. I had no idea that the University of Surrey was one of the world's leading institutions for exploring how individuals relate to their built and social surroundings. I may not have learned how to get people to recycle, but I did discover what effect our interactions with the web have on our understanding of what we think of as home.The woman who led the course was a thoughtful academic called Gerda Speller. Her research concerned itself with the human impact of community migrations. She had worked on the Eurotunnel project; consulted on how to help displaced people re-find their networks and themselves; and she'd unpicked why centuries-old neighbourhood bonds fell apart when a Northumberland community was moved to a planned development after they discovered that the mine they'd lived above was spewing noxious gas.Speller's work focused on the enigmatic yet human-centred concepts of place-identity and place-attachment. Simply, she sought to understand how spaces become places because of how they are laid out and how houses become homes because of the amount of ourselves we put into them. These are emotional distinctions that are difficult to quantify, but as EP theorists such as Harold Proshansky proposed, and Speller found in practice, they are essential qualities for both the success of spaces, houses and communities, and the psychological well-being of the individual.Over the last 20 years, we have been encouraged to think of spaces on the web as our homes, from infinitely adaptable personal home pages that we decorate like the walls of a teenager's bedroom to readymade web hubs such as Facebook in which we surround ourselves with people and properties that are meaningful to us. In two decades of web research, countless studies have recounted the ways people create environments that signal belonging and identity using text and multimedia in the same way as DIY junkies use paintbrushes and plasterboard. This research has also encountered what's happened to virtual place identity when personal online artefacts are compromised: the sanctum is invaded, and people move on.What the web has inspired, then, is a postmodern understanding of what "home" is: a de-physicalised, conceptual and psychological phenomenon that externalises its invisible meanings. And interaction designers recognise this: the web is another castle that the Englishman can live in, and he seeks to create virtual places that have as much effect on pride, self-esteem and identity as the bricks and mortar version where he sleeps.But the web has done more for home than this – it has invaded our domestic space. According to the Office for National Statistics, 77% of households in Great Britain had an internet connection in 2011 and initiatives spearheaded by the government aim to achieve near-ubiquitous national connection by next year. We have no choice but to welcome it – and everything it brings with it – in. As Michael Arnold explains inThe Connected Home: Probing the Effects and Affects of Domesticated ICTs: "Homes were connected electronically to the outside world less than 100 years ago. And now… the homes of many… connect directly to friends, acquaintances, and… million[s of] strangers: to the local community, to work, to social, political and commercial organisations, to entertainment and service providers."As if there wasn't already enough going on under the surface in each home – from age to identity to gender politics – this networked technology brings the influences of these other stakeholders to bear on how we engage with the people with whom we share our most intimate lives. And we are now in the process of negotiating new boundaries with our time, our attentions and our domestic hierarchies.I am constantly connected when I'm at home. It is my companion when watching a movie, it is my entertainment system when listening to the radio, it is my connection to the family and friends I speak with on VoIP. Sociologist Kat Jungnickel and anthropologist Genevieve Bell suggest that my over-networked experience isn't unusual inHome is Where the Hub is? Wireless Infrastructures and the Nature of Domestic Culture in Australia: "Some read their emails and Google for news in front of the TV while others breastfeed while surfing the net. In the kitchen, they look for recipes or talk with friends via IM. In bed they write emails or shop on eBay." The rooms once allocated for specific purposes have been co-opted by other (digital) tasks.This isn't always welcome. In one of Jungnickel and Bell's case studies, a participant describes the conflicts that arise from home-multiplicity: "Sal tells of the congestion zone caused by the chameleonic characteristics of the kitchen table," they write. "During the day it is her new computing space, and at night it is the social, cooking washing-up space for both of them." Each online activity has imposed itself on our home-practice. We are experiencing a domestic transition as the web collaborates and competes with old "new" technologies such as the TV, the researchers argue. It "complicates" characteristics of the physical space.We are adaptable creatures and will work within the confines of our existing homes to integrate this new creature into our lives. We have already made the web part of our domestic ecologies and we continually imbue it with a sense of place. Perhaps its malleability is why it has been so successful and why we are willing to bring this interruptive technology into our most intimate worlds.My home is most certainly my hub. I couldn't live without it.
When it was announced in 2009, the OnLive cloud-based gaming system seemed like an impossibility, yet it's a simple enough idea and, impressively, is now genuinely here. Sign up (onlive.co.uk), and using a relatively low-spec PC or Mac, you can play high-end PC games by streaming them over the internet. Alternatively, for £70 a "Microconsole" adapter, little bigger than a pack of playing cards, allows you to access the same content through your HDTV or, if you can wait, the service should be available for the iPad.The games are stored on a distant server, meaning your chosen screen simply provides a window to access titles that might previously have needed a meticulously constructed and costly gaming PC to run with any degree of quality. But playing games without direct hardware on a computer residing a great distance away offers something we weren't expecting yet: a taste of a long-prophesied future where consoles don't have disk drives.Which makes it all the more magical that OnLive works. It really does do what it set out to do, and while it is not flawless, it boasts the potential to set the template for how we will play games in the future.The system lets users rent or buy titles, or opt for a £6.99 monthly subscription that grants unlimited access to more than 100 recent games including classics such asBioShockandBatman: Arkham Asylum, while newer games that are available to buy as stand-alone products already include the superbDeus Ex: Human Revolutionand energetic racerDirt 3. It's a start that suggests OnLive has huge potential as a gaming platform.
That EA Sports' Fifa franchise might ever drag itself out from under Konami's pitiless boot-heel and offer a properly credible alternative toPro-Evolution Soccerseemed highly unlikely until exactly a year ago. WhenFifa 11hit the shops,&nbsp;the incredulity couldn't have been more widespread if Fifa itself had&nbsp;announced that, from now on, it was going to be a non-profit organisation with accounting transparency.Fifa 11was a match forPES 2011in every respect.Fifa 12has the potential to go one unthinkable step further. What's certain is that it's a significant upgrade onFifa 11and, by extension, is the most satisfying Fifa instalment so far (and not only because EA Sports has done the decent thing and banished Andy Gray from the commentary box. Alan Smith – not the Yorkshire Eminem, but the former Leicester City and Arsenal centre-forward – is an ideal replacement. If there's a less lascivious sound than his Midlands monotone I've yet to hear it; those who feel the English language deserves a thorough debasing will be pleased to hear Andy Townsend is in attendance too).Much ofFifa 12's immense playability is due to the new player impact engine EA Sports has spent the last two years developing. The physics ofFifa 12– the interaction between players on the pitch, the physicality of the way they address the ball and impact on one another, the entirely believable movement of the ball itself – are sufficient to make all previous soccer games seem a bit pedestrian.Fifa 12is a fluent game, convincing enough to make it seem, at times, not far from watching real football. Even AI players now have intelligence worthy of the description, so their decision-making, particularly where defending is concerned, is, finally, not a guaranteed cause of impotent fury.The usual various modes of play (career, online seasons, Ultimate Team) ensure the game's longevity (Ultimate Team is, for once, available at launch and on disc) and, as is compulsory with Fifa, authenticity is complete to the point of OCD: more than 15,000 players and 500 clubs are licensed.Not everything's perfect, but it's especially galling, in light of all the time and effort obviously expended in makingFifa 12the outstandingly accomplished game it is, that no one at EA Sports thought to prevent goalkeepers (and, unforgivably, referees) sometimes showing up in the same colour shirts as the outfield teams. Roll onFifa 13.
As impressive and formidable as its real-life counterpart, last year's Codemasters'F1game was a fine piece of simulation and terrific fun but marred by elements of buggy incongruity that stood out in a sport where detail is paramount. Little has changed on track this year, which givesF1 2011the welcome chance to iron out these foibles and show a spot of race pace.Technically, the nuts and bolts – how the car performs – remain solid and have even improved, especially in combination with a steering wheel and race seat. With basic assists on, the weight and sense of delicate control is perfectly conveyed and will be more than enough of a handful for beginners (the lack of a basic tutorial seems an oversight), but upon taking full control the modelling is occasionally a little haphazard in rear downforce on quick corners and turning in on slow ones. But these are niggles at the high end of performance simulation; in general gameplay, the car is the star.Meanwhile, the introduction of DRS and KERS is frankly revelatory. There have been complaints from drivers about the amount of button-pressing required in-cockpit, and it appears they have a point. Managing both systems in practice and qualifying is a huge task, and, during a race, paying attention to being within one second of drivers (allowing activation of DRS or trying to fend off a DRS-enabled pursuer) is a nerve-racking distraction from the business of staying on the island, yet hugely satisfying when successful.Of the improvements, Codemasters has dealt with the major issues. Cars are no longer held needlessly in pit boxes; AI qualifying laps are grounded in reality and their level of aggression and lap times more consistent, making planning through a race strategically definitely achievable. Which is a good fit with new features such as more realistic tyre degradation and fuel mixture options – both plotted accurately – so, as has happened this season, the Pirellis will drop off the cliff with overuse. Some minor grievances do remain, however, and penalties are still applied a little randomly (even when not driving as Lewis Hamilton) and there's some indecision in overtaking by the AI , but they don't spoil the all-round experience.Which is where the game is at its best, immersive (even throwing in the option of the safety car) and engaging – concentrate too hard on threading the needle at Singapore's left-right-left turn 10 chicane and turn 11 will bite you – putting the player in the cockpit to a grippingly real extent.Reviewed using the Racer Pro Driving Simulator Seat (available fromwww.libertygames.co.uk) and the Logitech G27 Racing wheel (details atlogitech.com)
On Wednesday, the tablet wars began. Up to then, all talk of a "tablet market" was misleading: it was essentially an iPad market.Having launched in April 2010 a device for which most people thought there was no definable niche, Apple then proceeded to sell upwards of 30 million of these insanely expensive consumer products, on which it was reportedly making a 40% margin.There were other tablets, most of which, with one notable exception – the Samsung Galaxy Tab – were turkeys. But until Wednesday, nothing had appeared that looked like being able to make a dent in Apple's licence to print money.The challenger emerged from the expected source: Amazon. On Wednesday, Jeff Bezos, the company's charismatic founder, unveiled the Kindle Fire, its first venture into the tablet market.At this point, non-technical readers, clutching their beloved Kindles, may object that Amazon has been in the tablet market ever since the Kindle launched in 2007. But the Kindle is not really a tablet computer in any meaningful sense – it's an information&nbsp;appliance that fulfils one function well: fetching and displaying ebooks.The Fire is different. It has a colour touch screen and can play video, for example. More significantly, it can run apps, has a proper operating system (a customised version of Google's Android) and does wireless networking. And it comes with its own, custom-designed web browser, called Silk (of which more in a moment). Oh, and at $199 it's less than half the price of a basic iPad2, which may, in the end, turn out to be the most important thing about it.The Fire doesn't go on sale in the US until 19 November and so we will have to wait for the tech vultures who disassemble new kit to do their stuff before we know what its bill of materials actually comes to.But my guess is that Amazon will be selling it at a loss, just as it did with the first Kindle. And that highlights the difference between it and Apple. Amazon makes its money fromcontent– sales of books, music, videos – and uses the Kindle as a way of enabling "frictionless purchasing" of that content. Apple, in contrast, makes most of its money from selling beautiful kit with outrageous profit margins. It also sells content – think of the iTunes store – but the margins on&nbsp;that are significantly less than on the hardware.Which is why the tablet wars have just begun. Amazon is just about the only outfit around that can give Apple a run for its money. It has vast amounts of content instantly available in its internet "cloud" and a purchasing and order-fulfilment system at least as slick as Apple's. If it turns out that the Fire tablet is really as good as Amazon hopes at encouraging people to consume digital content, then it can continue to sell the Fire at below cost, challenging Apple to reduce the price of the iPad and thereby erode its&nbsp;margins.The prospect of the forthcoming battle between these two technology giants has ledsome excitable analyststo declare that, whichever company triumphs, "the consumer is going to be the winner". Oh yeah? The reality is that both Apple and Amazon are aiming at the same thing: locking in the consumer to their system. Apple has done this via the iTunes and App Store, which ensures that nothing runs on an Apple iDevice that hasn't been approved by the company. Amazon's approach is only slightly more subtle. The Fire comes with only 8GB of memory, which means that most of the content that its users will access will come from Amazon's Cloud storage. In that sense, the Fire is the ultimate network appliance.But there's an added twist. The Fire also comes with a pretty slick browser that loads pages faster than even browsers running on fast PCs. So 100 millisecond (ms) load times are reportedly reduced to 5ms. This is achieved by having the processing done not by the Fire but by remote virtual machinesrunning in Amazon's EC2 Cloud, and by clever caching and pre-emptive fetching of links. "This means," writes Jason Calacanis, a well-known internet entrepreneur, "if you're on the NYTimes.com they have, in their cloud and possibly already on your device, the next five pages you're going to click on. They know this because the last five folks to hit the NYTimes.com's homepage opened those pages. These kind of caching services have a ton of privacy implications, as they are now sitting between you and your favourite porn site… I mean political activism site! Not only do they have an entire history of which URLs folks are downloading, they have the actual download."The phrase "all fired up" is about to acquire a whole new meaning.
The city is ruined. Bored and frustrated residents patrol the night streets, windows are smashed, buildings ransacked – there is no will or desire to fix anything or to understand its value. There is no sense of community any more…A year ago, journalist and authorJim Rossignolapproached Channel 4's education department with the idea for a game – a game about broken cities. In 2008, the channel's then head of education, Janey Walker, had made the decision to switch much of the education spending from TV to online, putting aside a significant budget for the development of interactive, web-based projects with an educational remit."At the time, the data and research showed that a term-time morning educational TV schedule didn't reach tweens and teens in any significant number," says Alice Taylor, who was education commissioner until earlier this year. "Naturally, the majority are at school or, for the older crowd, college or work at that time. Plus their media preference is the computer. So Janey began the transition from a 300+ hours-of-TV-a-year schedule to an any-platform, any-time schedule. Naturally, games began to come into the picture, because we knew that games and socialising are the most popular pastime for teens on their devices."The idea of developing online interactive apps was also partly inspired by the burgeoning concept of the newsgame – a form of overtly political computer game written in response to major global events or controversies and distributed freely online. Pioneers suchGonzalo Frasca,Persuasive GamesandMolleindustriahave used well-known gaming conventions to explore issues such as US foreign policy, developing nations' economics and the unethical business practices of major corporations. Games such asSeptember 12thandAirport Insecurityhave proved an accessible and extremely viral method of encouraging debate around key issues; people discover them, then share them with friends via email and social networking sites. In 2006, the political gameDarfur is Dyingwas played by more than a million people.Channel 4 Educationhas set out to explore moral and social themes involving everything from death to citizenship through its games. The policy has led to innovative titles such asThe End, all about mortality and grief, and award-winning surveillance thrillerThe Curfew, as well as the clothing industry simulator,Sweatshop. Rossignol felt his idea might fit in with the channel's agenda.After several meetings, the project that emerged wasFallen City, a hybrid of puzzler and simulation, in which the player must clean up and restore a collapsing urban environment. The highly stylised inhabitants, known as Angries, are depressed and demotivated; your job is to spark them into life, get them to clean the streets, shift the rubble and stop smashing the place up."We had a kind of politically loaded backdrop to the game," says Rossignol, after referencingJames Q Wilson and George L Kelling's broken windows theoryas a key inspiration. "The reason the Angries have trashed their city is because they have been promised too much by the people in charge; the promises haven't been fulfilled and they've ended up feeling frustrated and alienated. So they've deliberately trashed the city – to get what they were promised."This should all sound disturbingly familiar. In August, cities throughout England were facing the same situation; bored, listless inhabitants wrecking their neighbourhoods. Even Rossignol's idea of motivating the populace into action, encouraging them to respect and to repair their surroundings, had echoes in the days after the riots, whenpeople encouraged one another to set up tidying campaigns.ButFallen Citywas pitched months before those terrible nights in London, Birmingham and Manchester. Where did the idea come from? After all, Rossignol isn't a political writer – he primarily covers video games, but has also contributed to influential architecture site,bldgblog, and his book,This Gaming Life, covers games from a sociological and geographical standpoint."I wasn't surprised when the riots happened," he says. "It was horrifying and ludicrous that it should get to that stage, but I think anyone who looks closely can recognise that there's alienation at all levels of society. It's not just kids, there are wider problems – with commercialism playing a part."InFallen City, dealing with urban malaise is cleverly restructured as a resource-management exercise. Each Angry has an attention-span gauge and they'll stop working if they get bored. But there are larger buildings scattered around the ruins of the city that, when tidied up, give characters different powers such as the capacity to play music or do street art. This, in turn, motivates others. It's also possible to set up a demolition firm to get through rubble that blocks major routes, opening up new sections.Players will earn the highest possible score if they clean up the whole city, but whether or not you can get there depends on decisions you make along the way. "On the surface, it looks like a sim or strategy game, something likeDungeon Keeper," says Rossignol. "But it's actually a puzzle game. You have to work out what sort of infrastructure would be most valuable for these people, to make their lives better. If you think of the city as a machine for living in, what parts does it need to operate in a useful way?"And that's the guiding theme behindFallen City: perception. How can you get the residents to think about their city, not as a mass of anonymous buildings, but as a benign infrastructure. A home. "I wanted to look at how cities don't tend to realise what they already have in them," says Rossignol. "It's easy to dismiss cities as grey and boring; our classic understanding of the inner cities is as a sort of prison. But Matt Jones, a design director at the design consultancyBerg,wrote an article for the site io9in which he described the city as a battle suit for surviving the future. I took that as my philosophy – could we teach people that, actually, cities are a really cool thing because they give you powers you wouldn't otherwise have?"These "powers" are represented in the game as special infrastructure points. Reactivating a communications tower will get the word out about clean-up efforts, while the airship symbolises the transport infrastructure, the trade plaza represents commerce and a system that pumps curry into every home is a great allegory for everyday utilities. The last one you'll encounter is The Tower of Awesome which Rossignol says represents the loftier appeal of the city. "It points to how cities end up being more than the sum of their infrastructures," he says. "London is a great example of that: there are so many cultural artefacts and great buildings that are not absolutely necessary to the quality of peoples' lives but they celebrate important aspects of our existence."Again, it's that idea of changing perspectives, of understanding the environment in different ways.Fallen Cityrecognises a familiar theme in the endless post-riot debates – that cities and their inhabitants need to be understood, whatever their failings, not demonised."Clearly before the riots there was a detectable current of alienation, particularly among the youth," says Rossignol. "The politician who seemed to have understood the riots best wasTony Blairwho said, actually, the biggest problem is that there are groups of youths in our cities who are just alienated, for very complicated reasons that will be difficult to fix. Boiling it down to a game-based metaphor isn't going to solve those problems, but because we were able to detect those problems – as most people living in cities are – we thought it would be interesting to comment on that."More broadly, we wanted to talk to kids about why cities are valuable. For a long time, England had this bizarre pastoral dream that everyone should live in leafy suburbs and out in the countryside, when actually most people live in cities and we need to make them as good for living as possible. That comes back to this idea of the city as a machine for living in. Perhaps we can get kids to recognise that through encouraging them to reinterpret the infrastructure around them, why it's there and what abilities that gives them. That's an important message."Neighbourhoods as systems, cities as living machines – these are not new ideas. Architects Alison and Peter Smithson preached similar concepts in the 1960s and early 70s, designing brutalist landmarks such as east London'sRobin Hood Gardensto separate pedestrians from road traffic in self-contained, vertical communities. It was architecture as level design and it largely failed. ButFallen Cityis based around a more acceptable idea – that of simply appreciating and repurposing what we have around us rather than trying to build utopias.This idea also challenges the standard video game simulation view of the city – as something that can be built from scratch to the player's individual specifications. "When people think about cities in games, they tend to think aboutSimCity," says Rossignol. "We are perhaps not the antithesis of that game, but we're not what that game is about.SimCityis about having a blank canvas, but that is not the reality of cities – they are already there. That's where we've gone withFallen City; it just needs to be looked after and the inhabitants need to be inspired."That's the case with all cities; unless you're a sheikh or a Chinese dictator, you're not going to get to build a city from scratch. People need to realise that cities are deeply layered and filled with artefacts from the past few hundred years, all of which need to be kept working. Some things do need to be torn down and replaced, but most of the time it's about finding a purpose for something that's been there for years. That's our commentary on architecture."However, theSimCityanalogies are interesting, because they cropped up during the riots, too. In the famed strategy game, areas of your city can sometimes break down due to poor infrastructure and planning; buildings start to appear on the screen as broken and smoking and, unless dealt with, the malaise spreads to other areas, infecting your whole map. "There were more than a few jokes on Twitter about how the riots wereSimCity-esque," says Alice Taylor.As with all of the Channel 4 Education titles, the success ofFallen Citywill be measured by a number of criteria. It's not just how many people play, it's also about meeting the channel's public service requirements in terms of innovation and effectiveness."We obviously like to see tons of game plays and long dwell times, but we also like critical acclaim and where there has been debate," says Jo Twist, current head of education at C4. "A great example of this wasSweatshop,Littleloud's game for us which came out in July. On most of the games blog reviews, the debate in the comments was less about whether they liked the music or the characters or the gameplay, but about the issue itself – whether sweatshops were indeed a good or a bad thing. This was great to see."The channel also needs to support small UK development teams. The team behindFallen Cityis effectively Rossignol, a coder, a designer and a couple of artists.Rossignol is preparing to tour schools, introducing the game to pupils and getting their ideas and feedback. It's possible he'll end up in the very communities that were torn apart by the August riots. I ask what he thinks they'll make of the game."Fallen Cityoffers no solutions but it puts forward the idea that if you look at things slightly differently, if you allow a different description of what life means, of what you have around you, then you can have a different attitude.Henry Porter commented in theObserverrecentlyabout how weird it must be in Syria, where people are fighting for freedom, looking across and seeing us in the UK fighting for trainers. It's absurd, but it's an absurdity that would take a small shift in people's perceptions to fix. We don't need a revolution, we just need a slightly different way of looking at things. And subtle things, like the way people write, the way people design games… they might help."NEWSGAMES: FOUR OF THE BESTWARCOAnnounced last month,WARCOlooks like a military, first-person shooter, but challenges players to become photojournalists, reporting the action rather than participating in it. It's co-designed by experienced Australian war correspondent Tony Maniaty.SweatshopA Channel 4 Education title developed by Brighton studio Littleloud in which you run a garment factory, attempting to make a profit while getting the most from your workforce. A clever – and highly playable – study of ethics and exploitation in the fashion business.Darfur is DyingDeveloped for an MTV political games competition in 2006, this seeks to convey the experience of refugees in the Darfur region of Sudan. It has been played more than 2.4m times and its creator, Susana Ruiz, went on to developRePlay: Finding Zoe, a game about domestic violence.Cutthroat CapitalismA game byWiredmagazine in which the player takes on the role of a Somali pirate, trying to attack ships in the Gulf of Aden then negotiate ransoms for kidnapped crew members. Designed to explain the business model of modern piracy.KS
Price £10,865MPG 68.9Top speed  108mphThe Huff is a big man. A stiff-necked former rugby player turned biker, he's 6ft 3in and must weigh as much as a horse – he certainly eats like one. His elderly father has been battling valiantly against illness for some time, but last week the old fellow's slow slide towards darkness seemed to gather pace. The Huff's laughably butch motorbike was off the road, so he called me to ask a favour. Could I&nbsp;lend him a car for his mercy dash to Corby? "Of course," I said. "But I&nbsp;have to warn you it's a sky-blue Fiat 500…" There was silence on the line. "It won Gay Car of the Year in 2010," I added. More silence, and then: "OK, but if the sight of it kills Dad it's your fault."  The good folk at Fiat obliged and put the Huff on the paperwork and he, a dutiful son for 48 years, squeezed his big frame into the small car and headed to the Midlands for what he hoped wouldn't be the last time.By Monday, his father had eased out of his nose dive and a relieved Huff&nbsp;dropped the car back to me. "Nice&nbsp;little car," he pronounced. "But&nbsp;Fiats haven't changed much.  It still stalled every time I stopped."In fact, Fiats have changed out of all recognition. What the 500 was doing was automatically switching off its engine whenever it was idling. It's just one of a raft of technical innovations that have made the new 500 TwinAir the petrol engine with the lowest emissions in the world. To put that in context, consider that at the other end of the scale, Fiat's fellow Italian, a&nbsp;Ferrari 599 (the Huff's dream car), produces five times as much. It's the equivalent of comparing a baby's breath to the rank exhalation of a post-bender Gérard Depardieu. Fiat's sweet-smelling exhaust is backed up with extraordinary consumption figures, too: 57.6 miles to a gallon of petrol in the city. You'll also pay no road tax, and it's exempt from London's congestion charge. So, cheapandchic.The 500 follows in the steps of trendsetting cars such as Citroën's C1 and the Toyota Aygo, which prove that small, lightweight cars with incredibly efficient engines can be cleaner even than electric cars. A&nbsp;recent study estimated that an electric car would have to be driven 80,000 miles to produce a net saving in CO2once the large amount of energy used for manufacture – and in particular the creation of the batteries – has been taken into account. Considering that most electric cars will only ever be used for short urban journeys, 80,000 miles is an improbably high mileage.The original 500 has been around for decades, and its tiny seats, beady headlights and bunch-backed roof are as quintessentially Italian as an Azzurri footballer diving in the box. When the 500 reached its 50th anniversary in 2007 it was relaunched and since then has been winning fans across Europe with its pastel colours, retro styling and modern technology.This revolutionary TwinAir engine, however, takes the car to a&nbsp;new level, adding brains to its beauty. Some critics are even hailing the 875cc twin-cylinder turbocharged unit as one of the greatest leaps forward in engine technology in the past 20 years. To drive, it's full of character, ducking and diving happily through city traffic and holding its own in the jet stream of the middle lane. The two-cylinder engine does make an odd whirring noise that takes a little getting used to, but otherwise even the Huff was impressed with the&nbsp;little car's big performance. Would he buy one? "No. I like a winner, and I've just heard that Peugeot's RCZ has snatched the Gay Car crown."How does your car work?As cars become increasingly technologically sophisticated, the world that lies beneath their skin can seem like uncharted territory. Thankfully the RAC has come to the rescue, or more particularly Arvid Linde, a car enthusiast on a mission to encourage people to become more familiar with their vehicles. He's written a handy little book for the RAC entitled How Your Car Works (£12.99). It dissects and explains one of the finest inventions ever made and is written in simple, jargon-free language. It will suit everyone from a pupil with a poster of a supercar on his wall, to a housewife who is just curious about the goings-on beneath her car's bonnet to even the more experienced tinkering mechanic – and dare I say it, quite a few motoring journalists as well.Available from good bookshops and online atveloce.co.ukandhttp://www.racshop.co.uk/rac-books/Product/The-Efficient-Drivers-Handbook.html
