Nvidia’s original Shield took us somewhat by surprise - a hybrid of handheld gaming device and tablet, it was solid but not something with wide appeal. Then, in August, the company announced the Shield Tablet - a second attempt at bringing its gaming-focused device to the mass market.The Shield might not look out of the ordinary, but with Nvidia’s gaming nous, and the Tegra K1 CPU/GPU combo, it seeks to plug a gap in the market for a tablet that can also handle console-quality gaming.While the device has been out for a few months, the introduction of an interesting new cloud gaming service has brought it back into the spotlight. Plus, if you’re looking to buy a tablet this Christmas, it may well be on your wishlist.Power playThe Shield Tablet is, to put it bluntly, something of a beast. The quad-core CPU on the Tegra K1 chip is backed up by 2GB of RAM and a GPU running on Kepler architecture. This means your everyday browsing and app use is silky smooth. Meanwhile, visual effects like tesselation and HDR lighting are handled easily, putting it on par with lower-spec home PCs rather than its closest tablet rivals.And when you load up some of the games specifically tweaked to take advantage of the Shield’s architecture you begin to see what the device can do. The fantasy puzzler Trine 2, which comes with the Tablet, is incredibly impressive, blowing away pretty much every tablet-specific game, in terms of visuals.Other games with Shield conversions such the legendary Portal and Half-Life 2 are great too. Seeing Valve’s masterpieces running on the Tablet is oddly life-affirming. However, games publishers haven’t exactly been rushing to support the system since its release, so the library is slim.In terms of power, a key rival is likely to be the Nexus 9 tablet. Google’s latest houses many of the same components, including an updated version of the Tegra K1 (a dual core 64-bit variant, running at a faster clock speed of 2.5GHz). Nvidia’s device is cheaper by around £80, minus accessories - and the lure of expandable memory via microSD cards, up to 128GB extra, is a fine bonus for anybody in the market for a gaming tablet.The stream dreamThe Shield’s other marquee feature is its ability to stream a game from your PC or laptop (it needs a graphics card from the GTX family) and play it on your tablet, via Nvidia’s GeForce Experience software.Device pairing is straightforward - you just enter a code that pops up on your PC screen - and many titles are automatically discovered by the app. Games that aren’t directly supported can be manually added to the list, though there’s no guarantee they’ll work and I experienced compatibility issues.You do need a solid home network connection. The game streaming automatically adjusts to get the best possible play experience from your connection - and it will always prioritise smoothness over graphics quality. This means at busy times you might be playing a low resolution, blurry stream, but it will still be playable. I had a lot of fun wandering around my flat, exploring Skyrim and Sleeping Dogs.Nvidia’s insistence on only supporting GTX processors will lock out many PC and laptop owners interested in the service. Hopefully this is something the company will change in future.It should also be noted that you can already stream to Android devices without having to buy a Shield, using apps likeLimelight.The streaming futureOn downloading the Grid app, Shield owners are presented with around 20 big-name PC titles from the last few years. None are at the bleeding edge, but with a selection including Borderlands 2 and Batman: Arkham City it’s hard to complain.Photograph: NvidiaAs of early December, owners of Shield devices will be able to take advantage of Nvidia’s newGrid Gamingservice, which the company is pushing as the Netflix of games.About 20 titles are currently offered. Running via servers in Ireland, Ultra Street Fighter IV - a game reliant on lag-free connection - was responsive, accurate to my inputs and surprisingly pretty for a streamed game. This was with a 7.5MBps connection via wireless router, with Nvidia’s minimum recommended speed being 6.5MBps.The service will be offered for free, at least until June 30, 2015, meaning a no-risk chance for Shield owners to try it out on launch.Mini HDMI and the console experienceBoth the Shield’s on-board gaming performance and its streaming ability can take full advantage of one excellent touch on the tablet: the mini HDMI out port.By hooking up a mini HDMI-to-HDMI lead, you can play your games - streamed or otherwise - through any HDTV in full 1080p, if it’s supported by the game. In fact, the Shield is capable of outputting a 4K signal, though I was unable to test this.The feature is presented through the Shield’s “console” mode, and also allows up to four controllers to be connected to the device for an experience akin to that on Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo’s boxes. It’s also great for watching films on the big screen, showing photos off in great detail or even for browsing the web. Apple and Google devices can both offer HDMI out, but they require an adaptor.Battery lifeNvidia claims about nine hours of battery life when you’re using it for web browsing and low-intensity apps. Play any games that actually take advantage of the device’s hardware and you’re looking at around two-and-a-half hours - and a Shield that’s hot to the touch.If you’re thinking about playing games with the Shield set to maximum performance, outputting through an HDTV at 1080p, you’ll need to be plugged in to the wall. That’s not a huge issue, because if you’re connected to a TV you’re likely to have a spare plug socket nearby.But when you’re out and about, using Shield as a portable gaming device becomes less viable an option - at least for anything more than the odd half hour here and there, unless you’re willing to dive in and alter the graphics settings in favour of longevity over performance. Apple’s iPad Air 2 and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab S come out better inbenchmarking tests- even with larger screens.PriceAvailable separately for £25, the Nvidia Shield cover doubles as a stand which offers a variety of viewing positionsPhotograph: NvidiaThe Shield Tablet clocks in at £239.99 for the 16GB, Wi-Fi only version, or £299.99 for the 32GB Wi-Fi/4G model. It comes with a bundle of software installed and runs a customised version of Android 4.4 Kitkat (soon to be upgraded to 5.0 Lollipop).That’s surprisingly good value, and a lot cheaper than the tablet’s closest running mate, Google’s Nexus 9 (£319.99/£399.99/£459). However, the Shield controller, necessary for a number of games like Half Life 2, is an extra £50. It’s fine if bulky, but it’s not as good as the Ps4 or Xbox One controllers.SpecificationsScreen:8in 1920x1200 multi-touch full HD displayProcessor:Nvidia Tegra K1 Kepler GPU; 2.2 GHz ARM Cortex A15 CPURAM:2GBStorage:16/32GB (expandable to 128GB with microSD)Operating system:Android 4.4 Kitkat (Lollipop ready)Camera:5MP HDR (front); 5MP auto focus HDR (back)Connectivity:Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, Mini-HDMI out port, 4G (32GB model only)Dimensions:12.6cm x 0.92cm x 22.1cmWeight:390gVerdictThe Shield Tablet is a powerful mini gaming rig, that also functions as a very good tablet in its own right, handling everything you’d want from your portable device.The added extras you don’t tend to see elsewhere - like the mini HDMI-out and expandable microSD storage - are great touches, especially as installing games gobbles up space very quickly.Compared to the “pure” tablets out there, the Shield does lose out in certain ways - it’s heavier, its resolution isn’t as high as the Nexus 9 or iPad Air’s (3264x2448 and 2048x1536, respectively) and its battery life isn’t as good. But if you’re into gaming and want something that can operate well beyond Candy Crush Saga, you could do a lot worse than this.Pros:Great for gaming, good array of connectivity options, almost on a par with Google’s Nexus 9 power-wise, fantastic streaming capabilitiesCons:The controller is expensive and doesn’t come as standard, burns through battery life when playing games, streaming requires an Nvidia GTX graphics card
Facebook’s new London office in Euston, which occupies three floors of a gleaming glass-and-steel tower, is a sign of an outpost maturing into its role as an embassy for one of the world’s biggest technology groups.Gone is the cosy office in Covent Garden, replaced by something big enough to host double the number of staff, providing ample room to grow.The move has already caused a minor scuffle, with rivals Twitterreportedly pulling out of a plan to house its own London headquarters on the the floor belowwhen it learned who it would be sharing the building with.But now that Facebook is safely ensconced in its new building, the hard work can begin. The company wants its British employees to feel like they work in more than a satellite office, and the best way to achieve that goal is for them to come up with a successful standalone project, says Lars Rasmussen, a project lead at Facebook London.He argues that most remote offices go through three stages. The first is mostly developers working on localisation for a specific country. They have to call head office most days to check on what has happened overnight, and to get guidance from their superiors.Heading for ‘stage three’Eventually, the office grows so that there is a full team based in the same country, which can be trusted to work semi-autonomously on its tasks. That is the stage Facebook London is at now. Rasmussen says: “Instead of having to check in every day to see what decisions you’ve missed out on, we check in maybe every week or every other week to tell the mothership what we’re doing and get the thumbs up, or maybe some general guidance.”But according to Rassmussen, there is a third stage, “which is one where it’s not just that you have these full product teams here but that we have successfully built things that are massively successful, and externally visible on a worldwide stage”.He should know. Before Facebook, he co-founded Google Sydney, the Australian branch of the search giant that began life in 2003 as mapping company Where 2 Technologies. After its acquisition in 2004, Where 2’s technology became the genesis of Google Maps, which remains based in Sydney.“If you look at all of the major tech companies - Google, Amazon, Apple, of course Facebook, Microsoft - that have international remote engineering offices, very few of those reach that stage,” Rasmussen says. “And I think, actually, for a lack of trying. But I think an office should try to reach this stage, where you have a project that was initiated here, it’s fully staffed here, fully built here, but for the world. And it reaches a level of success where the office becomes known for it. It’s like the identity of the office.”The first of the apps that Facebook London is hoping will lift the office up to Rassmussen’s “stage three” has already been released. Launched in October,Rooms is the product of a team put togetherby Facebook “acqui-hire” Josh Miller, whose discussion site Branch wasacquired by Zuckerberg and coin January.Rooms waspainted by manyas Facebook’s first response to the popularity of anonymous apps such as Whisper or Yik Yak. The app lets users create rooms dedicated to certain topics and then join them using a pseudonym.Time to growBut Miller describes the app differently, calling it a paean to the early days of the web, when users felt more comfortable hiving off niche interests from their public persona. “I’m kind of a policy nerd,” he explains, “and I like talking about that stuff. Facebook is not for that – my high school friends aren’t policy nerds, and don’t necessarily love when I talk about it. And even with Twitter, anyone that follows me on Twitter follows me for the tech stuff, but that’s also only a little part of what I’m interested in.“So when we got to Facebook, the first time I talked to Mark, we hit it off about forums, and the early web. We talked a lot about how, if you add up all of these online communities and message boards and IRC, it’s actually a huge portion of the internet and the time spent on it, and it’s just something that hasn’t really made it to mobile.”The app launched to muted reception, but has grown since October, and Facebook rolled it out worldwide in late November, with support for three new languages – an example of Rasmussen’s hope that the London office could build apps targeted at the world, rather than at Britain alone. Still, Miller expressed his irritation at the expectations placed on new apps from the company.“Snapchat - no-one used it for a year… A year and a half into Twitter, they were like ‘I don’t know if this thing’s working, should we keep going?’ So I think that the thing that we’ll have to fight is public perception, like, ‘oh, Slingshot’s a dud’, or ‘Rooms is dead!’ It’s been three months! Every product needs to iterate, and every product takes time to grow.“Mark knows that, and he’s told that to me,” Miller adds. “A big reason we decided to move to London is because he was like ‘I know these things take years and years and years, don’t worry, you have my support’.”While Rooms gets its years to grow, Facebook London isn’t putting all its eggs in one basket. Rasmussen’s own project, still under wraps for the time being, will launch soon, and a third project, even earlier in development, is also based in the office.Facebook re-invents the 1990s chat room with Rooms iPhone app
How many design engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? One:Jake Dyson, son of Sir James, who hasn’t just changed the lightbulb, but created a new kind of light entirely. In wanting to design a light that lasts a lifetime, Dyson and his company Jake Dyson Products have made Ariel, a sleek, suspended light which lasts 40 years before anything – even the bulb – needs replacing.Designing lights since 2006, Dyson became frustrated with the stagnant state of lighting, where beautiful lamps are sold for a high price yet designed with little attention to the function. “LEDs have the ability to last for life – that’s why they were invented in the first place,” he says. “But companies sell LED lights that only last seven years so they can sell more in seven years’ time. I want my product to go into spaces where the interior doesn’t want to be changed for at least 25 years: airports or high-profile buildings, for example. What airport would want a light that only lasts seven years? Is there a light out there that answers their needs? Probably not.”In the basement of their central London offices, “the dungeon” as he calls it, Dyson and his team have tested lights on the market to see if they live up to their claims of long-lasting brightness and efficiency. And – spoiler alert – they don’t. “In some cases you can buy an LED product and six months later it’s 30% less bright – but you won’t realise that because you’re living with it,” Dyson tells me, standing in front of several small mountains of cardboard boxes of his competitors’ products. In comparison, the Ariel will maintain its brightness for 180,000 hours, which if the light was on 12 hours a day, every day, at full brightness, is around 40 years.Available in two models - as a downlight (for targeted lighting of a kitchen island, or a bank of office desks) and an uplight (for general illumination of a room) – and retailing at around £1,400 when it will be released next May, Ariel certainly isn’t cheap. But it is clever. In the four years it took to design it, Dyson learned that to make an LED’s performance last as long as possible, it needs to be kept under 60 degrees centigrade. For the Ariel, they got the heat down to 55 degrees, using pipes that draw the heat away from the LED as quickly as it is released. “It’s like a big radiator,” Dyson explains. “The heat comes off the pipes, is transferred through the fins, and is then dispersed into the air, so you get a continual cycle of heat being removed.”The light also has a unique lens to give greater illumination and, as Dyson and his team discovered: “You need three or four of our competitors’ fittings to do what one of ours is doing, and each one of their fittings is the same power as one of ours, so that’s four times more electricity, four times more installation cost, and four times the product purchased cost, so Ariel actually comes out cheaply in comparison.”The Ariel is also ZigBee WiFi-enabled, so can be controlled via an app, allowing users to set timers, or to link up their Ariel(s) to external light sensors so the light is dimmer on a sunny day, and brighter when it gets darker.It also records the light’s electricity consumption and converts that into the KW/hour cost in the country it’s installed in – something that, surprisingly, other apps haven’t yet caught onto at this energy-conscious time.Innovative product design clearly runs in the family. But was the surname a help or a hindrance when Jake Dyson Products took off? “I’m not sure people took the product seriously when I first went out to sell my lights. Everyone in Britain’s got quite bitter about nepotism,” he says, matter-of-factly. In contrast, manufacturing the lights in Malaysia was a doddle: “Companies out there wouldn’t have touched a company [like mine], but because of the power of the Dyson name they bent over backwards to help me.” Ultimately he believes the quality of the product will speak for itself. “In Italy, where they make lights as beautiful objects, they looked at it and went…” Dyson kisses his fingertips: “Bellissimo.”
In September this year, 22-year-old Solveiga Pakštaité won the national leg of theJames Dyson awardfor a tiny yet remarkable design that was only ever meant to be her final major project at university. The product? Bump Mark: a super-smart, super-simple, gelatine-filled expiry label for food packaging, designed primarily for visually impaired people to feel when their food has gone off, but with the added universal benefit of being significantly more accurate than the dates currently printed on our food packaging.Small and triangular in design, the bio-reactive Bump Mark is designed to be stuck on to packaging at the time the food is packaged. If the label feels smooth, your food is fresh - but if it feels bumpy, then it’s better off in the bin. Bump Mark is made up of four layers: a bumpy sheet of plastic is covered by a squidgy layer of gelatine and sandwiched between two sealing layers of plastic film. Gelatine, being a natural substance, reacts to factors such as temperature, oxygen and sunlight in the same way as food, and if attached to fresh food as a sealed label, it mimics the food’s process of decay. When the product inside the packaging is fresh, the gelatine in the label stays solid. But as the food starts to go off, the gelatine breaks down and becomes a liquid, making the bumpy layer beneath evident to anyone running their finger along the Bump Mark label.The label’s genius resides in its accuracy with any type of food. “All you have to do is alter the concentration of the gelatine formula,” Pakštaité explains. “Say you wanted to put Bump Mark on a pack of strawberries, you’d measure how many days they’d last at the optimum temperature and match the gelatine formula so it would also last the same amount. The more gelatine per water in the formula, the more bonds there are, so the longer it will take for the gelatine to break down. For items that don’t last as long, like meat and milk, you’d lessen the amount of gelatine in the formula.”Pakštaité’s design has come along at the right time.Food waste has become a concern in recent years, and a sizeable portion of the thousands of tonnes of consumable food we throw out in this country has been blamed on the often overly cautious “best before” and “use by” dates on our food packaging. “A lot of the solutions that retailers are being pushed to look at – and they are being pushed to look at solutions that will help people waste less food – are mostly electronic-based,” Pakštaité tells me. “Some cost at best 2p a label, which is very expensive. Bump Mark doesn’t contain any electronics, so it’s going to be far more low-cost.”Since winning the award, Pakštaité’s inbox has been overflowing with requests from companies large and small desperate to employ her design. She’s used her award money to apply for a patent (still pending), and in November, she ran a big retail trial with Asda. If the results are good, it’s very likely Bump Mark will be in our fridges and cupboards around the country in 2015.Pakštaité is passionate about her product, and about the need for smarter food labelling. “I’ve come from a family that does not waste food” she tells me emphatically. Born in Norway to Lithuanian parents who moved to England when she was five, Pakštaité, like many other recent graduates, is currently living with her parents, and commutes to her job at a behavioural insight company in Shoreditch. How have her family reacted to her success? “They’re really proud,” she smiles. “I think my grandma’s told all of Lithuania about me.”
In 2007, a team of researchers from the UK and Irish Blood services responded to an oddly specific call from the US military. They wanted scientists to help them build a machine, no bigger than two and a half washing machines, that could be dropped from a helicopter on to a battle field and generate stem-cell-derived blood for injured soldiers.The team’s application was not successful, but they refocused their efforts and set off on a more utopian mission – to develop a similar technology to create a limitless supply of clean, laboratory-grown blood for use in clinics around the world. Using blood made from stem cells would unshackle blood services from the limits of human supply, and any risk of infection would be removed.They’ve been working with embryonic or induced pluripotent stem cells, which, given the right culture conditions, can differentiate into any type of cells. Still at least a year from human testing, the team have tweaked their protocol to select only red blood cells.“Because we make them from human cells they are as nature intended,” says Joanne Mountford, of the University of Glasgow, who leads the project along with Marc Turner, the medical director of the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service.“It’s the same thing your body makes but we’re just doing it in a lab.”Lab-grown blood has advantages over blood from a donor. “If I take a bag of blood from your arm, some cells would be brand new,” she explains.“But some of them would be 110 or 120 days old and about to die. These cells won’t do you much good.” Using engineered red blood cells from a single batch, the team proposes, will ensure that recipients receive younger, fresher, and potentially more effective blood.Another advantage is that they are making type-O blood, which can be given to practically all patients – including those with rare AB-negative blood. A limitless supply of this type of blood would remove the logistical headache of juggling different types of blood, simplifying global distribution logistics, and allowing the blood to flow more freely to where it is needed.Ted Bianco, director of Innovations at the Wellcome Trust, which funds the project, speaks excitedly about its potential, but says that challenges exist in translating such research to clinical practice, especially when trying to replace human blood donors as the source of supply for lifesaving transfusions.A major hurdle, says Mountford, is scaling up. They can produce about 10 billion red blood cells per batch but have a long way to go – an average bag of blood from a donor contains a trillion cells. Another issue is the risk that pluripotent stem cells, which by definition can turn into any cell, could differentiate into cancerous cells if any remained after the 31-day protocol.“The odds of there being any left is incredibly low,” Mountford says, explaining that the blood will go through two terminal filtration processes to remove any undifferentiated stem cells, “and we’re just finalising the data on whether there is any persistence of these cells.”Once they have the all-clear, they will move on to testing in three people in 2016-17, before hopefully moving on to a trial for safety and effectiveness in patients with beta thalassemia, an inherited blood disorder, in 2018-19“But let’s remember,” concludes Mountford, “that in the western world we have fantastic blood services, so people should keep donating. It’s in the developing world where the infrastructure is lacking – our challenge is to get this done at a cost that is globally relevant.”
British entrepreneur James Proud, 23, presents a white sphere the size of a tennis ball covered in a criss-cross pattern. “It is beautiful,” he says, when asked to describe it. “It doesn’t look like a piece of technology. We wanted to make something people actually want to put on their bedside table.” The device, called Sense, and the first made by Proud’s San Francisco startup company, Hello, is the latest in the world of sleep tracking devices claimed to help improve the quality of an activity we spend about third of our lives engaged in. It will be available in the UK early in the new year.Until now, such devices have only tracked movement during sleep – giving an insight into when you toss and turn – but Sense takes things further by connecting that to the environment. Inside are sensors that record sudden noise and measure light, temperature and humidity in the room as well as the levels of particulates like dust and pollen that can affect sleep. Just telling people how they slept doesn’t fix poor sleep, says Proud. “They need to understand why they slept that way.” Sense also records a sleeper’s movement, but not by requiring that they wear any device to bed, as most sleep trackers including Jawbone and Fitbit do. A small round plastic “sleep pill” clips onto the pillow. It contains an accelerometer and gyroscope and communicates with the system wirelessly.The information that Sense gathers while you are asleep can be reviewed in an app. It includes a rating of sleep quality and a log of the disturbances experienced. If you slept poorly around 2am, Sense can tell you whether that was because of light, outside noise or snoring, for example. Sense allows you to play back the noise disturbances – you can hear whether it was a car alarm or a barking dog that woke you. It automatically identifies snoring. Proud’s team trained the system to recognise the periodic sound by playing YouTube videos of people snoring – though Sense can’t yet distinguish whether it is you or your partner. Over time the device also learns which conditions give you the best night’s rest. It might suggest that you lower the temperature by a few degrees, for example. Waving a hand over the device makes it glow a certain colour, indicating how conducive the room is to sleep.Sense also has a “smart alarm”. It tries to rouse sleepers at a point in their sleep cycle that makes waking easier. The sleep pill detects when they begin to naturally stir and assumes they are entering a light sleep stage where they can be woken without that groggy feeling. Sense doesn’t wake you more than about 30 minutes prior to the alarm, says Proud, and it won’t let you sleep past it. Proud, who began coding at nine years old, was born in south London but came to the San Francisco Bay Area in 2011 after receiving a fellowship from Silicon Valley billionaire and Facebook’s first investor, Peter Thiel. Each year Thiel pays a small group of teenagers to forgo or quit university and start their own business.Hello, founded in 2012, is Proud’s second company. The first – GigLocator, which he started at school to alert people to live music listings – was sold for an undisclosed sum the same year.While Sense is not a medical device, it can give access to information that can help to understand sleep in ways that weren’t easily possible before, says Proud. “It’s up to people to use that information as they wish for medical reasons.”Derk-Jan Dijk, a sleep expert at the University of Surrey, says he isn’t aware of any sleep trackers that have been scientifically tested against their claims but he believes they can be positive in that they help promote an awareness of the importance of sleep. Though he also warns they may lead some people to worry unnecessarily about their sleep patterns. “People may become too obsessed with the data,” he says.Hello, which has raised $10.5m in investment, has more than 30,000 pre-orders for Sense from a Kickstarter campaign. The orders will ship in February. Sales, through the company’s website, will also begin in the US in February and in the UK early next year (pre-orders are currently being accepted from the US only). It is priced at $129.
Google chairman Eric Schmidt has weighed in to the debate about artificial intelligence, and whether robots, drones, self-driving cars and other machines are going to take over the world and enslave humanity. Or, at least, nick people’s jobs.“These concerns are normal. They’re also to some degree misguided,” said Schmidt at the Financial Times Innovate America conference, according to Wired.“Go back to the history of the loom. There was absolute dislocation, but I think all of us are better off with more mechanised ways of getting clothes made... There’s lots of evidence that when computers show up, wages go up. There’s lots of evidence that people who work with computers are paid more than people without.”That’s not much comfort for people who don’t work with computers, although Schmidt argued that improving education is the key “to get people prepared for this new world”.Oh, but the best quote is Schmidt describing the result of Google developing a neural network and pumping 11,000 hours of YouTube videos in, to see what the artificial intelligence could learn. “It discovered the concept of ‘cat’. I’m not quite sure what to say about that, except that that’s where we are...”What are your views on the artificial intelligence and machines versus humanity debate? The comments section is open for your views.What else is on the tech radar this morning? Some links to read and discuss:The Pirate Bay raided by policeHas the famously-unshutdownable filesharing site been shut down? Well, Swedish police raided a Stockholm address and took the site offline yesterday, so for now, yes. But on past form, it wouldn’t be a surprise at all if the site sprang back up again with new servers. Although in any case, The Pirate Bay may still be seen as a figurehead for piracy by the authorities and entertainment rightsholders, but it’s far from the only site of its kind.iPod DRM case continuing with new plaintiffApple is still enmeshed in a class-action lawsuit over its iTunes and iPod DRM back in the day, despite the removal from the case of the two plaintiffs part of the class-action. Now a third has stepped forward, who bought an iPod in the period under question.Amazon threatens to move drone research out of USAmazon wants the US Federal Aviation Authority to get a move on amending regulation on testing drones outdoors. “Without the ability to test outdoors in the United States soon, we will have no choice but to divert even more of our [drone] research and development resources abroad,” the company wrote to the FAA.The arguments behind one of the Steve Jobs moviesOkay, the tech link here is a bit tenuous – leaked emails from Sony Pictures about negotiations to get a biopic up and running of the late Apple CEO. But it’s a fun insight into the... let’s sayrobusttalk between executives fretting about the casting and production process.
It's Wednesday.
YouTube has publishedits annual Rewind chartof its top trending videos, and while last year’s list was topped by a novelty song about a fox, 2014 is all about something with a few more legs.A Polish prank video starring a “mutant giant spider-dog” was the top trending video this year, according to YouTube, which uses its own methodology blending views, comments, shares and other activity to come up with its annual rundown.The 2014 chart is a mixture of pranks, ads, talent show auditions and social commentary. “This year’s the most diverse list we’ve had in the top 10,” said YouTube’s head of culture and trends Kevin Allocca.The videos had some common threads. “They’re often very surprising and unexpected takes on things, and they often provide some way for us to engage, or participate in the phenomenon around them,” Allocca said.Although the mutant giant spider dog was certainly very surprising, the 10 Hours of Walking in NYC as a Woman video lower down the list was an example of the participation impulse at work.“You didn’t just watch this video - you wanted to discuss the video and react to it,” said Allocca. “And there were hundreds of parodies: some very serious, and some very silly.”The top ten trending YouTube videos of 2014 follow, in all their eight-legged, footballing, snogging, singing, bendy, puppy-chasing, chauvinist-exposing glory.•PewDiePie, Zoella... What the UK watched on YouTube in 20141. Mutant Giant Spider DogThe prank video that launched a Halloween costume craze for... well, at leastdozensof put-upon pooches. As the video made clear, it seems a dog dressed as a giant spider bursting out at you is fairly scary.Views: 113.4m – Comments: 41k – Likes: 571k2. Winner Stays OnA Nike World Cup advert was YouTube’s second most trending video this year. Winner Stays On had park footballers transforming into Cristiano Ronaldo, Neymar, Wayne Rooney and other top players, to a soundtrack of Eagles of Death Metal.Views: 98.8m – Comments: 32k – Likes: 492k3. First KissWren Studio, a fashion retailer, asked 20 strangers to kiss for the first time in its advertisement - although there were reports that some of the participants already knew each other. Either way it still became a global hit despite being awkward and passionate in equal measures. The ad also spawneda series of homages and parodies.Views: 94.2m – Comments: 52k – Likes: 438k4. Suor Cristina ScucciaThe judges on spinning chairs is perhaps the strongest feature of TV talent show The Voice. But when the Italian version of the show combined that with Sister Cristina Scuccia – yes, a bona-fide singing nun – it was catnip for YouTube viewers worldwide. Includes her supporters leaping about backstage.Views: 66.2m – Comments: 29k – Likes: 262k5. iPhone 6 Plus Bend TestSeptember 2014: the heyday of #BendGate, when tech hacks and YouTubers alike flapped about trying to figure out if the iPhone 6 Plus bent in owners’ pockets. Tech channel Unbox Therapy won the most viewers for its video, suggesting that if you try really hard to bend a smartphone, you might just succeed.Views: 59.3m – Comments: 48k – Likes: 211k6. Bars &amp; MelodyMore talent-show heartstring-tugging here, courtesy of Britain’s Got Talent. A young singer and a rapper stepped onto the audition stage and You’ll Never Guess What Happened Next. (Actually, You Will, but it still brought tears to a few eyes on the night.)Views: 56.8m – Comments: Disabled – Likes: 398k7. Puppy LoveAnother ad, this time Budweiser’s effort for the Super Bowl back in January. It told the tale of a group of horses, a winsome puppy, and the humans who – when menaced out of taking the dog home, probably downed a full keg of Bud to drown their sorrows. Something like that, anyway.Views: 53.5m – Comments: 17k – Likes: 220k8. Devil Baby AttackAnother prank video, and further proof that among its many other qualities, YouTube is theBeadle’s Aboutof the internet age. This prank involved leaving a pram alone on the streets of New York, with an animatronic baby ready to pop out and frighten concerned passers-by. Here’s hoping 2015 brings a Mutant Giant Spider Dog Devil Baby collaboration, eh? Or maybe not.Views: 48.9m – Comments: 27k – Likes: 226k9. Goku vs Superman: Epic Rap BattleMusical comedy Epic Rap Battles of History got its third series in 2014, with this superhero-off being one of the highlights – at least as far as YouTube viewers were concerned. Dragon Ball manga star Goku faced off against Superman in this clip, and nabbed most of the best lines: “There’s nothing fun about a superhero scared of green rocks...”Views: 41m – Comments: 210k – Likes: 397k10. 10 Hours of Walking in NYC as a WomanMen are dogs. Although not, thankfully, giant mutant spider dogs. Instead, this video showing the obnoxious reactions Shoshana Roberts got from men while walking silently around New York City was a huge talking point on YouTube and elsewhere. It too spawned tributes and parodies, as well as plenty of stern mansplaining from outraged anti-feminists.Views: 37.5m – Comments: 140k – Likes: Not shown•From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing our TV viewing
Uber has been banned in Spain and Thailand, adding to a week of woes for the US-based taxi service that has also seen bans in India and the Netherlands and a lawsuit from the city authorities in Portland, Oregon.In Spain a judge upheld a claim by the Madrid Taxi Association that Uber’s drivers were not authorised to provide the service, which amounted to unfair competition. In his ruling the judge said that by not adhering to the norms governing the taxi service market Uber drivers were competing unfairly with licensed cabs.In Thailand the government said Uber drivers were neither registered nor insured to drive commercial vehicles. It added that its credit card system didn’t comply with regulations. Meanwhile the City of Portland moved on Monday to shut down the service only days after it launched there.The latest troubles for the US tech company come after the Indian government stopped web-based, unregistered taxi companies from operating after a female passenger claimed that she was raped by an Uber driver in New Delhi.The driver, who has confessed, allegedly already faced rape charges but had a forged character reference signed by a police officer.This week a Dutch court banned the cheaper UberPop service, warning drivers they could face fines of €10,000 (£8,000) if they violate the ban. The premium UberBlack and UberLux services remain in operation in Amsterdam. Uber said it would fight the ban.The Spanish service began in Barcelona where the regional government has said it will ban it from 2015, threatening drivers with €6,000 fines. That has now been overridden by the judge’s ruling which will also cover Valencia, the other Spanish city where Uber operates.“We believe we are offering a service within the spirit of the law. We will continue to offer safe, competitive, quality services to consumers,” Uber spokesman Thomas van Oortmerssen said.“The law is out of date and that means the technological service we offer had not yet been invented,” he added. “The law needs to be changed to make it possible and it is now up to the politicians to do that.”The San Francisco-based service has faced opposition almost everywhere it has set up shop but has taken an aggressive stance against a sector that is almost universally heavily regulated and deeply protectionist.It is operating in 200 cities and 51 countries. Sensing public support in cities such as London, where the famous black taxis charge exorbitant rates, the company has been willing to wage legal battles in exchange for the publicity it gives them.In spite of this bumpy ride, investors have been throwing money at the company which has raised $2.9bn since it was established in 2009.Only last week it was valued at $40bn in a $1.2bn fundraising, making it on paper worth four times the room-sharing app Airbnb and not far behind General Motors valued at $53bn.The heady valuation comes barely six months since it was thought to be worth $18bn – a figure derided by some market observers at the time as absurd.
Who were the biggest stars on YouTube for British viewers? Gamers and vloggers, according to a chart published by the video site as part of itsend-of-year Rewind review.The list of channels, ordered by the number of new subscribers they added in the UK, is led by Brighton-based gamer PewDiePie – aka Felix Kjellberg – who is also YouTube’s biggest star globally.He was joined in the top five by two more gaming channels – KSI and Vanoss Gaming – and two vloggers, Wroetoshaw andZoella, who has become embroiled in a row over the “ghostwriting” of her record-breaking debut novel.Gaming looms large in the rest of the top 20, particularly Minecraft-focused channels such as Stampy, The Diamond Minecart and iBallisticSquid. Most of the creators are based in the UK, although US channels The Fine Bros and Tyler Oakley also appear in the chart.The world of YouTubers can feel like a generational chasm at times, with teens and twentysomethings watching in their millions, and older internet users baffled by the appeal of some of their favourites.If you are in the latter group, then, consider this a primer to the 20 most popular – by subscribers, remember, not views – YouTube channels of 2014 in the UK, including their key global stats. Expect some occasional ripe language.•Mutant spider-dog, singing nuns and sexism: YouTube’s biggest hits of 20141. PewDiePieGaming. Global subscribers: 32.7m. Views: 7bn2.KSIGaming. Global subscribers: 7.6m. Views: 1.2bn3. Wroe2shawGaming / vlogging. Global subscribers: 2.8m. Views: 460.3m.4. ZoellaVlogging. Global subscribers: 6.7m. Views: 310.3m.5. Vanoss GamingGaming. Global subscribers: 9.9m. Views: 1.7bn.6. StampyGaming. Global subscribers: 4.4m. Views: 2.4bn.7. Comedy Shorts GamerVlogging. Global subscribers: 2.9m. Views: 515.9m.8. KSIOlajidebtHDGaming. Global subscribers: 3m. Views: 369.8m.9. ThatcherJoeVlogging. Global subscribers: 3.3m. Views: 171.4m10. The Syndicate ProjectGaming / vlogging. Global subscribers: 8.3m. Views: 1.5bn.11. miniminterGaming / vlogging. Global subscribers: 1.2m. Views: 144.1m.12. The Diamond MinecartGaming. Global subscribers: 4.4m. Views: 1.7bn.13. Pointless BlogVlogging / Gaming. Global subscribers: 3.4m. Views: 164.9m.14. Joe WellerVlogging / Comedy. Global subscribers: 822k. Views: 101.6m.15. CasparVlogging. Global subscribers: 3.4m. Views: 191.5m.16. The Fine BrosComedy. Global subscribers: 10.8m. Views: 2.4bn.17. iBallisticSquidGaming. Global subscribers: 2m. Views: 894.1m.18. Tyler OakleyVlogging. Global subscribers: 5.9m. Views: 310.6m.19. More ZoellaVlogging. Global subscribers: 2.6m. Views: 167.7m.20. Watch MojoEntertainment. Global subscribers: 6m. Views: 2.2bn.
YouTubevlogger Connor Franta, who has more than 3.6m subscribers  and upwards of 156 million views, has told fans that he is gay.In avideoentitled simply “Coming Out”, the 22-year-old discussed working through his sexuality and telling family and friends, before deciding to share the news with his online audience.“I’m sitting here with no script, no plan, no fancy editing, and I’m just gonna be really honest,” he said. “2014 is truly the year that I have accepted who I am and become happy with that person.”Franta said he had first thought he might be gay when he was 12, but the idea “terrified” him because he was from the Midwest and that was “not a normal thing there”.Franta’s emotional coming out video to his fans.Franta dated girls during high school, but said he “felt nothing”, and even became mentally unwell as a result of hiding his feelings. “I thought about it so much that I became obsessed with it … and became depressed.”The comedian, who makes lifestyle videos including “Living Alone” and “Walking Around Naked”, said his family and friends had been supportive of his coming out and urged others struggling with their sexuality to do so, saying it would “be OK”.Franta becomes emotional at times during the coming-out video.Photograph: YouTubeHe also spoke about the information he had sought online from other vloggers and bloggers when he was struggling with his sexuality, and wanted to give others similar advice. “You are who you are and you should love that person,” he said.His coming out video has already had more than 2 million views and attracted 100,000 comments.The majority of comments were positive, and conveyed pride, respect and support for Franta, but not all. “Personally I dont support/like gay. But that just my opinion [sic]”, read one of the negative ones.More than 430,000 people have “liked” the video, while 3,299 have given it the thumbs down.Franta is the latest high-profile figure to come out on YouTube. Last year the British Olympic diverTom Daleyannounced last year that he was bisexual in a shortvideoentitled “Something I want to say …”. It has since been viewed more than 11 million times. In April he declared he was happy to call himself“a gay man now”.•YouTube star takes online break as she admits novel was ‘not written alone’
Royal Mail will offer to 3D print and ship a range of objects from a delivery office in the latest bid to retool the company for the 21st century.A trial will involve 3D-printing company iMakr installing printers in Royal Mail’s New Cavendish Street delivery office in London to offer both custom designs and ready-to-print objects.Customers canorder onlineor collect items from the delivery office.“3D printing is an emerging technology that has many applications and offers an innovative way to create unique or personalised objects,” said Mike Newnham, chief customer officer for Royal Mail. “It can be prohibitively expensive for consumers or small businesses to invest in a 3D printer, so we are launching a pilot to gauge interest in 3D printing.”Royal Mail 3D printing timelapseHome 3D printing ‘years off’Royal Mail is using the trial to gauge demand for manufacturing services, which could be rolled out nationwide to put 3D printers within reach of millions.Home 3D printers are available, but cost about £1,000 before the added expense of the filament needed for printing.Analysts predict that they areunlikely to become a household itemwithin the next five years, limited only to enthusiasts.However, the market for 3D-printing services that make items and ship them to customers is expected to expand over the next five years, which Royal Mail could capitalise on with the new partnership.Romain Kidd, chief executive of iMakr, said the deal would introduce people to 3D printing.It remains to be seen what level of demand exists for 3D printed trinkets and knickknacks such as business card holders, iPhone cases and miniature replicas of the Shard.•More than 2m 3D printers will be sold in 2018, analysts•The Strati: a 3D-printed electric car that could be built in 24 hours
The city of Portland, Oregon, has filed a suit to shut down taxi service Uber just days after the controversial company launched there.The lawsuit, filed late Monday, was the latest in a series of woes for the taxi app firm. On Tuesday a judge in Madrid, Spain, ordered the company to close its operations as the court considers a suit filed by the Madrid Taxi Association.The company launched its lower-cost UberX service in Portland on Friday even as city officials declared it illegal. Until then, Portland had been the largest US city without Uber’s service.“Our main concern is public health and safety,” mayor Charlie Hales said ina statement announcing the lawsuit. “Beyond that, though, is the issue of fairness. Taxi cab companies follow rules on public health and safety. So do hotels and restaurants and construction companies and scores of other service providers. Because everyone agrees: good regulations make for a safer community. Uber disagrees, so we’re seeking a court injunction.”The lawsuit asks the court to confirm Uber is subject to the city’s regulations and to halt its operations until it is in compliance. City commissioner Steve Novick said the city is prepared to issue civil and criminal penalties against Uber and its drivers for operating without required permits and inspections.Portland prides itself on its progressive attitudes and city officials cited Uber’s “surge” pricing – when the company can double or even triple fares during peak travel periods, – and lack of facilities for disabled passengers as major concerns.“If Uber thinks there should be no maximum price on what they charge Portlanders, they should make their case to the Portland city council,” Novick said. “If Uber thinks taxi companies shouldn’t have to serve people with disabilities, they should make their case. If Uber thinks taxis should not have to have proper insurance in case of a crash, they should tell us why we should allow that.”Eva Behrend, a spokeswoman for Uber, said nearly 7,000 residents had signed a petition in support of Uber four hours after its launch. “Their support illustrates why it’s time to modernize Portland transportation regulation,” she said.The company, now valued at $41bn, has clashed repeatedly with city and government officials around the world. This week the Indian federal government called for state’s to clamp down on Uber and its rivals following aban in New Delhi. That ban came after a passenger in the capital city accused an Uber driver of raping her.The company’s services have come under fire in other countries with bans in place in Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands, where Uber’s European headquarters are based.In the US, Uber and chief rival Lyft have been hit with cease-and-desist orders in Pennsylvania and Virginia. Uber shut its service in Nevada last month after after a district judge issued a restraining order against the ride-sharing service. The order followed a petition from the Nevada transportation authority that argued Uber’s unregulated business model endangered passenger safety.While city and government officials have independently called for a crackdown on the company, Uber has also faced intense lobbying from established taxi service groups.One of New York’s largest taxi driver groups called for rival Uber to have itslicense suspendedlast month after reports that it has been abusing access to data about its passengers’ rides.
Facebook’s notorious emotional manipulation study received more online attention than any other scientific research in 2014, according to an analytics company.The paper, “Experimental evidence of massive-scale emotional contagion through social networks”, was published in the respected US journal the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in July.It sparked outrage by revealing that Facebook had been experimenting on hundreds of thousands of unwitting users, attempting to induce an “emotional state” by selectively showing positive or negative stories in their news feeds.Academic analysts Altmetric suggests that the research will have done wonders for the scientists’ public engagement metrics afterit ranked number one for attention out of every scientific article published in 2014.Perhaps surprisingly, the majority of the recorded attention was on Twitter, where the article was shared 4,000 times to almost 10 million people. On Facebook itself there was little reaction to the research, which was shared publicly just 344 times. However, there were likely to have been more private wall posts on Facebook, so the total cannot be determined.The article was also mentioned in 300 news sites, 130 blogposts, 13 subreddits and even 113 Google+ profiles.But while Facebook may be a natural topic for online attention, the rest of the top five articles are more varied – and so are their reasons for getting so much attention. Second place went to a seemingly unassuming paper in the Journal of Ethology titled “Variation in Melanism and Female Preference in Proximate but Ecologically Distinct Environments”. But a quick scan ofthe articles citing the paperreveals the reason for its notability: the article was published with an author’s comment left in, asking “should we cite the crappy Gabor paper here?”.The rest of the top five at least made the list for their contents. Third place went to a study from Nature suggesting thatartificial sweeteners could induce glucose intolerance, while fourth place wasa breakthrough in stem-cell researchalso published in Nature.And the fifth place?Research published in Frontiers in Zoologyin which animal behaviourists watched dogs defecating and discovered that they were sensitive to small variations in the Earth’s magnetic field.Euan Adie, founder of Altmetric, said: “It’s no surprise to see that the most shared articles of the year heavily mirror the media agenda, but interesting to note that on occasion online communities are drawing attention to studies that have not received a significant amount of mainstream coverage.“For example, we had more than 2,000 tweets for a study on how gaining basic certification affectednursing confidencelevels. This reached a combined following of more than 2.2 million followers, demonstrating how social media can really boost the profile of some online published studies.”•What happens to your Facebook account when you die?
Facebook has named a colourful match-three puzzle as its best game of 2014, but it’s not Candy Crush Saga – or even its sequel Candy Crush Soda Saga.The social network has pickedCookie Jam, from developer SGN, as the standout social game of the year. Having launched in May, the game now has more than five million players online.Candy Crush Soda Saga was one of nine runners-up named by Facebook, along with another game by its publisher King, Bubble Witch Saga 2.The others in the end-of-year chart were: Klondike; Kim Kardashian: Hollywod; Old Vegas Slots; League of Angels; Hero Defense; SuperCity and Sparta: War of Empires.“Cookie Jam has been an amazing success story. Users love it,” Facebook’s head of games partnerships, EMEA, Bob Slinn told the Guardian. “We now have 375 million people playing games with Facebook across different platforms every month. It’s a huge audience.”Slinn said that Facebook saw a diverse range of games become popular on its network in 2014, beyond the enduringly-popular casual puzzler genre epitomised by Cookie Jam and King’s games.He pointed to strategy game Sparta: War of Empires and roleplaying game League of Angels as proof that social games are adopting traditional genres and finding sizeable audiences of gamers.“We have seen more and more of the midcore and deep strategy titles succeeding and really prospering on the platform,” said Slinn.“But 2013’s boom in social casino games continued, and we also saw this year that Klondike – a farming game, which is a genre you’d think had been completely saturated – was able to break through with the right gameplay.”Slinn added that Facebook is seeing developers emerge from a wider range of countries, including eastern Europe and Russia with games like SuperCity and Throne Rush.While several games on Facebook’s top 10 list are also available on smartphones and tablets, the company also announced an additional list of what it sees as the best mobile games using its platform. Star Wars: Commander, Boom Beach, Family Guy: The Quest for Stuff, Crazy Taxi: City Rush and Disco Bees made that list for 2014.Facebook’s games team also chose five favourite up-and-coming games: Solitaire 3 Arena, Cower Defense, Dino Hunter: Deadly Shores, Throne Rush and OMG! Fortune FREE Slots.Slinn said Facebook is working hard to help more developers release “cross-platform” social games that run on its website as well as mobile devices in 2015.However, he declined to speculate on whether other kinds of devices – wearables, for example – are on Facebook’s roadmap. “We’re really focused on working with developers, and their big focus continues to be desktop and mobile,” he said.•The future of Facebook is (almost) all about smartphones
Robot fraudsters account for nearly a quarter of “people” watching online video ads and more than one in 10 display ads, according to the largest investigation to date into the digital advertising industry.A report released on Tuesday found big-name companies including Ford, Intel, MasterCard and Wendy’s were scammed by online fraudsters, many linked to organised crime, who have hacked the computers of millions worldwide.White Ops, a New York-based web security investigator which compiled the report for the Association of National Advertisers (ANA), calculates advertisers will lose $6.3bn in 2015 to so-called bot fraudsters.Bot fraudsters infect unsuspecting computer users with malware – malicious software. Sophisticated botnets mimic the behaviour of online consumers, pausing at ads, watching videos, switching websites and even putting items in shopping carts. This fake traffic is often bought by publishers who are unaware their audience is fake.The survey monitored 181 online campaigns from 36 companies including Anheuser-Busch InBev, brewer of Budweiser and Stella Artois, Kellogg’s and Nestlé. Some 5.5bn ad impressions were monitored over 60 days. The survey found fraud everywhere and on most of the world’s major websites.Bots accounted for between 0.3% and 63% of video ad views – leaving an average weighted view of 23%.Display ads had a weighted average of 11% bots, with a range of 0.8% to 32%.Most of the activity occurred on real websites. Of the nearly 3m sites covered in the survey, just thousands were completely bogus.White Ops estimates monetised audiences at those sites were inflated by between 5% and 50%.Traffic from old web browser Internet Explorer 6 was 58% bot.The peak activity time for bot fraud was between midnight and 7am.The ad fraud is far from a victimless crime, said White Ops co-founder Dan Kaminsky. Advertisers lose money, sites that don’t pay for traffic lose revenue and bot hackers are often in the pay of organised crime, with the proceeds funding other more criminal activities. The fraud also leaves those hacked vulnerable to other attacks.Close to a third of the world’s computers are now infected with some sort of malicious software, or malware, according to theAnti-Phishing Working Group.Cyber security has often focused on how criminals have targeted people, said Kaminsky, but the better question was, why? “Why are people hacking grandma’s computer? How interesting can her email be? The answer is hack grandma, click a billion ads make a million dollars,” he said. “The scope of ad fraud is the driver for compromising home PCs. This is the big money maker.”The bot operators run two main types of scam, according to White Ops. In the first they set up fake websites and send fake clicks to them. “The bot traffic looks like legitimate human traffic,” said White Op’s co-founder Michael Tiffany. “You can make your bogus website look popular and pocket a bunch of money.”White Ops had expected this to be the largest share of the bot scam market. But the survey also found a surprising amount of bot traffic on big-name internet sites. In fact, a quarter of all the bots found in the study were on the world’s top 1,000 websites.The study found “sourced traffic” – an ad industry term for paid views bought by publishers – was on average 52% bots. “Bot traffic is happening even on premium advertising buys that go to premium websites,” said Tiffany.Bill Duggan, group executive vice-president of the ANA, said: “The survey confirms a deep, dark fear that people know is out there.” He said publishers might benefit now from higher traffic and higher rates from buying bots but in the long term the industry would suffer. “Digital is supposed to be this great new accountable thing, but if we know it’s not reaching the right people that money is wasted,” he said.Tiffany said the criminals were following the money and that was why video ads were most vulnerable to bot activity. Video is more expensive than display advertising and is growing fast. Because prices are higher, criminals can make more money with a smaller number of bots. The malware needed is also much more sophisticated.“Video ads plug into an ecosystem that has been in operation for decades based on TV,” said Kaminsky. “There is a high expectation of volume. How do you get that many people to show up?”US law enforcement has become increasingly interested in bot activity. In 2011 it closed an Estonia-run operation responsible for more than 4m infected PCs. The operation, known as “Ghost Click”,netted $14m and has led to two guilty pleasso far, with more cases expected.But so far ad networks and publishers have not shown a concerted effort to tackle the issue. “In this crime when it succeeds, no one notices, in fact the numbers go up,” said Tiffany. “Maybe you even get a bonus.”
Operation Onymouslast month did more thanshut down hidden websites selling drugs.The operation, led by the FBI and Europol, took down a swathe of Tor sites including one of the darkweb’s most notorious sites, Doxbin. It was where users and admins posted the names, addresses, social security numbers, healthcare histories and other personal details in a spirit of digital vigilantism – or plain malice.People can find themselves targeted for a host of reasons. Some are targeted for getting on the wrong side of online communities, some for political reasons. Others openly court attention by insulting Doxbin’s owners, including the former owner of the site nachash, who has spoken to the Guardian.There are two ways to identify a victim, according to nachash. The first, which he says is usually employed by irate kids seeking revenge on Xbox Live opponents, is crude: get a target’s IP address, use it to trick an internet service provider into handing over data, and then buying personal information from a site called SSNDOB, which sells social security numbers, birthdays and more. Collate all those details, post them and then leave it to users to decide what they want to do, if anything.But the second kind of doxing is an art, says nachash, who enjoys a dark detective story. It involves online sleuthing, grabbing personal data from social networks, Google searches and other open databases.Nihilistic, not moralisticWhen it went live in May 2011, some thought Doxbin would support the likes of LulzSec and Anonymous in releasing information on political and other deserving targets, but users tussled with the hacktivists and deanonymised some members of the Swedish branch of Anonymous just for the fun of it.Although nachash would never define rules for the site users, he had a nebulous one of his own: to expose “shitheads who had it coming”. You irk him, he’ll dox you.“Jason Lee Van Dyke was patient zero in that regard,” says nachash.Van Dyke is a lawyer from Texas who attempted to sue the Tor Project earlier this year. He was representing Shelby Conklin, a criminal justice student at a Texas university, after she was a victim ofrevenge porn site PinkMeth, which was also shut down by US authorities in November. Nachash was friendly with those at PinkMeth and regarded the lawsuit, which has now been dropped, as an attack on Tor.Van Dyke picked a fight with PinkMeth in September over the site’s all-too-literal exposure of his client, and soon after, his personal data and those of his parents were uploaded to Doxbin.Van Dyke then tweeted an apparent “bounty” (now deleted, althoughMotherboardhas a screenshot) on the heads of nachash and fellow admin Intangir worth $10,000. That was “around the time he would have gotten his plain box full of horse shit” delivered to his door, nachash says.Online to offlineDoxes have led to more than words and poo being thrown around. One common use of data is to employ it in “SWATing” a target, where a victim’s phone number is spoofed and used to call in armed police. The caller claims they need urgent assistance to the related address, officers arrive with guns drawn and surprise the victim.One such was Robert Whitney, who was targeted by various SWATing pranks after his information was placed on Doxbin over an online scrap that started when he claimed to have discovered a security vulnerability in a coding site for the Python language.He was added to the dreaded “proscription list”, which includes those who are targeted for special treatment.Incident reports seen by the Guardian and confirmed by the Bloomington, Illinois police department show that officers were called to his house on numerous occasions. In one case, police were told that people were being held hostage at gunpoint. In another, someone pretending to be Whitney claimed to be a political activist threatening to kill hostages with nerve gas. In both cases, the officers soon learned what was up, releasing Whitney after he declined to speak.Post-OnymousAs soon as Doxbin went down,site admin nachash leaked Doxbin’s logsin the hope that Tor researchers would scour the data to figure out how the police had seized the hidden sites.For now nachash is not too worried about being caught. Could the police ever figure out who he is? “We never gave correct billing info and the money trail is a proper dead end, so we have zero concerns about being caught that way.”One senses a sting in the tail, however. Doxbin is still alive. Intangir, a longtime collaborator, has the keys to the kingdom. Although the police were able to seize the domain, it is technically trivial to re-establish control of a “seized” site. And the Doxbin’s new overlord has simply set up a new domain that agents cannot touch.The survival of Doxbin would indicate that hidden sites on the Tor network are very tricky indeed to keep down. David Mair, a doctoral student at Swansea University whose cyberterrorism project has been examining Tor-based services, says arrests are the only truly effective way to take out a dark web service.“As these individuals haven’t been arrested, they still know the private key that controls what information is displayed on the website and crucially, are free to access it as they see fit,” Mair says.
A new demand from the hackers of Sony Pictures to stop showing The Interview has strengthened claims that North Korea is responsible for the cyber attack.The Guardians of Peace hackers posted the new demand along with more confidential files stolen from the computer network of Sony Pictures as part of the intrusion, whichcrippled company computersand reduced the movie studio to using pen, paper and fax machines.“We are sending you our warning again. Do carry out our demand if you want to escape us. And, stop immediately showing the movie of terrorism which can break the regional peace and cause the War!” the hackers identifying themselves as GOP said in a statement sent to the text and code-sharing site Github.‘You, Sony &amp; FBI, cannot find us’“It seems that you think everything will be well, if you find out the attacker, while no reacting to our demand. You, Sony &amp; FBI, cannot find us. The destiny of Sony is totally up to the wise reaction &amp; measure of Sony,” the hackers added.North Korea hasdenied involvement in the hacking, which a spokesperson for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) regime described as a “righteous deed”.Along with the new threats the hackers posted links to download data stolen from Sony Pictures, which also contained malware obviously intended to compromise the computers of users who download the files.The hackers also denied sendingthreatening emails to Sony Pictures staff, including those who had left years ago but have beenaffected by the data leaksexposing their home addresses and personal details.‘Pay the damage, or Sony Pictures will be bombarded’Evidence of extortion prior to the disabling of Sony Pictures computers and the releasing of private data has been found inside the stolen data.Hackers calling themselves “God’sApslts” sent an email dated 21 November in broken english to Sony Pictures chief executive Michael Lyton, chairman Amy Pascal and other high-ranking executives demanding money to avoid the movie studio being “bombarded”.“We’ve got great damage by Sony Pictures. The compensation for it, monetary compensation we want. Pay the damage, or Sony Pictures will be bombarded as a whole. You know us very well. We never wait long,” the hackers demanded.The links between those going by the name God’sApslts and Guardians of Peace, who eventually carried out the attack on Sony Pictures, is unclear.Analysisby security firm Symantecof malware linked with the Sony attack and others on South Korea revealed that God’sApslts was named in one of the files with a similar demand to that made by Guardians of Peace in the initial attack on Sony Pictures.No subsequent demands for money have been discovered.It is still unclear exactly who is responsible for the attacks. A recent analysis of the data released after the hack appears to have originated from ahotel in Bangkok. Others have pointed to North Korean-linked groups operating out of China.North Korea certainlyhas the capabilityto carry out an attack of this nature.•Did North Korea’s notorious Unit 121 cyber army hack Sony Pictures?
It’s not easy to describe what Melbourne-born startup Localz does without making it sound a bit sinister, but here goes. Say you have bought a microwave on Click &amp; Collect and you head to the store to pick it up. On arrival – provided you have agreed to receive correspondence – a jolly message will ping on your smartphone: “Welcome! Would you like to pick up your microwave?” If you answer yes, another message will tell you when it will be ready. If there’s a wait, you may be offered a complimentary latte. Eventually, the process will become so streamlined that you can skip the checkout and the microwave will be brought directly to your car. Like having an invisible, all-seeing assistant.This is – purposely – not the most whiz-bang example, but Localz believes that a small number of efficiencies can make a big difference to your life. Using a combination of their software and micro-location hardware, the company is aiming to improve the experience of various little chores: going to the bank, checking into a hotel, ordering drinks at a packed bar. It’s not the end of queues, but there should be some smug moments when jumping them.And the new technology offers perhaps even greater benefits for retailers. Localz is already working with the two biggest stores in Australia. In September it won the inaugural JLAB, a competition run by John Lewis “to shape the retail experience of the future”. The prize came with £100,000 investment and allowed Localz to expand into Europe, based in London. The Click &amp; Collect example will be coming to John Lewis stores from early next year. The company has also been selected for PayPal’s prestigious Start Tank initiative, which offers mentorship and office space without surrendering equity.The key behind Localz is micro-location. “In simplistic terms, it’s a GPS but it works indoors and it’s based on Bluetooth low energy, so it doesn’t kill your phone battery,” explains Martijn Verbree, Localz’s 38-year-old Europe director, as PayPal staffers play table tennis behind us and help themselves to free food from the fridge. The triggers for micro-location are beacons – or iBeacons in Apple speak – that broadcast a Bluetooth signal in a range between 5cm and 70m. Beacons are small and cheap; even long-life ones are no bigger than a draughts piece.“In a few years you will find beacons in bus stops, on street signs, in appliances,” predicts Verbree. “They’ll be almost as common as Wi-Fi access points throughout the city.”The main concern with beacons– which both Apple and Google are enthusiastically pushing – is one of privacy. Every time you walk into a store, you will surrender swaths of personal information: your email address, credit card and, even more revealingly, what you like to do and where you spend your time. Beyond that, once a store has your attention, won’t you just be bombarded with irrelevant offers?Verbree nods: “Our message to retailers is don’t be creepy,” he says. “Be relevant for the consumer, because they are going to quickly opt out of the experience if they don’t like it. You have to do something that is really going to benefit your customer.”Localz has ambitious plans, but ultimately its work will be behind the scenes, supplying services to more famous brands. And what if one of the tech giants were to swoop in to buy them out? Verbree laughs: “Yes, you think about these things over a beer, but it’s early days, and we want to be our little independent self for a while at least.”
When Jay Rogers drove away from theInternational Manufacturing Technology Showin September and toured around Chicago in a two-seater, you could be forgiven for not paying much attention. Unless, of course, you’d watched it rise up out of a 3D printer the size of a shipping container over the past 44 hours. Meet the world’s first 3D-printed electric car.This model, called the Strati, is the result of a four-and-a-half month process, from design to finish, but according to Rogers, the CEO ofLocal Motors, the company behind the Strati, the timescale for future models could be cut to as little as six weeks, and the printing itself to just 24 hours. That’s a pretty quick turnaround.The Strati only has 49 parts, compared with 25,000 in an average car.The key is simplification. On average, a car contains thousands of parts; the Strati contains just 49. This seems incredible, but as Rogers explains: “If you can make a vehicle out of one material, you can massively reduce the number of parts.” Certain components, such as the engine, tyres and suspension, cannot be printed, but the majority of the car, from the chassis to the seats, was created using a carbon-fibre reinforced thermoplastic, which Rogers says has the same strength as mid-grade aluminium. His team are currently refining the process further so they can print “different flexibilities, durometers, or compressibility of this material” in different regions of the car. This would allow them to make softer plastics for the seats, for example, or compression bars that would increase the safety of the vehicle.Rogers claims the Strati will be on the road within the next 12 months. He’s previously stated that the car would cost between $18,000 (£11,500) and $30,000, but says the price will drop. Eventually he wants to see localised factories producing cars designed with their environment in mind. For example, a small factory in Alaska could manufacture Stratis designed specifically for cold weather, while another in Utah could produce cars suited for the desert. Rogers hopes that this principle could be applied to other industries in the US as well, helping to bring manufacturing back from overseas.
Want to know how much ultraviolet exposure you’ve had on a summer’s day? Next year, a hair slide could tell you.Need to monitor your heart’s electrical activity? A pair of headphones could do that and feed the data to your smartphone.Both are just around the corner. For the past year or so, the main application of “wearable” technology has been for very simple tasks – measuring how many steps you’ve taken, guessing how many calories you’ve consumed doing so, and measuring your heart rate as you did so. But in 2015, we’ll be moving past that, experts say, with a panoply of products about to be launched. Apple’s Watch, expected to go on sale in spring, will take the wearable idea beyond eager technology and fitness users, to the general public. “It will probably get more uptake than anything so far, just because it’s Apple,” says Ruth Thomson, campaign manager for consumer product development at Cambridge Consultants, who has been following the wearables space intently. “They seem to have this magic method of getting people to buy things.”Though its full capabilities aren’t yet known, the watch has already grabbed a tonne of publicity simply by being announced – eclipsing other smartwatches announced earlier this year from companies including Samsung, LG and Motorola. “There isn’t a mainstream smartwatch yet,” says Thomson. But she sees potential for wearables to expand beyond simple counting – steps, calories – into something that truly connects.The UV hair slide is one idea Cambridge Consultants is working on; another is a suit embedded with technology that communicates with itself, so that the different elements “talk” to each other. “The next step is to make wearables truly wearable,” Thomson says.Smartwatches, which (generally) connect to your phone to display notifications from apps running there, are likely to be in the forefront to begin with. Research company Futuresource found interest in buying smartwatches more than doubled, and there had been a 50% rise in intention to get a fitness tracker between May and October 2014; the biggest change was among iPhone owners, possibly once they saw Apple unveil its watch in September. Another analysis company, Juniper Research, believes it will take four years before smartwatches overtake fitness trackers in sales volume, simply because trackers are cheaper.A key focus for 2015 will be health. Microsoft has already shown off itsBand, a wrist-mounted fitness and health tracker (that also measures UV exposure). Microsoft, Google and Apple have launched their own “health” platforms, for aggregating data about what we have done, or to measure essential data on people who may have a health condition. (My own GP’s system can hook intoApple’s HealthKiton an iPhone, if the user gives permission.) Doctors are increasingly interested by the uses of wearables to give information about health. And even the finance world is interested: Canadian banks are looking at the potential fora wristband made by a startup called Bionymthat measures unique elements of your ECG pattern to authenticate payments.Most wearables still have to pass the “turn around” test, according to Sonny Vu, founder of Misfit, which makes the Shine activity tracker. That is, would you turn around to go home to get it if you found you’d left it behind in the morning? But as they become more popular, and more flexible (after UV sensing-hair slides, why not pollution-sensing clothing?), they could become essential.The only drawback might be that really successful wearables could be used to spy on us.A case in Calgary, Canada, could be a first, where data from aFitbitis being used to try to show that a fitness trainer who suffered an accident had lower activity levels than would be expected for someone in her profession. The case is claimed to be unique – but that’s only so far. Perhaps in the future, our wearables will be used to prove if we really are as active as we claim to be, and really did run (or walk) where and when we said we did.
Computers are pretty good at some things, like number crunching and logic, but terrible at others that are easy for our brains, like understanding images or conversation. And even when researchers train software to do things like recognise faces or cats,as Google has done, it requires hundreds or thousands of computers, consuming vast amounts of energy. The human brain can do so much more and uses only what an energy-saving light bulb would.IBM hopes to close the gap between humans and machines by creating computer chips modelled on biological brains. TheSyNAPSE chipit unveiled in August has a design that mimics the neural networks found inside your head. The chip isn’t great at the stuff traditional computers excel at. But it is far better suited to pattern recognition and processing images, sound and other sensory data. And the chip, which is the size of a postage stamp, requires a strikingly small amount of power – about that of a hearing-aid battery. IBM says its descendants could bring brain-like abilities to everything from smartphones to robots. Early in 2015 the company plans to release a kit to let academics, students and corporate researchers start experimenting with this new kind of computing. It will take the form of a smartphone-sized circuit board with a SyNAPSE chip, and connectors to hook up cameras or other devices. “There is the potential here to really open up a spree of tremendous innovation,” says Dharmendra Modha, chief scientist of brain-inspired computing at IBM. Fresh thinking is needed, he says, because the chip is so different from what has come before.The SyNAPSE chip, says Modha, could lead to vast advances in the sensory processing ability of smartphones. Imagine a phone, he says, that understands where it is, who is speaking and what you are doing. There are plenty of other potential applications, from self-driving cars that need to fuse information from the world around them to devices to help vision-impaired people navigate through the environment.Like existing chips, the SyNAPSE chip’s circuits are based on switch-like silicon devices called transistors. But they are arranged in a way that breaks with the basic architecture used in computers for the last 70 years. That architecture forces computers to work on tasks as a series of step-by-step instructions, like a recipe. Brains – and IBM’s new chip – can be more efficient because they can execute many different instructions simultaneously. The SyNAPSE chip has a network of 1m fake neurons connected by 256m fake synapses. That is “roughly on the scale of a bee brain”, says Modha, but way behind the human brain, which has 10bn neurons and 100trn synapses. But his team has recently shown that the chips can be tiled together, offering a route to much greater power.Other experts have welcomed IBM’s experiment in brain-inspired computing, saying that the septuagenarian model that still powers our latest gadgets probably can’t be pushed much further in terms of computing power or efficiency. However, Murray Shanahan, a professor of cognitive robotics at Imperial College in London, says we are still far from knowing how to programme a chip like IBM’s to do sophisticated tasks, or working out what its limitations are. “We really are just at the beginning of understanding how to do this. There’s a long way to go before we match the abilities of even simple animals,” he says.
Messaging appYik Yakis a big hit with US college students and venture capital investors alike, having grown rapidly on campuses since its launch in late 2013, culminating in arecent $61m funding round.One of the app’s key features is anonymity: people can post messages without divulging their identity. At least, that’s the theory.In practice, until recently Yik Yak had a vulnerability that could have given hackers “the ability to deanonymize a user and take total control of their account”. That’s according to online security firm SilverSky, which discovered the privacy loophole.“An attacker is able to view all of the target’s previous posts, make new posts, and literally log in to the app using the target’s credentials,”explained researcher Sanford Moskowitz in a blog post, published after Yik Yak had been alerted to the vulnerability, and patched it.“This attack can be easily conducted by anyone on the same network as the target; which is a very common situation for Yik Yak’s main demographic: college students. As an example of an attack, hacktivists could exploit this vulnerability to identify bullies on their school’s WiFi network.”SilverSky’s research is the latest warning to smartphone owners that apps promising anonymity may not always deliver on that promise, for one reason or another.In August, researchers from Rhino Security Labsrevealed an exploit to identify posts from individual users of anonymous social app Secret, while its rival Whisper was the subject of a Guardian investigation in October that included the claim that the company wasmonitoring the location of some users.Launching a slick app that doesn’t ask people for their real names is one thing, but protecting those people from the skills of malicious hackers – or thankfully in Yik Yak’s case, benign security researchers – quite another.Both groups will be training their sights on any new messaging app that becomes popular. Yik Yak will surely be setting aside a chunk of that $61m funding round for some information security specialists.•Would you really trust a ‘secret’ app to protect your privacy?•Next for messaging apps: encryption, payments, media and ads
Christmas may be a time of giving, but it’s also a time for lusting after technology that most of us will never be able to afford, let alone justify buying.Together with Gadget Show presenter Jon Bentley we tried and tested a range of top-of-the-line gadgets to produce a must-have collection of Christmas presents for the person who has everything – or has just won the lottery.Phase One IQ280 camera systemThe PhaseOne IQ280 camera system is an 80-megapixel camera which excels at very large, detailed landscape shots.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe PhaseOne IQ280 camera system combines the IQ280 back with PhaseOne’s camera body. It supports lenses from a range of different manufacturers and produces a camera capable of shooting full-frame 80-megapixel photos at an ISO as low as 35 with 13 f-stops for images with a large dynamic range.Cost:approximately £30,600.Samuel’s thoughts:The IQ280 can capture details with a very large range, producing images with as much detail in the bright clouds in the sky as the dark shadows of buildings. It makes the PhaseOne arguably one of the best cameras for capturing large landscapes and huge portraits in a studio, although you’ll probably need to be a pro to get the best out of it.Jon’s thoughts:My expectations were high but the IQ280 system exceeded them. The retina-squeezing detail, superb colour reproduction and massive dynamic range create lusciously smooth images. And it’s surprisingly easy to use.Google GlassGoogle Glass are one of the first commercially available smartglasses, putting a heads-up display and a camera on the wearer’s head.Photograph: Jon Bentley for the GuardianGoogle Glass is one of thefirst pairs of smartglasses available. A prism mounted in front of the right eye creates a small, transparent screen just inside the wearer’s field of view for heads-up information such as emails, directions and for lining up photos or video using a built-in camera.A small camera tracks the right eye’s movement, a microphone picks up voice and sensors track head movement for hands-free use. It can also display notifications from a smartphone, as well as run third-party apps includingStar Chart, which overlays star maps on the sky.Cost:£1,000.•Google Glass review: useful – but overpriced and socially awkwardSamuel’s thoughts:Glass is a well put together prototype. Notifications for email and messages plus quickly taking photos and video is handy, but it’s what users can do with third-party apps that’s interesting.The biggest issue with Glass is the social acceptance of having an obvious gadget strapped to your face. Only approximately 25% of people on London streets, trains and tubes noticed I was wearing them. But people react differently; some are intrigued but most are actively weary of Glass wearers because, rightly or wrongly, of their ability to take photos or videos.Jon’s thoughts:Google Glass is a significant and contentious product. Even if social decorum means you shy away from actually using it, you can still taste the zeitgeist and sample a slice of gadget history.Grado PS1000eGrado’s top-of-the-range headphones are a pair of high-end hi-fi speakers for the head.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe PS1000e headphones are the top of the range from Grado, which has been hand-making high-end headphones and audio equipment since the 1950s in Brooklyn, New York.They are a high quality open-backed hi-fi headphone designed for personal listening in the home. Their high-efficiency drivers can be powered by a smartphone and have very wide frequency response from five to 50,000Hz (most headphones are limited to 20 to 20,000Hz).Cost:£1,700.Samuel’s thoughts:The PS1000e are like super high-end speakers, accentuating details I’ve never heard in my favourite tracks before. They prove that in some cases you get what you pay for.But their open-backed design and bulk makes them useless for listening outside of the home, as you can hear the world around you and everyone else can clearly hear your music.Jon’s thoughts:With their smooth, clean and detailed sound, even when driven by the relatively low-power amplifier in my laptop, these headphones reminded me of a pair of top-notch studio speakers. But you can wear these on your head.Samsung UE55HU8500 curved 4K TVSamsung’s flagship TV is a curved 4K screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe flagship curved ultra high definition 4K TV from Samsung has every bell and whistle under the sun. It has 1,200Hz motion smoothing, dual TV tuners, 3D, an integrated camera and extensive smart TV capabilities, but it is the screen that is the stand-out feature.The 4K screen has four times the number of pixels as a traditional 1080p full HD television, while the gentle curve is designed to envelope the viewer. The screen also has very dark blacks, bright whites and rich colours for a very vibrant picture.Cost:£2,300.Samuel’s thoughts:In my viewcurved TVs are a gimmick. We’ve spent years trying to flatten screens and make them thinner, now manufacturers are trying to push curved TVs just because they can. It’s the new 3D.But the 4K screen is fantastic, even when showing standard 1080p content. UHD 4K video still difficult to get hold of, but is now available in limited quantities from the likes of Netflix, if your broadband is faster than 25Mbps. I just wish the screen was flat.Jon’s thoughts:I think curved screens are better than a gimmick and can make for more involving viewing, especially when you’re watching with others. This Samsung has great image quality and surprisingly good sound for a thin TV. The lack of a headphone socket is annoying, though.R-KAID-RThe R-KAID-R is a handmade arcade cabinet in a box.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe R-KAID-R is a step back in time from Swedish design company Love Hultén who built a retro gaming arcade machine out of a Raspberry Pi. The Pi board and 8in screen are mounted in a handmade wooden box, complete with an eight-way joystick, nine classic arcade buttons and a rechargeable battery to take it on the road for up to eight hours.The arcade machine comes with Cave Story pre-installed but will play thousands of classic games across Mame arcade machines and retro consoles like the Super Nintendo, Atari 2600 and Neo Geo.Cost:€2,499 (£1,959).Samuel’s thoughts:The R-KAID-R is an instant nostalgia hit. The joystick, the buttons, the tinny mono speaker all feel the same as I remember from my childhood. But it’s missing another stick and buttons – the joy of the arcade, especially games like Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat, was in taking on a friend. Button-bashing versus skill.Jon’s thoughts:I love the combination of technology and artisan-style craftsmanship. Next I’d like to see a 4K TV in an English oak console or a digital camera with bellows and a black cloth to drape over my head while taking a shot.Tesla Model S P85The Tesla Model S is an all-electric car with supercar acceleration and a 312-mile range.Photograph: Antonio Zazueta Olmos/Antonio OlmosThe Tesla Model S is one of the most advanced cars available at the moment.Launched in June in the UK, the all-electric car has a range of up to 312 miles, will do 0-60mph in 4.2 seconds and is big enough to take five adults plus two children in the back.A network 14 of superchargers across the country, can charge the battery with 170 miles of power in 30 minutes and a full charge in 70 minutes – a full charge at home with an electric car charging point takes between six and eight hours.Cost:from £50,000, £99,000 as tested.•Tesla Model S launch: an electric car to answer even Clarkson’s objectionsSamuel’s thoughts:The Tesla Model S drives like a normal car, just with acceleration that throws you back into the seat. It’s easy to drive, quiet, comfortable and the 17in touchscreen is intuitive and useful.Range anxiety is still there, but the supercharger network means that longer journeys aren’t an issue with the right route planning. The Model S shows that the future of electric cars is bright.Jon’s thoughts:It’s the supercar acceleration that’s so alluring. Fun, practical, responsible and capable of realistic distances on a charge, it’s the perfect car for the forward-thinking, well-heeled technology enthusiast.27in iMac with retina 5K displayApple’s new 27in iMac has a 5K display with five times the number of pixels as a full HD 1080p TV.Photograph: AppleApple’s latest27in iMac has a 5K retina screenwith more than five times the pixels of a standard full HD 1080p TV. Text is pin-sharp, images detail-rich and 4K video can be edited in native resolution with a set of tools on screen.Cost:from £2,000 as tested.Samuel’s thoughts:The new iMac is a big step forward for desktop computers. The 5K screen is so sharp it’s jaw-dropping. You can see so much detail in massive images it looks like a super-high quality print.No longer does sitting in front of a desktop monitor feel like looking back in time coming from the crystal clear smartphone and tablet screens.Jon’s thoughts:The latest iMac is assertively elegant, commandingly powerful, whisper-quiet and well-connected. And Apple’s beautiful 27in 5K display is the star of the show. Who says the desktop computer is dead?•Which is the best tablet for Christmas?•Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commute
Privacy-first smartphone companyBlackphoneis launching its own app store for users concerned about privacy and security.The Blackphone app store will be available in January and will monitor apps to make sure they do not snoop on users.“We’ll have a few degrees of vetting,” Blackphone chief executive Toby Weir-Jones told the Guardian. “We’ll validate that the apps will do what they intend – call it the Apple model. If you have an app to manage your social media accounts and it wanted access to your microphone and your camera we might ask why and get on a first screening.”Several apps have been caught spying on usersthrough leaky permissions systems, accessing unconnected features of smartphones, including an Android torch app that silently sent user location and device data to advertisers, which sparked and investigation and subsequent fine from the US data privacy regulator.“But we’re not intending to replicate a mass-market app store right now,” said Weir-Jones. “We’re not going to do games or have our own versions of social network apps. We’re much more interested in a private marketplace with quality apps with things that have a broad alignment with our privacy and security focus.”Most Blackphone users currently use Amazon’s app store ; despite being based on Android the Blackphone doesn’t have access to Google’s Play Store with its million or more apps. The company hopes that the Blackphone app store will help foster innovation, and provide the apps necessary for corporate users as well as user privacy. .“We want to… reach a wider audience that cares about usability, that cares about intuitive use as well as privacy benefits,” said Weir-Jones.Along with the app store, Blackphone is also launching new software from Canadian firm Graphite Software called Spaces, which allows users to split their work and private life into two isolated containers on one phone.A private life “space” could contain a user’s social networks and other private information, while the work space could contain work data. The two spaces are entirely separate, meaning apps in one cannot see or access the other, but the user can switch between the two or more spaces without rebooting the phone.Opening up the marketThese two new features form part of Blackphone’s continued push for corporate users,seizing on the decline of BlackBerryas the primary, security-focused brand for company smartphones. Weir-Jones says corporate users can open up the consumer market.“The large bulk of our sales will be to enterprise-minded buyers,” said Weir-Jones. “But those people also tend to be quite influential – they go home and talk to friends and family about their devices.Security technology inherently has a high cost to users, such as restrictions on the types or number of apps or being forced to adopt systems that are difficult to use, but Blackphone wants to tackle this.“We need to do a better job as an industry at removing the excuses for not using secure and private software,” said Weir-Jones, who admits that Blackphone is unlikely to reach 90% of the market any time soon. “It’s not a light switch and it won’t happen overnight; it requires a lot of effort and education.”•Blackphone: can a mobile ever truly be hack-proof?
It should come as no surprise that mobile gaming is a lucrative business now, for the games at the top of the charts at least. Now there are some more figures claiming to prove just how lucrative.Digital goods measurement firm Superdata haspublished some year-end gaming stats, including the suggestion that were three mobile games grossing more than $1bn in 2014: Candy Crush Saga at $1bn, Puzzle &amp; Dragons at $1.5bn and Clash of Clans at a startling $1.8bn.Mobile games industry website PocketGamer.bizadds a note of scepticism to its coverage of the story, noting that Clash of Clans’ publisher Supercell reported revenues of $892m in 2013:“Now, if we assume thatClash of Clansgenerated all of Supercell’s 2013 revenues, its year-on-year growth for 2014 would be 100%. This is a minimum figure.Conversely assumingClash of Clansgenerated the half of Supercell’s 2013 revenues, 2014 revenue of $1.8 billion suggests year-on-year growth in the order of 300 percent. This is the maximum.”Even so, the growth of mobile and its top grossing games in particular – especially if Clash of Clans’ revenues surged in Japan, which was the driver behind Puzzle &amp; Dragon’s income – means you certainly can’t rule the $1.8bn figure out.What do you think: are you surprised that the top mobile games might be making this much money? Are they proving that this isn’t a bubble, or will these games be replaced by even more lucrative titles in the year(s) to come? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is bubbling in technology today? Some links to discuss:Call for more openness from antivirus companiesSecurity expert Bruce Schneier says they were tracking the “likely US backed” Regin malware for years without telling. “My guess is that none of the companies wanted to go public with an incomplete picture. Unlike criminal malware, government-grade malware can be hard to figure out. It’s much more elusive and complicated... That is not a good enough excuse, though.”YouTube in a ‘fire drill’ over Facebook and VesselThere may be a chequebook war coming for online video creators: and no, I don’t mean book publishers looking for the next Zoella. “Google is offering some of its top video makers bonuses to sign multiyear deals in which they agree to post content exclusively on YouTube for a time before putting it on a rival service,” claims the Wall Street Journal, noting that Facebook and startup Vessel are looking to tempt top YouTubers to post on their sites first instead.Hachette to sell books on TwitterPhysical books, I mean, not ebooks. The publisher is working with e-commerce firm Gumroad on an experiment to sell three printed tomes – by musician Amanda Palmer, astronaut Chris Hadfield and satirical bible The Onion – with people able to buy directly from tweets by their authors. “With so much of our book marketing done socially now, in-stream Twitter purchasing is a natural next step,” said Hachette boss Michael Pietsch. And it doesn’t hurt, surely, to have one more alternative to Amazon.Telegram messaging app claims 50m usersSecure messaging app Telegram has announced some milestones. “Over 1 billion messages are delivered daily. Telegram now has 50 million active users, adding 1 million new signups each week,” explained a blog post. “This is insane. 16 months ago Telegram didn’t exist, and today it is used by millions of people all over the world – from Spain and Brazil to Malaysia and South Korea. We spent $0 on advertising...”What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, as well as your recommendations for other stories worth reading today.
It's Tuesday.
An MP has recently had to apologisefor playing Candy Crush during a committee meeting. Is this fair? Would playing a popular mobile game have seriously impaired his ability to pay attention to a presumably important meeting? Well, that’s debatable.The MP in question, Nigel Mills, is a man (as usual). The common cliche is that men can’t “multitask”, but women can. This is actually justa stereotype with little scientific evidence to support it. In general, men and women are equally bad at multitasking.You will often hear scare stories about the internet and technologyruining our attention spans, but the actual fact is that human attention was fairly limited before smartphones came along. Studies suggest that the typical human can onlykeep four “things” in their head at once, such is the small capacity of our short-term memory, and that as soon as our attention is diverted we promptly lose these things. Anyone who has gone into a room then promptly forgotten why they went in there will be familiar with this phenomenon.Our attention capacity is alsoquite limited. We can only focus on a verysmall part of our visual fieldat a time, and we can onlyfocus on one conversationif exposed to two simultaneously. The other senses are trickier: how do you “focus” taste? Overall, humans are only consciously aware of a small fraction of the sensory information we take in; the brain fills in the gaps.But that’s not to say we don’t, or shouldn’t, divide our attention. Multitasking implies doing several things simultaneously, but in fact humans are adept at quickly shifting attention from one thing to another and back again. So you can write an email or drive a car while holding a conversation, for example.Our subconscious minds are seemingly constantly monitoring for anything important or novel that may be useful to us – an obvious evolutionary survival tactic. This is why repetitive, monotonous things are really hard to stay focused on – such as a long and uninteresting meeting or seminar you were forced to attend.However, if something of interest occurs, ourattention is suddenly directed to it. So when you’ve totally zoned out of a dull meeting and your boss says your name, you’re suddenly very alert, especially if your name was said alongside words like “responsible for” or “update from”.Overall, it’s possible that smartphones and the like provide more things for us to pay attention to, but in cases such as Nigel Mills playing Candy Crush, it’s likely that anything important would have registered. And truth be told, if he considered the meeting so dull that playing puzzle games seemed more important, he would probably have been paying just as much attention without his tablet to hand.
It is rare that any creative industry can look at a single person and say with any confidence that they started it all. But perhaps that is possible with video game consoles, and perhaps that person is Ralph Baer, who has died at the age of 92.Widely known as the “father of video games” Baer, a lifelong inventor and innovator, was instrumental in the design of the Magnavox Odyssey, the first ever commercial digital games console. With its futuristic looks, electronic game cards and strange analogue controller, it introduced consumers to the concept of interacting with games on their television sets. Released in the US in August 1972, it pre-dated Atari’s Pong arcade cabinet by several months.Baer was born in Germany in 1922, but his Jewish family fled the country as Nazism took hold, eventually settling in the US. He trained in electronics and while working for defence contractor Sanders Associates he and two colleagues William Harrison and William Rusch, started work on a prototype console that could plug into a standard television. Originally known as “brown box” due to its rudimentary construction held together with packing tape, the device could run interactive games that were stored on printed circuit boards named “game cards”.Originally conceived and constructed in 1966, the concept was licensed to electronics company Magnavox, which released its Odyssey console in 1972, complete with a selection of 12 game cards including Football and Table Tennis, which consisted of little more than onscreen blocks and balls. However, it was revelatory at the time, selling 100,000 units in its first year – a figure that may have been larger if more consumers had realised they wouldn’t need a Magnavox-branded television to run the games.When the home console industry exploded in the mid-seventies, companies like Atari and later Mattel and Nintendo found that elements of basic console design had been patented by Magnovox, leading to a string of law suits, which the Odyssey manufacturer won. Baer was no doubt confident that his innovation would be recognised. An earlier visit to a patent examiner’s office to describe the device descended into one long gaming session. “I set up a small television set and my game console,” Mr. Baer once said. “Within 15 minutes, every examiner on the floor of that building was in that office wanting to play the game.”Later, Baer created a “light gun” which would allow Odyssey users to shoot onscreen objects; the first use of the technology in home machines and one of the first instances of a video game peripheral sold separately from its orignal console. In 1978, he designed the handheld electronic game Simon, a version of the popular “simon says” game, requiring players to recall and repeat a lengthening series of coloured button flashes. It was a smash hit and variants are still sold today.“By the mid-1970s, integrated circuits and single-chip game designs were coming into use, reducing the cost and increasing the performance of games so that the industry took off like a big bird,” wrote Baer later. “By some calculations, its gross receipts now exceed that of the movie industry.”“Not too shabby for an idea that took off from a few notes scribbled in New York in August of 1966.”
Over 7,000 people have signed a petition calling on ride-sharing appUberto impose a mandatory seven-year background check on its drivers in India,as it does in the US.The petition, which was launched early on Monday, was prompted by the allegedrape of a 25-year-old womanin Delhi by a driver.Local Delhi police, however, released astatementreporting that with “immediate effect”, Uber was to be banned from the city.Keeping in view the violation [and the] horrific crime [allegedly] committed by the driver, the transport department has banned all activities related to providing any transport service by Uber with immediate effect.The woman victim is thought to have fallen asleep in the car, then woken up to find the car in a secluded location, where the driver is said to have raped her.It has since emerged that the driver, 32-year-old Shiv Kumar Yadav, had a previous conviction for rape. Yadav served seven months in jail for the rape of a passenger three years ago. He is due to appear in court next Monday.The petition, hosted on Change.org and set up byAlina Tiphagne, calls for Uber to end its “double standards”, should it be allowed to operate again in the future. In the US, the company performs a seven-yearbackground checkinto potential drivers’ histories.Uber’s own website states:All Uber ridesharing and livery partners must go through a rigorous background check that leads the industry. The three-step screening we’ve developed across the United States, which includes county, federal and multi-state checks, has set a new standard.These checks go back seven years. We apply this comprehensive and new industry standard consistently across all Uber products, including uberX.Tiphagne’s petition argues that if checks had properly been performed on Yadav, he would not have been allowed to drive and commit his crime.Comments left by signatories included:It’s shameful that a woman gets raped because of callousness and sheer “get rich quick” greed of a company claiming to be providing very safe service.Companies like Uber who take Indian operations very lightly should be banned. They will only learn if they are hit below the belt, if their business is shut down.In a statement, Uber’s chief executive officer and founder, Travis Kalanicksaid: “What happened over the weekend in New Delhi is horrific. We will do everything, I repeat, everything to help bring this perpetrator to justice.”Evelyn Tay, Uber’s spokesperson, released the followingstatementon the company’s blog: “Our thoughts are with the victim of this terrible crime and we are working with the police as they investigate.“We will assist them in any way we can. It is also our policy to immediately suspend a driver’s account following allegations of a serious incident, which we have done.”Uber has recently beenin troubleover allegations it plotted to smear journalists who had written negative pieces about the firm. It also came under fire after one of its driversattacked a womanwith a hammer.Meanwhile, the issue of rape has been pushed onto the political agenda in India after the horrific fatalgang-rape of a studenton a Delhi bus in December 2012, and after two sisters werefound hangedafter being raped in Uttar Pradesh.• Is Uber the worst company in Silicon Valley?
“The guy who invented the first wheel was an idiot,” to quote the late comedian Sid Caesar, “the guy who invented the other three:hewas the genius!” Sympathy with this point of view is the instinctive attitude for newcomers to theSolowheel, an unusual, one-wheeled vehicle developed by American inventorShane Chen. It is, on first inspection, a monstrously heavy, circular briefcase, about half a metre tall, offering no visible means of transport whatever.To the seasoned pilot, however, the Solowheel is an elegant and convenient alternative to the bicycle, scooter or Segway, its closest relative. I was fortunate enough to receive half an hour’s tuition from Ray Brook, a kind of volunteer evangelist for the Solowheel who, at 68, stands living testament to some kind of anti-aging properties hidden in its workings. It is clear that, since he discovered the machine, he has barely set foot on solid ground; gliding, instead, through life with boyish exuberance, his legs perpetually glued to the twin wings of a Solowheel.Clinging to Brook’s arm like a crippled seabird gripping a cliff-face, I am led around in an infernal circle at the edge of Granary Square, London, where art students mutter withering remarks as they pass. “I’m going down, Ray, I’m crashing,” I bellow, my arms flapping in ungodly loops, and he soothes me with words of encouragement. The wheel’s motor, he tells me, is built around a “gyro-switch”, which responds to the weight distribution across the wheel. Lean forward, and the motor accelerates; backward, and it slows.By some estimates, 20 minutes is all you need to become comfortably independent astride the wheel: estimates I can only presume were made by lissom, rubber-limbed circus-folk with long careers on the tightrope behind them. I practised every evening for a week and can now make jolted right-angle turns, and can at least mount the thing without the help of a wall or a colleague. Painful as it is, I have been forced to accept that I rank among the least graceful employees of theObserver. The editor’s assistant, on her first foray, drifts across the newsroom like a leaf across a pond. The graphics editor speeds along the canal, a pint of Amstel in one hand. The commissioning editor on this supplement negotiates an improbable corner despite the floor-length evening dress she is wearing for a ceremony at the Foreign Press Association.But I stuck with it, not only out of professional duty or loyalty to Brook, but because the brief instances of stability and finesse which occur during practice are satisfying beyond measure. Upright on the utterly silent wheel, the wind billowing my coat, I felt I could glimpse a bright future of unpolluted boulevards, of groups of wheeled figures drifting past, exchanging bons mots and vaping. It was a blissful vision, stopped short when I dog-legged sharply into fence.
Sony celebrated 20 years of its PlayStation brand this weekend, with a major community event – in Las Vegas, of course.The two-day extravaganza saw a range of announcements and revelations, and of course, an explosion of new gameplay trailers.The key draw on Saturday was new gameplay footage of Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End:Set in a steamy jungle location,the 15-minute live demoshowed a much more open environment than the narrow walkways of Uncharted 3, together with freely roaming enemies and alotof climbing. It looks like series hero Nathan Drake will get a useful new tool in the shape of a grappling hook, as well as a deeper and more brutish melee system – he’s clearly been playing The Last of Us. Talking about Naughty Dog’s triumphant apocalyptic thriller, we also discovered that Troy Baker, who voiced Joel, will be onboard to play Nathan’s older brother.Another biggie was the official revelation thatStreet Fighter V will be coming to PS4as a console exclusive, with cross-platform multiplayer against PC owners.The news had been leaked online earlier, but together with the announcement that Ultra Street Fighter IV is also coming to the machine, it was still a good night for fans of Capcom’s evergreen fighting series.God of War designer David Jaffe showed his new project, Drawn to Death, a sketch-like arena shooter taking place in the notebook of an imaginative adolescent.“It’s a violent and bizarre landscape filled with all of the weird, amazing, passionate, and exciting fantasies that are swimming around in the head of our teenage artist,” wrote Jaffein a blogpost. Having been a teenage boy, I dread to think where this is going.There were lots of exciting indie revelations. Open-world horror gameThe Forestis coming to PS4 after a gruesomely successful PC debut in May courtesy of a Steam Early Access release. It’s a first-person survival adventure, in which the player’s aircraft crashes on a tropical island inconveniently populated by cannibal mutants.There’s also four-player co-op hack-n-slasher Fat Princess Adventures coming to PS4 fromFun Bits, and the wonderful role-playing game Bastion arriving soon on both PS4 and Vita. Retro RPG treat Shovel Night is also venturing over from a successful year on Nintendo machines. The latest project from a resident of Vancouver’s Indie House (an actual house, not a studio, which has also produced Towerfall and Night in the Woods), isSkytorn, a post-apocalyptic “metroidvania” adventure coming to PS4 and PC.After a successful showing at Radius Festival and other events this summer, the brilliant ragdoll physics brawler Gang Beasts, is now down for a PS4 release as well as PC. I said it was“probably the funniest fighting game ever made,”after I saw it. And I’ve played Funky Head Boxers.Also intriguing is Wattam, the new game from Katamari Damacy creator Keita Takahashi andFunomena, the San Fran studio co-founded by Journey producer Robin Hunicke.Increasingly confident upstart publisher Devolver (Hotline Miami, Hatfoful Boyfriend) was in Las Vegas, too, showing off its new signing,Enter The Gungeonfrom Dodge Roll. It’s a frantic dungeon shooter that appears to combine Gauntlet and Nuclear Throne, and its out next year on PS4, PC and Mac.It was a packed showcase then, with both new titles and fan-favourite conversions pleasing the attendees. There were of course, flickering hopes that – yes – The Last Guardian would show up. But once again, Team Ico’s now mythical follow up to Shadow of the Colossus, was absent.
Sony Pictures employees are being threatened via email after hackers broke into the movie studio’s computer network, the US Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) confirmed.The emails attempt to threaten employees into disavowing Sony Pictures to prevent further attacks.“Please sign your name to object the false of the company at the email address below if you don’t want to suffer damage [sic]. If you don’t, not only you but your family will be in danger,” said the attackers in theemail sent to Variety.‘Aware of threatening emails’The FBI confirmed that it “is aware of threatening emails that have been received by some employees at Sony Pictures Entertainment”.“We continue to investigate this matter in order to identify the person or group responsible,” an FBI spokesman said in a statement, but refused to elaborate on the threats.Confidential data including logins, passwords email addresses,payment detailsand social security numbers were leaked as part of the attack, which is now thought to have originated from a five-star hotel in the centre of Bangkok, Thailand, according to sources from inside the investigationtalking to Bloomberg.The threats to Sony Pictures employees could have been sent from copycats or anyone who had access to the data leaked onto the internet via file sharing services.A Sony Pictures spokesperson confirmed that the email claimed to be from “GOP” the moniker being used by the Guardians of Peace hacking group thought to be responsible for the initial attack and leak of data.Investigations by the FBI and security firm FireEye hired by Sony Pictures are still ongoing. North Korea’s involvement over the release of the Sony Pictures film The Investigation, which depicts an attempt to assassinate Kim Jong-un, has been mooted.North Koreadenied that it was involved in the attack, but declared that it was a “righteous deed” in the “just struggle against US imperialism”.•Did North Korea’s notorious Unit 121 cyber army hack Sony Pictures?•Hackers claim responsibility for Sony PlayStation Network outage
It’s time for this week’s roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games released on Apple’s App Store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). No, it’s notchanging to “get”just yet.More interested in Android apps? They’re covered in a separate weeklyBest Android Apps roundup. But if it’s iOS you’re after, read on for this week’s selection.This week, there’s a bonus 21st app. And the reason for that is it’s an app from the Guardian, and I didn’t want an external developer to lose out to an in-house release.APPSStampy Cat (Free)If you’re not a parent of a Minecraft-obsessed child, Stampy may well be news to you. He’s the orange, feline alter ego of YouTuber Joseph Garrett, who makes Let’s Play videos for kids using Minecraft (and a few other games). This is his official app, and his young fans will love it.iPhone / iPadWire (Free)Wire is the latest buzzy communications app for iOS, combining text messaging with voice calls, and a very slinky interface. Backed by Skype co-founder Janus Friis, it’s shaping up nicely.Read this interviewfor the full story.iPhone / iPadThe Meaning of Liff (£1.99)An essential purchase for fans of the late Douglas Adams: this is the official app of “the legendary dictionary of things there should be words for”, including all the entries from the three books in the Meaning of Liff series, and the ability to submit your own ideas.iPhoneRufus Wainwright (Free + IAP)Obviously, this will be of most interest for fans of singer/songwriter Rufus, but it’s also interesting in a wider sense: the latest attempt at a subscription-based app for an individual artist. Pay £2.49 a month, and you get exclusive livestreams, video clips and unreleased tracks, along with the usual news updates.iPhoneLearner Mosaic (Free)One for parents, this: an app by developer Kidaptive that helps you understand how your (preschool) children are learning, with recommendations of activities to help them. It also ties in to the same company’s Leo’s Pad Enrichment Program app, which blends stories and mini-games.iPhone7 Minute Superhero Workout (£1.99)Developer Six to Start made the inventive Zombies, Run! fitness app. Now it’s turned its attention to superheroes for a similar game, as you punch to blast aliens and crunch to recharge your exosuit. A fun take on fitness at home.iPhone / iPadAddŗ (Free)Looking for a Kindle alternative? Addŗ has the makings of something interesting: a well-designed iPad app with an emphasis on sharing annotations with friends, and clever integration with Dropbox and email. Obviously more interesting if you can get a group of friends using it.iPadYellofier Electrified (£1.49)Another music app, this time from electronica pioneers Yello, following their original Yellofier app. Both focus on making music of your own, but the draw here is a bank of samples from other musicians, including Orbital, Carl Craig and The Orb.iPhone / iPadLumiKids Park by Lumosity (Free)More learning games for children, this time from brain-training firm Lumosity. It’s a collection of games created with education, not just entertainment, in mind. They’re simple, colourful and fun to play.iPadRuntastic Butt Trainer (Free + IAP)This should really be renamed Runtastic Bum Trainer for the UK market, but never mind. It’s the latest app from the fitness developer, focusing on bottom and leg workouts, using video tutorials to show you what, when and how to stretch.iPhone / iPadBONUS APPHappy for Life (Free)That bonus app I mentioned: this comes from the Guardian, and is billed as “an easy way to be happier everyday”. The idea being that it’ll suggest daily activities that should make you happier, with features to track whether they do, and (if you want) to share the results with friends.iPhoneBean Dreams for iOS.GAMESBean Dreams (£1.99)If anyone ever tells you platform games can’t work well purely on a touchscreen, make them buy Bean Dreams. Honing the interface down to simple tapping enables you to focus on timing and exploration of the eight beautifully-crafted worlds.iPhone / iPadGame of Thrones (£2.99 + IAP)If you’ve ever played Telltale Games’ Walking Dead games, you’ll know why so many people are excited about the company applying its episodic adventure skills to Game of Thrones. And better still, you’re playing within the world of the TV show, but not simply rehashing its plot.iPhone / iPadEtherlords (Free + IAP)Well, this is certainly the first game I’ve seen where feeding “entire worlds” to your monsters is the way to level them up. But this is an innovative spin on the collecting/evolving/battling genre, with short and sharp battles and plenty of strategic depth.iPhone / iPadOddworld: Stranger’s Wrath (£3.99)A famous old games franchise reappears on iOS here: an upgraded-for-modern-devices version of the shooter-cum-platformer that originally appeared on console in 2005. It’s a fine combination of wild west themes with monstery action.iPhone / iPadPenguins of Madagascar: Dibble Dash (Free + IAP)The Despicable Me endless-runner game was a massive hit on mobile, so it’s no surprise to see other animated movies following the format. This, for Penguins of Madagascar, sees you scurrying through the streets. The twist: you’re controlling all four penguins, not just one. Plus, there are educational features built in to test children’s maths skills.iPhone / iPadProun+ (£2.49)This is the latest endless-roller (a genre I may have just made up) game for iOS – if you played and loved Impossible Road, it may float your boat. You have to balance a ball racing along a pipe through eye-catching levels apparently based on paintings.iPhone / iPadPeggle Blast (Free + IAP)This game’s going to spark a debate, it’s fair to say: Peggle was a widely-loved paid game, and taking it freemium will inevitably put some backs up. So, it’s the same ball-shooting peg-popping action, which is great, but with more mechanics around it nudging you to buy power-ups.iPhone / iPadOh My Giraffe (£1.49)“Features: really long necks,” explains the App Store listing for this quirky, but rather marvellous game. You play the titular giraffe, as you gobble fruits while dropping the odd one on a lion to avoid being eaten. Lovely stuff.iPhone / iPadRescue Quest (Free + IAP)There is still time in 2014 to squeeze in a few more match-three freemium puzzlers. Like Rescue Quest, with its wizard’s apprentice theme as you match gems and battle monsters.iPhone / iPadWicked Lair (Free + IAP)Finally, another really characterful indie game – one that sees you building and defending a downwards tower (yes, a dungeon) then stocking it with monsters to fight off attackers. The IAP here is for “mystical” and “sinister” expansions.iPhone / iPadThat’s this week’s recommendations, but what iOS apps have you been using? The comments section is open for your thoughts.
It’s time for our latest roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, this time from the last two weeks’ worth of releases on the Google Play store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). Something to look for: a new section of each app’s Google Play store listing, which explains the full range of IAP.More interested in iOS apps? They’re covered in a separateBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundup, with the latest instalment due to be published later today.This week, there’s a bonus 21st app. And the reason for that is it’s an app from the Guardian, and it wouldn’t be fair for an external developer to lose their slot to an in-house app.APPSGoogle Santa Tracker (Free)This is Google’s annual bit of Christmas tomfoolery, tracking Father Christmas as he delivers presents around the world, with various mini-games for children to play in the run-up to Christmas Eve.Wire (Free)Wire is the latest buzzy communications app for Android, combining text messaging with voice calls, and a very slinky interface. Backed by Skype co-founder Janus Friis, it’s shaping up nicely.Read this interviewfor the full story.7 Minute Superhero Workout (£2.19)Developer Six to Start made the inventive Zombies, Run! fitness app. Now it’s turned its attention to superheroes for a similar game, as you punch to blast aliens and crunch to recharge your exosuit. A fun take on fitness at home.Stampy Cat (Free)If you’re not a parent of a Minecraft-obsessed child,Stampymay well be news to you. He’s the orange, feline alter ego of YouTuber Joseph Garrett, who makes Let’s Play videos for kids using Minecraft (and a few other games). This is his official app, and his young fans will love it.DropTask - Visual To Do List (Free)DropTask has plenty of fans online for its visual take on to-do lists and project management. Now it’s available on Android too, using its colourful diagrams to visualise your tasks, and help you crack through them.Ghostery Privacy Browser (Free)This is billed as a way to stop ad-tech companies from tracking you, enabling you to block trackers from Facebook, Google and other companies from monitoring your surfing. Although the app itself tracks details of the trackers you encounter, note.My Talking Angela (Free + IAP)The Talking Friends apps are a bit like Stampy – entirely under the radar for everyone bar parents whose children love them. This is the latest one: a virtual pet app based on Angela – the cat who earlier this year wasthe subject of a bizarre Facebook hoax. It’s playful and fun, but watch for the hefty in-app purchases.Runtastic Butt Trainer (Free + IAP)This should really be renamed Runtastic Bum Trainer for the UK market, but never mind. It’s the latest app from the fitness developer, focusing on bottom and leg workouts, using video tutorials to show you what, when and how to stretch.Shou.TV (Free)This is an interesting idea: a Twitch-ish way to broadcast directly from your Android device, with a focus on gaming. The idea being you can broadcast your skills to an audience of… well, it’s unclear how big the audience is. Or you can simply be one of the watchers.Fiete Christmas (Free)Something else for children here: a well-crafted advent calendar-style app based on the Fiete games. Kids unlock a new item (for free) every day, and can combine them in various forms of digital play.BONUS APPHappy for Life (Free)That bonus app I mentioned: this comes from the Guardian, and is billed as “an easy way to be happier everyday”. The idea being that it’ll suggest daily activities that should make you happier, with features to track whether they do, and (if you want) to share the results with friends.Twisty Hollow for Android.GAMESTwisty Hollow (£1.27)Twisty Hollow is brilliant: a puzzle game that involves rotating circles to match different items and characters, and create goods for a fictional town. In a world of samey match-three puzzlers, this stands out for its originality and verve.RGB Express (Free + IAP)And another marvellous puzzle game that swerves the tired old tropes of the mobile gaming world. It sees you delivering colours (yes, really) round a town, drawing routes for your drivers to make sure they get around obstacles. Which sounds simple, but the difficulty ramps up beautifully across its 200 levels – with 80 more available as a single in-app purchase.World of Tanks Blitz (Free + IAP)The mobile version of PC multiplayer game World of Tanks has been a hit on iOS, and now it’s on Android too. It’s focused on multiplayer too: teams of seven tanks facing off against one another, with a host of vehicles to choose from.Call of Duty: Heroes (Free + IAP)This is Activision’s attempt to apply the Clash of Clans base-building genre to its biggest console franchise, Call of Duty. And for fans, it’s good fun as you build up your base and head off to battle enemies.Etherlords (Free + IAP)Well, this is certainly the first game I’ve seen where feeding “entire worlds” to your monsters is the way to level them up. But this is an innovative spin on the collecting/evolving/battling genre, with short and sharp battles and plenty of strategic depth.Peggle Blast (Free + IAP)This game’s going to spark a debate, it’s fair to say: Peggle was a widely-loved paid game, and taking it freemium will inevitably put some backs up. So, it’s the same ball-shooting peg-popping action, which is great, but with more mechanics around it nudging you to buy power-ups.Bitcoin Billionaire (Free + IAP)Despite its premise – tapping on the screen to mine virtual bitcoin – this freemium title is pretty relaxed about nudging you to pay. It’s very fun, too, as you turn your virtual loot into (still virtual, sorry) furniture for your flat. It’s very addictive.Valiant Hearts: The Great War (£2.99 + IAP)This, from Ubisoft, is a very interesting idea: part game and part graphic novel, based on the first world war. The idea being that you play through its four episodes – the last three of which are available as in-app purchases – while learning about the conflict.The Shadow Sun (£2.99 + IAP)If you enjoy sinking your teeth into a good roleplaying game (RPG) then The Shadow Sun is definitely worth checking out: its story, battles and freedom to hone your tactics show lots of craft, as you explore the fantasy city of Shar. The IAP here is for extra quests, rather than items required to progress.Godus (Free + IAP)Finally, Godus, a landscape-shaping game from veteran designer Peter Molyneux’s 22cans studio that got lots of hype when it launched on iOS, but has been a bit quieter since then – I was obsessed by it for a couple of weeks, then drifted away. Anyway, it’s worth a look: sculpt the land to make flat bits for your tribe, and unlock the odd godly power.Those are our picks, but what about you? The comments section is open for your app recommendations this week.
If you have ever given a child a Christmas present only to find that he or she is more interested in the wrapping paper, consider for a moment that the kid may have a point. Paper is a remarkable material. We use it to make everything from tea bags to napkins, from photographs to money, and of course it is the material of magazines and newspapers.It is so well loved and part of our lives that we often do not see it as a technology at all. Two thousand years ago if you had taken a bet on which material people would trust as the store of human knowledge, paper wouldn’t have been high on the list: it is soft, weak, flammable and easily damaged by water, and yet it has beaten all other materials to be the ultimate repository of information. Whether electronic materials ultimately take over is a subject of debate, but there are very good reasons for thinking that paper will still be an important part of our lives in another 1,000 years.Transmitting human knowledge through the written word was held back for centuries for lack of a suitable material. Stone and clay tablets were initially used, but they are prone to fracture and heavy to transport. Plant leaves such as papyrus suffer from cracking and shrinkage. Wall paintings are static and space limited. The invention of paper by the Chinese, solved these problems. It is the very thinness of paper that proves to be one of its great advantages, allowing it the flexibility to survive continuous handling, but when stacked together in book form becoming stiff and strong en masse – essentially a reformed block of wood. With the use of hard covers to hold it all together, the book is a fortress for words for thousands of years.The book is not just mechanically ingenious. It replaced the scroll because it allowed individual parts of a long document to be split up and produced simultaneously by many scribes, speeding up manufacture and allowing books to be copied and distributed widely. The Bible is said to be one of the first books created in this new format: it suited preachers of Christianity because it allowed different chapters to be located and accessed via page numbers, instead of a whole scroll having to be searched to find a particular passage. This ability to randomly access material, and to browse, prefigured the digital age.The paper on which this article is printed was made from trees. A tree derives its strength from a fibre called cellulose, which is bound together by an organic glue called lignin. Extracting the fibres from the lignin is like trying to remove chewing gum from hair. The process involves crunching up the wood and boiling it up at high temperatures and pressures with a chemical cocktail that depolymerises (breaks down) the lignin and frees up the cellulose fibres. Once achieved, what is left is a tangle of fibres called wood pulp; at a microscopic scale it resembles spaghetti in a rather watery sauce. Drying this flat dry yields a basic type of paper that is fibrous and brown. It is transformed from rustic to official, from retro to glamorous, by some neat materials science tricks.Making paper into a white, sleek and shiny material first requires the use of a chemical bleach. Other ingredients are then added to stop the ink being sucked into the cellulose mesh, which is what causes ink to bleed. Ideally the ink should penetrate a small amount into the surface of the paper and deposit its cargo of coloured molecules, which sit there embedded in the cellulose mesh creating a permanent mark. Of course, artists and shopkeepers want the ink to do different things and this is why there are so many types of paper, from watercolour paper to till rolls.Controlling shininess, smoothness, stiffness, and weight of the paper are crucial to the success of all publications, especially magazines. If the paper is too bendy it creates an impression of cheapness; too stiff gives an impression of self-referential importance: glossy magazines are glossy for a reason. These properties are controlled by the addition of sizing, which are fine powder additives, such as kaolin (china clay) and calcium carbonate. These powders, and the binders that bond them to the cellulose fibres of the paper, form a composite structure that sits around the fibres, control of which changes the weight, shininess and stiffness of the paper that allows the look and feel to be manipulated.Although paper is an ideal material for delivering information, it also does a good job of obscuring it in its role as wrapping paper. What would Christmas be like without this stuff whose role to build excitement and anticipation? A present really isn’t a present unless it is wrapped in paper. It is paper that takes an object and adds wonder to make it into a gift. This is not just a cultural association. The mechanics of paper lends itself to folding and bending, the cellulose fibres are partially snapped in the area of maximum bend to allow a permanent crease to form, and yet enough fibres remain intact so the material doesn’t crack and fall apart.This winning combination of mechanical properties allows it to assume the shape of any object through creasing and folding. Wrapping a present with paper gives it a crispness and pristineness that emphasises the newness and value of the present inside. It is strong enough to protect the present during transport but weak enough that even a baby can rip it open.That moment of opening transports the object inside from obscurity to celebrity in a few seconds. So this Christmas, don’t ignore the wrapping paper. It is a truly wondrous material.
The hacking group Lizard Squad is claiming responsibility for an attack on Sony’s PlayStation network, which caused connection issues for gamers over the weekend.Visitors to the PlayStation Store were met with the message “Page not found! It’s not you. It’s the internet’s fault”. Sonysaid: “We are aware of the issues some users are experiencing, and are working to address them,” but did not elaborate the cause.Lizard squad claimed credit for the outage via its Twitter account.PSN Login#offline#LizardSquad&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardPatrol)December 8, 2014A Sony spokesperson told the Guardian: “We are currently investigating the root cause for the issue,” and confirmed that service had been restored to normal by 9am this morning.If you had difficulties signing into PlayStation Network, give it a try now.&mdash; PlayStation (@PlayStation)December 8, 2014Sony PlayStation follows Sony PicturesThis is the second attack on Sony services in the past month, with a hacking group called Guardians of Peace claiming responsibility foran attack that crippled the Sony Pictures computer network, stealing and releasing movies and confidential files on to the internet.Lizard Squad were linked with denial of service attacks and other hacks that have hit and taken offline Microsoft’s Xbox Live service, as well as gaming video streaming service Twitch and Call of Duty, Destiny and Fifa games servers.The hacking group also targeted Sony’s PlayStation networkin Augustwithdenial of serviceattacks and bomb threats against the Sony Entertainment Online president, John Smedley, which forced the diversion of a plane to a nearby airport to investigate the claims.This is not the first time the PlayStation Network has been subject to a series of attacks from a hacker group. In 2011, the service was brought down for several days leaking the personal details including credit card numbers, email addresses and passwords of more than 70 million users. Sony was criticised for its handling of the attack, and fined £250,000 by the UK’s data protection watchdog.•Did North Korea’s notorious Unit 121 cyber army hack Sony Pictures?
Do you use a fitness tracker? Online banking? Do you shop online, use a messaging app, download music, use email, file your tax return online or let your children play games on your iPad?How much do you trust the services and technologies you use?Most of us will admit to a creeping sense of mistrust about the technology we have come to rely on. Many users have come to feel quietly contemptuous of these services, as if our default relationships with them is that they offer us a sheet of novel-length terms and conditions designed for us not to read and in return we agree to be advertised to, or about, or to be tracked and monitored, however ineffectively or, worse, to be surveilled by the government, and we grudgingly accept it and carry on.We know that many in government failed to grasp the significance ofEdward Snowden’s surveillance revelations because they did not understand the technology that the security services were exploiting. That there was no effective oversight. That it was hard for many citizens to weigh the significance of these stories because they didn’t understand the technology either; technological illiteracy cushioned the security services from deeper scrutiny, from greater public outrage.Meanwhile, the continual rumbling of theright to be forgottencase has been a fascinating exercise in the demonstration of power. A largely unsupervised Google has been allowed to interpret and implement the ruling in whichever way it sees fit, steamrollering nuanced, justifiable requests from people who object to Google’s subjective search index – which, we are told, is now the public record for the digital age. A commercial, algorithmically operated public record based in Silicon Valley.Take Facebook’s response to the astonishing buck-passing of the UK government, which exploited the same tech illiteracy – much of it in the media this time, toaccuse Facebook of having blood on its handsover the killing of soldier Lee Rigby. Facebook seemed paralysed in response. It had no confident, insightful position and was silent, leaving assumptions and accusations to keep building.Ethics is the issue at the heart of all these technology stories. Or rather a lack of it, and a lack of leadership in ethics. The internet is certainly capable of enormous economic and social good; it is a platform for networking and communicating on an unprecedented scale. But it is just that scale, and facilitating that communication, that presents challenges the world has never had before. The challenge is, uncommonly, a practical, philosophical one for a modern age.Social networks, most noticeably Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, have developed sophisticated processes to try to deal with terrorist propaganda, for example the brutal execution videos of Isis. But these policies only confirm that these companies – despite their claims of neutrality – are now having to make editorial judgments, without the complex skills, experience and legal context of editorial organisations. It also means networks with international plans for growth are making subjective decisions; the western definition of terrorism, the western definition of law, the western definition of free speech. If these companies are to abide by our local laws then why not local laws in China, in North Korea, in Saudi Arabia or Sudan?Is it just one of many problems for the chief executive, or the board, to consider the ethical implications of a network that is changing, in Facebook’s case, how 1.36 billion people – in all their norms and extremes – relate and interact and communicate?Google’s highest profile attempt at an ethics council has been very cynical; pre-empting the regulators’ response to the right to be forgotten, Google recruited “independent” experts, flown around Europe in Google’s private jet and entertained by its charming executive chairman, Eric Schmidt. When artificial intelligence firmDeepmind was acquired by Googleearlier this year, founderDemis Hassabiswas wise enough to stipulate that Google create an ethics body to inform its work in machine learning; technology that could be used to examine patterns in research to fight disease – or to kill people more efficiently. Hassabis, in his wisdom, sought guarantees that Google would not sell machine learning tech to the military.What is the right balance between the citizen’s right to privacy and the state’s obligation to keep us safe? Who is equipped to determine how the government should use our healthcare data? Where is the organisation intellectually and financially equipped to protect the interests of citizens and sites that exploit and commercialise personal data?These are vast questions for our age, and questions that are too important to be determined by commercial concerns, or by an uninformed government. From academia to government to the technology industry itself, who will create the kind of ethical framework that can help us answer these questions? There was a glimmer of hope in arecent report commissioned by Labourinto the future of digital government, which proposed a new ethics body for technology just as the medical profession has. If that happens, it will be a start. But who is taking these questions seriously? We need a technology philosopher in chief for our age, before the technology runs away with itself.
There’s just a hint of modern-day alchemy about Emily Cole and her company,Liquid Light. Their goal is to take carbon dioxide – the abundant, odourless pollutant largely responsible for global warming – and turn it into the raw ingredients used to make plastic bottles, face cream and wood glue.Converting a pollutant into “plastic gold” may sound too good to be true, but she and her colleagues have already proved the technique works in the lab and are now scaling it to commercial size.“We are opening up the door to a low-cost feedstock,” says Cole from her office in Monmouth, New Jersey.“Carbon dioxide is low cost relative to oil and gas. We are taking a pollutant and converting it into something that people use in everyday lives.”The technique developed by Liquid Light needs a relatively pure source of CO2. The CO2gas pouring out of factory and power stations chimneys from the burning of fossil fuels is perfect.The process uses an electrode coated with a catalyst (a substance that causes a chemical reaction without itself being affected), electricity and a source of hydrogen such as water.The first step of Liquid Light’s process combines two CO2molecules into a single negatively charged molecule called oxalate.The second step uses different catalysts to create ethylene glycol, an organic compound used to make polyethylene terephthalate (pet) (the stuff in plastic bottles), polyester for clothing and antifreeze.According to Cole, a tonne of CO2could create between 10,000 to 20,000 bottles.Because Liquid Light’s process takes CO2and locks it up in products, it can be a net reducer of carbon in the environment if electricity from the sun, wind, hydro or nuclear are used in the process. Cole will not say what catalyst her company uses, for commercial reasons. However, she says the process is cheaper than conventional methods.Liquid Light is a spin out from Princeton University where Cole worked as a postgraduate from 2005. “We see ourselves as a chemical technology company that will license technology to manufacturers,” she says. “Ethylene glycol is a really good product to develop because it can be produced with a really good cost advantage in a very large market.“But we see a great future for this technology.”Using different catalysts, Liquid Light’s process can make acetic acid – a chemical in vinegar which can be used to make PVA glues or glycolic acid used in skin care products.“We have demonstrated the production of ethylene glycol at the laboratory scale, and now we are in the process of scaling up that technology. We will be commercial in the next three to five years and we will be making our first soda bottle this year in the lab.”She adds: “Maybe to the lay audience it does sound ‘out there’ that you take pollutants and the end product from the combustion of oil and gas and convert it back into products and chemicals. But most people are excited at the idea of taking a pollutant and converting it into something of use, rather than just burying it in the ground.”
Copenhagen may be famous for the little mermaid and Nordic noir, but there is one thing with which it’s virtually synonymous: bicycles. Often called the most cycle-friendly city in the world, it seemed the ideal place to look for a solution to a deceptively simple question: how can you get more people to cycle?“We thought that if we can do something to get more people to cycle [in Copenhagen], we could transmit it anywhere,” said Assaf Biderman, associate director for the SENSEable City Laboratory at MIT. Their solution: the Copenhagen Wheel.Fundamentally, it is a back wheel equipped with an electric hybrid motor, batteries and sensors, that powers up when you need it the most.“The experience is as if the ground had shrunk underneath your feet, or that a hill disappears,” says Biderman. The beauty of the Copenhagen Wheel is its apparent simplicity: designed with no external wires or components, it can be retro-fitted to almost any bike frame. But don’t let that fool you, its insides are packed with the latest tech.Using a kinetic energy recovery system (KERS), the wheel is able to capture the energy from braking. This however can only take a rider so far as there are “always losses when you regenerate, which means you can’t regenerate as much as you put in”. This means that it requires a 4 hour charge overnight if the rider wants the motor to assist them all the time. By tracking the rider’s speed, incline, and peddle power, the wheel can then calculate at what exact point you need an extra boost the most, such as when you’re going uphill, and the motor kicks in.“As you cycle, the wheel studies how your feet move. It studies your pedalling and integrates itself seamlessly,” says Biderman. But that’s not all that it studies. Containing 12 sensors to detect everything from speed, pollution, GPS and even the location of potholes, the data generated is vast and varied. And it could be invaluable to city planners. Shared anonymously, the aggregated data from riders could be used to better understand cyclists’ habits, and thus help city planners serve cyclists better.The team have also released a ‘developers kit’ version of the wheel. This allows other people to customise and write new software, creating new apps and altering the behaviour profiles of the wheel, which anyone could then download and use. “This is maybe a half romantic idea…” explained Biderman, “but also it allows you to really tap into other peoples thinking, outside your own.”As is so often the case, if there’s one drawback, it’s the price. At $799 (£510), the Copenhagen Wheel doesn’t come cheap, though compared with most electric bikes, it’s a significant discount. But if they can get more people on a bike by making the distances seem smaller and hills seem flatter, while improving cities for all cyclists, maybe they’ve gone and done the impossible, and reinvented the wheel.
If Lego had a 21st-century facelift, it would look a lot likeSAM, a new kit where the building blocks are electronic modules (or SAMs: sensor actor modules), which wirelessly communicate with each other over Bluetooth.SAMs are either motors, lights, switches or sensors, and appear as “drag and droppable” icons on the SAM app, allowing users to easily make everyday objects part of the “internet of things”, but with one major advantage: there’s no coding required.Behind the idea is 23-year-old Joachim Horn, a Belgian mechanical engineer and Imperial College graduate. This year has been a pivotal year for him and his team: taken under the wing ofMicrosoft Ventures(which helps new startups take off) in the summer, by SeptemberSAM Labswas set up in Whitechapel, east London.By late October it had raised £125,000 on Kickstarter - over two and a half times their £50,000 goal (it was a Kickstarter “staff pick”, too).It’s a product that has clearly got a lot of people excited. Similar to the Raspberry Pi, SAM is aimed at making electronics as accessible as possible to everyone, not just experts.As Horn explains, while other products have to be wired and coded correctly before you have something that works, with SAM “you have something working straight away andthenyou learn about coding, so it makes you want to continue and make more complex systems. The idea is that you learn coding by making, as you realise that the same code occurs over and over again.”In SAM Labs’ tests, children, students and adults – many of whom had never worked with electronics before – “made wonderful things within two hours”, Horn smiles.“A lot of fun goes into the process. One eight-year-old built a toy car with proximity sensors to autonomously dodge obstacles in the room. “Engineers spend a lot of time just trying to prototype these systems,” Horn continues. “But when an eight-year-old can do it, that’s really cool.”As SAM’s slogan, “the internet of everything for everyone”, implies, the plain white modules have been designed to look gender- and age-neutral, so anyone (with basic computer skills) could use them. With prices ranging from £60 for SAM Explore, the most basic starter kit (with three SAMs and the SAM app) to £240 for SAM Pro, the most advanced kit (with 11 SAMs, the SAM app and the SAM Cloud), many eight-year-old engineers might not be buying SAMs with their own pocket money just yet.But it seems very possible that we can expect to see SAMs appearing on the Christmas wishlists of young and old alike this time next year.
It would be surprising if Wickes or Homebase announced they were opening a futuristic research arm aimed at developing “disruptive innovation” strategies. This, however, was the decision made two years ago by Lowe’s – an equivalent, albeit bigger, homeware chain in the US. “It’s not the kind of thing people expect from a home-improvement retailer,” says Kyle Nel, the youthful executive director of Lowe’s Innovation Labs.This new department has already borne fruit in the form ofLowe’s virtual-reality “holoroom”, in which customers at its Toronto branch can envisage their new kitchen or conservatory by entering a chamber and looking through a hi-tech screen. More ambitious still, though, is OSHbot: a gliding, chattering “retail assistant” robot who will be hitting the floor of a San Jose DIY store this month.According to Nel, OSHbot is the product of an extraordinary innovation scheme in which Lowe’s Innovation Labs ask published science-fiction writers to produce stories predicting futuristic scenarios for the store. Lowe’s then seek out what Nel calls “uncommon partners” to help make the stories reality; in OSHbot’s case, the trendy Silicon Valley learning hub Singularity University and the startup robotics firm Fellow Robots.OSHbot is a 4ft-something, pear-shaped character; limbless, with nothing but a vague green glow for a face, and a screen slanted in front like a starched pinny. “It’s basically a roving kiosk; we definitely didn’t want it to have arms or anything like that,” says Nel. “But there’s still lots to figure out, for instance: what voice should the robot have? Should it be male, should it be female? There are so many things we can’t know until we try it.”Nel is quick to clarify that OSHbot is not a replacement for human beings – rather it is there to “augment [the] store associates”. Her range of duties (she sounds female in her promotional video) is restricted to greeting customers, discussing their needs in brief and escorting them to the correct aisle and shelf. Despite these limits, however, she is considerably more sophisticated than a human worker in a number of other ways. A 3D scanner secreted in her front can examine any item - from a strimmer to a tack - and match it to a stock database. She knows the precise location of every product in the shop at any given time, and she is also multilingual.For now, OSHbot is only going to appear in one store – the Silicon Valley branch of the Lowe’s-owned Orchard Supply and Hardware. But although Nel anticipates people coming to “gawk and try it out”, he insists it is more than a publicity stunt. “Our ambition is to go beyond one store” he says, “and clearly the sky’s the limit when it comes to robotics.”Robots, he feels, will soon be as indispensable as smartphones, and OSHbot is just the beginning.
Video games used to compete with toys for pocket money, but combining the two is proving increasingly popular. Games such asSkylanders,Disney InfinityandAmiibofeature a collectible line of toys which interact with virtual games characters.The toy figures are integral to the gaming experience and extend the storytelling away from the screen and invite imaginary adventures on the living room carpet.Rather than movies introducing characters that then spawn toys and video games, this hybrid category creates a new point of contact for brands such as Toy Story, Spider-Man, Transformers and The Avengers. Star Wars is likely to be added next year.The three-inch static plastic characters work as toys in their own right through their detailed design, paintwork and tactile materials. Each toy has a chip in the base that unlocks its character in the game when placed on a USB peripheral plugged into the console. Progress and customisations are automatically saved back to the toy ready for the next play session. On the shelf they look appealing, but in the hand they are hard to put down.Thom, nine, has filled his toy box with them over the last three years. “They’re not like my other toys because they work in the game too when I put them on the portal. I don’t have to press save or anything; they remember my upgrades and money automatically. I can upgrade them at my friends’ too.”The children’s fantasy gameSkylanderswent big on the idea three years ago, offering more than 30 toy figures to collect and special editions hidden on store shelves in a “golden ticket” style. The gamble paid off.Skylandersproved that its “toys to life” genre had legs.According to Dorian Bloch, business group director of entertainment reseach company GfK Chart-Track, the hybrid toy-game sector generated £200m in revenue in 2011-13 in the UK.Skylandersshifted 175 million toys worldwide in that period and even scooped a Bafta award.These big numbers come in part from purchases of add-on toy packs that cost from £9. In-game videos highlight characters not yet purchased and instigate considerable pester power. With tens of figures coming on the market each year, families wanting to collect them all can end up spending as much on the game as on the console it runs on.While big chains such as Toys R Us quickly recognised the retail significance, independent toy sellers have been more cautious. “Toy shops were initially reluctant,” said Samantha Loveday, editor ofToyNewsmagazine, “but now see greater benefit in stocking games likeDisney Infinitywith its popularFrozenand other Disney characters.”John Vignocchi, vice-president of production for Disney Interactive, sees the power ofDisney Infinityin its game creator mode. “In the Toy Box mode you can become the Disney and Marvel storyteller. It gives players a chair at the table with developers.” This lets children take on-screen adventures in any direction they please, mixing up the usually tightly segregated brands.This year Ellen, 11, encountered an array of Marvel characters for the first time. “I didn’t know who Rocket Racoon, Iron Man and Venom were, but now we’ve played the game I’d like to see the films too, maybe get some other toys.”She is equally enthusiastic aboutSkylanders. “The Trap Team toys are pretty fun as well, I like how they are really different and the girls aren’t all princessy.” John Coyne, senior vice-president of marketing at Activision, suggests that this comes from the genre’s ability to be the starting point rather than terminus for brands. “I think it’s creativity and innovation that sets [Skylanders] apart, because we’re not just borrowing equity or characters from something that’s already created.”Skylandersoffers characters that feel less commercial and buck the usual buff/slender binary for male/female heroes.Like it or not, there is no going back now. The toys, video games and related media franchises create a powerful draw for young minds. Understanding how this changes children’s interactions with branded stories is essential for parents to make informed decisions about what to buy and when to resist pestering.This revolution may not be televised, but it is certainly appearing on video-game screens, the living room carpet and playground games everywhere.Amiibo characters for Wii U.Photograph: Jae C. Hong/ASSOCIATED PRESSTOYS TO LIFESKYLANDERS2011:Skylanders Spyro’s Adventurelaunched.2012:Skylanders Giantsadds larger and light-up figurines.2013:Skylanders Swap Forceintroduces mix-and-match swappable toys.2014:Skylanders Trap Teamadds Trap-able player-controlled villains.Unique selling point:Collectible original characters and multiple special editions.Old toy figures can be used in the later games’ adventure modes and grant access to secret areas. Trap Team restricts its Elemental zones to the new Trap Master toys.Prices:Starter pack, £39.99 to £44.99; single figures, £8.50 to £13.50; Traps, £5.99.Formats:Wii, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4, 3DS, iOS, Android, Kindle Fire.DISNEY INFINITY2013:Disney Infinitylaunched.2014:Disney Infinity 2.0 Marvel Super Heroesadds Marvel adventures and upgraded game creator mode. Disney Infinity 2.0 Disney Originals offers an alternative upgrade based on classic characters.USP:Disney characters and game creator Toy Box mode. All 1.0 figures can be used in the 2.0 game creator mode.Prices:Starter pack, £39.99 to £42; single figures £9.50.Formats:Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4, Tablet, 3DS.AMIIBONovember 2014:First wave, withSuper Smash Bros., including Mario.December 2014:Second wave, including Luigi.February 2015:Third wave, including Sonic.USP:Nintendo characters that work across multiple games. Amiibo figures work acrossSuper Smash Bros.,Mario Kart 8andHyrule Warriors.Prices:Single figures, £10.Formats:Wii U, 3DS.
Revisiting one of the true landmarks of early game design is always a bold move, so bravo to London studio Tikipod for taking the plunge withAqua Kitty: Milk Mine Defender DX, which, at its core, is a devoted homage toDefender,the much-loved 1980 2D shooter that saw players fending off alien invaders while protecting humans on the surface of a planet. Originally a PS Mobile game, this updated version ofAqua Kittyhas taken theDefendertheme and entirely reskinned it in superb pixel art, alongside a marvellous dressing of crunchy, chiptune audio. Here, the setting is now underwater and players protect felines mining milk from the seabed. A delightfully baffling premise, but one where the gameplay is ultimately very close to that ofDefender. A spread of new weapons and power-ups serve to modernise the 1982 classic’s form, as do a range of levels and modes, including many not present in the original mobile version. A remake that may be mechanically familiar then but one whose energetic gameplay, vibrant visuals and sonic elegance are more than welcome.
After School is the latest anonymous messaging app to explode in popularity in the US, fuelled by students in particular.“After School is an anonymous and private message board for your school. Post confessions, funny experiences, compliments, and more,” suggests its App Store listing. But, as with previous anonymous apps – from Secret to Yik Yak – there has been growing discussion that After School’s anonymity is fuelling cyberbullying.The app was actually removed from Apple’s App Store late last weekat Apple’s requestbefore returning with new features to prevent bullying – for example, by enabling users to flag such messages for removal by moderators.So, here’s the question: when presented with an anonymous messaging app, will some teenagers inevitably turn to cyberbullying? Is this worse than what happens on decidedly-unanonymous social networks like Facebook? Parents’ and teachers’ views are welcome on this point.What should app developers be doing to be as responsible as possible in this area? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is up for discussion today in the technology world? Some links:Royal Mail to test 3D printing“From now until January at the New Cavendish Street delivery office in London, users will be able to purchase and print digital items from MyMiniFactory.com and royalmail.com to be delivered by Royal Mail, or picked up from the iMakr Store. Additionally, the partners will print customers’ own designs, as well.”RIP video games pioneer Ralph Baer“The result was a detailed four-page outline for a “game box” that would allow people to play board, action, sports and other games on almost any American television set. An intrigued boss gave him $2,000 for research and $500 for materials and assigned two men to work with him.”Could Europe really break up Google?“By charging Google with antitrust offenses, the Commission can take any measures it deems necessary to end that infringement. Could that really include a break-up of Google? In theory, yes – the European Commission’s antitrust division has the right to force a company operating in the region to restructure. But Wagner-von Papp is willing to make a big bet that it won’t happen.”Why big tech firms create programming languages“Google has Go, first conceived in 2009. Facebook introduced Hack last spring. And Apple unveiled Swift not long after. In war, as George Orwell had it, the winners write the history books. In tech, the winning companies are writing the programming languages. The Internet was built on open standards and code, but the era of social networks and the cloud is dominated by corporate giants. And they are beginning to put their unique stamps on the thought-stuff of digital technology.”What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, and other links you think are worth reading.
Cutting a stylish dash as an intriguing little PC romp,Marvellous Miss Takefollows the story of the conveniently named Sophia Take’s bid to reclaim an art collection inheritance that has been wrongfully sold to private collectors.In a pleasing twist on traditional stealth gameplay, the action is more reminiscent ofMark of the Ninja. Patrol-route memorisation, takedowns and waiting for guards to conveniently forget they have seen you are avoided in favour of a simpler design, requiring you to draw attention away from Miss Marvellous and then move her swiftly past patrols.It is a device that works well. Situational information is displayed by the game’s attractive visuals, which helpfully communicate what guards can see and hear, how alert they are and where it is safe to hide. There is also some variety – often missing from titles with one central conceit – with different characters offering their own missions. Veteran thief Harry, for example, walks with a limp and travels slowly but can distract guards with a noise-maker. Bright and jazzy, this is a hugely pleasing, fresh, challenging take on the stealth genre.
Rogueseems to exist primarily to provide PS3 and Xbox 360 owners with a new Assassin’s Creedwithout downgrading the recently releasedUnityfor next gen. However, while appearing original on the surface, it plays more like a mix-tape of previous versions of the series. New character Shay Cormac, a trainee assassin defecting to the rival Templar faction, provides a great hook, albeit more for long-time fans who have invested in series lore. Indeed, with its call-backs to characters and events from previous games, it enjoys one of the most engaging stories, both in the historical and present-day sections.However, gameplay lacks any real innovation. A sprinkling of new moves and weapons doesn’t compensate for repetitive sailing and combat, and even playing as the series’ villains soon starts to feel as though the words “assassin” and “templar” have simply been swapped, without resulting in any noteworthy difference in mission structure or methodology.To be fair, it certainly looks great, despite the ageing hardware, but as a whole this new adventure suffers from an overwhelming sense of over-familiarity.
It's Monday!
