It was the most famous archaeological find of all time, but still it holds secrets that have yet to be unravelled. Now Oxford scholars are preparing to post the notes, diaries, drawings and photographs from the 1922 excavation of the tomb of King Tutankhamun on the internet in an attempt to study it completely.Howard Carter and his patron, Lord Carnarvon, first opened a mysterious doorway in the Valley of the Kings in Egypt 84 years ago and established an unknown boy king who died 3,500 years ago as one of the most famous faces in the world. Research at the tomb continued for eight years up to 1930. But most of the thousands of objects have never been properly studied, and most of the documentation has remained locked in archives in Oxford.The gilded, decorated death mask of Tutankhamun is known everywhere - but more than eight decades on, the funereal inscriptions etched on its reverse side have not been properly examined.Between 1922 and 1930, at least 5,398 objects were removed. Carter and his colleagues made meticulous index cards, notes and sometimes drawings of each find, and kept diaries and records of their progress. All of which went to Oxford, where they have been preserved since Carter's death in 1939.From then, research progress has been slow, Dr Jaromir Malek, of the Griffith Institute in Oxford, told a Bloomsbury Academy conference in London last Saturday. "We came to the conclusion that probably 20% of the material had been properly published, and if the current rate of progress was going to continue it would probably take another 200 years," he said.The Oxford archive, as it stands, will be entirely online within two years.
Computer writer Guy Kewney went to the BBC Television Centre, to be interviewed on the BBC's News 24 TV channel,as he recounted on his blog, and sat in reception while someone else appeared in his place -- a cabbie who'd actually come to collect "Guy Kewney", apparently."I'm dreadfully sorry!" said the studio manager, wringing his hands as if he wanted to suddenly take the day off, retrospectively. "It seems I rang Reception, not the Stage Door, and asked if you were there. And they said yes!"Yes, it's been in all the papers, but the Mail hasposted a transcriptand the video athttp://img.dailymail.co.uk/video/cabbie.wmv, which is much more fun.The clip was also run on the BBC Newswatch program, which you can see onYouTube.
Electronic Arts may have theworst reputationfor over-working its employees, but it's not the only multi-national computer games publisher whose obscene quality of life policy has been called into questionin the courts. ViaWired,1up.comhas news that more lawsuits are being filed in the US legal system against big-name publishers for overtime compensation. Activision and Sony, are currently both in the docks.The law firm responsible for both cases has launched two websites,activisionovertime.comandsonyovertime.com, to "entice employees experiencing uncompensated work to step forward and file a suit through Shapiro Haber &amp; Urmy LLP."
Porsche Boxter S&pound;39,160Top speed:167mphSeats:2Good for:headscarves and sunglassesBad for:flat hair and mascaraLairy Jonathan Harrison has an ambition: he wants to drive every kind of car there is, at least once. 'Within reason,' he amends, though it's hard to know exactly what the parameters on that are. We start with a Porsche Boxster S, because it's a hot offering from the house of Porsche (forgive me, I'm a style journalist) and in the grand scheme of Porsche-type things, relatively cheap. It is also lurid yellow. 'It's a bit lairy,' says Lairy Jon. 'And it's the second yellow thing to have arrived in my life recently.' The first was Agnes, his daughter, who was born a touch jaundiced. We park it outside his house so the neighbours will think he's having a post-natal crisis.Lairy Jon and I have very different perspectives on cars. I think they have their uses, mainly transporting me about when I have daft shoes on. Jon, on the other hand, thinks cars offer one of the best reasons there are to get up in the morning. He can't believe I know so little about them.Nonetheless, Jon and I are ambivalent about the Porsche. Me, because I only know it's loaded with equal measures of stigma and status. Jon, because he knows too much. 'The Boxster is in many respects the kid brother of the Porsche,' he explains, 'which is the 911. So, say you buy a Boxster because you can't afford the 911, do you then drive it around, haunted by disappointment because it's not the one you really wanted? Resenting it, even. Or to put it in Polly-speak: if the Boxster is Miu Miu to the 911's Prada, is there any point in it?' (I object to this analogy. Not because it's patronising, but because Miu Miu, to my mind, stands up as a fashion brand... but maybe now is not the time.) 'Though, actually,' Lairy Jon continues, 'I'm more worried about the aesthetics of the car, the styling, the interiors, and so on. The Boxster has always looked a bit spindly; it seems to lack that squat assuredness of the 911. I'm just not sure it's special enough.'We take the car for a spin to assess the extent of its specialness. And, actually, before we even set off, I'm impressed. There's an attachment into which one might pop the Sim card from one's phone, thus transforming the car into one giant, super-speedy mobile. 'Wow! That's good,' I say. Jon agrees, tentatively. 'It does increase the feel-good factor overall,' he allows.Then we're off. Fast. And we are instantly, hopelessly intoxicated by it. My feet tingle with the unadulterated whizziness of it. I am actually incapable of not going 'Woo-hoo!' whenever we turn a corner. 'The handling is so precise, its cornering abilities are phenomenal, the feedback is so good, the gear change is so slick!' shouts Lairy Jon. We hunt down bendy roads, so we can make sharp turns just for fun.Ultimately, Jon thinks he wouldn't hate this Boxster for not being a 911. He even thinks he doesn't mind it being yellow. As for me, well, it's a gleeful, shameless, feckless thrill of a vehicle. And there's absolutely nothing wrong with that.&#183;Martin Love will be back next week
The "meme of the week," to borrow a phrase fromOm Malik's useful overview, was started by venture capitalistJosh Koppleman, who pointed out that most of the Web 2.0 hype began and ended with a handful of geeks, and made no impact on hundreds of millions of Internet users. "Too many companies are targeting an audience of 53,651. That's how many people subscribe to Michael Arrington's TechCrunch blog feed," he wrote. "I'm a big fan of Techcrunch - and read it every day. However, the Techcrunch audience is NOT a mainstream America audience."If we could get access to the usage logs of the top 10 Web 2.0 properties, I would bet that their 10,000 most active users would all be the same.Comment: Of course this is true, but it doesn't always matter. A lot of start-ups are not designed to reach the mainstream, but rather to get bought by GYM (Google/Yahoo/Microsoft) and added to their portals. However, this was last year's meme:The "Build It/Flip It" Bubble Discussion.
"The Justice Department, in a court filing, said yesterday that it found that the design of Microsoft's new Web browser did not pose a threat to competition in the lucrative new market for Internet search," reportsThe New York Times.Google, having spent money lobbying for anti-Microsoft action, isn't happy, but asNicholas Carr says: "This seems more like corporate whining than anything else."However, the main purpose of the statement was different. AsCNet reports:The Justice Department said that it wants to extend certain parts of the final judgment in the case, set to expire in the fall of 2007, until 2009. It said that Microsoft has agreed to the two-year extension of the program, under which it licenses its Windows communications protocols.The problem isn't so much the protocols as the documentation:The government said that Microsoft's effort to rewrite significant portions of the documentation will take time, making it necessary to extend the term of the deal. The department said that extension request "is not a result of any belief that Microsoft has willfully violated the final judgment."
Google is the only company that Bill Gates really fears. Why? Because it is the only company that seriously aspires to the goal he set Microsoft - global domination. Back in the 1970s, Gates articulated his vision of 'a computer on every desk, and every one running Microsoft software'. By the end of the millennium, he had more or less achieved that goal. Well over 90 per cent of the world's personal computers now run Microsoft Windows, and many of them also run Microsoft Office, and from this monopolistic position Gates has extracted what economists call 'monopoly rents'. In the process, Gates and his company have become unimaginably rich.The trouble is that this iron grip on the world's desktops is turning into a wasting asset because the focus is moving away from the PC and on to the internet. To use the jargon, nowadays 'the network is the computer' - and Microsoft doesn't dominate the network. Instead Google does, mainly by providing an efficient way of doing what most people want to do on the net: search. If you can dominate the market for search, you can dominate the net.Once you achieve that dominance, all kinds of things become possible. First of all, you can earn fabulous revenues from advertising aimed at the searchers. Then you can spin off all kinds of network services - email, instant messaging and blogging, for example, followed by online calendars, price comparison services, mapping, web publishing and even online word processing.All of these have a single, over-arching effect: they lead computer users to get more and more of their services from the network, rather than from their PCs. In the process, the importance of the personal computer in the computing land scape begins to erode - to the point where it's basically just a life-support system for a web browser.That's what keeps Gates awake at night. And he's right to be worried. Google is becoming the next Microsoft.And yet, with Microsoft's 'evil empire' years fading behind it and $35bn in cash on hand to remodel itself for a new era of software development and delivery, it is not surprising that Gates himself is taking a back seat in the battle with Google.Technically Gates is still Microsoft's chief software developer, but in practice he's handed over the job of spearheading the transformation of the company to Ray Ozzie, a renowned programmer who created Lotus Notes, one of software's biggest triumphs.The soft-spoken 50-year-old, who has been at Microsoft a year, is leading the effort to remake desktop software into a hybrid of web service and software that plays on computers as well as mobile phones, game machines - wherever access to information is needed.The information technology industry has not had a full-scale pitched battle since the web browser wars of the mid-1990s. Microsoft demolished Netscape easily in that confrontation, just as it has managed to fend off more recent challenges to the dominance of Windows operating software.In the intensifying war between Microsoft and Google, the battleground is not easy to define, but the outcome, according to industry analysts, will determine the future of how people use computers and access information.In this high-stakes game, neither company is willing to concede ground. Microsoft, with its dominance in operating software, is alarmed by Google's dominant position in the search business and its recent software acquisitions. Google, meanwhile, is wary of Microsoft's attempts to move into its highly profitable areas of search and advertising-supported internet services.Neither firm is going to surrender ground without throwing billions of dollars into the fight, and perhaps for the first time Microsoft has a worthy adversary in the younger, nimbler, but less-experienced, Google. 'This is hypercompetition, make no mistake,' Microsoft's Gates acknowledged recently.But the struggle for internet dominance has now broken out into the open and some of the behaviour is redolent of past software battles: late last month, Google complained to US and European anti-trust regulators that a search window in the toolbar of Microsoft's new Internet Explorer 7 could stifle competition in the search engine market. Microsoft, which is still being monitored after losing anti-trust cases in US and European courts, denies the accusation.But Microsoft has reason to be afraid of Google and Yahoo!. It has not won its more recent battles: earlier this year AOL chose to make a content alliance with Google, not Microsoft. The company chose not to purchase Skype, the internet-based telephony service bought by eBay for $2.6 billion, and it has yet to offer a viable alternative to Apple's iTunes. Moreover, Google's chief strategist, Omid Kordestani, has proved able to outwit Microsoft's best product designers.But the true measure of Microsoft's anxiety about Google becoming the dominant operating system of the web in the same way that Windows is the dominant operating system of personal computing, came 10 days ago when Microsoft's share price abruptly dropped 11 per cent after it unveiled plans to increase the acquisitions budget by $2bn. Most of the extra money is, analysts say, earmarked to counteract the threat from rival companies, led by Google. Although Gates had warned his firm last year it was a facing a 'sea change' in the way software would be delivered, the additional spending plans still rumbled Wall Street in the wake of the company's delay in launching a new version of Windows.But neither will offer a truce. Microsoft seems determined to build its answer to Google's dominance in search, and Google wants to take on Microsoft at its own game. Gates says the tough competition with its upstart rival is 'what makes it fun'.Many Google executives, including chief executive Eric Schmidt, are veterans of skirmishes with Microsoft in the 1990s and know what to expect. The battle is set to intensify but, unlike in the browser wars that all but destroyed Netscape, no one is predicting the demise of either firm in this conflict.
Google's Erica Joy has published a bunch of screen shots ofGoogle Notebook, which hasn't yet been released. According to theofficial Google blog:Google Notebook (which we'll be launching next week) is a personal browser tool that lets you clip text, images, and links from the pages you're searching, save clippings to an online notebook, and then share notebooks with others.Comment: The heading for the offical blog post is: Yes, we are still all about search. They must know we're wondering why they keep launching half-baked versions of stuff that's already available while the quality of Google's search results seems to be in continual decline, and its webmasters are still havingproblemswith theBig Daddyrestructuring. Still, at least the broken "phrase search" feature seems to be working again ;-)
"We've been working late into the nights and very late into our development schedule for Word 2007 and we have a special goody for all you bloggers in Beta 2 of Office 2007. That's right blog post authoring from Word. This is a very late breaking feature and is definitely beta software. That said, I hope that everyone is pleasantly surprised with where we are going with this feature,"writes Joe Friend on the Word blog."Notice that the new user interface has been scoped to include the feature you most likely will need when authoring a blog post. We've gone from seven tabs on the ribbon to just two! The Home tab has been replaced with a Blog Post tab. We've add some special commands that you will need to manage your blog service accounts and publish your posts. We even added strikethrough to the basic text group since bloggers like using it so much."Comment: You really should look at Joe's post if you use Microsoft Office, because it shows the latest (but not final) version of the new user interface. Otherwise, it might be interesting to people who keep Word open all the time and/or actually use some word processing features (ie probably not most journalists) or have finally got fed up with the way online blogging systems frequently discard your texts instead of actually posting them. But even that will depend on Microsoft creating usable HTML from Word, and given its previous record, that's not something I'd want to bet on.
To read the whol week's posts in one page, clickhere.Highlights include E3 games show coverage (PS3, Wii etc), plusApple vs ApplePlayStation 3's specification cuts raise concernsKate Bulkley interviews Rob Glaser of Real NetworksGoogle Trends -- a great time-wasterand, of course, theFriday Afternoon Question.
KuonPS2With the film version of Silent Hill eliciting far less critical derision than recent unmitigated disasters like the Doom or Resident Evil movies, this feels like a good time to release spooky games. Along with the predictable (though no less brilliant) Silent Hill Collection, comes Kuon, a survival horror title harking back to the genre's genesis, which means it features a liberal sprinkling of jumps, weird half-explained cut scenes, attacks by twisted, partially human monsters and controls so brutally and consistently awkward they make you want to stamp your PS2 into its component atoms.Worse, the game even stops you running away, with ludicrous, omnipresent "vertigo" that sees your character fall over instead of making a swift exit. Facing hordes of undead beasts virtually unarmed and hamstrung by the futility of its interface, this is gaming at its very least rewarding and another reminder of the real genius behind last year's Resident Evil 4.&#183;Nobilis, &pound;30Pokemon Link For NintendoNINTENDO DSAlthough it features the titular pocket monsters, this is not a Pokemon game, but a puzzle-based spin-off. Using the DS stylus and touch screen, you drag Pokemon into matching lines, which then disappear, leaving room for more to shuffle on to the screen. Combinations, triggered when vanishing blocks cause identical Pokemon to come into contact, are so laughably easy to engineer it's actually hard not to create multiple chain reactions, and to an even greater extent than Lumines on PSP (a puzzle game so easy its main problem was finding enough time to play it), this is utterly devoid of challenge to the point of being dull.When your first three lives last well over 90 minutes you know something's gone badly wrong - the similar and infinitely superior Zoo Keeper is a much better use of your money and irreplaceable time.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Nintendo goes for 'Wii'It has been revealed that Nintendo's forthcoming console, known until now by its codename, Revolution, will in fact be called the Wii. Pronounced "wee", it's a name Nintendo hopes will complement the device's laudable aim of introducing non-gamers to a wonderfully addictive new hobby. As well as a moniker apparently designed to encourage weak puns, Wii features a new way of controlling games: rather than using a conventional joypad, you wave around what looks like a TV remote, which translates your movements onto the screen.Response to the new name has been more mixed than the reaction to the system's other innovations, most of which have been greeted with incautious optimism by almost everyone, and in a world of identikit football and stealth games, anything that gives the status quo a good rattle can't be all bad.
Imagine this. You're flying along just above the Carr&atilde;o river in Venezuela, looking down. Suddenly the water falls away, and plummets 800 metres (2,500ft) straight down sheer rock. Whoa! There's a rainbow in the mist, an arc of colour painted in tiny water droplets, and below - way, way below, but still perfectly clear - is the canopy of the rainforest, like broccoli. This is Angel Falls, the highest in the world. It's making you giddy.Now you're in the middle of a flock of snow geese, right up close so you can almost feel the softness of their down, sense the air moving over your face as they flap their wings. You move back to take in more, and back again. There are hundreds of them, thousands of them, a blizzard of snow geese, but you can still make out individual birds.This is high definition television, and it's pretty good. Whether it is four times sharper than conventional television, as has been claimed, I have no idea. But it is sharp. I'm getting a demonstration at BBC Television Centre, a compilation of wildlife, period drama, music and sport. At its best, it's stunning - like, if you're short-sighted, being allowed to wear your glasses to watch TV for the first time. Or a muslin film being peeled away. The CGI battles in Hannibal don't look hugely different - still like a bunch of computer-generated Carthaginians fighting a bunch of computer-generated Romans. But in Bleak House, as Gillian Anderson is told her daughter is still alive, you can feel the tiny trembles of her chin, and the emotion in her eyes. (God, you wouldn't want to be ugly on HDTV.)For natural history it's stunning - in fact almost so good it doesn't look real, like computer-generated wildlife, and may take a while to get used to. Football is fabulous - each blade of grass, the sweat on Rooney's brow, Owen in full flow (so cruel of them to put those two in the compilation), it's like being there.So that's the good news. The bad news is that most people can't see it, not for now at least, and almost certainly not in time for the World Cup, which the BBC will be broadcasting in HD. High definition TV officially launches on May 22, but to watch it you either need to do so on Telewest cable, which is only available to about a quarter of homes in Britain, or Sky's HD satellite service, for which you need a new set-top box.There is a shortage of these boxes. If you order one now (for &pound;299, and your Sky subscription will go up by a further &pound;10 a month), you won't get it until July, probably not even in time for the tournament's closing ceremony on July 9. Meaning that a lot of people who have spent more than &pound;1,000 on flat-screen HDTVs (sales have risen 250% in recent weeks) to see Theo Walcott carving sharply through the Swedish defence are going to be disappointed.There is a third option: to buy a non-Sky HD set-top box, which can pick up Freeview digital satellite channels, including the BBC's World Cup coverage. But these boxes are hard to come by and there is some question about whether they will be able to unscramble the BBC signal.The situation will improve, but not for a while. HDTV should be available to all homes via a free satellite service but not for at least a decade - in time to see, in super-sharp detail, 29-year-old England captain Theo Walcott lift the World Cup in 2018.I was impressed by HDTV, particularly for natural history, but from a short demonstration it is hard to know how much more pleasure it will actually give. My guess is that soon you would stop noticing the extra sharpness, and it would become normal without changing the viewing experience much. But then if you don't get it, you may start to notice the blurriness of the old system.The choice is yours: you've blown it for the World Cup - so pay for crystal clear waterfalls, or stick with the fuzzy bears.How it works, what it costs&middot;High definition squeezes more lines on the screen, giving a crisper picture. A standard British picture is 625 lines, but HDTV can carry 720 or 1,080 lines&middot;To watch HD programmes, you need a special set, at least &pound;800 for good one with screen at least 30in (76cm) wide&middot;Nearly all HD sets also require a set-top box and subscription to get HD pictures. If you intend to connect other equipment - eg, an Xbox 360 games console or HD DVD player - you may also need to buy adapters&middot;Sky is the first big HD broadcaster. Subscribers will need to buy &pound;299 decoder box, and pay &pound;10 a month&middot;US has had HD for more than a year, and millions have signed up. Up to 1m British households are predicted to be watching HDTV by Christmas
MondaySerious game: resolving conflict with non-violent meansVF goes HDSony conferenceTuesdayPS3 first impressionPS3 conference letdownBroadcast game tourneys: Why?Off to Nintendo"Connected" movie in search of starsPre-E3 round-up: part oneWednesdayThe other twoSex in games conference programmeSpore... phwoar!Microsoft goes 'Live Anywhere'The pre-E3 round-up: part twoThursdayWii and meGame on with GoogleKonami at E3: more than just PES 6Sony strikes backFree Radicals get hazyFridayE3 thoughtsAre you cheating if you fool around in cyberspace?E3: other stuff
"While E3 rages on over Stateside, here in the UK it's wellies and arm-waving in the Dundee sunshine:Radio 1's One Big Weekend, all weekend, all free, all festival fabulous: starting tomorrow. And if you're nowhere near Dundee or didn't get a ticket, you can still join in, because the Radio 1 team have only gone and built a virtual festival in the also-free Second Life,"writes the BBC's Alice Taylor."Every virtual festival-goer will get a wee digital radio to take away with them, which will broadcast Radio 1 in-game, wherever you are. There's also, I hear, these Radio 1 teeshirts for your avatars. And dancing. And a chance that you could appear on-screen at the actual festival - the jumbotrons may or may not take screengrabs of the in-game festivalgoers."
On this, the last day of the sonic circus that is E3, here are a few games I've not mentioned yet - just in case you've missed out on them so far. For example, I managed to completely overlook LucasArts, a reasonably important American publisher, in my two pre-show round-ups. The company has a decent stall this year, with Indiana Jones 2007 (working title) leading the charge. This globe-trotting action adventure will be the first Indy title to be completed under the watchful eye of George Lucas.The game is being used to premiere two new pieces of next-gen middleware. Number one is the Euphoria technology from NaturalMotion, "which delivers never-before-seen lifelike action and awareness to every character in real time - so you'll never see the same thing twice.""For the first time ever, euphoria enables interactive characters to move, act and even think like actual human beings, adapting their behavior on the fly and resulting in a different payoff every single time. This next-gen technology imbues Indy and his opponents with unparalleled environmental awareness and survival instincts. They'll stumble, then attempt to maintain their balance; brace themselves for falls, then get back up; and reach for nearby ledges when falling. Each action results in an authentic, varied performance every time," gushes the press release.There's also Pixelux Entertainment's Digital Molecular Matter (DMM) technology, "which brings a level of realism to next-gen games never seen before by making completely interactive environments that react as they would in real life. From crumbling walls to shattering glass and even swaying organic plant life, in-game objects have material properties that behave realistically all in real time."Erm... guys... what about thegame? What do youdoin thegame? Well, it's got classic Indiana Jones-style chases in it apparently...Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy will let you take part in classic moments from the first three moves (or second three depending how you look at it). All the best bits from the pursuit of Leia's spaceship in New Hope to the climactic battle between Luke and the Emperor in Return of the Jedi are apparently playable.This time you'll also be able to use vehicles and clamber on beasties. The game is out on September 12, the same day as the special two-disc releases of Star Wars, The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi (each including the 2004 digitally remastered versions of the movies an the theatrical editions - as if you don't own them in enough formats already).LucasArts has a couple of non-movie games on the showfloor too, believe it or not. Thrillville is a theme park sim from Britain's own Frontier Developments. The key draw here is the interactivity of the parks you create. As the press release explains:"For the first time ever, race on go-kart tracks you constructed, play mini-golf on courses you designed, and more. Join friends for dozens of four-player party games, from bumper cars to arcade shoot-'em-ups. You can also tour the park on foot - a first for theme-park titles."Apparently you can also "Interact and develop a relationship with any guests you see wandering about." Don't Disney World employees get sacked for that kind of thing? Anyway, it's coming to PC, PS2, Xbox and PSP, the latter including a Wi-Fi multiplayer element where users can swap roller coaster designs... and stuff.Finally, PSP is set to get its own take on Vib Ribbon - Traxion - which takes the music from your MP3 collection and uses it to customise the selection of 20 simple mini-games. Like another PSP mini-game collection, Hot PXL, it's a sort of PlayStation-alised (i.e. a bit cool and urban) take on something that was once cute and fun.I covered Ubisoft yesterday but missed Call of Juarez, a Wild West-themed shooter (therestillaren't enough of these), in which you play as two opposing characters in a story of murder, revenge and hot leathery chaps - I was thinking of the cowboys' traditional legwear there, but you may take it how you like. The story involves one Billy Candle a 19-year-old shootist on trial for murdering his mother and step-father (what? An Oedipal western? It gets even better...). There are the usual boasts about top notch AI, compelling multiplayer and luscious visuals.Beuna Vista Games, otherwise a production line of Disney ports, is showing off Lumines II, sequel to the Q Entertainment puzzle game that - along with Ridge Racer - made PSP worth buying last year. This one offers 3D graphics and streaming video in the background as well as new Battle modes and two-player Wi-Fi action. There's also a new PS2 version, brilliantly titled Lumines Plus with lots of extras that will disguise the fact you are playing a portable game on your largescreen TV.GTA IV has been announced at the show of course. There is a simultaneous PlayStation3 and Xbox 360 launch lined up for North America on October 16, 2007, and Europe on October 19. Microsoft has inked a deal with Rockstar to provide downloadable episodic content for the title. Game sites everywhere are furiously speculating over where the next game will take place. Here are some possibilities:Disco-era New York Flares, Studio 54, Disco, serial killers, sleazy strip joints, psychotic taxi drivers... Odds: 3/1Hippy-era San Fran More flares, love beads, flowery Volkswagen Beetles, open air concerts, homicidal religious cults... Odds: 10/1Gangster-era Chicago Could make an interesting change of pace with zoot suits, Tommy guns, showgirls... Odds: 100/1Mod-era Brighton: 100/1 Smart boys in polo shirts riding vespas and 'cutting' rockers with razor blades Odds: 150/1Any ideas?
With the sun shining on us here at Guardian Towers and the weekend fast approaching, it's a perfect time for some Friday Afternoon Questions.You're avoiding work, I hear you say. Maybe so, but *you* get the chance to avoid work too... and the best bit is that whoever comes up with the best answer will win themselves a spanking prize.This week we've heard an awful lot about E3, PlayStation 3 and the Nintendo Wii (ever noticed how they all rhyme?) and even a couple of weeks after the name change was announced, the sniggers about the Wii's name haven't quite died down. But is it the silliest name ever? Possibly not.Whatisthe worst techie name ever?It could anything: a rubbish product, a crappy company or a terrible codename that was trouble from the start. Answers in the comments, and the best one wins a prize.
Gamesblog's Greg Howson and Online/Technology games reviewer is at the E3 games trade show in Los Angeles, where he got chance to play with a Nintendo Wii using the TV-style controller.He reports:The main controller was smaller than expected, but snug, nicely weighted and comfortable to hold. But the games saw mixed results. Tennis was very easy to play and will certainly work for a quick set with friends/family. But I found it frustratingly imprecise when trying to place the ball and can see why the execs missed the shots they did on stage at the Nintendo conference.Nintendo has chosen to emphasise the Wiimote controller because it's the most innovate bit of its strategy. But when the marketing dust settles, a more traditional option could stage a comeback.....
When Microsoft launched two versions of the Xbox 360, Sony rubbished the idea, andSony's Phil Harrison said:"This is my personal view, not my corporate view, but when I look at those formats, I think it just confuses the audience. They don't know which one to buy, developers don't know which one to create for, and retailers don't know which one to stock.""So I think we wouldn't take that strategy. We wouldn't create confusion," he concluded.This was the same Phil Harrison whodefended Sony's decisionto market two versions of the PlayStation 3 to the BBC.A tip of the hat toDaveFwho made exactly this point in a comment posted on our Gamesblog underSony strikes back.Now could someone post references to Sony rubbishing the idea of a global launch and/or the Xbox Live service? ;-)
It's almost the weekend!
Sony has taken a kicking at the E3 games trade show, mainly over the high price of the PS3, and Microsoft's games boss added a knife yesterday. As aReuters storyreports:"Tell me why you would buy a $600 PS3?" Peter Moore, a Microsoft vice president, said in an interview. "People are going to buy two (machines). They're going to buy an Xbox and they're going to buy a Wii ... for the price of one PS3.""People will always gravitate toward a competitively priced product -- like what I believe Wii will be -- with innovative new designs and great intellectual property like Mario, Zelda and Metroid."Nintendo has not put a price on the Revolution/Wii, but it could cost around $200 and -- since it's very similar to the GameCube -- $150 is feasible, if unlikely.
Scientists have been working on minuscule nanotechnology test tubes for a long time - tiny little packets of chemicals that can be injected into the body, before pouring out to react with other substances like cancers.The idea is essentially simple, but the problem so far has been trying to keep the chemicals in place until the optimum moment - essentially how to cork these nanotubes. Now scientists at theUniversity of Floridahave found the answer, in the form of an amino chemical that can plug the hole.The scientists immerse a small mesh that holds millions of amino-modified nanotubes, all precisely lined up in a grid pattern, into a solution imbued with millions of the corks. Brownian motion -- what happens when minute particles immersed in a fluid move about randomly -- takes care of the rest. The corks simply float around, then slip into the mouths of the tubes as they encounter them.But they admit they're not all the way yet: unfortunately they haven't found a way to unlock the chemicals yet, so they can't actually uncork the tubes they've just corked.Related:In the latest Science Weekly podcast (read moreorlisten on your computer) nanoscience expert Andrew Maynard dropped into the studio for a discussion on tiny technologies --- including why the iPod nano's name isn't just a marketing ploy.
A great question posed at theSex in Gamesblog: if you have a "liason" in a virtual world, does it count as infidelity in the real one?If your partner would be upset by what you're doing, you've violated his or her trust. Whether it's "cheating" at that point is purely academic. The absence of a physical world doesn't make that violation of trust any less painful.More on the subject fromApogeevr.
Love, hate, or indifference, everyone had to try WiiMobile games were featured, but almost always unplayed. Disappointing for the suits, great for tired punters needing some space away from the crowds.There were more poker games than platform (and that's even when counting Super Mario Galaxy as a "platformer")Rumours of the "booth babe" demise have been exaggeratedPeople were queuing for two hours to see the Spore presentation - and still coming out smiling after.Gears of War will be massive - and if the multiplayer demo is anything to go by, it will deserve to be.Army of Two's buddy buddy dynamic impressed, and could work brilliantly online.WoW's success has lead to a swathe of new MMO titles. Sadly the fantasy and sci-fi template remains unaltered.Lego Star Wars 2 was bringing out the inner geek in everyone who saw it.Test Drive Unlimited looked like a decent Atari game. I repeat - a decent Atari game.Assassin's Creed was one of the finds of the show - barging through the crowd in the game's 12th century marketplace was reminiscent of the Verve's Bittersweet Symphony video.Saints Row looked utterly utterly awful.
An article onCNN Moneystarts: "While gamers and many industry analysts are still recovering from their surprise at the high price tag for a premium PlayStation 3, the man whose division makes the machine said he doesn't understand the fuss."Really? I thought most of us were well aware that the PS3 was going to be expensive, and the point has been argued for months. (RememberMerrill Lynch prices PlayStation 3 parts at $800?) Indeed, $600 was more expected than not. The surprises are that Sony has followed Microsoft in producing two systems, and followed Microsoft in going for a global launch, as well as following Microsoft in an online (Xbox Live) direction.Anyway, Kaz Hirai, president and chief executive officer of Sony Computer Entertainment America says."We felt that if you want to save something on your Memory Stick, most people have those readers on their PC, which is easily adaptable to the PlayStation 3 with a USB cord," said Hirai. "The only difference is HDMI - and at this point, I don't think many people's TV's have that. The ultimate result, to my eyes anyway, is there's not a discernable difference between what you get between HDMI and other forms of high definition."Sure, and perhaps Blu-ray movies look just like DVD movies on most people's TV sets....But the ultimate missed point is that the crippled version can't be upgraded to the full specification....
E3 - what are your impressions?
Google Labs has releasedGoogle Trends, which lets you find out how many people have searched for a given term over the past couple of years -- and, more usefully, compare the volumes for up to five terms.Here, for example, I used playstation 3 and xbox 360 as the search terms.But wait, there's more! The letters on the graph are linked to news stories. D, for example, refers to a story headlined Fans line up to buy new Xbox 360, while F is for Sony to Delay Release of PlayStation 3.Google also breaks out the results for different cities, regions and languages. This shows, for example, that people in Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires (and in South America in general) are more interested in the PS3 than the Xbox 360. Seattle, Microsoft's home town, is in the top 10 for PS3 searches, but there are many more searches for the Xbox 360.This should be useful to search engine optimisers, and people in advertising and marketing, who will be able to compare brands over time. For the rest of us, it's just amusing to compare, say,the ipod with the xbox, orblu-ray and hd dvd, oraac, wma, and ogg vorbis, and so on.But the results may not be accurate -- Trends is only based on a subset of Google searches,choice of termcan make a lot of difference, and as with normal Google searches, a lot of the results are probably spurious. But a result likethis oneis surely saying something interesting....
Yesterday, Ubisoft revealed the name of Free Radical Design's next-gen FPS project. Haze is set 25 years in the future where anti-terrorist operations have been privatised (that'll give Labour a few ideas) and a corporation named Mantel has pretty much cornered the market in blasting terror chiefs, dictators and other foreign trouble-makers. You play Jake Carpenter, a newly enlisted soldier in the Mantel army, who must travel the world doing the dirty work.Of course, Free Radical has excellent credentials in this area with its TimeSplitters titles - although going by the rich organic settings, Haze looks much more like Far Cry. There will be vehicles to drive, hi-tech weapons to handle, co-op and versus multiplayer options... All the usual stuff. The press release has the cut-and-paste next-gen bumph we're all becoming accustomed to:"Designed from the ground up to take advantage of next generation hardware. Prepare to be blown away by stunning visuals, hyper-intelligent AI, and realistic physics for a varied and immersive gameplay experience...Experience the devastating firepower of deadly weapons through dazzlingly rendered outdoor and indoor environments. Drive vehicles through a dense and humid jungle ravine, or breathtaking mountains, as you strive to defeat the merciless guerillas.."Well, there's not enough here to getreallyexcited about. TimeSplitters had lots of nice little ideas, and the unusual premise of the game allowed FRD to really play about with the FPS formula. This seems like more of a traditional set-up...
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 1 2006Asphalt is made from bitumen, not cementIn 1824 an English bricklayer named Joseph Aspdin rediscovered one of the great secrets of the ancient world. Burning limestone and clay together at an incredible heat - more than 2,700 degrees fahrenheit - made the two minerals fuse together. Once cooled and ground into a fine ash, the resulting substance would, after mixing with water, set as hard as the Portland stone that gave it its name. And while his invention, portland cement, is seldom celebrated in the same breath as steam power or the spinning jenny or even the mass introduction of soap, it too - literally - laid a cornerstone of the modern industrial world.Beloved of master builders, detested by their labourers and used by the Romans, cement supports the very ground beneath your feet and keeps the roof from crashing in; yet few outside the building trade spare the back-breaking bringer of toil much thought.But maybe we should. Cement is one of the most environmentally hazardous materials in the world, adding more carbon dioxide to the atmosphere than the entire weight of the global airline industry. According to the Sustainable Development Commission, 4% of Co2 is caused by aviation. Depending on how conservatively you do the sums, cement-based building materials, including concrete and asphalt, account for between 5% and 10% of all carbon dioxide emissions. Finding an alternative product to cement would, therefore, make excellent environmental sense, especially if Britain is to meet the government's ambitious target of a 60% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2050.Now, it is possible, if one squints very hard, to imagine a world without the luxury of cheap air travel. Harder still, one without the convenience of a car. But a world entirely without cement lies further out of reach, in an untamed place shorn of Tarmac, airport runways, road bridges, skyscrapers, underground stations or modern reservoirs. Such is our dependence on the stuff.But while the environmental impact of cement production has been known for ages - Dickens described in Great Expectations "the sluggish stifling smell" of the kilns - few call for it to be punitively taxed. Friends of the Earth, for instance, could not produce a single spokesperson to speak about cement's effect on climate change; and what environmental campaigns there are, such as the recent protests against a tyre-burning kiln in Rugby, focus on what is burned to generate the heat, not the cement itself. The consensus has it that we are stuck with cement.Not so, say the influential environmental bloggers at worldchanging.org, who recently identified a "whole slew of viable alternatives" to both cement and concrete ... "[that] give some hope that a much greener (and potentially more sustainable) model for concrete manufacturing will soon emerge".These include a range of new technological solutions, including lighter foam-based concretes that require less energy to produce, and products like CeramiCrete, which is twice as strong so builders use less of it. But all cost more.The slickest of these new solutions and, ultimately, one that could be produced most cheaply, comes from the unlikeliest quarter of all. A viable alternative to cement is actually being produced by the oil industry.In a smart, regency-decorated office in Mayfair, sandwiched between the bespoke tailors of Savile Row and the swanky art galleries of Cork Street, Geir Robinson is talking about how a waste product from the oil refinement process could be used to cut our dependence on cement. Robinson is the director of UKM, a partner of Shell, the Anglo-Dutch oil giant that holds the patent to a new substance that, in its own way, could be as radical as Joseph Aspdin's.Robinson is enthusing about something called C-Fix, sometimes referred to as carbon concrete, a "thermoplastic" heavy-duty binder developed by Shell and the University of Delft and already in use on the two busiest roads in the Netherlands. It is suitable, he says, for replacing 90% of concrete and asphalt applications. But it is the environmental benefits that excite him. "Three-and-a-half tons of carbon dioxide is saved by using a ton of carbon concrete rather than regular concrete," he beams.Environmental benefitsThis seemingly gravity-defying equation stems from the fact that the environmental benefits of C-Fix are twofold. "To produce a road, or a sea defence, and not use cement as a binding agent obviously stops that cement being produced, which stops the carbon from the cement production entering the atmosphere," Robinson says. The other benefit comes from making a practical use of what would otherwise be waste.It works like this. When crude oil is "cracked" into its components, the top of the refinement process produces petrol, followed by diesel, light fuel oil and then heavy fuel oil. At the bottom of the barrel lies a "fraction" of blackened waste material. It is hard and sticky and of scant economic worth."The standard way of dealing with this low-grade oil is to mix it with light fuel oil to make more heavy fuel oil," says Robinson, sketching a diagram of the process on a notepad. "It gets burnt off and doesn't have to be treated as a waste. But that burning causes further CO2 emissions that cause global warming."Robinson, an environmental scientist and former management consultant with Arthur Andersen, is earnest about its limitations. "In our wildest dreams we don't think we will replace concrete. But in certain applications where concrete isn't as good, like in heavy industrial roads or in salt water environments, we can replace it. That would in itself be fantastic for the environment."The cement industry knows it faces huge environmental issues. Faced with spiralling fuel costs - more than 40% of the cost of cement comes from firing the kilns - it has worked hard to reduce its emissions. Last November the industry toasted its latest progress report at a House of Commons reception hosted by the Liberal Democrat MP Lembit Opik.According to Liezel Tipper of the British Cement Association, rather than denigrate concrete we should embrace its own environmental credentials. Concrete's high thermal mass (making it hard to heat or cool) becomes relevant, as less energy is required to heat or cool buildings. "This reduces the need for air conditioning, which uses energy and releases more carbon dioxide," she says.The trouble is, a modern cement kiln is, for the wider environment, the equivalent of having a cigarette permanently at your lips. Not only do modern plants consume as much energy as a small town; the kilns exhale clouds of toxic organic chemicals, such as dioxins and furans and various, possibly life-threatening, hydrocarbon compounds.Acid gases generated by the immense heat of the combustion process, billow into the atmosphere, adding a further raft of heavy metals - lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium - to the toxic curl. These pollutants spewing from the stacks are joined by large amounts of dust and gas from the plant operations; and cement mixers guzzle a lot of petrol.It is a filthy brew, redolent of what has gone wrong with industrialisation: environmentally and financially expensive and linked in several medical reports to the aggravation of lung complaints, especially asthma or emphysema. It is, however, the necessary price we continue to pay to progress in this late industrial age.Carbon concrete, by contrast, has few of these disadvantages - if you discount the refinement process, itself a recidivist contributor to the great bank of carbon dioxide in the sky. To accept C-Fix is to accept that the oil is going to be pulled out of the ground regardless, so why not burn as little as possible. As Robinson says: "If just a tiny fraction of crude oil were sequestered in this way, western countries would be able to bring their carbon emission reduction in line with the Kyoto Agreement."Cautious approvalThough any use of the waste products of oil refinement makes most environmentalists nervous, a few are prepared to cautiously endorse some of C-Fix's promise. David Santillo, a Greenpeace senior scientist based at its research laboratory in Exeter, welcomes the oil industry's attempt to crack the cement problem. Although he notes it is "early days to be making any substantial claims about universal applicability," he says the reductions it could bring in CO2 emissions by reducing cement production "are certainly worth exploring in more detail by government departments and contractors." But, he adds, "it will need to be backed by further independent research into its long-term structural stability and environmental performance before it can be promoted widely."C-Fix's next big push is into the Arab states, rich in oil refineries and new building developments, but desperately short of fresh water and of the right kind of sand: because desert sand has the wrong characteristics, such areas have to import the sand needed to make traditional concrete.But it is in Holland where C-Fix's most immediate application is most telling. It is being deployed at Ijmuidem harbour as a massive breakwater defence north of Haarlem. Six house-sized blocks of carbon concrete are currently holding the North Sea at bay. If successful, an awful lot more of it will be used along the flat coast of the Netherlands.That's right: the thing that might keep back the rising tides caused by global warming could be a waste product from the oil refineries that helped cause it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
My new laptop has a port for an Express card. What can I use it for? Howard GoodmanExpressCard is a smaller, smarter and faster format for plug-in cards, and is intended to replace the PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) and PC Card (CardBus) slots in notebook computers. The new format is sponsored by the PCMCIA, and aims to provide the same sort of benefits as the PCI Express expansion slot in a desktop PC: seewww.expresscard.orgfor details. ExpressCard is used in several Fujitsu-Siemens Lifebook and Toshiba notebooks, as well as a few Sony and NEC models.Not many cards are available in the UK, a rare example being the AverMedia AVerTV ExpressCard TV Tuner, which provides a stereo TV tuner and video capture device for about 65. Memory cards, Ethernet, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth cards, smart card readers and similar options are on the way. If buying an ExpressCard, look for an "energetic orange rabbit". This logo shows that an ExpressCard has been tested at an interoperability event and rated compliant. So far, more than 50 products have passed. As with the Wi-Fi wireless logo, the rabbit is intended to show that a product doesn't just meet the specification but works with other ExpressCard designs in real life.
I have used Dan Elwood's speed test, a PC program, andADSL Guideto test my broadband speed. My line was shown to be capable of 6.5Mbps by the BT automatic test prior to upgrade. Using the above tests I have achieved over 5Mbps, but generally the speed is around 2-3.5Mbps. BT's online test site - used as part of its fault reporting process - gave a meagre 2.1Mbps. How can I convince my ISP there is something wrong? My next door neighbour, also an Eclipse 8Mbps customer, gets even worse results. John LoaderThe new "up to 8Mbps" services don't guarantee any particular speed, and the way the technology works, you are never going to get more than 7.15Mbps (see the explanation atAAISP.net). This can be further reduced by the distance from the exchange, the quality of the wiring, your router and PC software set-up, and contention at the exchange. The contention ratio for home users is still 50:1, and the exchange capacity will not provide 50 users with 7Mbps at once, so 3.5Mbps could be considered reasonable. Try the line at about 4.30am, when there will probably be few users, except for the file-sharers. If you get 5Mbps or more, there's probably not much wrong with your set-up. And if an ISP is not swayed by the "meagre 2.1Mbps" you get from BT's test site, they are unlikely to be persuaded by alternative test results.Backchat: Dan Elwood's speed test? I should have spotted that mistake. John ran Dan Elwell's Broadband Speed Test (http://www.broadbandspeedtest.net), which I've recommended here before. It also works with cable systems such as NTL and Telewest.
On Monday morning, you see your postman struggling under the weight of his bag, and moving very, very slowly. Somewhere around Thursday afternoon, he finally delivers a copy of Business Week magazine. You take it and find something strange: it weighs about 200 pounds. You fight to get it unwrapped. Because it's so heavy, the only realistic way to read it is to lay it out on a table. The weight of each page makes it difficult to turn, and of course it's impossible to tear anything out to keep.This is what reading the new, digital Business Week feels like. It is being distributed using Zinio Reader. You can only download your new copy of the magazine via Zinio; you can only read it in Zinio; and while I suppose you can make a copy of the files, it won't do you much good. You can't, for example, transfer it to a portable device to read on the tube.There are two things to hate here. The first is Zinio. The reader is slow, dragging down with it the systems I've installed it on, as if the computer were burning a DVD, or as though the magazine were a bandwidth-sapping video file. It's also bloated: magazine issues average about 20MB. And of course its files are not internally searchable.Note that I only sort of chose this. The magazine decided to discontinue its European edition, and subscribers were offered the choice of digital delivery of the US edition or the print delivery of a much more expensive global edition. (My choice would be print delivery of the US edition, but that isn't an option with a UK address.)But the more important bile target is Business Week.The idea is that scanning in the entire magazine creates a digital copy that's exactly like a physical copy. Except of course it isn't (coming soon: video ads!). Business Week has rejected a decade of experience in electronic publishing, including its own, which is on display every day at its website. Electronic publishing definitely has a future. But this isn't it.If reading an e-magazine is going to be this unpleasant, you need something in return. The Complete New Yorker on DVD is almost as clunky; it has sinned by copy-protecting the discs and making it impossible to search across the archive without an orgy of disc-swapping.But in return, I get to own something previously only available in distant libraries. Plus, I gain about four feet of shelf space. When Business Week can make a claim like that, they can call me. Until then, I'll be over there, reading The Economist.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: How many paying subscribers do you have in Europe for your players?Rob Glaser:We have not broken out the number of subscribers. In Europe we download over 100,000 free players a day. But we have trebled our on-the-ground presence in Europe, and have just this week rolled out Real Music, which we launched in the UK four months ago. We are deepening our investment in subscription products and in premium consumer products in the music and games area. With hindsight, we might have done that a year or two prior, but if I look at what is going on with broadband growth in Europe now, it's not like we missed the boat.TG: One could look at Real and say you are becoming the Sun Microsystems of players, i.e. you don't have the critical mass to make sure you get the right content and the right number of users.RG:I think that is mathematically not true. I don't think it is going to be a winner-takes-all game. I think we'll have good share and Microsoft will have good share, and there may be one or two others. I think particularly as we move into a time where consumers want content to work on multiple platforms, the strong early position we have built on the mobile media market will help us on the PC as well.TG: In the UK the BBC has decided to use Windows for its iPlayer. So what future does Real have with the BBC and in the UK? Is this the big UK contract that got away?RG:We are in an active conversation with the BBC ... well, put it this way: we like trials with 5,000 consumers in them but we are much more focused on mass-volume deployment. When that happens, that's when we expect to measure whether we are in the position we want to be in or not.TG: This new music service you have rolled out in the UK and now across most European markets, why has it taken so long to bring it here?RG:There is a model still developing in the US around subscriptions for on-demand music where you can take the music and move it to portable devices. We have a long-term commitment to that model in our US products but until it is a compelling experience, we're not inclined to roll it out across Europe.TG: There are lots of other places for people to go to get downloadable music, so how will Real Music stand out given it is coming out relatively late in the game? Even the BBC is doing a music site.RG:Based on what I know about the BBC plans, it will be more focused on people who have been on Top of the Pops. That said, we know that in any of these consumer service businesses we don't have a birthright to be the leader, but in the US we are number one in terms of music subscriptions with competitors Napster and Yahoo! And then there is Apple, which is slightly different.TG: Apple has 65% of music downloads in Europe according to Jupiter Research. How can you compete?Rob:We assume that this failure of other companies besides Apple to create really compelling portable devices is not a long-term phenomenon. [But] before that happens it would be jumping the gun to push a portable subscription service in Europe.TG: Because you can't compete with Apple's iTunes?RG:We can compete but isn't it better to wait until you have a slam dunk solution in the portable context? In the US a lot of iPod users also use our Rhapsody product, but we think being head-to-head is inevitable because Apple is pretty ambitious about how it wants to use its closed eco-system. At the same time, until there is a critical mass of devices out there that really are worthy competitors to the iPod, our view is to make Real Music a great product with differential features such as user-generated content and add on the subscription piece when the devices warrant it.TG: Will we see Real-branded devices?RG:I don't think so but we will want to make sure that people know it's us behind it. In any case it will manifest itself first in the US, and it's not probably until 2007 that it could roll out internationally.TG: So you will be facing a situation where you are way behind Apple?RG:Compare our strategy to Napster's where they got into Europe in some markets before Apple but I don't think with a service that was compelling. Apple is using the iPod as a pull for track sales and for Mac sales, and since the track purchase business is not a primary business for us our attitude is, let's focus on our core business and build up from there.TG: But Apple's model is to make money on the sale of devices, using music to drive that - and it is working.RB:Apple has gotten away with this approach to a greater degree than we thought they would. The music industry has made a mistake, not by agreeing to Apple's fixed-price level (79p per track), which is what gets all the attention, but by allowing Apple to create devices that are not interoperable.If you want interoperable music today, there is a very easy solution: it's called stealing. The average number of songs sold for the iPod is 25, and there are many more songs on iPods than 25. About half the music on iPods is music obtained illegitimately either from an illegal peer-to-peer networks or from ripping friends' CDs, which is illegal. But it's the only way to get non-copy protected, portable, interoperable music.TG: What about IPTV. You are streaming Euronews now in Europe on PCs. What is the strategy there?RG:It's one of these businesses where in the short term, start-ups that can jaywalk around intellectual property have a slight advantage because there is a lot of stuff that people put up on sites like Youtube.com that they don't have rights for. To do that successfully, you have to be small enough not to be worth suing. But when businesses start to scale up, this approach won't work and the big media players are starting to get into this business. Whether we will be powering those channels with our technology or if we play an aggregation role will depend. We can do both.TG: Google Video and Yahoo! Search are all in this already.RG:We get involved in businesses where we can have a differential strategy, and thus far we haven't seen that. The sites that have the most energy around them are those that jaywalk outside of the rights issues, so we've been sort of holding back. The question is whether we do our own consumer-facing aggregation thing. We have a lot on our plate and we prioritise.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Phil Harrison hasspoken to the BBC news site, defending the company's decision to release two versions of PS3 and countering claims that the cheaper model will not be High Definition. Asmentioned on Technology Blog yesterday, specs sheets released to journalists at the pre-E3 Sony conference revealed that the cheapie PS3 lacks Wi-Fi, memory card slot and, crucially, an HDMI port. However, Harrison claims:"What we should be clear about is that the functionality is identical in both machines... It's just that the technical method of extracting audio and video from the devices is slightly different"Harrison doesn't talk about the amends made to the top-end package, though. One HDMI slot, not two. Four USB ports, not six. One ethernet port, not three. Of course, it is often the case that final console hardware fails to match theexactspecifications of the prototype, but Sony has been bullish about the wider entertainment abilities of the machine. PS3 is, after all, the company's Trojan Horse for Blu-ray technology. Yet with its home entertainment options reduced, it may be less desirable to those crucial early adopters who pore over specs with religious intensity.Remember, the original PlayStation boasted seemingly superfluous composite and parallel ports - but these were removed to reduce manufacturing costs onlyafterthe masses started to buy in. It could be argued that these extras are necessary when you're selling a new entertainment vision to the first wave of tech-smart opinion makers.Still, it's early days. Sony has two-thirds of E3 to wow journos and developers with what counts: the games...
Don't hold your breath. Although Neil Aspinall, manager of Apple Corps, which manages the intellectual property of the Beatles said during the recent court case - in which his company sued Apple Computer over the use of an apple logo and the existence of the iTunes Music Store - that the Beatles' music is being digitally remastered, and although Steve Jobs (chief executive of Apple Computer) then extended an iPod-shaped olive branch by saying: "We have always loved the Beatles, and hopefully we can now work together to get them on the [store]", this could have some way to run.A spokeswoman for Apple Corps told us this week that there is "no date planned for the downloads; it's one of many projects Apple [Corps] is working on". She said the timing won't have anything to do with the appeal, announced by Aspinall directly after Mr Justice Mann ruled that the iTunes Music Store had not infringed a 1991 agreement between the two companies.But as the case has already cost each side &pound;1.5m (and the loser will have to pay all the fees), one might think it would make sense for Apple Corps to garner a bit of revenue from the organisation it has tried to sue, as well as other music download or subscription sites, too.But instead they may just try to get by with a little help from m'learned friends. As it has taken since September 2003 for this latest round in the dispute (probably Apple Computer's oldest, dating all the way back to 1978) to be settled, we're not holding out much hope of a resolution before next year.Meanwhile, the only legal download of a Beatles song performed by a Beatle is Paul McCartney, aided and abetted by U2, singing Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band at last year's London Live8 concert, which took just 45 minutes to go from recording to download, a world record confirmed by the Guinness Book of Records.The judgment hinged on the question of whether the iTunes Music Store, and its use of Apple Computer's logo, constitutes trademark infringement. Unfortunately for Apple Corps, part 1.2 of its 1991 agreement allows Apple Computer to indulge in "... data processing services, data transmission services ..." while barring it from "any current or future creative work whose principal content is music and/or musical performances; regardless of the means by which those works are recorded, or communicated, whether tangible or intangible".The key word there is "creative". Is the iTunes Music Store "creative"? As "swissfondue" commented on the Technology blog, "Apple Computer is as much a record label as Amazon is a book publisher". Which is pretty much the view Mr Justice Mann took. (Or vice-versa.)You can read Justice Mann's judgment online athttp://tinyurl.com/fwykm- we recommend it if you ever want to understand, in plain English, how the iTunes store works. And we liked his joke: "Both parties submitted that the position is simple and straightforward, which is a pretty good indication that it is not." We're still looking for the Da Vinci-style hidden code that will reveal what music he was listening to on his iPod when he wrote it, though.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Kate Bulkley metRob Glaser, chief executive of Real Networks, on Monday to talk exclusively about his company's progress. Will its contract with the BBC continue? Can it compete with the iPod? We promise you a great deal of entertainment in this unabridged interview - which includes a splendid Steve Ballmer moment. No, it doesn't involve chairs... [A couple of links have been added for context - Charles Arthur]Real Networks, the provider of the Real Player, has had a good year, recently settling its long-running anti-trust suit with Microsoft over how the giant software company bundles and markets its Windows software (including its Media Player) and collecting $761 million in compensation. Over the past two weeks Real has launched its Real Music service across Europe, following a UK launch four months ago and the company CEO Rob Glaser is optimistic that he can grow Real's business even against the might of Apple's iTunes, which has a 65% share of Europe's legitimate downloadable music business. But there are challenges, not the least of which are the record labels themselves, who Glaser thinks are being too timid in how they embrace digital downloading. He talks to Kate Bulkley.KB: Europe has not been a great focus for Real over the past few years, what's changed?RG: In the last year we have tripled the size of our operations in Europe through a combination of organic growth and principally two acquisitions, one is a mobile games business in Helsinki called Mr. Goodliving that makes mobile games and the second is a team in Eindhoven called Zylon that makes PC games. We have seen that the games business is one where the content is much more easily globalised. Game play is fundamentally not a linguistic thing and in most cases its not a culturally dependent thing so a great game is a great game in the UK and the US and Japan. Games are turning out to be a consumer service businesses where having a stake in local content provides the most global leverage. And it is the only business we're in where we own the content. Our games business is actually our fastest growing business and grew 50% year on year and Europe is 27% of the games business.KB: Is this move into content a signal for where Real is going in the future, rather than staying in the player business because the aspiration to be the dominant player hasn't really worked out too well?RG: Our business last year was $325 million, which was up from $266 million the year before and our most recent quarter was $87 million in revenue. So the business is ramping, not just the games business. It's fair to say that in the games business there is nothing strategically or competitively in the way of our continued success. It's smooth sailing. In the technology I see a renaissance opportunity. That business has been significantly flat for the last couple of years. It's been shrinking in size and importance even as we've been growing, but it's very strong as a source of technological differentiation and a font of innovation. Now we're starting to see uplift in that as we've gone from selling ingredient technologies to selling end-to-end solutions.KB: So the Real Player was an ingredient technology?RG: Three years ago we open-sourced the core of our media engine and in the mobile handset area in particular that has done very well; we're up to 60 million licensed units and over half of those have been sold in the last year.KB: So what about the central Real Player business where you were trying to become the dominant player but then you ran into Microsoft?RG: It depends on what part of the world you're looking at. Counting everything we do, Real Player and our Rhapsody business (music service) we download more than a million and a half pieces of software a day. In some parts of the world, the player download velocity is higher than it's ever been. In most markets, we are No 1 or No 2, but obviously there's the anti-trust lawsuit that we've settled in a very favourable way with Microsoft. In exchange for $761 million we agreed that we would consider that matter settled in the US and Europe. However, the European Commission is still actively trying to get Microsoft to respond to their request for information, but we're not an active player in that. The settlement was an outstanding result for Real Network shareholders, but of course we think that governments should do what they do, so it's not our position that the EC should stop; it's simply the case that we've closed our situation in a favourable way for us. As long as there are no future infractions, we don't expect to be going into any further anti-trust matters.KB: But what about the fact that Real Player has had, and continues to have, a lot of competition, not the least from Microsoft. And there have been big critics of your emphasis on a subscription model for the Player so what pressure is this putting on the the bottom line?RG: We never had a situation where we were selling players as the primary engine of the company. We always viewed them as seed corn but then we realised that people wanted the best, so we offered a premium player and then we went into the subscription business and we just announced that we have 2.4 million subscribers. My belief is where Microsoft gained share on us it had more to do with their methods of competition - that have been declared in both the US and Europe to be illegal - than the methods of marketing that we used. It's fair to say that over time we learned to make sure that consumers knew they could get our player for free. In Europe we now download over 100,000 free players a day.KB: And how many paying subscribers do you have in Europe for your players?RG: We have not broken out the number of subscribers. But we have trebled our on the ground presence in Europe and we have just rolled out this week a music product Real Music that we first launched in the UK four months ago. We are deepening our investment in subscription products and in premium consumer products in music and games area, With the benefit of hindsight we might have done than a year or two prior, but if I look at what is going on with broadband growth in Europe now it's not like we fundamentally missed the boat. We were just busy doing other things.KB: One could look at Real and say you are becoming the Sun Microsystems of players, i.e. not with critical mass that necessary to make sure you get the right content and so the right number of users.RG: I think that is mathematically not true. We certainly continue to invest in making our player higher quality from compression to the efficiency of play back and the universal support of pretty much any format. If there is a perception that we spent a little less time on that in the last couple of years, obviously perception is reality but I think we are very actively focused on reinvigorating that work and I feel good about our prospects and I don't think it is going to be a winner take all game. I think we'll have good share and Microsoft will have good share and there may be one or two others. I think particularly as we move into a time where consumers want content to work on multiple platforms the strong early position we have built on the mobile media market will help us on the PC as well.KB: In the UK the BBC has decided to use Windows for its iPlayer. So what future does Real have with the BBC and in the UK?RG: The BBC never stopped using Real and we feel great about our share of the player market for BBC content. The BBC is famously focused o audience quality in everything they do and they have enough confidence that at scale they can reach audiences based on the quality and quantity of their content. Whenever we do blind taste tests of the player we win two to three to oneKB: But the problem is that the Windows player is bundled into the PCs and now the BBC is working with Windows on its iPlayer not with Real. To me, that sounds like a problem for you.RG: I don't think we are yet going into the post-PC era because I think PCs still matter but I think that increasingly in the web services world my belief is the impact of that advantage is less. Not that I think it should allow Microsoft to break the law, but as companies like Google have demonstrated there are lots of ways you can win mind share from consumers in addition to the initial configuration coming out of the box. We're alive and kicking and if I had a nickel for every time people say, 'hey you are going to go away because Microsoft is gunning for you' The reality is that we've demonstrated a resiliency and a long-term orientation on this.KB: So what about not being part of the BBC iPlayer? Is this the big UK contract that got away?RG: We are in very active conversation with the BBC and because I never want customers to think we are sharing their secrets with journalists, let's just say that at the end of the day, we are going to work really hard to make sure that consumerswell, put it this way: We like trials with 5,000 consumers in them but we are much more focused on mass volume deployment. When that happens that's when we expect to measure whether we are in a position we want to be in or not.KB: So the deal with Microsoft and the BBC won't be exclusive?RG: It's not place to tell you what the BBC's strategy is but it is my place to tell you what Real's intention is.KB: This new music service you have rolled out in the UK and now across most European markets, why has it taken so long to bring it here?RG: We have some features in Real Music that we don't have in the Rhapsody music product in the US like the way we have integrated user-generated content where anyone can upload and sell their content, which is a new feature. There is a model still developing in the US around subscriptions for on-demand music where you can take the music and move it to portable devices. We have a long-term commitment to that model in our US products but until it is a ready-for-prime-time, compelling experience, we're not inclined to roll it out across Europe. And in Europe, 70% of the music people listen to is local repertoire and so we decided to start with a basic, localised radio subscription product in each market and add features like subscription track downloads later.KB: There are lots of other places for people to go to get downloadable music, both illegal and legal, so how will Real Music stand out given it's coming out relatively late in the game? Even the BBC is doing a music site.RG: Based on what I know about the BBC plans I don't think it will have the full mix of repertory. The BBC has some amazing libraries but it will be more focused on people who have been on Top of the Pops. That said, we know that in any of these consumer service businesses we don't have a birthright to be the leader but in the US we are number one in terms of music subscriptions with competitors Napster and Yahoo! and then there is Apple, which is slightly different. We've won by having the best product and partnering with distribution partners like Comcast, the biggest US cable operator. Now we are looking to partner in Europe as well, including with large ISPs, content partners large portals and retailers, but I can't announce anything yet.KB: Apple has 65% of music downloads in Europe according to Jupiter Research, how can you compete with that?RG: We assume that this failure of other companies besides Apple to create really compelling portable devices is not a long-term phenomenon. The good news is we have forged partnerships with some portable music companies that have products on the drawing boards that are quite compelling so I believe these will change the debate around portable devices. Before that happens it would be jumping the gun to push a portable subscription service in Europe.KB: Because you can't compete with Apple's iTunes?RG: We can compete but isn't it better to wait a little bit until you have a slam-dunk solution in the portable context? In the US a lot of iPod users also use our Rhapsody product, but we think being head to head is inevitable at some point because Apple is pretty ambitious about how they want to use their closed eco-system. At the same time until there is a critical mass of devices out there that really are worthy competitors to iPod, our view is to make Real Music a great product with differential features like user-generated content and add on the subscription piece at a time when the devices warrant it.KB: So could you move into the device business like Apple?RG: No I don't mean that and we won't do that. We are working closely with device makers to create an end-to-end solution. The problem with the first generation of portable devices is they didn't do what Apple did which was to create an end-to-end, compelling experience. What we are doing is building a bridge between what we are doing and what the hardware guys are doing to create a compelling experience.KB: So will we see Real-branded devices?RG: I don't think so but we will want to make sure that people know it's us behind it but in any case it will manifest itself first in the US and it's not probably until 2007 that it could roll out internationally.KB: So you will be facing a situation where you are way behind Apple, won't you?RG: Compare our strategy to Napster's strategy where they got into Europe in some markets before Apple but I don't think with a service that was compelling. Apple is using the iPod as a pull for track sales and for Mac sales and since the track purchase business is not a primary business for us our attitude is not 'hey we lost the track purchase business'. Our attitude is let's focus on our core business and build up from there.KB: Maybe given Apple's success the track download business should become a core Real business?RG: No, not the way the economics work. Apple famously has won a tug of war with the labels but it is essentially makes Apple a retailer and the music industry doesn't have a great track record of having long-term, profitable relationships with retailers. The only retailers that make money are the big multi-category players like Best Buy and WallMart, which use music as loss leaders.KB: But Apple's model is to make money on the sale of devices, using music to drive that and it is working.RB: Apple have gotten away with this approach to a greater degree than we thought they would. It is interesting that it is the French government that has raised the first big stink about that and maybe it's because they recognise the cultural impact of music being Balkanised where you can't just buy any song and put it into any device. I think that the music industry has made a mistake, not by agreeing to Apple's fixed-price level (79p per track), which is what gets all the attention, but by allowing Apple to create devices that are not interoperable. If you want interoperable music today there is a very easy solution: it's called stealing. The average number of songs sold for iPod is 25 and there are many more songs on iPods than 25. In fact about half of the music on iPods is music that people got illegitimately either from an illegal peer-to-peer networks or from ripping their friends CDs, which is illegal. [This is very reminiscent ofSteve Ballmer's comments in October 2004- Charles Arthur.] But it's the only way for them to get non-copy protected, portable, interoperable music. So in the US last year everyone is excited that digital music grew but physical CD sales shrunk twice as much because to some extent the pirate solution is still a superior consumer experience than the track purchase solution. Apple sold a lot of tracks but the lack of interoperablity means that legitimate digital is inferior to piracy. So my view is that Steve Jobs has hoodwinked the labels and I think the labels now realise it but they don't feel independently empowered to make that change. Maybe they are hoping theFrench governmentand other governments will pick up the mantle for them.KB: So, the music industry and Apple are heading for a falling out?RG: Interoperability is a great solution for all this. I understand that the labels did it in order to copy protect their stuff but we have demonstrated an interoperable digital rights management (DRM) solution and a couple of the labels said to us privately we'll do it if everyone does it but a couple of them were too nervous to stick their necks out. We are close to the labels and we value them as partners but on this one we think they are being less forceful in the interests of both consumers and their own industry than they should be. Interoperability is good for the consumer, it's good for the industry and it's good for us. It's just not good for the guy with 65% share who benefits from keeping it a company town.KB: What about IPTV. You are streaming Euronews now in Europe on PCs. What is the strategy there?RG: It's one of these businesses where in the short term start ups that can jay walk around intellectual property have a slight advantage because there is a lot of stuff that people put up on sites like Youtube.com that they don't have rights for. In order to do that successfully you have to be small enough not to be worth suing. But when businesses start to scale up this kind of approach won't work and the big media players are starting to get into this business. Whether we will be powering those channels with our technology or if we play some aggregation role will depend. We can do both.KB: Google Video and Yahoo! Search are all in this already.RG: We get involved in businesses where we can have a differential strategy and at least thus far we haven't seen that. The sites that are so far have the most energy around them are those that jaywalk outside of the rights issues so we've been sort of holding back. The question is if we do our own consumer-facing aggregation thing. We have a lot on our plate and we prioritise.End
Lot's of cool, cool stuff from Konami. Yes, PES 6 is being shown off in LA boasting new modes of play, extended Master League (extended again?!) option and of course masses of animation and AI tweaks, including computer players who point at where they want you to pass the ball! The cheeky bastards. It's out this Autumn on PS2, Xbox 360, PSP, DS and PC.Bomberman is coming to PSP - naturally with Wi-FI multiplayer. Also on the Sony handheld - Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops, a proper MGS adventure with none of that card-trading tomfoolery, and Silent Hill Origins in which a truck driver makes a delivery at the town and gets more than a signature and modest tip for his troubles... Plus, Gradius Collection brings a selection of the legendary blasters to PSP, while Brooktown High: Senior Year will be the machine's first dating sim.Then, the company has Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin on DS with two characters to switch between ("Jonathan Morris, a vampire hunter and his close friend Charlotte Orlean, a girl with tremendous magical ability"). The DS will also see Lunar Knights from Kojima Prodictions - a typically epic adventure in which you control, "two warriors on a quest to reclaim the world from a vampiric legion". What happened to just having one lead character?MGS 4 and Coded Arms: Assault are the PS3 offerings, while Wii gets Elebits (pictured), which "thrusts players into a revolutionary game of hide and seek as they try to track down a group of mysterious creatures." Of course, we're promised innovative use of the Wii controller, perhaps to point at characters while shouting, "Found you!"Anyway, back to PES 6...
Jez atJoystiqpoints us to someexcellent game mash-upsusing Google's Maps app. There are wide and varied things to play here. Perfect for a lazy Thursday afternoon.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..A cracking alternative to cementAlternative cement products make good environmental sense, writes Sean Dodson, especially if Britain is to meet its ambitious targets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.A sidestep in the right directionFree Our Data: An innovative exercise in electronic mapping aims to bypass the block on access to data subject to Crown copyright, writes Steve Mathieson.'We have a lot on our plate and we prioritise'Fresh from settling an anti-trust suit with Microsoft, the chief executive of Real Networks, Rob Glaser, outlines the company's strategy for success in the digital downloading market. How will he beat the iPod? "The average number of songs sold for the iPod is 25, and there are many more songs on iPods than 25. About half the music on iPods is music obtained illegitimately..."Note: the full transcript of this interview will appear in a blog post later today.On the trail of the spammersHijacking someone's name and email address is all in a day's work for the cyber cowboys plying their trade across the net.Shocking tasks await the government's new IT chiefMichael Cross: As Charles Clarke discovered last week, few people emerge from high positions at the Home Office with reputations intact. Especially where computers are concerned.Terahertz rays beam past hypeA new range of frequencies have a host of applications, from medicine to security.What is Microsoft's User Account Control, and why should I care?Because "User Account Control" (UAC) is how Vista, due early next year, aims to protect you from doing or installing bad things (like spyware) on your computer - and it may drive you mad.When can I download Beatles tracks from the iTunes Music Store?A spokeswoman for Apple Corps told us this week that there is "no date planned for the downloads; it's one of many projects Apple [Corps] is working on".Nokia's N91 phoneNokia's first hard disk-endowed phone, the N91, finally reaches the stores this week. It is certainly a chunky beast - even bigger than Nokia's popular N70.Samsung's Q1 mobile PCIt might resemble an oversized PlayStation Portable but the Q1 from Samsung, which debuts in UK stores this week, is one of a new breed of ultra-mobile PCs given the moniker Origami.Medion's MD20099 TVA 32-inch LCD set used to cost way over 1,000, but German company Medion is now selling the MD20099 for 600.Home is where the music is - wirelesslyCharles Arthur: About six years ago, I began properly to put all my record collection (mostly CDs, some vinyl) on to a hard drive. But on discovering the delights of MP3s, and how radically your view of your music collection changes once you start listening at random across artists, albums, genres and years, I was hooked.TechnobileWendy Grossman: Business Week's bloated digital edition is definitely not the way forward for electronic publishing.Now even my Xbox 360 has a blog - all about meKeith Stuart: Gamers, like film and TV viewers, are inveterate liars about the sorts of entertainment they enjoy. Videogames that no one will own up to playing top the charts, while titles everyone says they love, like the oddball Japanese adventure Katamari Damacy, fail to dent the top 20.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updatesNewsbytesGo bananas | Slim and black | Net goes Asian | In the pink | Stor more | Help the blind | BBC films | Burning ambition | Only translateLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
If ony I could get into the convention centre now - it's 10pm LA time - and spend a night with Wii then maybe I could really make my mind up. But for now I'm undecided, partly because I could only get on two games. Tennis and Red Steel may not be showstoppers, but they are Wii launch games with enough sensitivity/accuracy issues to suggest that either my wrists have had it, or the Wii isn't quite as friendly as hoped.The main controller was smaller than expected, but snug, nicely weighted and comfortable to hold. But the games saw mixed results. Tennis was very easy to play and will certainly work for a quick set with friends/family. But I found it frustratingly imprecise when trying to place the ball and can see why the execs missed the shots they did on stage at the Nintendo conference. And on a console that values inclusivity, Red Steel is more likely to cause motion sickness than family togetherness. What did work well was the thrust and parrying of the sword combat, which felt much better than the gun-based action. Of course, this is very early days and more playtime is needed - Super Mario Galaxy, Excite Truck and Zelda all spring to mind - and there were moments in both games where it all made some sort of sense. But Wii wasn't the unconditional love at first play that I thought it might be.
As Charles Clarke discovered last week, few people emerge from high positions at the Home Office with reputations intact. Especially where computers are concerned. Parts of the criminal justice system's IT portfolio resemble the wiring in a cupboard in a Victorian house - that old fuse box doesn't seem to be connected to anything, but dare we take it out? Hello, someone's put in a completely new ring main here, but what cowboy didn't fit a proper circuit breaker?When the political storm over foreign prisoners broke, you could imagine a tradesman sucking through his teeth: "Well, we could install a bit of XML code, but it'd be cheaper to rip out the whole lot and start again ..."For the past few years, the man in charge of this cupboard has been John Suffolk, director-general of criminal justice IT. He's had a few shocks, but nothing fatal. In fact he can point to several troublesome bits of wiring that his team has got working, and one or two newly ordered ones that should be, soon.However, Suffolk is moving on. In a few weeks, he takes up his post as the government's chief information officer. He will have quite a few more dusty cupboards to worry about - and some expensive new installations, too, including the national identity register.Suffolk is the first person to be formally appointed to the post of chief information officer. He takes over from Ian Watmore, hired as head of the Cabinet Office e-government unit two years ago and now running the prime minister's delivery unit. The two exemplify a breed of private-sector executive brought in by a government suspicious of the civil service's enthusiasm (or lack of it) for "transformation".Suffolk's speciality is not IT. Like Watmore, he prefers not to get too interested in the details. What he does have is experience in merging organisations: he reckons that in his previous career in financial services he went through 26. His appointment announcement paid tribute to his track record in "major transformation programmes".Put brutally, he has a lot of experience making people redundant. This could come in handy: one of the chief information officer's roles will be to force public bodies to cut IT costs by combining systems.There's more to the job than wielding an axe, however. Suffolk will also be responsible for running government IT programmes in a more professional way. The novel idea is to try to match the government's workload of IT schemes with the capacity of departments - and their IT contractors - to achieve it. Projects will be collated into four key portfolios:&middot;Big "mission critical" schemes such as the electronic health record and the London Olympics in 2012.&middot;Systems needed for shared services, starting with "back office" finance and personnel systems for government.&middot;Identifying citizens and sharing data about them (the current wheeze, while we're waiting for the national identity register, is to use the old national insurance number more widely).&middot;Replacing ageing and expensive VME mainframes, the colossal transaction-processing engines upon which government agencies depend, with more economical and flexible systems.The new chief information officers' council, which Suffolk chairs, will try to make sure that ministers' bright ideas for new systems fit with these priorities. This may require diplomacy, enforced by a Cabinet sub-committee called PSX(e), responsible for e-government matters.Suffolk will also be keeping an eye on suppliers' ability to make these systems work. The 13 most "strategically important" IT suppliers will get special scrutiny, to make sure they are putting as much effort into running contracts as they put into winning new business.It is an alarming job description. Suffolk has emerged from his job in criminal justice with reputation intact. He is now potentially responsible for every IT failure in British government. There are lots of dusty closets, and skeletons, too.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nokia's first hard disk-endowed phone, the N91, finally reaches the stores this week. It is certainly a chunky beast - even bigger than Nokia's popular N70. Nokia also loses a point for the rather tiny keys, which are tucked away under a pull-down flap. The phone can be a little slow and, like many 3G phones, is cursed with a rather limited battery life. Nevertheless the N91, which has a four gigabyte hard drive, is packed with many innovative features. The audio facilities are excellent, from the software for porting tracks on to the hard drive through to the music playback interface. The phone has a superb screen, an excellent two megapixel camera and a web browser that enables you to focus on parts of a web page at speed. The price is dependent on the network.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Gamers, like film and TV viewers, are inveterate liars about the sorts of entertainment they enjoy. Videogames that no one will own up to playing top the charts, while titles everyone says they love, like the oddball Japanese adventure Katamari Damacy, fail to dent the top 20. But as we enter the era of the connected console, much of the uncertainty about what gamers do will disappear. The Xbox 360, for example, collates data about online gaming habits - what you play, for how long, how successfully - and broadcasts this data across the internet as an XML feed.Ostensibly, Microsoft uses this data to create your Gamer Card, an ID tag that shows your online gaming Reputation and overall Gamerscore. But eventually publishers will use this information to hone game design, checking out what levels are most enjoyed online, and using downloadable extras (characters, cars, weapons and outfits) to learn which game objects users prefer. Big Brother is watching - and will soon be spoonfeeding you the sort of entertainment he thinks you want.Users are already finding ways to repurpose and even humanise this Xbox 360 XML stream. Two internet professionals from Chicago set up 360voice.com, allowing Xbox owners to enter their gamertag (a sort of IP address unique to each console) and then view a daily blog, "written" by their machine. The blog doesn't just list what you played and when; the creators have built in dozens of phrases, so the resulting blogs read like they've been created by sentient humans. There has been some resistance to Xboxvoice on gamer forums - it's creepy to know information on our gaming habits is publicly available. But many have embraced the concept. The site now has 13,000 registered users and receives 20,000 unique visits a day. According to one of the founders, Trapper Markelz, many users have started changing their gaming habits to make for a more interesting blog. Apparently Microsoft has shown interest, offering to let the founders see its new ideas for feeds.Trapper and his colleague Stephen Sopp aim to incorporate game scores from metasites like metacritic.com so your Xbox can pass snide judgment on the games you play. They're also keen to have our consoles talk to each other: "If Microsoft was to open up a few more streams of information, your friends list for instance, we could have the Xboxes leave comments on each other's blogs. The 360voice.com blogs could tie people together through their devices."In the era of the semi-autonomous, talkative console, you can keep lying about your gaming activities - just don't expect your machine to back you up.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It might resemble an oversized PlayStation Portable but the Q1 from Samsung, which debuts in UK stores this week, is one of a new breed of ultra-mobile PCs given the moniker Origami. Designed to fill the space between full-sized laptops and top-end smartphones, the Q1 is a tablet-style unit that works as both a Windows XP Tablet PC or as a feature-rich personal media player. There's no keyboard: everything is controlled by a touch screen and a rather tacky plastic stylus. If you use the PC for work you may need to plug in an external keyboard as the Microsoft handwriting recognition system is not especially fast.The Q1 doesn't have the niftiest of processors or the largest hard drive (40GB) but most applications load quickly enough and its onboard Wi-Fi makes this an effective web-browsing tool. Its biggest weakness is arguably its claimed 3.5 hour battery life. But overall, the Q1 is a reasonably impressive mobile PC, although it is hard to imagine quite who it will appeal to: serious road warriors will want a keyboard, and would-be buyers of media players will be put off by the &pound;800 price and the bulk.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A 32-inch LCD set used to cost way over &pound;1,000, but German company Medion is now selling the MD20099 for &pound;600. So with Sky's HD launch just weeks away, should you be tempted? The 1366 x 768 pixel MD20099 is a bit of a mixed bag. It certainly looks striking and can be housed either on its own stand or attached to a wall. It also has plenty of features, including picture in picture so you watch two video sources simultaneously. Sadly there's no digital TV tuner. Picture quality from HD sources via a PC and from Telewest's cable (it links via a HDMI cable) box was good, with reasonable detail and rich colours. Where the set's image is compromised is with fast-moving images where there are clear signs of lag. If you are going HD and want a set on the cheap, it is worth considering. However, it is no match for the latest LCD TVs from the likes of Philips and Sony.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Go bananasCoolgorilla is offering a free guide to the 2006 World Cup especially for the iPod.www.coolgorilla.comSlim and blackSamsung and LG have launched the two most stylish phones to come from Korea. Samsung's Fashion Slim Slide-up E900 is a black music phone with a 2 megapixel camera. It is similar to LG's popular KG800 Chocolate Phone - a slim black music phone with 1.3 megapixel camera.Net goes AsianAsia has the most internet users aged 15-plus, according to comScore World Metrix. It has 168.1 million users. The global total is 694m users.In the pinkDigital radio just got "a girly edge", says Bush, which is shipping its pink retro TR2005DABPNK Portable DAB radio to Asda at &pound;49.95.Stor moreIomega Europe has announced two StorCenter network hard drives that can store 500GB and 1TB respectively. The 1TB model (loaded with four 250GB hard drives) also has built in 802.11g wireless networking.Help the blindThe National Library for the Blind (NLB) wants you to buy books from Amazon via its own website atwww.nlb-online.org/shop. You pay the Amazon price but the NLB gets 10%.BBC filmsThe BBC Film Network says it is now running a trial by "showcasing short films as high-resolution downloads". The films are distributed via a peer-to-peer network for Windows 2000 or XP and Windows Media Player only.www.bbc.co.uk/filmnetwork/Burning ambitionShauna Wright of WhoWouldBuyThat. com has written a book, Don't Get Burned on eBay, published by O'Reilly. "It's packed with hair-raising stories of people who made innocent mistakes that led to grief, humiliation, and loss of money," says the blurb.Only translateIt can be amusing to translate an English language web page into another language and back, using machine translation. Really magazine has automated the process atwww.reallymag.com/2Xlation.htm.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've spent the past week hunting my guestbook spammer (An unwelcome guest of spam, April 27) and the person who did the same to Guardian Technology (Why has the Guardian been spamming my blog?, May 4). Now I think I've tracked down both culprits.For weeks, a spammer has been leaving my name and email address, along with links to pay-per-click pharmacy search sites, in website guestbooks around the world. The links boosted the number of visitors to the search sites, but choked my inbox with thousands of acknowledgement emails, and gave me a fight with internet companies to stop the abuse.Personally, I believe my troubles might have been avoided had Everyones Internet (EV1), a Houston-based internet and web hosting company, listened to my complaint about spammed sites on March 21. But only after my article appeared did EV1 contact its customer, Remsys, in Moldova. (EV1 declined to reply to phone calls and emails about this article.) That delay gave me weeks of problems as my inbox filled with unwanted emails.The first suspect my helpers name is "BonSilver", from Russia. A known spammer with extensive porn interests, he initially denies spamming in my name, but I already know that his relationship with Klikvip, a pay-per-click business (which pays people according to how many web surfers they can attract to or through their sites), has been terminated and payments withheld.Digging around online, I encounter BonSilver's affiliate, Berk, in Ukraine. "Are you the person who used my name and e-mail to spam pharmacy pay-per-click sites?" I ask via instant messenger. He denies it, so I send electronic proof - URLs, messages and links."Having looked at your examples, I see that your name slipped in[to] messages. I assure, that it is mere chance, possibly your name appeared in [data]base some time back. I make the deepest apologies for inconveniences," says Berk, who admits to spamming 10,000 guestbooks.Will he answer emailed questions about his work? "With pleasure I shall slightly open a veil of sacrament of this business," says Berk. He then reneges on this promise, not responding later.BonSilver and Berk have since lain low, avoiding chat and not answering my emails. I also discover that the news about the weeks of spamming has caused problems for Remsys and Klikvip - the latter says it will now pay more attention to spammers and ban such accounts. I then hunt the Guardian's spammer, who called himself "Loki". Another tip-off, including a photograph of a man in his 20s, takes me to "Exploy" in St Petersburg, Russia. He makes money from pornographic websites and spamming.He tells me I have the wrong guy, but several hours later is back online: "so you want to listen my story or what? i loose (sic) my money because of your abuse. it's a really sad situation for me. pay-per-click system is terminated 2 my (sic) accounts because of your abuse," says Exploy.Why did he attack the Guardian? "It was a joke. stupid?" I suggest he says sorry. "OK - sorry. i hope you're content now. want to listen all story? pay for that," says Exploy, who complains that being cut off by two pay-per-click firms after the Guardian's complaints last week hurt. "I lost something about $500 (moral damage included) because of your abuse. so talk to your editor," says Exploy.He wants that sum before he'll talk. The Guardian, though, doesn't pay for interviews. Without money, he won't talk. It's the end of the line - forever, I hope.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because "User Account Control" (UAC) is how Vista, due early next year, aims to protect you from doing or installing bad things (like spyware) on your computer - and it may drive you mad.As the Windows reviewer Paul Thurrott noted (http://tinyurl.com/f9jf8) about Vista build 5365, UAC is "the most annoying feature that Microsoft has ever added to any software product, and yes, that includes that ridiculous Clippy character from older Office versions".So how does UAC work? As on Windows XP, Vista has different levels of "user" with different privileges: administrators can do almost anything, while standard users can't delete or change others' files or run certain programs. All flavours of Unix (including Linux and Apple's Mac OSX) do this already.Thurrott says that while UAC is a good idea in principle, Vista's present implementation "throws up an unbelievable number of warning dialogs for even the simplest of tasks".The criticism ignited a firestorm among Windows reviewers. At ZDNet, George Ou, technical director of the tech website TechRepublic, was critical (http://tinyurl.com/noxet): "What Thurrott failed to realise or disclose is that deleting a shared shortcut ... means you are deleting a shared shortcut from the 'All Users' desktop which requires administrative privileges." Clear enough?It all boils down to the usual prolix Windows dialog boxes. "USER ACCOUNT CONTROL," says the box header. "A program needs your permission to continue," it adds. Then two lines of text: "User Account Control stops unauthorized changes to your computer. If you started this program, please continue." Vista users will see those four lines many, many times in their lives. What's wrong with it? The first text line is redundant, and the second pointless, because you have two buttons called "Cancel" and "Continue".Security expert Bruce Schneier sums up the problem (athttp://tinyurl.com/ges4k): "Lots of warning dialog boxes ... don't provide security. Users stop reading them."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
About six years ago, I began properly to put all my record collection (mostly CDs, some vinyl) on to a hard drive. It was a slog; I began before iTunes, using its precursor SoundJam. But on discovering the delights of MP3s, and how radically your view of your music collection changes once you start listening at random across artists, albums, genres and years, I was hooked. Soon my digitised music collection (for somehow CDs don't feel digitised, even though they're digital) amounted to 20GB, with thousands of songs.At last, I was free from having to feed my hi-fi with CDs. Except now I was tied to using my computer to listen to music. Sure, I could load up an MP3 player (and, later, an iPod); but somewhere I had swapped one anchor for another. It wasn't always convenient to use my computer to play music. And what about playing music in other parts of the house? Without lugging my laptop around, that wasn't feasible.Plenty of people are now, I think, in a similar position: they have lots of digitised music, but no easy way to play it elsewhere in the house. Now, the time is right for us to reclaim music in the home, with the random-access method of the shuffle age.Lots of companies are trying to solve this one. The ideal is a wireless system you can control from where you sit without your computer. Apple's Airport Express, an &pound;89 plug-in wireless router, can play iTunes music piped from your computer, and has a dedicated line-out jack. But your computer has to be running. You can shift all your music to a network attached storage disc (Home network storage will be the talk of the town, April 27); but that does not run iTunes. Most solutions either need your computer running all the time (the Slim Devices Squeezebox and Roku Soundbridge) or ignore the existing music files on your computer and their file tagssuch as year, genre and album art, and require you to squint at the front of a box (the Yamaha MusicCAST).But I've been trying a system built by Sonos (sonos.com), an American company, that betters all these - and shows the way forward. The system consists of a series of small white Linux-powered boxes that owe a lot to the aesthetics of Apple's Mac mini. One hooks into your home networkor computer and creates a private wireless network with the others. Any music that can be accessed over the network is accessible to the Sonos boxes. They have speaker, optical or line-out outputs (the latter can connect to a hi-fi's input), and since streaming music is undemanding of network bandwidth - even a CD stream is only about 10MB per minute, or 1.3megabits per second, well within even the old Wi-Fi (802.11b) capabilities - there's no loss in quality. They also take line-in sources, such as MP3 players or home cinema.Sonos's touch of brilliance is to let you control your music from your lap. Microsoft and Apple (with Media Center and Front Row) use the "10-foot interface" - a big display on a computer or TV across a room. That's dire if you're choosing from thousands of songs. Sonos provides an elegant handheld controller with a 3.5-inch colour screen and a scroll wheel, like a giant iPod, to control the music and boxes. Different rooms can have different "queues" of songs simultaneously (imagine that for a party). You can play nearly every unprotected file format including MP3, AAC, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC, AIFF and WAV, though not (yet) protected music from Apple's iTunes Music Store or stores using Windows DRM. (A Windows update may come.) It recognises tags such as genre and album art (and shows them), You can even get internet radio stations. I loved it.The only cause for a pause? The price - &pound;780 for two boxes with a controller feels steep; extra boxes are &pound;270 each. But I'd rather have this than a high-definition TV set. Apart from anything, I know I'll like the content. It's the future of digital music.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Professor Malcolm Dunn of St Andrews University is a keen photographer. But in his physics laboratory is a different sort of camera. His compact terahertz laser, which works like an x-ray but without the health risks, can see through thin layers and even identify what is underneath. Terahertz frequencies lie between microwaves at the low end, and the infrared end of the visible spectrum at the top end. Within this range, "a lot of materials are transparent - cloth, paper, plastics and human tissue. At the same time, large molecules have characteristic spectra," says Dunn.Seven years ago, "terahertz rays" were touted as a replacement for dental x-rays, but they have yet to make it into your dentist's surgery. Recent reports of shoebox-sized scanners for drugs and explosives also promise easier law enforcement.Why hasn't terahertz taken off? Dunn is developing a compact new source and detector - ski boot-box sized - that may find a use in fighting crime. "Earlier approaches needed a powerful laser with a chest of drawers-sized control cabinet. You needed a pulse that would punch a hole in thin metal," he says.His breakthrough has been to use a smaller, less powerful infrared laser with an integrated crystal of lithium niobate to produce terahertz pulses. Although the terahertz beam is invisible, you can bounce it off gold-coated metal mirrors, focus it and tune it. Then comes the problem of detection. A liquid helium-cooled detector (a bolometer) is not that practical, so Dunn has designed a miniature device that can be used at room temperature.Identifying featuresHe would like his new instrument to identify concealed drugs or explosives quickly and reliably. Terahertz radiation penetrates the covering, hits the unknown substance and bounces back, subtly changed. You then measure what's gone missing in the spectrum of the reflected terahertz radiation. But unlike Mr Spock's fictional tricorder in Star Trek, terahertz radiation penetrates just a few millimetres - thick envelopes, plastics, ceramics and thin cardboard boxes are typical. Quickly distinguishing cocaine from sugar, or Semtex from modelling clay, is an interpretative challenge. It might prove easier to open the suspect package instead."There's a lot of basic science to learn about how these materials absorb terahertz radiation before one can be sure this is going to be a practicable method," says Dunn. "It will find significant applications, but we shouldn't hype it too much."Professor Giles Davies of Leeds University also doesn't like hype. He works in the largest university laboratory in Europe studying the generation, detection and interpretation of terahertz radiation. A multidisciplinary research programme is investigating laser systems, detectors and new semiconductive photo-convertors. He is also involved in a three-year project with government agencies to investigate the detection of drugs and explosives. "All technologies at the beginning appear complex and expensive," says Davies. "We have to be careful of a technology that is only beginning to be moved from the benchtop."Another issue is the lack of standards to calibrate prototypes, along with health and safety rules. This is the job of Richard Dudley, of the National Physical Laboratory. So is terahertz radiation harmful? At intensities much less than a thousandth of the power of your mobile phone, "there is fairly good evidence that it is safe at these sorts of levels", says Dr Dudley.Professor Michael Pepper of Cambridge University agrees: "The amount of terahertz that falls on us from lighting is much greater than you will receive from any active terahertz investigation." As the scientific director of university spin-off company TeraView, he understands the critical first stage beyond the laboratory bench better than most. "People have to bear in mind the limitations of the technology. It's quite an engineering exercise to turn it into something useful."Nevertheless, TeraView has found early adopters in the pharmaceutical industry keen to peer inside complex multilayered slow-release tablets and to distinguish between different forms (polymorphisms) of drugs. Universities are now competing to develop low-cost terahertz emitters that might be used in battery-powered portable devices. "Cost is an impediment to the take-up of the technology. Terahertz sources are unlikely to be less than &pound;5,000," says Pepper.How about taking advantage of natural terahertz radiation? A spin-off from the government's Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, ThruVision, has developed a passive scanner to image objects concealed under several layers of clothing on moving people at a distance.&#183; Possible applicationsDentistry:imaging teeth to obtain a clearer image of hidden dental decay without the risks associated with x-rays.Security:screening people, bags and other packages for guns, knives, drugs, and explosives.Electronics:non-destructive imaging of electronic devices such as integrated circuits.Medical:a prototype imager is in trials for skin cancer at Addenbrooks Hospital in Cambridge. Plans include probes to delineate the extent of breast tumours and endoscopes to investigate bowel cancers.Pharmaceutical:characterising different forms of drugs, the study of molecular structures, and checking slow-release tablet composition.Industrial:non-destructive testing of components, quality control and process monitoring.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Internet radio increases awareness of local artistsWhat a shortsighted view the music industry has (Will licensing kill the radio star, May 4). I use a Wi-Fi internet radio to listen to stations around the world. The result? I've bought CDs of artists never played in the UK. Such radio increases the awareness of a worldwide audience to performers and can only aid sales, artist promotion and the image of the music industry in that country.John LoaderFordham, ElyMarket disciplineI thought the idea behind charging for maps and other data was to get the taxpayer more for less (Should government charge ... and how much?, May 4). Agencies such as Ordnance Survey became "trading funds" to provide more digital maps without having to go cap in hand to the Treasury. The discipline of the market made them provide customers with what they wanted. The "Free our Data" campaign is really calling for a return of the pre-Thatcherite age.Richard SarsonLondonSingle price of successThe single most important factor in the success of iTunes (for the customer) is single pricing (Who wins if iTunes has a single price?, May 4). It prevents the industry from "telling" people what music is "good" through variable pricing (where more expensive is seen as better) and therefore should be bought. Imagine if the film industry used variable pricing - how many people would pay to see a movie that cost only 50p? Not many, I suspect, because they would perceive it as cheap rubbish.If all music costs the same, then the only judgment you make can be on the basis of whether you like it, not on whether it has been rammed down your ears by an industry with an established track record of fleecing customers and artists, by tightly controlling the market.Tony WylieKeighleyExaggerated accountsThe amendment to the UK law on fair dealing in 2003 was nowhere near as drastic as Alex Cox (Letters and blogs, April 27) suggests. It is now restricted to copying for the purposes of "non-commercial research" or "private study". Copying by an academic may still be fair dealing even if the research results in publication in a paid-for journal. The exception for fair dealing for criticism or review has not changed. Cox is right to worry about the trend to reduction of fair-use exceptions and enlargement of copyright protection, but exaggerated accounts of the law make people fearful of using freedoms that still remain.Sol PicciottoLeamington SpaCartoon traditionJohn Illingworth (Letters and blogs, May 4) doesn't find the cartoon (My New Filing Technique Is Unstoppable) funny. I frequently find it very funny, but it was a slow burner - I mostly ignored it before getting sucked in and starting to realise just how good it is. I advise other readers to pay it a little more attention.The Guardian has an excellent track record of publishing cartoons on perceived merits, rather than syndication figures, and consequently run a few duds among the gems. MNFTIU is not a dud, and I am grateful the Grauniad dares to disappoint in pursuit of original and imaginative work.Jay LinnCroft, LeicestershireI was afraid I was the only one who didn't find the cartoon funny! The Guardian has a great tradition of cartoons and cartoonists (Gibbard, Austin, Bell, Varoomshka, Doonesbury). I haven't always found them funny, but have seen the point of them. But I can't even see the point of My New Filing ...Adrian CobleyLudlowGold standard budsFurther to Alyson Gillespie's (and others') letter (Decent earbuds that don't leak sound, May 4), I have used Etymotic ER-4s, the gold standard for years. I also recommend the excellent, and reasonably priced, Sennheiser CX 300.Philip BergmanLondon
