Top 10 video games, week ending 22 October 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (30)PC (10)12 (1)Medal Of Honor(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)23 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (38)Wii (6)PSP (6)44 (–)Professor Layton And The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)15 (3)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)26 (4)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)37 (15)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)668 (6)F1 2010(3+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (49)PC (0)59 (5)Pro Evolution Soccer 2011(3+)PS3 (63)Xbox 360 (35)PC (2)310 (7)Dead Rising 2(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (40)5Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track &copy;2010UKIELtd
When I started playing computer games in the eighties, a major city-wide event celebrating this emerging pastime would have been all but inconceivable. Tabloid-led mainstream thought tended to slot interactive entertainment somewhere between football hooliganism and mass unemployment as a desirable cultural phenomenon.Thankfully things have changed. Five years ago, Nottingham launchedGameCity, a four-day celebration of game culture mixing in-depth keynotes on professional development with big public events in the town square. One minute you could be learning about the intricacies of coding physics on an Xbox 360, the next you could be attending a massive music concert dressed as a zombie. It's this diversity that puts GameCity up there with, say, Austin's amazingSWSX festival, as a truly contemporary and inclusive exploration of the digital arts.This year's GameCity kicks off on Wednesday at a variety of venues around Nottingham. And with most of the events free, it would be churlish not to experience at least some of the fun. To get you in the mood, here are ten highlights from the programme that no gamer with access to the East Midlands should even consider missing...The Guardian Gamesblog BreakfastsWednesday to Saturday, 9.30-10.30am, The BroadwayOkay, so we had to start with a plug. Each morning of the festival, I'll be hosting a live 'studio debate' in the cafe bar at the Broadway cinema. A panel of handpicked games industry celebrities will be on hand to tackle the key topics of the day, answering questions and discussing issues put forward by our audience. The events are free, but you'll be able to purchase a delicious full English breakfast as you query – and perhaps even shout at – the greatest minds of our gaming generation. And me.Crysis 2andLego Universegame demosWednesday to Saturday, 10am-6pm, GameCity LoungeThese two wildly contrasting new titles will be playable throughout the festival.Crysis 2is set to be one of next year's biggest FPS releases, and the multiplayer component is being built by Crytek's UK office, based in this very city. Meanwhile,Lego Universeis a fascinating MMO based around everyone's favourite building bricks. Just drop in and play when you like.Adam Saltsman's Ideas BucketWednesday to Friday, 10am-6pm, GameCity LoungeIndie developer Adam 'Atomic' Saltsman, the creator of the brilliant browser gameCanabalt, will be creating a whole new title at the show, based on ideas from Gamecity attendees. The final project is set to be designed and coded with help from renowned musical game reviewer,Rebecca Mayes. Have you ever seen a computer game being conceived and written? No? Now's your chanceBraid Director Commentary with Jonathan BlowWednesday, 4-8pm, Council House BallroomThe developer of Braid, one of this generation's most important indie games, will be talking through the development of his agenda-setting title. The offbeat puzzle platformer was one of the first independently produced projects to be released on Microsoft's Xbox Live Arcade, introducing console gamers to the delights of the previously esoteric indie dev scene. An amazing opportunity for any wannabe developers.One Laugh LeftWednesday, 6.45-11pm, The Forum, £3A comedy night hosted by Ste, Simon and Ann, the presenters of the award-winningOne Life Leftradio show. As well as seeing this trio of serious-minded games insiders trying (and possibly 'exhausting') their luck at stand-up, you'll catch the likes of Perrier Award-winner Wil Hodgson and 'Goring and Stokes' from The Edinburgh hit show 'Nerds of a Feather'. It's funny because it's about video games.Invitation to a Spy PartyThursday, 10.45-11.45am, Council House BallroomChris Hecker is an absolute game development star, a fascinating writer and speaker on games technologies and a leading advocate of the indie  development scene. He'll be showing off his new project, Spy Party, at this event, and talking through its creation.Listening to LIMBOThursday, 5-7, the Antenna clubThe ambiguous monochrome Xbox Live adventure titleLIMBOwas one of the unexpected hits at this year's E3 show in Los Angeles, stealing plenty of column inches from the industry's mega-budget Triple A behemoths. The game's sound designer Martin Stig Anderson will be at GameCity to discuss the title and talk about the techniques used by the development team to conjure its unique atmosphere. A real coup for the festival.James Hannigan in Concert and ConversationThursday, 7.30-9.30pm, St Mary's ChurchGameCity always puts on decent music events, and this should be a rather stately and atmospheric example. Composer James Hannigan has scored the Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings games as well as Command and Conquer 3, and will be talking about his approach to game soundtracks, in between performances of his key works. The 14th Century St Mary's Church should make a suitably gothic, Hogwartsian venue.Kinecting with RareFriday, 2.30-3.30pm, Council House BallroomHere's a chance to gain a unique insight into Microsoft's Kinect technology, courtesy of Nick Burton, Executive Producer of Technology and Communications at Rare. The veteran UK developer is responsible for key launch title, Kinect Sports, and has worked closely with Microsoft for a number of years, overseeing the whole avatar system on Xbox Live. If you're interested in the future of motion controlled gaming, this is where you'll need to be.How to Build a PlaygroundSaturday, 2.30-3.30pm, Council House BallroomWhy did world renowned game designer Keita Takahashi – creator of Katamari Damacy and Nobi Nobi Boy – decide to take some time off to build a playground in Nottingham? Here the eccentric genius explains all, showing lucky attendees his progress with the development. And if he lets slip any details of forthcoming game projects, you can immediately blog them and become a leading citizen games journalist...
Our efforts to de-Londonise our coverage have seen us take theGuardian Tech Weeklypodcast toEdinburgh,Manchester,BristolandNewcastle- and next on the schedule is glorious Dublin.Photo byandrewpoyntonon Flickr.Some rights reservedIt's the same routine as before - a meetup event in a pub and an open invitation to local gamers, developers, designers, enterpreneurs and general tech-heads. Just make sure you sign up soon.Web2Ireland is kindly hosting this as part of its Startup DemoBar series, and we'll be joining them to meet the great and good of Dublin's tech scene. We want you to tell us what makes Dublin so special, and which standout startups or projects deserve some special attention.It'll be a very busy night, and as we want to meet as many of you as possible please come armed with a pithy, 90-second description of what you do - if you're trying to pitch to us! Otherwise just come and soak up the brew.Tuesday 23 November 20106.30pn to 9.30pmEly Gasto Pub, DublinSignup onWeb2Irelandto attendJemima Kiss, Charles Arthur and Scott Cawley from the Guardian Tech Weekly podcast will be there.Thanks toEnterprise Irelandwho will be sponsoring the evening
After a couple of quiet weekends the gaming finally came alive for me again this weekend. Fable III was the biggest title and my review will be up later this week. Possibly tomorrow. Lego Universe got a look in too. The child-friendly MMO is as polished and slick as you may expect. Like all MMOs though it needs a bit more time to see if it really sinks its hooks in but so far so good.Anyway, what about you? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Windows Phone 7 home screen. Photo byviskason Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Phone 7 review &gt;&gt; Engadget"We do have to question whether a long list of tiles and a long list of applications is superior to a grid (as seen in webOS, iOS, and Android). Honestly, scrolling down a long alphabetical list to find what you're looking for here isn't much easier than paging through a grid. And unlike iOS, webOS, Android, and even BlackBerry 6, there's no universal search option here to help you quickly find what you want. That's one thing we didn't expect to find ourselves missing, but became very noticeable very quickly. There's also only one homescreen and customization space is limited by the tile layout, so you end up scrolling vertically to find the right hub or app there too -- contrast that to Android, iOS, or BlackBerry, where you can arrange multiple home screens at will and quickly develop an organized workflow. We'd like to see options for three- or four-row tile rows at the very least -- it would go a long way towards making the homescreen more efficient."Windows Phone 7 review &gt;&gt; neowin.netThough they note that you could face problems if you download a ton of apps, "From what we've seen, Windows Phone 7 will be a huge success for Microsoft. Although Apple's strategy and device offerings are solid, we fully expect Windows Phone 7 to eat into Android sales and recover its lost market share."Windows Phone 7 Review: Ladies and Gentlemen, We Have Ourselves a Race &gt;&gt; GizmodoThough its "Don't Like" list is a lot longer than its "Like" list, and it's not what you'd call in-depth.Starting Over: The Windows Phone 7 Review &gt;&gt; PCWorld"There are little animations everywhere, like flying dots that indicate that data is being downloaded. It combines blocky shapes, primary colors, and Bing-like photo backdrops. In screen shots, the interface can look downright peculiar, but it all adds up to a pleasant experience that meets the most important test of all: You can figure out about 90% of it within minutes of picking the phone up." Also points out strengths and weaknesses with Zune Music and apps.Review: Windows Phone 7 Novel but Lacking &gt;&gt; Walt Mossberg"I couldn't find a killer innovation that would be likely to make iPhone or Android users envious, except possibly for dedicated Xbox users. Even the built-in Office can be replicated with third-party Office-compatible apps on competing platforms; and the iPhone and Android phones also can interoperate with Microsoft's corporate Exchange email, calendar and contact system."So for now, I see Windows Phone 7 as mostly getting Microsoft into the game, and replacing the stale, complicated Windows Mobile system that preceded it. It will get better."Microsoft Windows Phone 7 review &gt;&gt; TechRadar UKThorough (10-page) review, which sits on the fence about the UI's long-term potential. "The problem is that there are already other strong smartphone platforms on the market – Windows Phone 7 doesn't beat them hands down but it's a strong challenger that's only going to get better".End Of An Era: Sony Stops Manufacturing Cassette WalkmansThe first went on sale in July 1979. "Sony says that they managed to sell over 400 million Walkmans worldwide until March 2010, and exactly 200,020,000 of those were cassette-based models." Sony will of course keep on making CD and MiniDisc Walkmans.Interesting fact: Apple has sold 277m iPods since 2001. Which must say something about the analogue v digital ages.Nokia's moderate-intelligence-phone performance &gt;&gt; Asymco"Half of Nokia's smarpthones are sold through distributors not operators and probably end up being sold unlocked and unsubsidized. Price matters in those markets."The other problem that Nokia takes a beating over is that their products don't get used as smartphones. Many are sold without data plans at all which makes one wonder what exactly makes their phones "smart". So many of these 100+ million/yr.  smartphones are really hired to do a feature phone job. They're "overqualified" and thus underutilized. The statistics in terms of app downloads, browser and ad impressions all lag as a result. The ecosystem suffers."Home Office respond on Intercept Modernisation Programme - sort of (Dec 2008) &gt;&gt; Open Rights Group"The Home Office have sent back a deeply disappointing response to our Freedom of Information request about the Intercept Modernisation Programme. The response reveals almost nothing about alleged proposals to build a giant database of the communications traffic data of all UK citizens, even though the Home Office admit the need for an informed public debate on the scheme."Analysts predict iPad sales (part IV) &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dedlu points out that analysts got the numbers for the iPad significantly wrong, for the most part. (Myforecast: sales of 5m in the first 9 months or so, which actually puts me up there among the better analysts, but well short of reality.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
As fans of the Terminator films will know, the machines were due to rise up against their human masters on 29 August 1997. Being machines, of course, there were a few technical hitches, but now the moment has arrived. After many years of development and testing, America's National Nuclear Security Administration has finally announced that an autonomous robot soldier has begun patrolling its radioactive waste facility in Nevada.If this conjures up the image of some sleek android pitilessly scanning the horizon, then you are going to be disappointed. The actual automaton, or "Mobile Detection Assessment Response System", looks like a golf buggy full of microscopes. And instead of any meaningful kind of gun, the MDARS comes equipped with just a bright light and a loudspeaker (through which, presumably, the remote operator can shout things such as, "Oi, you there!" and "Put that back!").To its credit, the MDARS can roll around the compound at up to a terrifying 20mph, and it is expected to save the Nevada site more than $1m a year on labour and equipment costs. With a few minor adjustments, moreover, it could also be fitted with a weapon that the US navy is currently working on. This would enable the machine to fire paint and pepper capsules with the capacity to simplyruinan intruder's outfit.Before you scoff, however, take note that other, more fearsome robot soldiers are also on the way. Israel, for instance, is developing its own version, which goes by the name of the Guardium (no relation). This machine, which looks like an angry tractor, is being built by a company called G-Nius, and will also be highly autonomous, with similar features that enable it to move independently and shout at people. Indeed, it is reported to have been used on Israel's borders already, and includes the potential for a live machine gun that can be programmed to return fire.At this stage, admittedly, the technology looks cumbersome and slow, but if the Terminator films taught us anything (besides a lot of one-liners) it is that technology evolves. By the end of the century, you mark my words, it is the MDARS and the Guardium's pictures that will be on our banknotes. In the meantime, while we wait, surely a televised duel can be arranged?• This article was amended on 25 October 2010. The original headline read Robot soldiers patrol Nasa's radioactive waste dump. This has been corrected.
The UK privacy watchdog has launched an investigation into Google after it admitted copying household computer passwords and emails from unsecured wireless networks, when taking photographs for its Street View mapping service.The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said it would investigate, in light of a report in Canada that the company had potentially violated the privacy of thousands of Canadians. Similar findings are also emerging from other countries.Google's admission came afterCanada's privacy commissioner found Google had captured highly sensitive personal information with its Street View mapping cars. Seven privacy regulators in other jurisdictions have also analysed the data and revealed the full extent of what was copied, with reports due shortly from many others.Fears over the data Google had collected first surfaced in May, with the company initially saying the it was only "fragmentary".In a statementpublished on its official blog, the Californian-based company said it accepts that in some cases complete emails, usersnames and passwords had been inadvertently collected from unsecured wireless networks.Alan Eustace, Google's vice-president of engineering and research, said: "We want to delete this data as soon as possible, and I would like to apologise again for the fact that we collected it in the first place. We are mortified by what happened."He added it was clear from the external inspections that "while most of the data is fragmentary, in some instances entire emails and URLs [web addresses] were captured, as well as passwords".Alex Deane, director of privacy campaign group Big Brother Watch, said: "As if building up a database of photographs of millions of people's private homes wasn't enough, the news that Google has also harvested email addresses and passwords is nothing short of outrageous."Alma Whitten, Google's new director of privacy said: "We are profoundly sorry for having mistakenly collected payload data from unencrypted networks. We are now strengthening our internal privacy and security practices with more people, more training and better procedures and compliance."The ICO said it had examined "samples" of payload data submitted by Google in May, and could not find evidence of compromising personal information, but would now re-examine.An ICO spokesman said: "Earlier this year the ICO visited Google's premises to make a preliminary assessment of the payload data it inadvertently collected while developing Google Street View. While the information we saw at the time did not include meaningful personal details that could be linked to an identifiable person, we have continued to liaise with, and await the findings of, the investigations carried out by our international counterparts."They added: "Now that these findings are starting to emerge, we understand that Google has accepted that in some instances entire URLs and emails have been captured.We will be making enquires to see whether this information relates to the data inadvertently captured in the UK, before deciding on the necessary course of action, including a consideration of the need to use our enforcement powers."‬
If the devil is in the detail, then the iPhone is Satan. It is a phone where the details - from the exterior to the littlest workings of the software - have been sweated over. Sometimes, of course (*cough* antenna details *cough*) it doesn't go right, but a lot of thought goes into getting itcloserto right.Into this field pitches Microsoft with its Windows Phone 7 platform, aiming to regain the lost glories of Windows Mobile (its previous mobile platform) not by mimicking WM but by throwing away all the thinking that put WM into a straitjacket - particularly that the mobile was just a little version of a desktop - and starting again in a post-iPhone world.I tested a production version of Windows Phone 7 running on an HTC HD7, linked to the O2 network and (with my own SIM) the Orange network, using it as my main phone on and off for a week.Overall: promisingStandards: goodThe phoneThe Home pageBeside the Home pageApps: Zune MarketplaceInformation density, which mattersDetail, detail: signal strength, battery and Wi-Fi indicatorsAs a phoneFor emailFor textingFor browsingUsing the cameraContactsCalendarsText processing, including OfficeMapsConnectivity - 3G, Wi-Fi and BluetoothBattery lifeConclusionsOverall: promisingOn the yardstick where the iPhone's devilish detail makes it Satan, the HTC HD7/WP7 combo is a priest who has taken to drink, wine, women, song and has started exploring the filthier parts of the internet.That is to say, it's had quite a lot of wickedness added (especially compared to its forebear), but there are areas where it hasn't quite got the idea. Some of that is inherent in the interface, which means that you'll simply have to accept that that's how it works; others are tweaks that can be, well, tweaked by Microsoft at some point in the future so that the overall user experience improves. It needs apps, it needs to have YouTube included, it needs copy/paste, it needs multitasking, and it needs dozens of apparently small but actually importantdetailsto be corrected to put it truly on the top level.Standards: goodMicrosoft has ordained (we're back with the priest again) that all Windows Phone 7 phones must• have three buttons: Back, Home and Search, in that order• have at least a 5 megapixel camera• have a touch screen at least 4.3" diagonally• have a minimum speed processor (a 1GHz ARM or equivalent).(Wikipediahas a listif you like.)The three buttons are context-sensitive, so Back always takes you back one screen (and it's got a long memory - you can keep going back through all your actions), while Search will search within your app (say, email or maps). Home is always home. It's a good, robust arrangement.Physical keyboards are optional: among those going on sale from the 21st is one with a keyboard. The HTC HD7 doesn't have one.What this means though is that you could (in theory) pick up any Windows Phone phone from any manufacturer and be able to find your way around it without trouble. That's good - really good.Carriers and handset makers will be able to add their own software to it, but Microsoft controls the base software, and controls the timing and content of over-the-air updates. Quite how intrusive the carrier software is going to be remains to be seen - on the HD7 there was nothing from O2, though the Marketplace (its app store) included a large "HTC" category which you can't, of course, remove.The phone: physicallyThe HTC HD7 is a lovely phone, with a huge (4.3") screen. It's thin, and never felt heavy. Battery life was good - always more than a day, and often up to two or three days on standby but with data use and Wi-Fi turned on. It did sometimes feel a little large - making a phone call, the top of the screen bumped a little uncomfortably against my ear (there's a metal bevel at the top that would be better flattened) - but fine.Home pageWindows Phone 7's main front screen: it's different, and it's definitely not WindowsThis is where it happens, right? The landing page. Numero uno. Well, Microsoft has come up with something that's simply unlike any other mobile platform at present. The front page has room on first view for 8 little "tiles", or six plus a broad one ("Pictures" or "Calendar" are the choices there). Each tile is meant to represent a function, rather than just an app: so the top right one in the default is "People", which is meant to indicate when someone has updated their Facebook or Windows Live (err.. aren't those beingshifted to Wordpress? - Ed) feeds. Presently it doesn't include MySpace, Bebo or Twitter by default, which seems like a mistake - but also indicates, I think, how desperate Microsoft was to get this out of the door so it could sell it in time for Christmas. Little pictures within the "people" tile slowly blink on and off, indicating that things are happening among your folks.You can move the tiles around, delete them, reorder them, or bring some from the menu that lies a swipe to the right.The whole idea of the front page tiles is that they should be an easy access not just to apps, but to "things" you use a lot - rather like a speed dial on a phone: that you could pin your home number to the front and use it, or that you'd have particular stocks there. Unfortunately you can't quite do that: you can pin (deep breath) theshortcut to the address book entry for your home number. Touch that, and you are just one more click away from dialling home. Imperfect. It's almost as fast to click the phone icon, and then find or dial your home number.With stocks, I thought there would be a way to pin a particular stock to the front page - giving an at-a-glance measure of how it's doing. But no - you get a generic icon, and no means that I could find to pick out a stock to be on the front.Windows Phone 7 home screen: gaps are very obviousAt first, I liked the front screen. The scrolling animation has an easy feel, rolling past like other touchscreen systems (iPhone, Android).However, after a while of using it, I felt that it didn't hold enough information. One annoying element: the tiles don't reorganise tidily, so you can end up with a single tile on a row when it would save space (and so scrolling) if they reordered themselves automatically.What I really wanted, I realised, was for the tiles to be smaller. At their existing size, you can only see 8, at most, at a time. Perhaps so that rather than being two abreast, they were three or even four abreast. Something a bit like... this?iPhone 4 screen (and side view)Well, that's better - it manages up 20 icons per page, of which 16 vary and 4 are persistent as you swipe across. Information density is an important measure in a small screen. I don't think Windows Phone 7 quite hits it with the home screen, ambitious - and different - though it is.Beside the home page: the apps listThe apps list on Windows Phone 7. The icons are manageable size, but it could turn into a very long list: it holds 10 icons per page (half as many as the iPhone)The home screen is pushed to the left, because it has a little arrow at the top right so that you can go over to a long - potentially very, very long - list of apps.Here, the icons are a reasonable size - but they're simply laid out in a long list. No way to putting them into folders; no way to line them side by side. In its basic form, this list is fine, but as soon as you get to iPhone-level numbers of apps, it's going to start feeling untenable. You only get 10 icons per screen. (The iPhone has up to 16, plus 4 that are persistent.)In short, it feels like Microsoft's team have designed this a little too cleverly to be useful to real people. Where you can take in an iPhone screen pretty much at a glance to find an icon, you have to read up and down the WP7 screen. If you get to more than four screens' worth, it will quickly get boring - and the buried apps will stay there.Nor can you include functions of multiple apps in a single home page tile. If you want to add, say, Twitter and an RSS reader output in a tile on the front page, to save opening both.. you can't. The "hub" idea, that you work around people rather than apps, breaks down very rapidly beyond the Facebook/Windows Live accounts of the default top right tile. Possibly this is developers not having their heads wrapped around the idea. Or possibly it's just a step too far at present for a mobile phone interface.Apps, marketplace, ZuneSearching on the Windows Phone 7 Marketplace for Twitter (pre-launch; more apps are now available). The search results include apps and music - you can't limit the scope.I'll admit miserable failure to own a Windows computer to add songs from, so I didn't test the capabilities as a music player. I did test the Zune Marketplace, which in the pre-release stages that I was testing the phone was like a 1950s Soviet supermarket: damn big, and damn empty.I tried a Twitter client called Twitt, which was horrendous: the background interfered with reading. I later found Seesmic, a better client.In short, there are huge gaps where there should be a marketplace. Only time will tell whether developers will come through here. Most of the apps on view were paid-for; again, knowing the contradictorily parsimonious ways of smartphone users, will they really buy them?Information density, which mattersComparing an iPod Touch with the Twitter client against WP7's Twitt: despite the bigger screen, there's not as much informationThe problem I had with those Twitter apps remained the same, and it's one that I think is basic to Windows Phone: it really doesn't get very much information onto a screen. On Seesmic and Twitt, you get three tweets plus a name on the screen. On the iPhone Twitter app you get the full text of four (though to be fair, on Twitterrific for iPhone you only get three). All the real estate on WP7 seems to get eaten up with unnecessary signage.I'm interested to find that Edward Tufte, reknowned for his analysis of what good presentation is, hasreached much the same conclusion:"The typography is loose and over-produced, with big blimpy titles burning up content real-estate. The titling typography does not serve user needs or activities. Instead it is about its designer self, and looks like signage on the walls of a fashionable building. Good screen design for information/communication devices is all about the user and should be endlessly self-effacing. It is much more difficult to be user-friendly undesigny than designer-friendly designy."Note that he was writing in February, but I think his points ring true. The key thing that Windows Phone is missing isinformation density.Detail, detail: signal strength, battery and Wi-Fi indicatorsWhat would you expect to see at the top of this screen? You'll have to guess whether you've got a data connection. (This is a screen for synchronising calendars.)As an example of missing detail that would make a huge difference: while every other phone on earth shows you in the top of the screen how strong the phone signal is, how much battery power is left, and (if it has it) what strength of Wi-Fi you're getting, WP7 shows none of those by default. It only shows them when you unlock the phone, and if you press the top area of the screen for some time (in which case you get a brief view, which then goes away).You do get the phone strength when you're making (or about to make) a phone call, but not at other times. Given that this is a device where you'll be accessing data via mobile, I think that's a mistake. It's like a clock you can't glance at.I sense that Microsoft's designers were motivated in this by the desire to bereallydifferent. The motivation is good; the result, not so much. You quickly discover that you do need those bits of information on a phone, in the same way that when you wake up in an unfamiliar place your first instinct is to find out what time it is and whether it's night or day.As a phone?The call history on Windows Phone 7. There's no clear visual indicators of missed, received or outgoing; it's written. [Edited final number.]It's OK for making phone calls -- good reception, OK for sound. But Nokia and Apple have it beat for the interface: there's no separation of calls into "received", "outgoing" and "missed" (as Nokia does) or even "All" and "Missed" (as the iPhone does). There's just a long list of phone calls receding to infinity. The refusal to use a tab-based interface doesn't help here. If you get or make a lot of calls from many sources, it's going to be a mess.For email?It connects fine to Hotmail (naturally) but also to Google and Yahoo. The interface is the same combination of frustratingly big signage and small information.For texting?Good. You get a QWERTY keyboard in portrait mode (are you listening, Nokia?), and multiple suggestions in a row above the keyboard as you type; the most likely word you're typing is picked out in bold, and if you move on while that's highlight it gets put in. It's one of the best implementations of texting I've seen. The icon is a smiley face, which distinguishes it from, say, email (keep listening, Nokia).For browsing?Windows Phone 7's browser is *drum roll* Internet Explorer. And not IE8 - it's a sort of mobil-ised version of Internet Explorer 7, which of course came out four years ago. It doesn't (presently) support Flash, and it doesn't do HTML5. For YouTube viewing, you download an app from the Zune Marketplace.Windows Phone 7 v iPod Touch displaying an article from the Guardian's mobile website. Both get the same amount of text in, and the display is comparable.Flash and HTML5 apart, the browsing is adequate (once you realise that you have to tap above the URL address bar, not in it, to enter a URL). Double-tap zooms to a column, and the legibility is good - slightly better (because of the screen size, as much as anything) as my 2G iPod Touch. You can open multiple pages at once, or close them individually. It may be IE7, but it's perfectly serviceable, and again, a lot better than Nokia's effort.Not so good: WP7 trying to display the traintimes.org.uk site. It's IE7, and the CSS support isn't good enough at the top of the page.Sometimes though its poor CSS capabilities show it up - as with this attempt to display theTraintimes site.Update:commenters say this is more due to the failures of the traintimes site to cope with small browser windows than WP7's browsing. Certainly, its browsing was generally trouble-free.For pictures from the camera?Sometimes you do feel the dead hand of Microsoft's marketing department on your shoulder, and never more so than when you use the camera. Once you've taken the picture offers to save it, edit it (there's a free Hipstamatic-like process to alter the photos' appearance) or upload it.Upload it to popular sites like Flickr? Er, no. Facebook or Skydrive. Skydrive? That's Microsoft's (free) cloud storage system. Even though it's free, I didn't feel like creating a new account. Why no Flickr? (Update:commenters are saying that Samsung phones include Flickr. It seems an odd omission. There are Flickr Uploaders now in the Marketplace, but that is an app rather than a default.)Also, third-party apps aren't being allowed to access the video camera*, which may be a security thing (don't let Bad Apps turn on your video without your knowledge) or it might just be an oversight. I'm tending towards it being part of the overall incompleteness of the platform, to be remedied later. [*Updated to clarify it is the video camera which does not have an API.]ContactsIn my testing, they had to come via your computer, or from Facebook. There's no way to get them from the cloud, such as a Gmail or Hotmail address book. Open goal, missed.Update:commenters are saying that they are seeing this on their versions. As with calendars below, this may be an over-the-air update that happened during my testing which makes my initial setup invalid.CalendarsMicrosoft Outlook and Google Calendars are suportedonly.Don't bring your steenking Google Calendar here. This is a substantial oversight, given how many businesses and individuals are now using Google Mail and its calendars. The calendar is functional, but without syncing to those cloud services it is limiting itself - especially as it admits the existence of Google Mail users. Possibly this is an omission that will be sorted out in the Big Forthcoming Update (there must be one, as you'll realise presently), but for now it's another annoyance.Google Calendar syncing is also supported. The addition must have come unannounced during an over-the-air update during the testing process, as it certainly wasn't there earlier.Text processingWindows Phone 7 includes the Office programs, which are shareable if your organisation has SharePoint.Windows Phone 7 comes with Office included (neat!) although the lack of copy-and-paste does make it into a potentially destructive, or just frustrating, endeavour. But you can share presentations and documents with Office-equipped-Sharepoint-equipped colleagues back at your workplace, so on the corporate side that's got to be at least one thumb up.MapsThe GPS system uses Bing Maps. I couldn't get it to work in Shetland (where the Nokia N8 was perfectly happy), though this may have been a temporary glitch. Certainly it was very happy in London, and was able to find the destination of "Groucho Club" with no other information, and offer walking or driving directions. Bing turns out to be a good enough search engine. That's fortunate, as there's no way to use anything else as the default.ConnectivityThe Wi-Fi joins open Wi-Fi networks and WPA2 Enterprise networks very happily (unlike the Nokia N8), in the same way as the iPod Touch does. A touch on the network you want, and it will join it. However, if it fails to join it, and uses the phone's 3G or GPRS connection instead, you won't find out until later - which could be embarrassing financially.There isn't any option either to turn off 3G.Update:Thereis, indeed, a way to turn off 3G: Settings -&gt; Network. (I'm certain this was not there when I looked at it ahead of launch. Grr. It adds a level of complexity to review a moving target, though the movement is definitely in the right direction.)The Bluetooth functionality is extremely limited - I couldn't browse it or use it as a modem from a Mac, which I could with the N8 without needing to install any extra software. (To its credit, the HD7 doesn't include any installation/driver disks, which must be an added bonus.)Battery lifeGood - easily two days with Wi-Fi turned on (you can't turn off the 3G). Less good than the Nokia N8, better than the iPhone.Overall conclusionsIf Windows Phone 7 were a symphony, it would be by Schubert, and it would be called Unfinished. It is teeming with rough edges - the lack of signal information, the lack of apps, the lack of copy-paste, the lack of browser support for FlashorHTML5 (and the latter is unlikely to arrive in this incarnation of the browser),lack of Google Calendar sync, lack of Flickr integration, lack of organisation of your phone calls into "outgoing", "received", "missed" (or any combination of those).Oh, there's no multitasking, except for Microsoft's own apps (so you can play music and then deal with a phone call). The drawback is that if you leave an app to do something else, then you have to relaunch it all over again when you go back to it.Some of those will doubtless be addressed with a Big Friendly Update some time next year, but the lack of those things for now may frustrate some.Notethat some of what I saw as initial failings (lack of cloud contact syncing, Google calendar syncing) wereaddressed during the two-week test with over-the-air updates. That means there is plenty of scope for improvements, especially to synchronisation with those cloud services.However I think there is a bigger overall problem here. While it is superficially an enticing interface, whose appearance certainly distinguishes it from every other platform out there, the key problem is the lack of information density. No matter what the screen size, you don't get many tweets, or emails, or justwordson there. At first it's relaxing - andas I said in my first encounter, calm- but I suspect that over time the lack of packing will make scrolling through long lists of apps tedious, and reading chunked information (such as Facebook and Twitter) exhausting. Those can't be sorted without an overhaul of the interface.The hardware is very nice, and there are excellent design decisions (especially of consistency) across the range. The software sets itself apart from other platforms out there - but when you actually use it for any length of time, there are certain niggles which suggest you've been put at the mercy of designers, rather than usability experts.Further under the hood, there are myriad things that haven't been done, which make sense for a product that was rushed out to hit a deadline for the Christmas 2010 selling period: if Microsoft had missed this date, it might truly have been counted out of the smartphone market.Certainly, Microsoft has moved from being the phone you'd be embarrassed about, to one you can flaunt. But some of this beauty is only skin deep. Think and test carefully before you buy. The lack of so many things and the rough edges mean it's only three stars; with some of those fixed it would easily be four stars. But whether it will ever be a five-star interface is a much harder question.
Ben Kingsley, Michael Fassbender, Zoë Wanamaker, Bernard Hill, Simon Pegg, John Cleese and Stephen Fry are all on the cast list and the 20-track original score is performed by a national symphony orchestra. It sounds like the cinematic event of the year, yet this epic tale will never be seen on stage or screen. Instead, the ensemble cast of more than 80 actors and voice talents makes up the characters ofFable III– one of the most eagerly awaited video games of the year in an industry that is gradually acquiring some cachet among the stars.Securing the Oscar-winner Kingsley in his first video game voiceover role was perhaps the biggest coup, although the publishers have yet to reveal whether they needed a blockbuster-sized budget to bring the cast together."I'd say it was less than you would pay for an animated film," said Georg Backer, audio producer at game makers Lionhead Studios, and the man responsible for bringing the acting talent to the studio. "A lot has been spent but sales expectations are high. It took six months from start to finish and by the end more than 470,000 words had been spoken. We had a list of people who we thought would be perfect for the roles, and went to the agents to sell the story to them.Fable IIIis quintessentially British with its issues of monarchy, taxation, rebellion and charming humour so it was much easier to sell this to British talent."Kingsley, who plays Sabine, the leader of the mountain-dwellers, said: "This is my first experience voicing a video game, so what drew me to it was the team, how committed they are, how well organised everything is and how beautiful the game is."TheObserver'svideo games editor, Giles Richards, said work by Peter Molyneux, the creative director atFable's publishers Microsoft Games Studios, could be placed alongside modern film auteurs such as Michael Haneke. "The world that he has created is so rich, so believable and so gloriously detailed it's hard not to be enthralled by it. But it's also cinematic, epic and homely all at once – little wonder that Brit acting talent would want to be involved. The roles fit our actors as Ealing once did: clever, witty and idiosyncratic, they recognise in Molyneux an auteur at the height of his game," he said.Simon Pegg, who plays a soldier always looking for a fight, said it was a unique project to work on. "One of the things that is missing from a lot of video games is good writing and good voice work. I think this one has a wonderful mythology and it's witty and it's engrossing," he explained.By Friday advanced sales forFable III, released in the US on Tuesday and in Europe on Friday, had catapulted it to the top of Amazon.com's games chart.In the past year, more A-listers have lent their voices to the games industry with Mickey Rourke leading the way. As the voice of Richard "Demo Dick" Marcinko in last year'sRogue Warrior, Rourke said he was exploring a whole new realm of entertainment.Games as big asFable IIInow have launch days on a par with Hollywood blockbusters as the internet buzzes with chat. "The firstFablegame was the reason I bought my Xbox," one blogger said. "It was and continues to be a groundbreaking. series."• This article was amended on 25 October 2010. The original referred to Lionheart Studios. This has been corrected.
It was the quietest of departures. In a low-key footnote, the giant software company Microsoft disclosed the departure of its creative guru Ray Ozzie late on Monday evening.The reaction outside the computing industry might have been: Ray who? But for those around the Seattle-based corporation, it was a tectonic shift.Ozzie, brought into Microsoft in 2005 as chief software architect, was supposed to fill the technical shoes of Bill Gates when the company's co-founder ended his day-to-day role in order to spend more time giving away his money.An evangelist for "cloud" computing – where applications and storage are provided over the internet – Ozzie had enemies within Microsoft, notably those defending its Windows and Office suite monopolies. His exit sparks questions about Microsoft's direction and piles the pressure on the company's veteran chief executive, Steve Ballmer.Microsoft is struggling to adapt as more businesses move their work to the cloud of processing and storage such as that offered by Google and Amazon. While others in the industry shift their products online, Microsoft still relies on its monopolies in the Windows operating system for PCs, and its Office suite of programs such as Word. Together, they generate more than 50% of its total profits; those online losses then drag down that profit.Ina famous memowritten and sent around the company in October 2005, soon after he joined, Ozzie extolled "the power of the advertising-supported economic model" and "the effectiveness of a new delivery and adoption model". The company had to change, he said, or its existing businesses were at risk.There were two problems with that: first, the entrenched political forces within Microsoft which protects the revenues from Windows and Office; second, that Ozzie had no leverage, because unlike his rivals he was not in charge of a product group. "He's more of a gentle, entrepreneurial professor [than a] corporate shark," one Microsoft insider told the Observer.But others are proving Ozzie right. Google is grabbing Office users away from Microsoft by offering itsonline "Google Apps" products, which it says are now used by 3m businesses; in response, Microsoft claims 40m "customers" ofits online services. Amazon is becoming known as much for its online storage services, used by companies such as Twitter, as for selling books. The cloud is becoming pervasive.Microsoft does have online services; earlier this week it launchedOffice 365, which mixes the desktop Office with an online offering. But Google's alternative is cheaper, and for many businesses might be just as effective. Within Microsoft, the idea that the cloud will be the future sounds like swapping a business that pays pounds for one that pays pennies.Ozzie's departure also demonstrates that Ballmer, chief executive since January 2000, is tightening his grip on the company. Compared with a year ago, he is now in direct control of the divisions responsible for mobile phones, the Xbox and the Office suite. That's because those responsible have left. For example, Stephen Elop, who ran the Office division, was recruited in September to run Nokia.Insiders say that Ballmer agreed with Ozzie's cloud vision – but, crucially, didn't back him publicly enough. An anonymous Microsoft middle manager who blogs as"Mini-Microsoft", and who since 2006 has been urging the company to slim down, noted in a blogpost that "[Ozzie] didn't take a broad view of Microsoft at all" and that in contrast to Gates – whose software reviews of projects had programmers and managers quaking in fear because he understood the subject so much better than them – "the rigour of a focused, intellectually deep and sturdy software development declined" under Ozzie. Without the "gauntlet" of a Bill Gates review, the software was in danger of growing flabby.And Ozzie made enemies: one insider told the  Observer that Ozzie's "Future Social Experience" team had irked the Office team earlier this year by taking some of its software components to create docs.com, an experiment linked to Facebook where people could create documents as if using Office – but online. "You don't spank a cash cow [Office] without getting a hoof to the mouth," is how the insider put it.Ballmer now faces the biggest challenges of his career. Asked earlier this month how Microsoft would face up to the challenge of the cloud – especially its financial implications – he dodged the question, saying only that the company would commit to its vision.Yet his future is on the line. Earlier this year the executive board quizzed Ballmer on what he had achieved since taking over. "They asked him to do a long-term assessment of his time as CEO, and he came up with various learnings and areas of personal focus," says the insider. "I don't know if the executive house cleaning we're having is a result of this or not. But he is under pressure and rolling with the punches."
Small but perfectly formed, some of the titchiest wonders of the natural world have been revealed in their full glory by groups of chemists, biologists, materials researchers and botanists working in laboratories round the world. These are the winners, and short-listed finalists, of one of science's longest-running imaging competitions: the Nikon Small World awards. This year, scientists from 63 countries sent in entries for the competition which this year is celebrating its 35th anniversary. These microscopic submissions are not merely judged for their informational content and their technical proficiency but for their visual impact. A selection of some of the most striking are displayed here.These works, selected by competition judges, include close-up photographs of iridescent crystals of the mineral cacoxenite; a starfish embryo; an extinct marine diatom; a butterfly egg nestling among the buds of a flower; trout alevin; and a caddis fly larva head. This year's first prize went to the image, shown at the centre of this article, of a close-up view of the heart of a mosquito. Taken by Jonas King, of the biological sciences department of Vanderbilt University, in Nashville, Tennessee, the image involved the use of a technique known as fluorescence microscopy which exploits the fact that certain substances can be made to emit one kind of light while being bathed in a different form of radiation. Typically the emitted radiation is of longer wavelength than that of the light shone on the specimen. For example, many minerals, crystals, resins and organic compounds emit light when bathed in ultraviolet radiation. By carefully tailoring the radiation shone on their sample, the Vanderbilt team were able to create a photograph that shows the delicate traceries of tissue inside a mosquito's heart.http://www.nikonsmallworld.com/gallery/year/2010/83
One of the few comical aspects of the spending review is the frantic attempts by all concerned to predict how the victims of Osborne's axe will respond. The major newspaper groups and the Tory party will of course be deploying the usual – expensive – steam-age tools: opinion polls and focus groups. The cash-strapped Labour and Liberal Democrat parties may have to resort to cheaper techniques – inspecting the entrails of slaughtered goats, perhaps. In the interests of levelling the playing field, therefore, this column offers them a better idea: intelligent data-mining on&nbsp;Twitter.It's taken a while for the penny to drop, but finally the world is waking up to the fact that the phenomenon of social networking might actually tell us useful things about what's happening out there in the world beyond the Washington Beltway and the Westminster village. Not only that, but the resulting data might even be useful for predicting what's likely to happen.Last March, for example, Sitaram Asur and Bernardo Huberman, two web scientists from HP's Palo Alto lab, published afascinating papershowing that the chatter on Twitter can be used to forecast box-office revenue for movies. They analysed 2.89m tweets by 1.2 million users referring to 24 different movies released over a period of three months. They discovered that the rate at which movie tweets are generated can be used to build a powerful model for predicting box-office revenue. They also found that predictions derived in this way are "consistently better than those produced by an information market such as the Hollywood Stock Exchange, the gold standard in the industry".To take just two examples,Transylmania, which opened on 4 December 2009, had the lowest average tweet-rates (2.75 tweets per hour) of all the movies analysed and went on to become the lowest-grossing opening for a movie playing at more than 1,000 sites, making only $263,941 in its opening weekend. (It was subsequently pulled from cinemas at the end of the second week.) At the other extreme, two movies that made big splashes in their opening weekends –Twilight: New Moon(grossing $142m) andAvatar($77m) – had averages of 1,365.8 and 1,212.8 tweets per hour respectively."Big deal," I hear you say. "Who – outside of Hollywood – cares about movie box-office figures?" Well then, how about the stock market? Last week another interesting paper appeared onarxiv.org, the stupendous online archivedepository for research preprints in physics, mathematics, computer science, quantitative biology, quantitative finance and statistics. It's by Johan Bollen, Huina Mao and Xiao-Jun Zeng of the School of Informatics and Computing at Indiana University at Bloomington, and it suggests that data-mining on Twitter can significantly&nbsp;improve predictions of stock-market movements.Bollen and his colleagues set out to investigate whether public sentiment, as expressed in large-scale collections of daily Twitter posts, can be used to predict the stock market. They used a standard psychological tool to measure mood along six dimensions – calmness, alertness, sureness, vitality, kindness and happiness – and then analysed nearly 10m tweets posted by 2.7 million users between 28 February and 19 December 2008 to extract indicators of mood implicit in tweets. They then looked for evidence of correlation between different kinds of mood and movements in the Dow Jones industrial&nbsp;average.They concluded that the predictive accuracy of standard stock-market prediction models was significantly improved when certain mood dimensions were included (for example "calm" and "happiness" as one measure of mood), but not others – "general happiness" being one example.Once upon a time, this kind of research would have attracted only the derisive snorting of technophobes. Why should we take seriously the 140-character vapourings of geeks and media types? What we really need to know is what "ordinary" or "normal" people think. The problem with that kind of technophobic scepticism is that cyberspace is increasingly coming to look like the "real" world. The demographic characteristics of Twitter's 200 million users (or of Facebook's 500 million) are undoubtedly still a bit skewed compared with those of the population as a whole, but over time that will change: these social networks will increasingly be made up of folks like you and me. In which case, the communications that go on between their members will become the best guide we have to the zeitgeist.If Ed Miliband wants to have a finger on the pulse of the nation, then the smartest thing he could do would be to hire a few geeks and set them to work.
Rather unusually, Electronic Arts finds itself in the position of underdog with new mixed martial arts fighting simMMA(Electronic Arts, Xbox 360, PS3, cert: 16, out now). The Ultimate Fighting Championship now dominates what has become the world's fastest-growing spectator sport, to the exclusion of all other MMA governing bodies, having locked down the rights to their fighters and branding – especially those in their officialUFC: Undisputedgames.Electronic Arts has responded to being the outsider by throwing its energy into producing a superb game, which expands on the innovative gameplay mechanics of their ownFight Nightto integrate fighting styles such as sambo, wrestling, kickboxing, judo and jiu-jitsu.While inUndisputedany throws and take-downs when standing or passing guard on the ground require deft rotations of the control stick,MMArelies on a single button each for take-downs, offensive and defensive moves.MMAapplies the opposite principle to the stand-up game, swappingUndisputed'ssingle button strikes forMMA's"total strike control", where combinations with the control stick deliver punches and kicks to the body or head with power and accuracy. The resulting action is fast-paced and exciting, where fights can end within seconds or go the distance until the referee mercifully intervenes.Despite all the showmanship of the UFC franchise,MMA'sfluidity and finesse makes it this year's winner by split decision, but don't be surprised if there is a rematch …
TheFalloutseries was doing post-apocalyptic gaming long before it became the cliche that it is now. Released in the late 1990s,Fallouts 1and2were ruthless, pull-no-punches, hard-as-nails isometric RPGs for the PC, memorable for their excellent writing and the believability of their cutthroat world. If there ever was a nuclear apocalypse,Falloutwould have pretty much nailed the aftermath: humanity reduced to desperate scavengers, killing one another over bottle caps and irradiated water.Bethesda resurrected the series withFallout 3two years ago, bringingFallout's world into 3D and crafting a beautifully desolate version of Washington in the capital Wasteland. It was a huge hit, and deservedly; for here was a rich, complex and rewarding role-playing game. But forFalloutfans, there was something missing, something of the original two games that just didn't quite carry over – something that lay in the script and storytelling.Fallout: New Vegasis just as big and just as beautiful asFallout 3, but it's been made by Obsidian Entertainment, a studio that employs talent from the developer that originally created the series. It really shows. On the surfaceNew Vegasisn't much different at all – it looks the same, and plays the same – but it has better-quality scripting. It's well written, dark and thought-provoking, with a brilliant sense of gallows humour, and its morality is far from patronisingly black-and-white. If you want a game that will make you really think about what you're doing, not through heavy-handed cinematics but through subtle plotting, clever scene-setting and the consequences of your own actions,Fallout: New Vegasis it.The Mojave Wasteland, the game's setting, is a fictional post-apocalyptic Nevada. The jewel in its crown is the titular New Vegas, a depressing, neon-lit den of sin controlled by three power-hungry, competing families. New Vegas is your eventual goal, but the game lets you determine the pace and nature of your journey. Head out into the wasteland with no place in particular to go and you may well get yourself killed, but you might also discover something miraculous; a closed community, a broken-down old supermarket stuffed with lifesaving supplies, a pre-apocalypse radio station with the computerised diaries of its staff at the moment of annihilation still intact.Ultimately Obsidian's scriptwriting and Bethesda's game prove a match made in heaven.Fallout: New Vegasis a real undertaking – this is a huge game, but it's also more ambitious and intellectually fulfilling than anything else out thus far this year.
If success was measured by quality rather than sales figures, then Sega's publishing deal with Japanese boutique developer Platinum Games might have been one of the shrewdest bits of business in recent gaming history. The studio's fourth title – brainchild ofResident Evilcreator Shinji Mikami – isn't just its best yet, but one of the finest action games of this console generation.Most modern shooters force players to err on the side of caution, to crouch behind waist-high walls and pillars, occasionally peeking out to fire off a round or two before beating a tactical retreat.Vanquishactively encourages flagrant risk-taking by rewarding flamboyant play. Your exoskeletal suit deals more damage when activated, just as its rapidly draining energy meter forces judicious use of its full power. It's thrilling to rocket-slide into enemy territory and jump-kick one robot foe before blasting its cohorts in slow motion as you somersault backwards to a safe distance.The intensity of the combat is unyielding, the pacing relentless. The spectacle is, at times, staggering: towering mechanoid enemies fire scything laser beams and swarms of missiles, while a speeding train spirals queasily around a roller-coaster track above a yawning cityscape. Frenetic, ferocious and consistently entertaining,Vanquishmakes its peers look utterly pedestrian by comparison.
Our favourite puzzle-solving duo, Professor Layton and his young apprentice, Luke, need your help again to unravel some more curious happenings after the ill-fated demonstration of a new, whizzy time machine goes awry… Luke receives a letter from his future self warning him that the prof has inexplicably turned evil, and needs his present-day incarnation to assist in thwarting his wayward activities. Cue another charming and cleverly told adventure, this time in the future, to save the day.Layton titles are consistently a joy to play, thanks to the simplicity of the user interface when navigating through the game and the fun but taxing puzzles expertly woven into the story. This latest is no exception, offering an even more compelling and elaborate storyline, along with more than 150 teasing tests, from numeracy and logic to visual conundrums and feats of memory; but fear not, if that sounds a little daunting there are always hint coins to use when you're stuck. While accessing the puzzles and progressing the narrative occurs by interaction with the beautifully rendered characters and scenery, there are also numerous mini-games and plenty of downloadable content to keep you busy once Luke and Layton have restored order to the timelines.
YouTube Play projection on the Guggenheim Museum. Projection © 2010 Obscura Digital, Inc. Video: Travis Threlkel, Photo: Kristopher McKay © The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, New York, 2010"My life actually flashed in front of me in that bookies... the big white tunnel and I could see myself playing football when I was his age." Leaning on a car window to speak to the driver, the man points to the young son tugging at his sleeve. "The round went through the back of my head," says an older man, leaning back on a kitchen chair. Another, gripping his car keys, says he had to stop taxiing after he was shot. "I couldn't. I was afraid like, you know."Delicately exploring memories of Belfast cab drivers caught up in paramilitary attacks, Lisa Byrne'sStand Up and Cry Like a Mancould have been exhibited in the Courtauld Institute or Bristol's Arnolfini, where she has exhibited before. Instead, her video is one of just 25 selected from YouTube by an esteemed panel of artists and curators to be exhibited at New York's Guggenheim Museum.YouTube Play launched in June, inviting artists from around the world to submit their work. By September, the 23,358 submissions had been whittled down to 125 finalists. A judging panel including performance artist Laurie Anderson, Glaswegian artist Douglas Gordon and filmmaker Darren Aronofsky - and led by esteemed Guggenheim chief curator Nancy Spector - picked 25 winners, announced at the Guggenheim last night [Thursday 22]."Video as an art form is nothing new, but to have that vast platform and the availability of video in so many inexpensive formats now has changed the way artists are working with it," said Spector. "There is a form that is very specific, with artists using mashups and remakes and it is very reflexive, looking at the medium itself and using that language." She used the example of Moonwalk by Czech artist and YouTube Play winner Martin Kohout, a hypnotic and endlessly repeating play bar.One of the three UK winners, Byrne said she was attracted to the intimacy of YouTube and used a number of devices to try and make the audience feel 'penetrated'. "The accent speaks for itself, I wanted to create this sense of what these guys went through by creating a sense of speed and bombardment for the audience, through speedy editing, visual and emotional informational and listening to very strong accents."Artists Steven Scott and Will Sweeney say the Guggenheim's involvement has given a real legitimacy to YouTube as a tool, platform and a subject sometimes too young to be taken seriously. Their surreal, neon space animation 'The Parachute Ending' was inspired by La Planète Sauvage director René Laloux and animator Roland Topor. "We like the idea that someone looks at it and forms their own ideas about it, rather than a distinct message," said Scott. "We wanted to surprise the viewer and go right when they thought we'd go left." The pair are now working on a related animation pilot with South Park writer Vernon Chatman.'Seaweed' creators Remi Weekes and Luke White. Photograph: Jessica BernardFellow UK winner Remi Weekes wasn't giving away anything about the 'magic' technique he and Luke White used to create three of hands in 'Seaweed', but said the internet provides better access for both audiences and artists. "YouTube is a lot more democratic. In the US especially galleries are more exclusive and you have to pay to get in. At least in the UK galleries are still free to visit, so more people can experience what that feels like."Spector admitted that project was dismissed by many because YouTube is so closely tied to popular culture. "'The site with the animal videos on it' - we had a lot of that. But the art world will be looking and will be curious. We may actually begin to change the discourse around it. I do hope so."
Flash Player kills Safari. Again. Photo byschoschieon Flickr.Some rights reservedApple has escalated its war with Adobe's Flash Player by stopping including the browser plugin on the Macintosh computers that it sells.The surprising and unannounced move means that buyers will have to figure out how to download the player and plugin on any of the computers that they buy - a process which Apple has not simplified by including any "click to install" links.Those who don't may find that video sites like YouTube and Vimeo do not work - although the sites could serve HTML5-compatible video codecs that Apple's Safari can play - but also that huge amounts of video and animations on smaller sites do not function because they use Flash player and do not have non-Flash codecs.The companyhas also deprecated its Java runtime, hinting that it will not include it in the next version of Mac OS X 10.7 due to ship next summer, although that is not definite.Even demonstration models of Apple machines in Apple Stores will not include Flash, which may surprise casual browsers.Apple's exclusion from the desktop and laptop computers of Flash - which is already banished from the "iOS" devices, iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads - became clear whentesters discoveredthat the new MacBook Airs unveiled by Steve Jobs on Wednesday could not play Adobe Flash content including YouTube.An Apple spokesperson said: "We're happy to continue to support Flash on the Mac, and the best way for users to always have the most up to date and secure version is to download it directly from Adobe."Apple was criticised last year when it shipped earlier versions of its Snow Leopard OS which included an older version of Flash Player which included known security vulnerabilities. And in hacking contests to try to break Mac OS X security, the Flash plugin has been the preferred route of breakins.The move will however be seen as  continuation of Apple's - and particularly Steve Jobs's -campaign against Adobe's Flash Player, which the company views as the source of browser instability, security weaknesses and excessive CPU usage, as well as adding complication when keeping versions up to date when they have to be shipped on physical media, as new OS releases are. Jobs has criticised its as "proprietary".Jobs has instead praised HTML5 and the video codecs available on it, which a growing number of sites using to serve video to mobile users with iOS devices. Nokia announced earlier this week thatit will focus on HTML5 for its future phones.But Apple's move could create huge problems for inexperienced users who will find that sites such as YouTube and Vimeo won't play video. Although those sites will serve HTML5 video codecs to the MobileSafari browser used with iOS devices, they still serve the Flash-based content to desktop machines. YouTube and Vimeo might alter that, although the huge number of other sites which rely on Flash to serve video and other content could not.There are two ways to view the decision: either Apple is dragging the rest of the web, kicking and screaming, towards HTML5, greater security, more browser stability, and away from proprietary lockin - a sort of software version of the abandonment of the floppy drive with the iMac in 1997 (though of course the floppy was standard, although creaky).Or it's a quixotic move inspired by Steve Jobs's desire to turn every computer into a locked-down appliance that only runs Apple-sanctioned apps downloaded through its forthcoming App Store for Mac (which doesn't include plugins).Your viewpoint will probably already be set, though it is an interesting exercise to try analysing the decision from the exact opposite view of that which you already hold: both turn out to be defensible.The key question therefore is what the effect will be in the course of one or two years. The Macintosh is a tiny part of the browsing market - but it is bigger at present than mobile browsing. If Macintosh users are added to iOS users as Flash-incapable, that may push some sites towards offering non-Flash versions of Flash content. And once Microsoft's Internet Explorer 9, which has some HTML5 capability (and doesn't come with Flash preinstalled at present) begins rolling out, the momentum could become significant.Of the Java decision, Apple said that"This means that the Apple-produced runtime will not be maintained at the same level, and may be removed from future versions of Mac OS X. The Java runtime shipping in Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard, and Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard, will continue to be supported and maintained through the standard support cycles of those products."But many developers who use Macintosh computers for Java development, and the move has left them concerned that Apple is abandoning them in favour of creating a desktop platform that is more closed than ever before.Jobs is reported by Macrumors.com as having responded to a worried developer that "Sun (now Oracle) supplies Java for all other platforms," Jobs allegedly wrote. "They have their own release schedules, which are almost always different than ours, so the Java we ship is always a version behind. This may not be the best way to do it."But James Gosling of Oracleresponded in a blogpostthat "it simply isn't true" that Sun/Oracle supplies Java for all other platforms. He also suggests that Apple had rewritten parts of the Java specification for its own sites, notably iTunes and the App Store, for graphics rendering - but that Oracle had forced Apple to make its new versions Windows-compatible and with full compatibility to the Java specification.Developers who have used Apple's Java libraries areconcerned, but are unsure of the precise implications of the move, which may become clearer in coming months.Dino Dal Zovi, a Macintosh security expert,told ZDNetthat the move would probably increase security for Mac users, because Apple had lagged in updating its Java port, which put users at risk from security holes:"I think Apple users would be safer with Java being an optional third-party install as it is rarely needed on the modern web and this would not subject Mac users to the window of vulnerability before Apple is able to release their Java security updates."
The PokeCheryl Cole Gets Honorary GCSE, George Osborne "Ashamed" Of Father Ozzy, Jamie Oliver Found Dead: "Basted Then Roasted With Garlic And Rosemary": these are just some of the headlines at this satirical site that comes on like a British version of The Onion crossed with Private Eye crossed with a website that's got lots of funny links and brilliant YouTube clips. Employing excellent use of Photoshop's more basic techniques, news stories are accompanied by photographs such as Ken Livingstone with Boris Johnson's hair and the frankly horrific sight of David Cameron in Speedos. Elsewhere is the brilliant idea of an edition of Monopoly based on The Wire. "We hope The Wire Monopoly game will go down well not just with fans of the show," says a spokesman for game company Hasbro (allegedly), "but with everyone who secretly wishes to be a poor violent black drug dealer from America."Fifty People One QuestionFifty People One Question.Remember those idents Channel 4 used to run with a load of stars responding to a single cheeky question? Well, that's the deal here, except those answering are regular folk, resulting in a beautiful and touching series of short films shot in New York, New Orleans and London. The question: "Where would you wish to wake up tomorrow?" seems to puzzle plenty of Londoners. In a trio of friends, one answers, "Somewhere hot." His pals nod sagely before one adds, "Yeah, somewhere hot – with chips." A young couple reveal secrets in another film. "You know your cat that you think disappeared?" he says. "Well, I ran over it." Instead of hitting him she confesses that she has dozens of books filled with love poems about him. Ah, the madness of real life.Blog roll: LiverpoolScott Fitzgerald.Boom Bang A BlogMerseyside's leading Eurovision blog takes a long overdue look at Scott Fitzgerald and Britain's 1988 Song For Europe competition.Tinned GoodsPop culture obsessions including an appreciation of Karl Pilkington, an irrational hatred of Scrubs and unbridled passion for rugby league.Seven StreetsArts and culture featuring Liverpool's all-female rollerball team, Buggles v OMD and Alex Curran's new fashion line.Liverpool LandscapesLiverpool history from slave trade to TV advert location, vintage maps and local museum news.Scribblings, Jottings &amp; MusingsLatest news from the LFC soap opera.What we learned on the web this weekThe Best Of Cigar Guy.The bestof Cigar GuyThe greatestscarecrows of all timeWhy piratesare better than ninjasHow toremove stress from office environmentsHow tocreate stress in office environmentsThe futureisn't going to feel futuristicThe truesize of AfricaWhere tostick a pirate radio antennaThe awesomenessof fluid dynamicsSome thingsBritish Sea Power wish they'd never doneWhere tojoin a giant game of Scrabble
Professor Layton And The Lost Future, Nintendo DSiWhen Professor Layton's faithful young assistant Luke receives a letter from himself 10 years in the future, the pair find themselves embroiled in a plot involving scientists, time travel and a missing prime minister. As in past instalments, the upshot is that you need to solve a cavalcade of puzzles introduced by the game's cast of eccentrics. Brainteasers range from pub-style matchstick games to mazes to classic riddles, all mixed up with a sprinkling of mini-games to add variety. As usual, each puzzle features a little twist, and each can have its challenge softened using a series of progressively more leading hints, purchased with special coins you can find hidden in every scene. The series' trademark charm returns here, exuded by the script, voice acting and visuals, making this a wonderfully accessible and engaging game that requires no dexterity whatsoever.Nintendo, £39.99Vanquish, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Vanquish.It's the future, and the Russian menace is back, this time in the form of a terrorist cell, the Order of the Russian Star, armed with the former USSR's vast decaying arsenal of weapons. Naturally it's your job to shoot them until they stop. Taking place on a cylindrical space station orbiting the Earth, Vanquish puts you in experimental body armour that lets you jet around the environment at high speed and upgrade the various weapons you pick up. Action is raucous, with firefights an unceasing rush of arcing electricity, giant explosions and shaky-cam movement, framed by the game's sprawling, brightly-coloured environments and a soundtrack that pumps up the adrenaline even further. The blistering pace never falters, maintaining an impossibly high-octane charge that sadly ends after just five or six hours of heroic gunnery. While replaying levels is an inviting prospect, it's hard not to feel a bit shortchanged overall.Sega, £44.95Headspin: Storybook, iPadHeadspin: Storybook.Telling the simple story of a farm lad on a quest to save a princess from the witch queen, Headspin: Storybook is a puzzle game for those inclined delicately towards OCD. In it, you're faced with a series of spreads from a pop-up book, in which everything on the right hand page needs to be an exact mirror image of the left. To make that happen, you tap objects that are out of alignment to flip them over until everything is perfectly symmetrical, before the clock runs down. Featuring a delightful artistic style that makes the most of its page-turning metaphor, with everything from rainbows to castles popping elegantly into existence, Headspin: Storybook's 20 levels between introduction and defeating the witch queen should take no more than half an hour to complete. But then again, it is the price of a Mars bar, will keep you entertained for considerably longer and won't make you fat and spotty. Bargain.Brandwidth, 59p
At the beginning of the year, I drove what was then thenew Polo– the SE 1.6 TDI 75, since you ask. It was just what you expect of a Polo, only slightly more so, and therefore, I suggested, a trifle dull.At first sight, the Polo BlueMotion 1.2 TDI 75, hardly challenged that judgment. After all, it looks the same, inside and out. The same functional perfection of style – everything in its sensible place, with no distracting frills. And, initially at least, nor was the drive strikingly dissimilar. There was the same tractorish growl of the diesel engine, the same sluggish feel in the lower gears. Nothing to moan about, particularly, but equally nothing to trouble drivers with a pacemaker. It took me a while – in fact, not until I was on the motorway – to realise what I was doing wrong.I was driving as if I was in a three-door supermini with a small engine, which was an understandable error, because that's exactly what I was in. But due to this categorical confusion, I was driving too passively. Once I'd floored the thing, however, I got the measure of the machine. And what I&nbsp;discovered is that it likes the robust treatment. It likes a bit of rough.Take its fuel consumption. As I&nbsp;monstered past ambling Alfas and moseying Mazdas, I noticed the handy dashboard read-out was 200mpg. This car, the thought struck me, could single-handedly bring the Saudi economy to its knees. But a few miles down the road it dropped to just 80mpg, so Wahhabism, it seems, is safe for a&nbsp;few more years yet.Back in the city, I continued to take a more assertive approach to the accelerator – nothing bonkers, just keeping the revs high in first and second, and it was like driving a different vehicle: sprightly and even fun. What the effect was on fuel economy, I don't know. All I can say for certain is that I failed to make any impression at all on the fuel gauge, which remained stubbornly full.Exactly how this was achieved remains a mystery. Not because there has been any profound breakthrough with BlueMotion technology. It's more a case of maximising engine efficiency and cutting down on resistance with adjustments such as lower suspension. The real mystery is why more cars don't follow suit.With its diesel noise and uneven gear settings, the Polo BlueMotion is never going to rival hybrids for ease, quiet and smoothness. Yet in terms of CO2 emissions and gas-guzzling, it's right up there with the big success stories in eco cars. As such, the thrill that comes with not just saving the planet but, in more immediate terms, also saving money at petrol stations is almost enough to make you forget that you are, in fact, driving a Polo.VW Polo BlueMotion 1.2 TDI 75Price£14,445Top speed107mphAcceleration0-62mph in 13.9 secondsAverage consumption80.7mpgCO2 emissions91g/kmEco rating9Bound forVladivostok (without refuelling)In a wordParsimonious
In case you've missed this so far, Sony has announced that 2.5 million PlayStation Move controllers have been shipped since the motion sensing device launched last month. One million of those have gone out to stores in North America, and the other one and a half million through Europe. The Move provides accurate 3D motion tracking, using both built-in accelerometers and a camera that sits below the PS3 console scanning the controller's movement. The product is an important part of Sony's Christmas push for the PS3, and the hope is it will attract mainstream family gamers away from the Wii.While the figure isn't mind-blowing, it's a more solid start thansome pundits predicted, and Sony has always said that it sees Move as a slow-burnier that'll pick up attention over the life of the console. In August, Ray Maguire, Senior VP of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe,told Eurogamer:Am I expecting a massive day one? Not particularly. We didn't with EyeToy, either. It went on to be massively successful. As people saw the value when they tried it they told their friends. Their friends bought it. They told their friends. Word of mouth grew the marketplace. That's what I expect from Move as well.It will be interesting to see how this performance compares with Microsoft's much-hyped rival Kinect, a hands-free controller for the Xbox 360. The Seattle giant is putting a multi-million dollar marketing push behind its technology, set for release on November 10.
It is, apparently, the machine that will not die. A decade after Sega pulled the plug on Dreamcast, the 128bit, web-enabled beauty that opened the door to the connected console gaming era, is slowly creeping back into the public consciousness – although by 'public' I mean 'overly nostalgic veteran gamers'. Crazy Taxi and Sonic Adventure are already available on XBLA and PSN, and earlier this week, it was revealed that groovy music game Space Channel 5 part 2 would soon be joining the DLC fun, accompanied by Sega Bass Fishing. Although the latter won't have its custom fishing rod controller, you'll still get to howl with laughter when the commentator screams, 'Oooh a tiddler' when you haul in a spectacularly small fish.And now we have a trailer of Chu Chu Rocket, an iPad/iPhone remake of the brilliantly hectic four-player puzzler, due to hit the iTunes store next week. Dreamcast fanatics will no doubt recall the fun of changing arrow directions on the game's grid-like mazes in order to direct your chu chus away from the big cats and into their escape chutes. The iPad version will feature four-player fun on the same screen, while iPhone gets a Wi-Fi mode.Joystiq reckonsmultiplayer is a bit sluggish, but maybe that'll be sorted later.Elsewhere, Marvel vs Capcom – which made its home console debut on Dreamcast – has been successfully reborn, while House of the Dead, Phantasy Star Online and Soul Calibre continue to lurk about on the periphery. So, what's next? We've alreadydreamed about Shenmue, but how about Sega's epic RPG Skies of Arcadia? I'd also go for Mars Matrix, Headhunter and Cosmic Smash – all offbeat interesting titles. I might get bored of this subject one day. Today is not the day.
Microsoft's chief executive admitted that "we have a lot of work to do to get into the [mobile] game" in a meeting with analysts on Thursday night as the first Windows Phone 7 handsets went on sale.Windows Phone 7 devices have gone on sale in Europe, Australia and New Zealand – although US consumers will have to wait until 8 November.The first purchase was by Jourdan Templeton, who took advantage of the time difference to buy his in New Zealand.In a blogpost, the Windows Mobile team said it was a "very exciting time for us here" and promised that hundreds of apps had been posted to the Zune Marketplace – the phone's equivalent of Apple's App Store – which is "on pace to deliver more than 1,000 by the time phones become available in the US. And that's just the beginning. We'll be adding hundreds more each week through 2010".Microsoft predicted in May that it would achieve 30m Windows Phone 7 sales by the end of 2011. By comparison, Apple has sold nearly 40m iPhones in the past four quarters, while the number of Android-based phones sold has increased rapidly in the past few quarters. That would leave Windows Phone competing with RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, for market share.Microsoft also expects smartphones to make up 40% of handsets sold in 2011, compared with 14% in 2010.But speaking to Gartner analysts,Ballmer was frankabout the phones' present shortcomings."We have a lot of work to do to get into the game," he said. "We will need to push for features that are not there on the first release."Notable absences from Windows Phone 7 are the ability to copy and paste text, and browser support for either Adobe's Flash or HTML5-based video, although an app to play YouTube video is offered for download via the Zune Marketplace.Analysts expect that the deviceswill be "well-received" by enterprisesbecause of their ability to edit and share Microsoft Office documents.UK handsetsFive different Windows Phone 7 phones are available in the UK from all the major networks, featuring models from HTC Samsung and LG.O2 is exclusively selling the HTC HD7, which has the largest screen of the set (4.3"). (This device will be reviewed here later.)Orange is exclusively selling the HTC 7 Mozart.Vodafone is exclusively selling the HTC 7 Trophy, which is "designed with gamers in mind", and the LG Optimus, which can record HD video.3, Orange and T-Mobile are all offering the Samsung Omnia 7, which has a 4" AMOLED screen and HD video recording.All Windows Phone 7 handsets include a camera offering at least 5MP.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Despite being ultimately a little disappointed with Fable 2 - the "freedom" in the game never felt as liberating as it should have - I can't wait forFable III.  Released next Friday in Europe the Xbox 360 game promises - as ever - to give the player real choice. The latest, and presumably final, trailer has just been released and talks a lot about power, consequences and revolution. Sounds good. The trailer make the characters look a little ugly though - this is no Mass Effect. Still, I'm very much looking forward to this one.Microsoft have also announced that a DLC code will be included with the game and will give players a Scottish male/female outfit and Highlander tattoo set. You also get two potions (Raise Dead, Slow Time) and a Red Setter skin for your dog. Presumably this is all given via code rather than shipped in game to encourage sales of new - rather than used - copies.  Expect to see this happen more and more in the future.What about you then? Counting down till Fable III next week? Or has the new Fallout sated any RPG hunger?
The Kindle is the best-selling product on Amazon.co.uk, the company announced last night, asit revealedbetter-than-expected quarterly results showing products up by 16% to $231m (£147m) and revenues up 39% to $7.56bn.But lower forecasts for profits in the next quarter led its stock to fall in late trading, as it invests in new warehouses to deal with products."In the 12 weeks following the introduction of the new generation of Kindles, customers ordered more Kindle devices on Amazon.co.uk than any other product," the company said in a statement. Since the launch of the Amazon UK Kindle store at the start of August, the number of paid titles available has grown from 400,000 to 450,000 – though it did not put any figures on the number of paid downloads, number of Kindles sold or revenue from their sales.However financial analysts at Caris &amp; Cotold Bloombergthat they estimate that the Kindle will generate $2.8bn in revenues this year, growing to $5.3bn in 2012. Sandeep Aggarwal, a San Francisco-based analyst for Caris, suggested in a note to investors that "Kindle device users will not only continue buying more ebooks but also subscriptions, accessories, hardware warranties, and eventually use Kindle's wireless and computing capabilities for other data and content", such as music and videos.Shares fell by up to 5.6% in late trading, because the forecast earnings for the next quarter fell short of analysts' estimates. Amazon is guiding that it will have sales of $12bn to $13.3bn, and operating income of $360 to $560m. Analysts had forecast significantly higher profits of about $620m.Amazon is investing in new warehouses as it deals with more large electronics items as well as clothes: it has built 10 so far this year and aims to finish three more by the end of 2010. It anticipates that these will be ready for operation at the same time that the US economic recovery is ready.The best-selling Kindle ebooks in the UK since the bookstore's launch have been Stieg Larsson's Millennium trilogy, Tony Blair's A Journey and Rosamund Lupton's Sister.US sales represented 54% of the total, while cash flow grew 16% for the past 12 months, the company announced.
Wrapping. Photo byPeter Alfred Hesson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRegain the Timeline in iMovie '11 &gt;&gt; TidBits"When Apple radically changed iMovie between the '06 and '08 releases, one of the biggest criticisms was the abandonment of the traditional editing timeline." In short: new version can, with effort, be made as good as the one from 4 years ago.Nokia Focuses on Qt to Extend Reach for Developers, Make Mobile Experience Richer for Users | Nokia Conversations - The official Nokia Blog"..you can buy a Nokia smartphone confident that any improvements introduced later to the Symbian platform, such as the user interface, can be made available to download on your device as well. No need to wait for Symbian^4 — the improvements we were planning for Symbian^4 will be introduced as and when they become available. In fact, we will no longer be talking about Symbian^3 or Symbian^4 at all – it will be one constantly evolving and constantly improving platform."Well, there's certainly room for improvement. Elop seems to be shaking things up already.The Rise and Fall of Swivel.com &gt;&gt; eagereyesSwivel.com wanted to be an aggregator for data, but things went wrong. "Q: You seemed to have a very clear idea about how to turn a profit by having paying users in addition to free accounts and the general public. How many paying users did you have in the end?"A: It was single digits. To be honest, many of the things you'll see with Swivel are more of a cautionary tale for a first-time CEO like me than for the space as an opportunity."Sex.com sold (again) for $13m"A set of three documents filed in California Bankruptcy Court earlier this week reveal that the world's most valuable domain name – Sex.com – has been sold for $13m, just one million dollars more than it was sold for back in January 2006." The buyer is a corporation called Clover Holdings based in St Vincent in the Caribbean.Apple issues review guidelines for Mac App Store &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"Apps that crash, exhibit bugs or do not perform as advertised by the developer will be rejected, as will be apps that are "beta", "demo", "trial", or "test" versions. Apps that use non-public APIs or include undocumented or hidden features inconsistent with the description of the app will be rejected."Apps that duplicate apps already in the App Store may be rejected, particularly if there are many of them. Apps that are not very useful or do not provide any lasting entertainment value may be rejected. Apps that are primarily marketing materials or advertisements will be rejected. Apps that are intended to provide trick or fake functionality that are not clearly marked as such will be rejected."Actually, a lot of Adobe-based products (and even Adobe products) might fail under the full requirements listed here.Google 2.4% Rate Shows How $60 Billion Lost to Tax Loopholes &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Google, the owner of the world's most popular search engine, uses a strategy that has gained favor among such companies as Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp. The method takes advantage of Irish tax law to legally shuttle profits into and out of subsidiaries there, largely escaping the country's 12.5% income tax." Don't be evil, indeed.Facelette &gt;&gt; Facelette.comSort of Chatroulette but with much more elegant surroundings. You'd hope.MacBook Air: all substance, no Flash &gt;&gt; EngadgetA tryout of the new MacBook Air suggests that it doesn't have the Adobe Flash plugin preinstalled. There isn't even a click-to-install option. Intriguing: is that just the test models?Apple Deprecates Java &gt;&gt; InfoQ"This means that the Apple-produced runtime will not be maintained at the same level, and may be removed from future versions of Mac OS X. The Java runtime shipping in Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard, and Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard, will continue to be supported and maintained through the standard support cycles of those products." Possibly it will move to the OpenJDK, but this is an odd move on its face.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Microsoft's director of developer experience Brandon Watson was pounding the streets of London this morning, chatting to people in the queue for the new Windows 7 phones on sale in Oxford Street."Don't judge the phone until you've held it and played with it," he gushed catching his breath. "See a picture of the UI and a lot of people have said 'ugh! - it's big and blocky!' but it's quite a bit different than the picture."Along with the phone comes theMicrosoft App Store, which is where Watson comes in. He's been leading the work on building developer tools for the store - and faces quite a task in competing with the headway made by Apple's App Store, Google's Android Marketplace, BlackBerry App World and the device-free GetJar.Photo bypreetamraion Flickr.Some rights reserved.Watson's strategy is to keep the developers happy - sort that, and the rest will follow. "You need to give developers the opportunity to make money and recognition for their work. We have to make sure the marketplace works for them but give them lots of video training and events - we've had 70 events in the US in the last two months alone, getting people trained on building apps for Windows phone 7 and really making sure we're focusing on making the tools easy to use and the tech very approachable."For consumers, the key will be to compete with the established players by offering a better experience and a broad portfolio of apps. "It means taking of advantage of the unique UI of the phone that you won't find anywhere else, including the unique integration of hubs like XBox Live. Success will be measured by consumers' happiness with their phone, their ability to accomplish tasks related to apps they buy and developers continuing to flock to the platform."Launch apps include big brands like Tesco and Ministry of Sound, the inevitable Facebook and Twitter and a few more startup names including Spotify and TouchNote. Will Coleman, Microsoft's mobile project lead for the UK, said the strength of independent games development in Scotland and the Midlands is of particular interest. "Historically to get on XBox Live developers have had to have a relationship with an existing publisher, butGames Studiosact as an umbrella for indie developers - a stepping stone into XBox Live. From there, who's to say those indie games won't make it into theXBox Live Arcadeand its 25 million users.""The UK also has some of the best apps and web designers in the world, so I look forward to seeing what the design community will do with theMetrostyle." (He's right actually - Metro isthekey to why Windows Phone 7 UI works so well.)There's a long way to go, however. Apple offers more than 300,000 apps notching up more than 7 billion downloads, and even GetJar has reached 1bn. Big numbers - but Watson isn't impressed."No app store has launched with as many apps on board as Microsoft - we'll have 1,000 at launch - and we've already had 500,000 downloads of our developer tools," he said. "I just don't think the number of app downloads is the right metric - it's like saying one burger joint isn't as successful as the next burger joint because it hasn't sold as many burgers. The right metric is happy customers."That's one view, although downloads that translate to cold, hard money is likely to be a more attractive, measurable unit to Microsoft's shareholders that 'happiness'. But we'll see. Perhaps the disadvantage of being late into a crowded market will be offset by the advantage of learning from everyone else's mistakes, and following their successes.
Governments across south-east Asia are following China's authoritarian censorship of the digital world to keep political dissent in check, the Guardian can reveal.Vietnam, Burma, Thailand, Cambodia and the Philippines have all moved or are moving towards monitoring internet use, blocking international sites regarded as critical and ruthlessly silencing web dissidents.• In Vietnam, the Communist party wants to be your "friend" on the state-run version of Facebook, provided you are willing to share all personal details.• In Burma, political unrest can be silenced by cutting off the country from the internet.• In Thailand, website moderators can face decades in jail for a posted comment they did not even write, if the government deems it injurious tothe monarchy.While much is made of China's authoritarian attitudetowards internet access, a majority of south-east Asian governments have similar controls and , rather than relaxing restrictions on internet use, many are moving towards tighter regulation.The Guardian has spoken to five leading bloggers across the region about the present restrictions they face and future fears.Interactive: Meet five key bloggers who fear a crackdown on freedom of expression.Raymond Palatino, a Filipino MP and editor with Global Voices, says governments, in addition to crudely blocking websites, are starting to use arguments of morality and decency to censor access to information and quash criticism."There is direct censorship to block political dissent. You have repressive laws in Myanmar [Burma], in Vietnam, in Singapore. In fact I think Vietnam is catching up with China in terms of building strong firewalls to prevent dissidents from accessing critical content on the internet."But we also see governments using the excuse of protecting the public morality in order to censor internet content. Governments use the excuse of censoring pornography as a safe argument to make censorship acceptable to the public."More than a decade ago, George W Bush asked people to "imagine if the internet took hold in China. Imagine how freedom would spread". But rather than emerging as a catalyst for democracy, the internet has become another way to to stifle dissent.Palatino sees governments using the internet for their own selfish advantage. "They are learning how to prevent people for using the internet to criticise government. Instead of being a potent tool for empowering the people, the internet will be in the hands of an authoritative, repressive government."With a population of more than 600 million, south-east Asia has about 123 million internet users. But penetration ratesvary from 0.2% in Burma and Timor-Leste to more than 80% in Brunei Darussalam and 77% in Singapore. But south-east Asian use is still dwarfed by China's384 million users.In the Philippines, cybercrime legislation before the parliament would outlaw anything deemed obscene or indecent. Palatino says: "The laws are deliberately broad and vague so they can be used to shut down anything subversive."Cambodia's government is seeking to monitor all internet use inside the country, by appointing the state-owned telephone company to operate the sole internet exchange.Websites will be monitored to filter out pornography, officials say, but opponents say sites critical of the government are also likely to be blocked.In Thailand, century-old lese-majesty legislation is combined with new computer-related crime laws, to mute criticism on the web.Lese-majesty laws – defaming the monarchy - are imposed inconsistently in Thailand, but wielded often enough, and against defendants of sufficient profile, to stifle almost any discussion of the monarchy's role in a country riven by political factionalism. Chiranuch Premchiaporn, the editor of Thailand's English-language news websitePrachatai.com, faces up to 70 years in jail for allowing the monarch to be insulted online.The charges  relate to five of 200 comments posted about an interview with a Thai man who was charged for refusing to stand for the anthem in a theatre.Premchiaporn, known as Jiew, did not write the comments, and pulled them from the website but, according to police, allowed them to stay up ''longer than the appropriate period'', a period never defined by authorities before or since the charge.Now on bail, the prospect of jail weighs heavily on her. "And it isn't just about 'Oh, how long I will have to spend in the cell', my whole life is uncertain. I cannot plan my life because of this legal charge, it makes everything hard."Thailand's strict laws, and harsh punishments, have had a chilling effect on political discussion on webboards and blogs."I think the biggest problem in Thai media is self-censorship … but we started Prachatai for the ideals of believing in the rights of people to access information … from many sources and not be dominated by just one source," Jiew says.Prachatai is blocked in Thailand, under order of the emergency decree after the red-shirt uprising of May. It is one of more than 100,000 websites blocked in the country. "We want to promote the rights of the people to speak up about their issues, not just only people who have a big name, or who are important in government."In Vietnam, web-users can become "friends" with their communist government, joining the country's own version of Facebook. A trial version of go.vn was launched in May. A full version is expected online by the end of the year.The functions are familiar to those versed in social networking. Users can update their status, post photos and links, and send messages back and forth.There are news links, historical articles on founding father Ho Chi Minh and other revolutionary heroes, and members can also play state-approved network games (in one particularly violent example, players join a band of militants sworn to fight the spread of global capitalism).The site is closely monitored by the government's security services, and while, for many, the attraction of the internet lies in its anonymity, to join go.vn users must submit their full names and state-issued identity numbers to the government.The Vietnamese government says it expects to have 40 million members, half the country, in five years. Perhaps because web dissidents are dealt with so ruthlessly by the communist regime – four bloggers were recently jailed for 16 years for anti-government posts – five months on, take-up of go.vn is a bare few thousand.Burma has one of the poorest records on internet freedom in the region.All .mm sites and email addresses are closely monitored by the ruling military junta, and international sites banned, but the tiny internet cafes that dot the former capital, Yangon, are adept at bypassing the government's firewalls, using proxy servers to evade the censors and access banned sites.Outfoxed on technology, the junta responds during times of stress by simply unplugging the internet, especially to stop unwelcome news getting out of the country.At the height of the monk-led Saffron Revolution in 2007, the junta's generals shut down access completely, later claiming a break in an underwater cable had cut the country off.With Burma heading towards its first elections in a generation early next month, and the anticipated release of political prisoner Aung San Suu Kyi a week later, there is an expectation the web blackout may be repeated.
The Finnish phone company Nokia is to cut 1,800 jobs as it tries to restructure its smartphone business, despite announcing a strong rise in profits, revenues and average sale prices of its phones.The company reported a third-quarter net profit of €529m (£469m), compared with a net loss at the same time last year of €559m due to restructuring costs. Net sales grew 5% to €10.2bn.The stock rose by 7% on the Helsinki stock market on the news, where the results were seen as better than expected.Nokia sold 110.4m devices in the quarter, up 2% on the same period in 2009. But the company warned that it expects to sell fewer devices – between €8.2bn and €8.7bn worth – in the fourth quarter. It slightly revised previous estimates upwards, saying it now expects the global device market to grow more than 10% this year, while cautioning that it will lose market share in the full year."Some of our most recent product launches illustrate that we have the talent, the capacity to innovate and the resources necessary to lead through this period of disruption," said Stephen Elop, its new Canadian chief executive recruited from Microsoft. "We will make both the strategic and operational improvements necessary to ensure that we continue to delight our customers and deliver superior financial results to our shareholders."Elop has warned the company that it needs to take advantage of the disruption in the mobile market to prosper. He has moved quickly to focus the company on its smartphone business, which is seen as an essential growth path for the mobile handset division of the company, which accounts for most of its revenues.The company is shaking up the product development of its smartphones as it tries to compete for profitability with the competition from Apple's iPhone, Research In Motion's Blackberry and Google's Android software. Nokia employs about 131,500 people, with 66,000 of those at its Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture, which focuses on telecoms networks.Though Nokia's smartphones have about 40% of the global market, the iPhone has set the standard for smart phones for many design-conscious consumers, while BlackBerrys have been the favorite of the corporate set. More recently, Android software has emerged as the choice for phone makers that want to challenge the iPhone.Nokia's Symbian operating system is older than Apple's software and was not designed from the ground up for touch-screen phones. Other manufacturers that used Symbian have mainly jumped ship to Android; Nokia is the only company still using it following Sony's termination of its use earlier this month.Elop, a Canadian who took over on 10 September after veteran Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo left, is the first non-Finn to run the company.The choice of a North American executive was largely seen as reflecting the increasing dominance of US and Canadian companies in the evolution of the top-end mobile phone business.Nokia, once the bellwether of the device business, has disappointed markets that have expected something fresh and new from a company that once had the innovative edge.Although Nokia last month unveiled its new flagship touch-screen N8 model, it was too late for the third quarter and the company had pinned its hopes on the last quarter for a pickup.
More than 240m copies of Microsoft's Windows 7 operating system have been sold in its first year, making it the fastest-selling consumer operating system ever, the company said on Thursday.Many of those sales will have been to individuals buying new computers, as consumers traditionally upgrade more quickly than the businesses that make up the majority of Windows users. But about 89% of companies intend to install Windows 7 to replace earlier versions of Windows, said Tami Reller, chief financial officer of Microsoft's Windows unit.The revised version of Windows, released as a successor to its Vista version from 2006 – which widely failed to persuade corporations to upgrade from its predecessors, Windows XP and Windows NT – has helped the company back towards record profits, despite a dip in 2009 and earlier this year in computer sales growth.The company will announce the last quarter's financial results in a week's time, and they are expected to show strong growth compared with last year.The software costs from $80 for a simple upgrade in the US – £55 in the UK – to $320 (£230 in the UK) for the top-of-the-range Ultimate edition, was launched a year ago this week to supersede Vista.Although Apple Inc's (AAPL.O) OS X and Linux-based operating systems have won some market share in the past few years, Microsoft still controls 90% of the world's 1.4 billion or so personal computers, and it expects more customers to upgrade or switch to Windows 7.For corporations, upgrading operating systems can be expensive because they need to ensure that the new version will work with their existing software and systems. The cost of upgrading often puts them off if there are not enough usability or security incentives in the new version.Microsoft reported record sales of $62.5bn in the last fiscal year, up 7% from the year before, largely powered by Windows. The Windows unit is still Microsoft's core, providing more than one-quarter of overall sales and just over half of its overall profit, while its Office suite which runs on Windows provides more than half of its overall profits; losses in other areas, notably online services, reduce its net level.Microsoft is expected to report higher fiscal first-quarter earnings next week, but Windows sales – which closely track PC sales – may disappoint investors slightly.PC sales rose only 11% in the July-to-September period, according to research firm IDC, compared with 22% in the three months before that, as back-to-school shoppers appeared to hold off on big purchases.
From biblical Armageddon to Roland Emmerich's Mayan-themed disaster flick 2012, the apocalypse has proved curiously alluring to generations of doom-obsessed worriers.There is something fascinating, even liberating, about the death of civilisation – the idea of wandering vast emptied cities with just Will Smith for company; or blasting zombies to death while living in a shopping arcade. Sure, Cormac McCarthy spoiled things a little with his relentlessly grim The Road, which made the apocalypse look, quite literally, as inviting as being locked in a cellar and farmed for meat. But then we're all looking forward to Frank Darabont's TV adaptation of The Walking Dead. A zombie apocalypse re-imagined by the creator of Shawshank Redemption? Will they see off the undead with a  Mozart aria and a mawkish voice-over? Let's hope.Anyway, tomorrow sees the launch ofFall Out: New Vegas, the latest title in Bethesda's brilliant action adventure series, set in the aftermath of a worldwide nuclear war (seeour review). To celebrate, here are the ten best video game visions of the apocalypse – and if I've missed your favourites, add them to the comments section and I'll conjure up a readers' list.Wasteland(Interplay, 1988)Created by original Fallout developer, Interplay, and widely considered a precursor of the Fallout series, Wasteland is a gripping RPG set in the aftermath of a nuclear war. Your job is to command a small party of survivalists as they trek into the ravaged desert landscape battling mutants. The character customisation and upgrade systems are immense and the atmosphere is surprisingly tense and haunting considering the basic top-down visuals. An incredibly prescient and imaginative title.Midwinter(Maelstrom Games, 1989)Set on a vast island in the midst of a nuclear winter, Midwinter is a genre-bending first-person RPG, in which the player must recruit 32 civilians to fight off the invasion of a sinister military force. The stark fractal visuals provide a convincingly barren tundra landscape, and the unique game-time system, which gives you two hours to recruit the next character, adds an exhilarating sense of urgency. Programmed by Lords of Midnight creator Mike Singleton, it was a key title of the 16bit era and a landmark in open-world design.Beneath a Steel Sky(Revolution, 1994)Jammed with references to classic distopian fiction as well as philosophy, music and cyberpunk lore, this is a typically cerebral and amusing take on the nuclear apocalypse from the creator of the Broken Sword series (with visual design by Watchmen artist Dave Gibbons). Via a standard point-and-click interface, you must guide an orphaned boy from the scorched Australian outback to a nightmarish Orwellian city dominated by an omnipotent computer network. Think Mad Max mashed with 1984. But funny.Deus Ex(Ion Storm, 2000)Warren Spector is effectively the sage of apocalyptic cyperpunk game design, overseeing early progenitor, Bad Blood, before creating classic first-person action adventure System Shock and then this absolute epic of millennial tension. It's the 2050s and a devastating pandemic has decimated the human race, with the only cure, Ambrosia, in the hands of a military junta. In the role of nano-augmented super cop JC Denton, the player must travel the world unpicking a multi-layered narrative populated by memorable characters and filled with references to real-world conspiracies and events. A marvel.Half-Life 2(Valve, 2004)Okay so Valve's agenda-setting sci-fi shooter is strictly a work of distopian rather than apocalyptic fiction, but its vision of a human race enslaved by the multi-dimensional Combine is as dark and devastating as any nightmare of nuclear destruction. From its labyrinthine narrative, to the extravagant set-pieces, believable characters, imaginative weapons and haunting locations it's a game that defined – and still defines – the FPS genre. Plus, it's even got zombies, courtesy of the terrifying mining town, Ravenholm.Phantom Dust(Microsoft Game Studios Japan, 2005)This genuine oddity of a game was devised by Yukio Futatsugi, the creator of Sega's classic Panzer Dragoon series, and was originally intended exclusively for the Japanese market before gaining a western release via Majesco. It's a third-person strategy adventure set on an obliterated Earth covered by a deadly dust that has forced most inhabitants into vast subterranean caverns. As in card games like Magic: The Gathering, you must collect skills by carrying out quests, and then do battle with various enemies. The unique combination of game systems, together with well-realised destructible locations, make Phantom Dust something of a, ahem, underground classic.S.T.A.L.K.E.R: Shadow of Chernobyl(GSC Game World, 2007)Hugely praised for its atmospheric rendering of a stark, post-nuclear landscape, S.T.A.L.K.E.R is a sandbox survival horror shooter so relentlessly grim, it would have made a scary-as-hell public information film during the war-obsessed early eighties. You're a mercenary stalking the shattered Ukrainian wastelands in the aftermath of a second devastating Chernobyl explosion, battling savage radioactive monsters and taking on suicidal missions for raggedy strangers. But how you play and where you go is almost entirely up to you, perfectly tapping into that sense of post-civilised liberation.Left 4 Dead(Valve, 2008)Following the outbreak of a nasty zombifying virus, a handful of survivors must shoot, stab and bludgeon their way through a Pennsylvania rammed with suppurating undead maniacs. And… well, that's it for story, really. But that's the point – through its four-person co-op gameplay the title cleverly captures the essence of all the best zombie apocalypse movies: the need to found a new sense of family in a landscape where history is largely meaningless. It's also rip-roaring fun, the innovative AI director always ensuring there are just enough lumbering corpses around to challenge your party.Fallout 3(Bethesda 2008)Taking place in a ruined America two hundred years after the nuclear war that all but destroyed humanity, Fallout 3 is perhaps the most startlingly well-realised depiction of post-apocalyptic life that video games have yet produced. Offering a vast, open-world action adventure with a compelling character levelling system, cleverly tuned 'V.A.T.S' combat dynamic and beautiful art design, it's a self-contained universe that swallows up days of your life – especially if you go on to try out the five varied DLC add-ons.Borderlands(Gearbox, 2009)A criminally over-looked open-world RPG shooter from the makers of Brothers In Arms, packed with hundreds of weapons, masses of upgradeable skills and a truly repulsive menagerie of irradiated gangs and monsters to blast into nothingness. While the Diablo-style loot-grabbing bored some after a while, the co-op mode makes this easily the most amusing, passionate and lurid portrayal of feral outback insanity since Mad Max 2. (And there's been plenty of decent DLC support too.)
Google is to be the focus of a parliamentary debate on privacy and the internet next week as the fallout over its collection of sensitive Wi-Fi data intensifies.The internet giant has stopped using its Street View mapping cars to collect information about Wi-Fi networks after sparking criminal and privacy investigations in a number of countries.On Tuesday, Canada's privacy commissioner ruled that the company had committed a "serious violation" of the country's laws when it accidentally intercepted and stored "highly sensitive" personal information gathered through Wi-Fi networks.Now the broader issue of individual privacy and the internet will be debated in Westminster Hall, as parliamentarians believe there is a "significant problem" to address. The backbench business committee debate on the internet and privacy will take place on Thursday, 28 October.Rob Halfon, the Conservative MP for Harlow, who put forward an early day motion requesting the debate, said the UK is "potentially sleepwalking into a privatised surveillance society" and that tackling the issue in parliament is an important first stage."This is historical – there's not yet been one discussion on this in parliament, apart from when I bring it up. [MPs] realise there is a significant problem otherwise it wouldn't have been granted three hours in a debate – think of how many debates are put forward by other MPs," Halfon added.Halfon said he became more determined to seek a parliamentary debatewhen the UK information commissioner [ICO] ruledthat Google was unlikely to have collected "significant amounts" of personal data or data likely to "cause any individual detriment"."I'm going to go through all the problems and address the lily-livered, limp-wristed response by the ICO which basically decided to do nothing. Google will take this seriously because it's a parliamentary debate, not just a lone backbencher," he added."I feel very strongly about this, I've been campaigning on it in the Commons for months – I believe we're potentially sleepwalking into a privatised surveillance society. Individuals have no protection against big companies using the internet – it is infringements against people's liberties that they have no protection against."Alex Deane, director of Big Brother Watch, said the "abject failure" of the ICO to take action against Google means "parliamentary scrutiny is needed in this area more than ever.""The fact that the House of Commons has allotted time for this historic debate shows just how significant online privacy is," he added."Whilst Google is hardly the only offender, of all the organisations working online only Google has roamed the streets snatching people's data from the airwaves. That puts Google in a lamentable category of one. I'm therefore sure that they will come in for criticism at the heart of the forthcoming debate – rightly so."Google admitted to "mistakenly" collecting samples of payload data via Wi-Fi connections in May,saying: "we have decided that it's best to stop our Street View cars collecting Wi-Fi network data entirely."Experts from the Canadian privacy commissioner's office examined the offending data at Google's Mountain View headquarters, and established that the incident "was the result of a careless error" of one engineer who developed this particular section of code in 2006.The engineer identified "superficial privacy implications" with the code, the commissioner found, but the implications were never assessed by other Google officials and the company was unaware of the presence of the code when its Street View cars were rolled into action.Just under 3% of some 8.4m households set to be photographed on Google Street View's rollout to 20 German cities have opted-out of being pictured on the service, the company said today.More than 244,000 requests were made to opt-out of the panoramic imaging service, Google said. Germany is the only country in which citizens were able to request their image was not used on Street View ahead of the rollout, owing to vociferous public debate about the internet and privacy in the country.
My Acer Aspire 5920 laptop, now a couple of years old, has a factory-installed partition on the 250GB hard drive of approximately 50%. The C partition, with documents, photos, music and so on, is now almost full, whereas the D section, allocated to data, is relatively empty. What is the best way to change the partition to give me more space on C?Chris RothwellAcer Aspire 5920 shipped with Windows Vista Home Premium, which includes partitioning software, so the answer for you and Windows 7 users should be simple. (This doesn't necessarily mean that it will be simple.)Vista and Windows 7 are search-driven, so go to the Start box and start typing the word &lt;em&gt;partition&lt;/em&gt;. This should bring up "Create and format hard disk partitions" under Administrative Tools.Alternatively you can get to it via the Manage menu item by clicking Storage then Disk Management. See Microsoft's help page:Can I repartition my hard disk?. The Disk Management utility provides the options Extend Volume and Shrink Volume.The Vista4beginners website has a good guide to the process, with plenty of screen shots:How to manage your disks using only Windows Vista's Disk Management tool.However, you can only extend a partition into "contiguous space" that comes after the partition that you want to expand. In other words, you can reduce the size of your D: drive, but you may not be able to extend your C: drive into the vacant space, because it's in the wrong place. However, if you don't have much data on D: anyway, it should be reasonably easy to back it up and empty it. If necessary, you can delete the D: drive, extend C:, then create a new D: drive. Note that deleting the D: drive will convert it into "unallocated space".Another complication is that laptops usually have a hidden partition to provide a "recovery" feature, so that you can easily restore your PC to the factory condition. It's a good idea to back up the recovery partition to DVD, though I still wouldn't delete it, unless you really have to.As you may have gathered, Microsoft's built-in tool is not very powerful, so you're probably better off using a third-party option such asAcronis Disk Director 11 Homeor one of the free programs,Partition Wizard Home EditionorEaseUs Partition Master 6.1.1 Home Edition. A less convenient alternative is the open sourceGParted Live, which actually runs on Linux using a Live CD. Life is easier if you don't actually boot from the drive you are trying to repartition. However, as the GParted Live CD page warns: "It is recommended to do a whole disk or partition image backup before you use GParted to resize or move your partition."But, instead of changing the partitions, you could actually change the way you use your hard drives. Many geeks like to keep their data separate from the operating system. This makes it easier to make backups of the data on the D: partition, and easier to replace or reinstall the operating system on C:. Unfortunately, many software companies base their easy installation routines on the assumption that everything is going to go on the C: drive, so non-geeks almost inevitably end up with packed C: drives and empty D: drives. This is bad news because of the way Windows' performance declines when it runs out of hard drive space, which is why I keep recommending people to keep 2GB or at least 1GB free on C:.Nowadays, many Windows users have a few folders that are full of relatively large files: high-resolution photos, music tracks, movie files and so on. If that's your problem, it's easy to free up space on C: by moving these to the D: drive, or to an external hard drive. (Please remember that you don't have a backup unless you have two copies of a file: moving your photos to an external hard drive does not provide a backup.) Just don't try to move My Programs or Windows folders, because their current locations are stored in the Windows registry.If necessary, you can also move the My Documents folder. To do this, right-click on the folder in Vista to get the Properties sheet and click on the tab marked Location; orin Windows XP, right-click the My Documents folder on your desktop. This is the best way to move "special" folders that are part of Windows. However, I'd prefer to leave it where it is and just move older files to the D: drive. For example, you could create a folder called My Old Documents with subdirectories for 2007, 2008 and so on, or sort your files into more useful categories.Whether you decide to change partition sizes or move a lot of files, this would be a good time to clean up your PC using some of the steps described earlier this month in10 steps to speed up a slow Windows PC. Defrag and backup both partitions when you've finished.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Working on windows. Photo bytimo_w2son Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDon't forget: Microsoft is (supposedly) working on a Windows app store, too &gt;&gt; Mary Jo FoleyIt would be interesting to see whether it applied a similar testing regime as Apple does. The mechanics of how the store might be implemented are a bit dramatic.DF traffic survey: total domination for Apple in mobile sector &gt;&gt; Dalton FirthA survey of (not revealed, but surely European and/or US) sites shows that mobile viewing is ahead of Linux, and that iOS dominates mobile viewing utterly - as in, 70%-plus.Intercept Modernisation Programme &gt;&gt; WhatDoTheyKnowFOI requests are meant to be answered within 30 days, or have an explanation why not. This one about the government's (now-revived) plans to log every email, web visit and phone call was filed in August 2008. Overdue, much?Facebook files three antispam lawsuits | The Social - CNET News"Facebook announced today that it has filed suit against two individuals and a company that it says are responsible for propagating deceptive spam offers across the massive social network, including some that encouraged members to spam their friends in turn."Welcome to the big bad internet, Mr Zuckerberg. Makes the Winklevoss twins seem like Harvard graduates. Actually, they are.How does Google generate $1 billion in mobile revenue? &gt;&gt; QuoraClue: it isn't through Android licensing, because those are free.Ha. The MacBook Air's software restore "disk" &gt;&gt; Dan FrakesIf you're Apple, how do you restore a machine which doesn't have an optical disc, when your OS has always been distributed on an optical disc? Think before you click on this one: see if you can work it out first.Google's Mobile Business To Hit $1 Billion This Year &gt;&gt; MobiadnewsIt's a small part of its overall revenues, but growing. And that's $1bn that Microsoft then doesn't have.Opening up council accounts… and open procurement &gt;&gt; countcultureCouncils' accounts could be available for close analysis; they just aren't yet. Here's how you could do it.TV and The Digital Living Room &gt;&gt; Fred WilsonThe venture capitalist (who has money in Boxee) considers what's happening with TV and computers: closer, in parallel, merge?ScraperWiki's Richard Pope on why scrapers are fragile &gt;&gt; Martin Belam"Our developers have dark thoughts......not in an evil stalking serial killer kind of way, but in a Dr Pepper style way of imagining the worst that could happen. Quite a few of the questions that came from our software team at the Guardian had a focus on what could go wrong. How did Scraperwiki cope with people maliciously altering datasets, or the scheduling of a lot of tasks against a specific URL in a form of denial of service attack, or using the service to violate copyright and IP?"Medal of Honor sells 1.5 million units in first five days &gt;&gt; VG247That's a lot. And there's a new multiplayer mode coming next month.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It had to happen eventually. We've had management games about running cities, sports teams and theme parks. Now developers Kairosoft have launchedGame Dev Story, an exceptionally entertaining iPhone game in which you manage a games company. The game is fiendishly compulsive, challenging and witty, with game titles that are puns on popular series and even a humorous "industry history" with the launch of consoles from the Game Kid (GameBoy) to the Whoop (theWii).Eventually, you unlock the choice to make a game about games development. So you're playing a game in which you are creating a game about creating a game, which must be the most meta-gaming moment I've ever experienced.Done well, management games can give insights into the decisions facing CEOs and political leaders, and the pressures that lead to unpleasant or immoral choices. Game Dev Story is all-too-accurate: push out bug-ridden product to maintain your cash flow? Give your workers time off? Why would you when you can use Dead Bull to keep them working at maximum pace?Games companies are regularly subject to "crunch" times, when staff are asked to work around the clock to meet a deadline. Earlier this year a group calling themselves Wives of Rockstar San Diego – makers of hit cowboy game Red Dead Redemption – wrote anonline letterexposing the "horrendous" conditions their husbands had experienced at the company.Game Dev Story is hardly penetrating satire but, fittingly, its difficulty makes it clear that working for a games company isn't all fun.
The government is to revive a plan to store every email, webpage visit and phone call made in the UK, a move that goes against a pledge made by theLiberal Democrats ahead of the election.The interception modernisation programme, proposed under Labour, would require internet service providers to retain data about how people have used the internet, and for phone networks to record details about phone calls, for an unspecified period.The government says police and security services would be able to access that data if they could demonstrate it was to prevent a "terror-related" crime.The revival of the programme is buried in the strategic defence and security review, which was published yesterday. The review says the programme is required to "maintain capabilities that are vital to the work these agencies do, to protect the public".Ahead of the election, the Lib Dems said they would "end the storage of internet and email records without good reason", a pledge which appears in thecoalition agreementThe review says communications data provides evidence in court, and has played a role in "every major security service counterterrorism operation, and in 95% of all serious organised crime investigations".It says: "We will introduce a programme to preserve the ability of the security, intelligence and law enforcement agencies to obtain communication data and to intercept communications within the appropriate legal framework … We will put in place the necessary regulations and safeguards to ensure that our response to this technology challenge is compatible with the government's approach to information storage and civil liberties."The Home Office confirmed today it would introduce legislation, but said no timetable or estimate of costs had yet been set.The cost of the programme has been estimated at a minimum of £2bn by the London School of Economics, in a paper published last year.The Home Officeresponded to an Open Rights Group's Freedom of Information requestin December 2008, accepting that the issues surrounding IMP were of "significant public interest". It provided a limited number of responses but declined to disclose further details on the grounds that it related to information relating to security bodies, national security, law enforcement, formulation of government policy and prejudice to commercial interests.Guy Herbert, of the No2ID group, which opposed ID cards, said: "It is disappointing that the new ministers seem to be continuing their predecessors' tradition of credulousness."Isabella Sankey, of Liberty,told the Telegraph: "Any move to amass more of our sensitive data and increase powers for processing would amount to a significant U-turn."• This article was amended on 22 October 2010. The original said the Home Office had not responded to a Freedom of Information request on IMP. This was incorrect and has been deleted and replaced with an explanation of the Home Office's response.
Block 1The invite alone sent pundits into a wild tail spin when it was sent out last Wednesday. From 6pm UK time, Apple will fully reveal the impetus behind the peeking lion.A look at Mac OS X 10.7? Possibly – we've heard it from reputable sources – but then itcould be a little premature. At the very least, we're expecting a peek at Apple's forthcoming operating system.Apple's big number is to be a new MacBook Air, so says the received wisdom. (And this MacBook Air-related discussion on Apple.com.)Stay with us as we liveblog what's going down in Cupertino. In the meantime, let the perennial question linger: What Will Apple Announce? Join in below.Block 25.45pm:Some light reading. Silicon Alley Insider has pinned its flag to the mast with 10 things we can expect from Apple today. They'd love the click-throughs,so go have a gander, but here's the top five:1.A refresh for the MacBook Air – 11-inch and 13-inch screens, longer batter, faster boot time and a lower price tag.2.Mac OS X 10.73.The next desktop OS could be more like iOS4.An improvement to Mac Mail5.A refresh for iLifeBlock 36.03pm:The store is beingupdated; soft jazz waves over the Cupertino auditorium. All is well in Apple world.A reminder: you canstream video of the conference to your Apple device, though here's the rules:"Apple will broadcast its October 20 event online using Apple's industry-leading HTTP Live Streaming, which is based on open standards. Viewing requires either a Mac® running Safari® on Mac OS® X version 10.6 Snow Leopard®, an iPhone® or iPod touch® running iOS 3.0 or higher, or an iPad™."(Is anyone else's iPad showing just a black rectangle where streaming should be?)Block 46.06pm:We're kicking off with some figures about the state of the Mac. There are currently 600,000 Mac developers, growing at a rate of 30,000 a month.The US market share of the Mac is 20.7% and the machine makes up 33% of Apple's revenue. 13.7m Macs sold in the 2010 financial year, bringing its revenue to $22bn.Block 56.12pm:Steve Jobs on iLife: "[iLife is] widely regarded as the best suite of digital lifestyle apps in the world. You can't do this on any other computer. We improve it every year or two, coming out with a new version.Announces iLife 11. A refresh for iPhoto – you can now live screen – and enhancements with Facebook, making it easier to share photos, as well as added slideshows.Block 66.14pm:Phil Schiller, senior vice president of Apple, on iPhoto update: "You see pushpins on the map from every place I took photos. I can hover my mouse over any pin, I can click on it to go right to my photos, or I can say 'show photos' and that's every photo from around that place."Block 76.18pm:New iPhoto also pulls in images from Flickr, and adds ability to share via email from inside the application. "This is kind of interesting," says Schiller. "It auto-arranges your photos, you know, naturally."Block 86.22pm:Schiller on iPhoto-Facebook integration: "Here you can see friends on Facebook and what they responded back after I posted it. So that's sharing photos. Well what if I want to create one of these new books?"And iPhoto takes on-board the iBooks bookshelf display of photo albums.Block 96.26pm:Ah, here we are – an iMovie 11 update:• New audio editing• One step effects• People finder• News and sports themes• Movie trailersRandy Ubillos, chief architect of video applications at Apple, takes to the stage.Block 106.31pm:iMovie 11 will include a realtime preview of audio effects when editing, and you can now select segments of audio, 'effect macros' – grouping a number of edits to apply all at once, 15 movie trailers – get a trailer outline sheet to fill in requirements and, hey presto, a home movie is born.Block 116.35pm:iMovie 11 also allows you to adjust frames-per-second speed and use face detection and close-up technology. Pretty smooth.Block 126.41pm:Jobs announces Garageband 11: "It has some great new features to help you fix timing in your music, something called flextime, more effects, and new piano and guitar lessons."Xander Soren, product marketing head at Apple, is next up to walk us (slowly) through the new Garageband. Apparently it's for bands that can't play (automatic groove correction): "It's like an automatic spell checker for bad rhythm."Block 136.47pm:Flextime for Garageband allows the dragging of waveform lengths, making notes longer or shorter.New built-in Lessons, doing what it says on the tin – and keeping a record of your past lessons, if you so wish.Block 146.51pm:So that's iLife 11,available today– $49 to upgrade your Mac.Next: FaceTime. Jobs: "The number one request we've gotten is, can we please do FaceTime calling with these devices and the Mac? We're introducing FaceTime for the Mac today."Block 156.53pm:Mr Schiller is back, sort of. "We're really excited by this," says Jobs. "So let me give you a demo. On my Mac here we have our FaceTime logo. I double click on it. I go to favorites and here's Phil Schiller. Hey Phil!"Released in beta today.(Oh, and there's no UK price yet for iLife 11 – the UK store is still down.)Block 166.54pm:The next Mac OS X will be called Lion!Block 176.55pm:Jobs: "What is the philosophy about Lion? That's where Back to the Mac comes from. We started with OS X and we created a new version called iOS – it's now used in the iPad as well. We're inspired by some of those innovations. And we want to bring them back to the mac. Mac OS X meets the iPad."Block 186.58pm:Jobs: "So what have we learned and become inspired by on the iPad? Multitouch gestures... the App Store... why not the Mac too?"[...]Apps on the iPad auto save, you don't have to bother saving your data. And when you launch apps, they auto resume... that'd be great on the Mac too. We want to bring some of this stuff back to the Mac."This from Charles Arthur: "argh! The App Store for the Mac!Terrified some people in April,  but multi-touch could be cool. Interesting about multi-touch on computers - nobody thought it could work on vertical surfaces."Block 197.02pm:Seven billion downloads from the app store so far, Mac OS X Lion will have an app store.Jobs: "So there's one other thing we'd like to show you today. We have these four cool things we do in OS X. Expose, Dashboard, full screen apps, and spaces...""This is great, but as we've added fullscreen apps, you know we have four of these things. Wouldn't it be great to unify these? And we've done that in something we call mission control."Block 207.07pm:(Charles Arthur taking over..) There are some odd glitches, so if this is behind then it's because it's jumped back to catch up on streaming. Onward!Block 217.08pm:Craig Federeighi, who looks like one of the Winklevoss twins from The Social Network, is demoing "LaunchPad" (basically, folders without having to have folders) and now "Mission Control". Let's hope this isn't Apollo 13.It's a sort of Exposé that might work wonderfully on a giant screen with a superfast machine. Less sure how it will go on a laptop with a 12" screen. They should really demo them on that. But that wouldn't be awesome waiting for the CPU to grind through, would it?Block 227.09pm:First thoughts on the App Store for the Mac: lots of developers are going to KILL AND BRIBE to get their apps into prominent places. It's going to murder sites which let people download stuff.Then again, it's on 10.7, but given that Apple users upgrade pretty fast, that's likely to be quite fast.Plan is to release Lion "Summer 2011". Much more that could be shown but which he hasn't yet. Saving it up for... when?Block 237.11pm:Oooh hang on - Mac App Store going to open within 90 days, will work on Snow Leopard, devs can go there to find out today, and accept submissions from November.STAMPEDE!!Block 247.12pm:Jobs reiterating that Mac is a third of revenue (but how much of profit?), consumer retail market share in the US has topped 20.7% (how on earth is that measured???), $22bn business."iPhoto, iMovie, Garageband "even cooler things", FaceTime on Mac so the tens of millions of Mac users can FaceTime with mobile devices, and Lion coming this summer."Block 257.13pm:"So these are the things we wanted to share with you today... but there is... one more thing."Block 267.14pm:"We talked about this virtuous circle, where OS X inspires.. brings some of that back to Mac OSX... but just like that philosophy has benefit in our software, it can also have benefit in our hardware.. what if a MacBook met an iPad?"Block 277.14pm:"iPad has instant-on, great battery life, amazing standby time, solid state storage, no optical or hard drives, and it's thinner and lighter. These are some great things for notebooks. So we asked ourselves what if an iPad and a MacBook hooked up?" Weird machinima dreams.Block 287.15pm:"It's our new MacBook Air and we think it's the future of notebooks. It's like nothing we've ever created before." I dunno, looks like a laptop to me.Bevelled keyboard downwards. O.68" thick down to 0.11" at thinnest at the front, weighs 2.9lb.Block 297.16pm:Aluminium unibody construction - don't tell the Hungarians - with a glass trackpad.13" LED, 1440x900. More than on the 15" MacBook Pro. Core2Duo "fast for this class of machine" (huh?), NVidia GeForce 320m GPU.Block 307.17pm:No optical drive, no hard drive. It's Flash storage. Why? "Because we know the benefits from the iPad. Up to 2x faster than hard drives. More reliable especially in a mobile environment. And 90% smaller and lighter."(OK, so now show off 10.7 running onthat. See how your big screen works there.)"Silent... battery life: wireless web 7hrs, standby 30 days." (Wow, they should use it for phone calls.)"PC industry battery test sometimes don't reflect real-world results. We're moving to more stringent tests." (Which will favour us?)Block 317.19pm:Old Macbook Air only got 5 hours, this is now 7.Now dissecting it. Oh, there are wires flying everywhere. Oh, the robotocity.Actually not. Basically lots of battery storage. Four big chunks of it. SSD is a tiny thing. Without the battery it would be a single board. "We've taken everything we learned about miniaturisation from the iPod and applied it to the Mac."But it has a younger brother too...Block 327.21pm:weird - 11.6", 2.3lbs younger brother MacBook Air - is this the netbook everyone talked of? Not quite since that's a bigger screen. 1366x768 pixels, more than the MacBook Pro at present.5 hours of wireless, 30 days of standby.Now doing prices...Block 337.22pm:"We think all notebooks will be like this one day."$999 for the 11.6" model with 64GB; $1199 gets 128GB.13.3" 128GB costs $1299; 256GB .. missed it.That's pricey.(Jobs is breathing a bit heavily, occasionally; sounding out of breath. A reminder that he's been very ill, once.)Block 347.24pm:Both available from today. 2GB of RAM.Intriguing question is: while it's pretty much indisputable that in time laptops will only have Flash storage, is it definite that they won't have optical discs? Is it all going to move to the cloud?Of course this is the classic "computer as appliance" approach - it will be interesting to see if you can change the hard drive, expand the RAM. You'd need to but it's tricky on the existing MBAs.Block 357.29pm:Playing one of those self-congratulatory videos about the new MBAir. Music by Elbow ("Beautiful Day"), so there you go - two successful British exports: Jonathan Ive and the lads from oop north. (How much money have they made from licensing that song?)Questions unanswered: is Apple going to move to some sort of cloud-based products so that not having an optical drive won't be a problem?Block 367.30pm:Winding up - those who made the plane ride will get to fondle the machines. "Thanks very much." Jobs is done. Music a la Mad Men pipes in.Block 377.31pm:So there we go.What do we think?• iLife - that was fairly easy to predict. Plus Phil Schiller demonstrating it: I was worried for a moment that I might live an entire year without hearing Phil Schiller say "Now this new iPhoto feature is really cool, if I just click here..."• FaceTime for Mac - there was a lot of demand, and the fact it used Wi-Fi to work must have made it relatively easy to do. That's going to drive a lot of use, though.• "Lion" 10.7: the App Store for Mac is a bomb let off in a room of crowded developers, and it's going to galvanise them. For some it's going to be the making of them; the problem for Mac devs has always been the problem of discovery. Of course as it gets big, it's still going to be a problem. But you could also see Apple working some sort of social element into it - "people who bought this also bought this", a la Ping (remember Ping?) - to make it very powerful.That won't obviate the existing method of downloading and installing, of course. It's not going to be locked down. This is just an easier way of getting there - there's already an existing form on Apple's site, under "recommended software".• MacBook Air only with solid state storage: the 64GB model seems a bit tight, but don't forget that prices are roughly halving every year. If you buy a notebook in 12 months' time, you should consider getting SSD in it, because for a notebook of any age, the SSD won't cost that much more.• no optical drives in any future laptops? It's an intriguing idea. It may be that as we move to the cloud, that's really where it does go. But that implies that your iTunes library (say) can't live on your computer.. or maybe it can, because you're only renting the video on your Apple TV, and your SSD drive is doubling in size every year.The cloud question seems to me the one that, if Apple can crack it, will finally sort the whole question out. If you can get your documents, and songs, and anything else, pushed into the cloud so that you know they're there, you won't care that your computer is an appliance - you'll just use it. That's what Google is doing with Chrome, after all.So: anyone buying a new MacBook Air? Ordering iLife 11? Gagging for 10.7? Do tell.
North Yorkshire, Cumbria, Herefordshire and the Highlands and islands will all benefit from a £530m investment in superfast broadband, pledged by the government in its comprehensive spending review. The money will be injected over the next four years, and include £300m redirected from the BBC licence fee.In North Yorkshire, the 'rural market testing project' will see superfast broadband running up to 50 times faster than conventional broadband by using fibre-optic cable, introduced in up to 27 market towns where broadband provision was previously considered economically unviable. Around 11,400 businesses and 220,000 people are expected to benefit.The project is being run by Broadband Delivery UK, a government organisation with the task of ensuring broadband access to the whole of the UK by 2012, and high-speed broadband to the majority of the country by 2017.Around 2m households should benefit from the scheme.The problem with getting high-speed broadband to remote parts of the country is that more distance has to be covered, replacing existing copper wires with optical fibre, to reach the same number of people as in a city. That makes the "final third" of the population uneconomic without subsidies or high prices.Of the decision, the chancellor George Osborne said: "It will help encourage the growth of our creative industries as a key part of the new economy we are seeking to build."David Cullen, chief executive of NYNet, the North Yorkshire network, said: "The geography and demographic makeup of North Yorkshire represents a typical 'final third' area and the project will provide a valuable testing ground that will assist the government in providing broadband access to the whole of the UK."BT has already said it will seek to roll out fibre optic services across Cornwall, helped by EU funding.The telecoms company also set up a "competition" to get rural areas to bid against each other to be first in the queue for fibre optic rollout. However that requires more than 1,000 votes for consideration — which for many rural areas could be difficult to achieve.The government also revealed that it will hold spectrum auctions for next-generation mobile broadband in either 2011 or 2012. Those could be used for mobile broadband services, though it is not clear whether they would be best for "fixed" mobile users — essentially, to homes and businesses using antennae — or for users in transit.
'Yeah, we'll have your phone compiled in a minute.' Photo bypheaberon Flickr.Some rights reservedEveryone's piling in over Steve Jobs's dissection/rant/tirade/dismissal over Android in Apple's earnings call on Monday. Jobs fumed at Google's constant portrayal, as he sees it, of the Android v iPhone contest for customers as one between "open" and "closed": he pointed out that Android isn't open in the utter sense (because carriers can do things to it) and also that it leads to fragmentation. That, in fact, is the real division: between an integrated approach like Apple's, and a fragmented one, as he sees Google's as being.So. Andy Rubin, Google's head of Android (formal title: VP of engineering), pitched in withone of the geekiest tweets ever:"the definition of open: "mkdir android ; cd android ; repo init -u git://android.git.kernel.org/platform/manifest.git ; repo sync ; make""Which, translated out of CommandLine, means: you too can build Android, the OS, by grabbing it fromgit. (Look,there's Android!)Unfortunately this is as disingenuous as people are accusing Jobs of being, as that doesn't mean that Google will approve your phone, or that you'll have access to the baseband software that the phone needs. You can't get what you want for free.Here the path forks, in the best open source ways.First, Rubin's tweet might persuade those who love to root their phone that yeah, Android isreallyopen. But the proportion of people who want to recompile their phone OS is even smaller than the number who want to root their phone, and that proportion is vanishingly small compared to the number of people who buy smartphones. You'll be standing in the street a long time before you can stop someone who'll react with pleasure when you tell them "Hey, you can compile Android's code from source yourself so you can install it on an Android phone you've already got!"So while Rubin's code might carry bragging rights, in the scheme of things it's meaningless. You cancompile Darwin, which underlies Apple's Mac OSX, but that doesn't mean your Dell will boot up with an Apple screen.This is the point made rather forcefully byJoe Hewitt, a Facebook staffer who has a long list of open source accomplishments: helping create Firefox, building the dev/debug tool FireBug, and working on Facebook's 'Touch' mobile website and its native iPhone application (which TechCrunchsuggestshe may have built singlehandedly)Anyhow, onhis Twitter account, Hewitt took Google, and Rubin, to task:#1: "How does Android get away with the "open" claim when the source isn't public until major releases, and no one outside Google can check in?"#2"Compare the Android "open source" model to Firefox or Linux if you want to see how disingenuous that "open" claim is."#3"Until Android is read/write open, it's no different than iOS to me. Open source means sharing control with the community, not show and tell."#4"I think it is the lack of visibility into daily progress that bothers me about Android more than the lack of write access." (Google doesn't let people know what's being developed in code, or let them view how it's progressing - unlike, say, projects like WebKit or Firefox, where everyone can view the changing source, try it out themselves and even offer suggestions; though on WebKit being an external contributor is a privilege that has to be earned.)A little later: "Point I am trying to make is, Rubin bickering with Jobs is a farce, because both refuse to share the one thing that matters: control."Of course Jobs has never pretended that Apple has handed over control of the iPhone's OS to anyone else. Google, though, is having a go.Now, over on the other side of the fork, we have Jim Balsillie, co-CEO of BlackBerry maker RIM, who has decided to pitch in, because Apple dissed his company too. (Balsillie is the one who didn't go up and show off ablock of wood painted black with a decal- sorry, prototype - whenannouncing the RIM PlayBook almost a month ago. That was Mike Lazaridis.)In case anyone had forgotten about the PlayBook (we hadn't, Jim; we're just waiting to see working models), Balsillie jumped in. Speaking at the Gulf Information Technology Exhibition, he first said that there will be a 64GB version of the PlayBook with a 5300mAh - milliAmp hours - battery. The iPad has a 25Wh battery, but unless you know the voltage they're operating at, you can't know how long they'll last. On a notional 5V, the PlayBook's battery would last longer.)Then he got on to the topic of Apple and what Jobs had said (which included the assertion that 7" tablets will be "dead on arrival"):""For those of us who live outside of Apple's distortion field, we know that 7" tablets will actually be a big portion of the market and we know that Adobe Flash support actually matters to customers who want a real web experience. We also know that while Apple's attempt to control the ecosystem and maintain a closed platform may be good for Apple, developers want more options and customers want to fully access the overwhelming majority of web sites that use Flash."A question as we pass that point: which customers need those Flash sites? I thought that the PlayBook was going to be aimed at corporate customers. OK, it might be embarrassing for advertising companies when their front pages don't load on an iPad, but perhaps they'll get the message thatnobodyenjoys having their self-importance thrust in their face. What corporate customers have a dramatic need to access Flash sites? YouTube and Vimeo work fine on iPads, and that's where a stack of the video most corporates might want to access lives. Corporate would-be tablet users, tell us in the comments what Flash sites you need to access which don't have an HTML5 alternative. (Internal ones are fine.) I'm suspecting that web metrics via Omniture might be one: those use Flash to display metrics. Oh, look,Adobe owns Omniture."We think many customers are getting tired of being told what to think by Apple. And by the way, RIM has achieved record shipments for five consecutive quarters and recently shared guidance of 13.8 - 14.4 million BlackBerry smartphones for the current quarter. "Apple's leap in sales of iPhone and iPads doesn't suggest customers are getting tired of it, though it's entirely believable that they're not loving it in Google or RIM.As to the phone sales, the guidance that RIM's offering would only exceed Apple at the top end of the forecast; we'll have to wait for the results to see if that happens.""Apple's preference to compare its September-ending quarter with RIM's August-ending quarter doesn't tell the whole story because it doesn't take into account that industry demand in September is typically stronger than summer months, nor does it explain why Apple only shipped 8.4 million devices in its prior quarter and whether Apple's Q4 results were padded by unfulfilled Q3 customer demand and channel orders. As usual, whether the subject is antennas, Flash or shipments, there is more to the story and sooner or later, even people inside the distortion field will begin to resent being told half a story.""Though Apple can't do much about when their comparable quarters end, it will be interesting to see how RIM's sales go. It seems to have escaped the threat of being cut off in India and the United Arab Emirates - but governments seem increasingly edgy about its excellent security. If it had lost those countries, it would have been in a big hole; it will be interesting to know what sort of compromises to customer data security it has had to make there.The accusation of padding is a dangerous one - once you start suggesting that other companies have been pushing their numbers, you're into risky territory because every little thing you do is subjected to the same harsh light you wanted on others. It's been clear that Apple struggled with demand (the white iPhone remains as mythical as the snark, though perhaps it will pop up in the announcement tonight). Balsillie is entitled to hit back at Apple, but it's a risky strategy: better to let the earnings speak for themselves.And of course if we were to actuallyseea PlayBook being used by someone in the wild, or even in RIM's offices, that would reassure us greatly that it hasn't all been a big "suggest we'll have a tablet Real Soon Now before we don't have any corporate customers left who don't have an iPad" sort of scheme.Where does this leave us? With• Apple not being open. But you knew that.• Google's Android not actually being open in the sense that most open source projects are• RIM coming off looking both niggling on the phones question, a touch too aggressive on the "padding" note, and desperate for people to think well of the PlayBook, which might turn out to be a fantastic piece of hardware. But hardware is of course only half the story, as Jobs pointed out:""You're looking at it wrong. You're looking at it as a hardware person in a fragmented world. You're looking at it as a hardware manufacturer that doesn't really know much about software, who doesn't think about an integrated product, but assumes the software will somehow take care of itself. And you're sitting around saying, "Well, how can we make this cheaper? Well, we can put on a smaller screen on it and a slower processor, and less memory." And you assume that the software will somehow just come alive on this product that you're dreaming of, but it won't."RIM has a real challenge ahead of it - as indeed do the Android tablet makers. And that's before we get to Windows 7 on tablets...
The are few design concepts more likely to inspire rage and frustration among gamers than the escort mission. These inexplicably common tasks involve ensuring the safety of a vulnerable computer-controlled character, while traversing a dangerous environment filled with enemies. In some ways, the concept is sound: protecting another character adds an extra dimension of jeopardy to the situation, requires a new sub-set of combat skills, and brings in human traits such as empathy and altruism, which strengthen our emotional connections to the experience.That's the theory. In practise it can be a maddening chore, as poorly implemented AI will often mean the character lacks the path-finding skills to effectively follow the player, and may be overly willing to engage enemies, despite being poorly equipped to do so. Some gamers found the otherwise brilliant Resident Evil 4 to be almost fatally scuppered by walking Ganados-magnet Ashley Graham, the whimpering president's daughter who Leon Kennedy is assigned to rescue and protect. Others equally despised the section in which Raiden must escort Emma Emmerich to safety.It was a risky decision then, for Ninja Theory to base its sci-fi action adventure Enslaved entirely around a protective relationship...In this interesting re-telling of Wu Cheng'en's 16th century novel, Journey to the West, the player takes on the role of Monkey, a sort of tribal warrior who, alongside a mysterious young woman named Tripitaka, escapes a slave space craft only to crash land in a post-apocalyptic New York teeming with robot killers. When Monkey awakens, he finds that Trip has fitted him with an electronic headband that will instantly kill him if her heart stops - he must now protect her on the long journey back to her homeland.And here's the really interestingly thing: this relationship actually works. Very early in the game, there's a palpable emotional connection between the two, and by extension between the player and Trip. The reason why it's successful is that the designers have effectively combined the two best AI escort characters ever devised: Yorda from Ico and Alyx Vance from Half-Life 2.To begin with, Trip's vulnerability is cleverly physicalised from the earliest moments in the game. We constantly see her in a state of shock and fear, her wide eyes conveying more desperation than 2000 words of scripted dialogue ever could (a key problem with AI characters – they often talk way too much). When the figure is static, her idling animations convey the body language of fear – looking around, hugging herself – it all acts on the player unconsciously.This often wordless, empathetic approach to AI characterisation closely resembles Team Ico's rendering of Yorda, the ghostly princess who must be protected from shadowy spirits intent on stealing her away. There, the two lead characters establish a physical connection when they hold hands and this acts as a powerful protective signal to the player. And intriguingly, Monkey and Trip form a similar connection via the slave headset, which allows Trip to project instructions to her protector telepathically. It's another subtle message that this is a symbiotic relationship, that something deeper is going on.But like Vance, Trip is also resourceful, intelligent and useful. She's able to hack security doors, create flying recon vehicles out of electronic dragonflys and upgrade Monkey's skills and weaponry. In Resident Evil 4, Ashley could lob the odd flaming lantern but that was about it – most of the time, she got in the way, or got killed. Furthermore, Trip's skills contrast with Monkey's and that's doubly attractive. True selflessness is, after all, rare and human behaviour is probably much closer to Robert Trivers' concept of reciprocal altruism – the idea that we'll help others as long as there's something in it for us. The fact that Trip's not an entirely parasitic presence helps to build the player/AI relationship.The key factor though is that, at least in opening chapters of the game, Trip never willingly exposes herself to harm. If there are areas to be cleared of mech killers, Monkey goes ahead and fights while Trip takes cover. This removes the agonisingly annoying element of many escort missions: failing through no fault of your own because another character has got themselves stuck on a piece of screen furniture and is now being set upon by the end-of-level boss and 30 zombies. Again, this is just human nature – we want to help people who want to help themselves; human altruism is more often than not a considered investment.I wonder if any thought went into the fundaments of human relationships when Capcom designed Ashley? Possibly not. It's likely the team just saw the mechanical possibilities of the escort concept. Protection should, after all, be a failsafe game mechanic because it splits the player's attention which adds to the challenge. And in fact, the function has often worked best when it is dehumanised in this way. Lemmings offers one of the most compelling protection systems in the history of game development, largely because, when you're dealing with teeny cartoon lemmings rather than people, the concept can be appreciated as design component. Elsewhere, Dead Rising cleverly side-steps the whole issue by making the protection missions optional and clearly present for the player's material gain. But in this sense, altruism becomes entirely transactional and therefore meaningless.Perhaps there is an emotional version of the uncanny valley at play here. As video game relationships attempt to ever more closely mimic those of our real lives, the stark differences between the actual and the virtual become monstrous. But then that doesn't explain why I'm finding the interplay between Trip and Monkey so endearing. Maybe, it's all down to the writing, the voice acting, the burgeoning romance; there is certainly a touch of the rom-com about this relationship – the gruff alpha male and the thoughtful woman, forced together in adverse circumstances only to form a grudging mutual admiration. Perhaps game designers can ease us into caring about escort quests through the narrative methodology of Hollywood.That's no bad thing, and it partly explains the appeal. Enslaved might not be about protection at all. Like Ico, it might sort of be about love.
Like classic Disney, you don't approach the Professor Layton games expecting any great innovation, merely another cracking storyline told with skill and style. The Lost Future sticks to this principle, tweaking small elements to improve them, but otherwise sticking to the usual point-and-click gameplay.The plot concerns a letter received by Layton and his young ward, Luke, apparently from the latter's's future self, and quickly develops into an intricate adventure filled with steam-punk inventions, amusing dialogue, static but beautiful hand-drawn locations and wide-eyed, snub-nosed characters reminiscent ofHayao Miyazaki. As always, gameplay involves using the stylus to move around locations, examining objects and prodding characters to reveal further clues, details or hint-coins which provide the puzzle-solving currency that all Layton games use. With about 165 puzzles to be solved, you'll be needing these whenever you get bogged down, particularly as there are now additional hidden puzzles revealed by listening out for unusual sounds or scouring the screen for concealed details. By and large puzzles still fall into familiar categories, from unravelling tangled words to number or picture slides — and while these can be occasionally cryptic, they won't cause adventure fans any great difficulty.As in previous games, there's a gesture to casual gamers in the form of three new mini-games; none are essential to the overall game, but all unlock extra content if completed. There's a picture book to be filled with stickers that you pick up during your travels, a toy car that must negotiate some tricky track-based challenges using directional arrows you collect along the way, and a parrot that must deliver fruit using a set number of collectible rope pieces. None of this really changes the formula laid down by the previous two Layton adventures. In fact, the most significant new element is that each puzzle now has a superhint, which can be unlocked by spending two hint coins (rather than the usual one) revealing more substantial help that effectively spells out the solution. However, these are purely optional aids and hardened players will still use the on-screen memo and diary functions to crack puzzles the old-fashioned way.And that's all we can say without giving any of the game away. If you like the Prof Layton games (and frankly, who wouldn't?) The Lost Future is just as charming and well designed as the others and easily the most polished. It's perfectly designed for DS and something the whole family can get sucked into which, with Christmas fast approaching, is a recommendation in itself.Reviewed on Nintendo DS
This week,Jemima Kissis joined byCharles Arthurto analyse how Apple are edging towards being the biggest company in the world. They also discuss Ray Ozzie's departure from Microsoft, AOL's interest in Yahoo and whether cyber warfare will be the defining characteristic of a new era of global terrorism.We're also joined by games designer Kevin Slavin, founder of the New York-based games company Area/Code. He has a vision of the future of TV ... lying outside the traditional television industry.Heads up!  Tech Weekly is coming to the Bradford Animation Festival at the National Media Museum on 9 November.  Our guests will include Charles Cecil, Kieron Gillen and Dan Pinchbeck, and it'll all be presented by Keith Stuart.There's details on how to come join us here - tickets are FREE.And later in November we'll be bringing Tech Weekly to Dublin - more details next week.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Medal of Honor may have had mixed reviews but the game has shifted 1.5 million copies in five days. On the surface then these are good figures but as The Escapistpoints outModern Warfare 2 shifted 7 million units in one day.  Publisher EA are putting a positive spin on things, with President Frank Gibeau saying:Medal of Honor is one of EA's most storied franchises and we're thrilled to see that fans worldwide have embraced it. In this ultra competitive category, Medal of Honor stands out from the pack. By portraying the Tier 1 Operator as so elite, so tough, Medal of Honor offers a view into a world that has the power to resonate with FPS gamers everywhere.I haven't had a chance to play MoH yet so I've no idea what effect the "so elite, so tough" Tier 1 Operator has on the gameplay. Let's be honest though does the world really need another FPS set in a contemporary battlefield? I'm sure MoH is perfectly fine to play with the multiplayer ticking all the standard boxes. But does that *really* excite anyone? 1.5 million sales suggests so but I can't be the only one wanting a little bit more variety from the FPS genre? Surely there has to be more to them than aliens or Afghanistan?What do you think? Enjoy MoH and desperate for the next Call of Duty? Happy with modern-day warfare and sci-fi shooters? Or - like me - do you wish we could have a new setting for first person shooting?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Google violated the privacy of thousands of Canadians when it inadvertently collected personal information about them with its Street View mapping cars, the country's privacy commissioner has ruled.In the wake of the finding, influential privacy groups expressed concern that no legal action had yet been taken against the search giant.Google committed a "serious violation of Canadians' privacy rights" when it accidentally intercepted and stored data including emails and, separately, names of people suffering from certain medical conditions, Jennifer Stoddart, the Canadian privacy commissioner said on Tuesday.The commissioner's investigation showed that confidential information of thousands of Canadian citizens was picked up by Google's Street View cars as they mapped the surrounding environment. Googleapologised for the capture in May.Stoddart said Google should tighten up its privacy policy before 1 February, or face further action."Our investigation shows that Google did capture personal information – and, in some cases, highly sensitive personal information such as complete e-mails, e-mail addresses, usernames and passwords," Stoddartsaid."This incident was a serious violation of Canadians' privacy rights."Upon hearing the ruling, Privacy International, a UK-based pressure group, wrote on Tuesday to the commissioner [OPCC] expressing concern.Alexander Hanff, an adviser to Privacy International, told the Guardian:"We are deeply concerned by the statement and have raised those concerns with the OPCC directly."They [the OPCC] have stated that this was the work of a lone engineer which is so implausible it beggars belief and could potentially have consequences which impact on ongoing cases elsewhere in the world."The Australian privacy commissioner has already ruled that Google's data capture broke the country's privacy law. Communications minister Stephen Conroy labelled it the "single greatest breach in the history of privacy".Google also faces similar investigationsin SpainandSouth Korea, among other countries.The news leaves the ruling by the UK's information commissioner that Google is unlikely to have collected "significant amounts of personal data" or data likely to "cause any individual detriment" looking increasingly conspicuous. Privacy campaigners Big Brother Watch considered the conclusion "farcical" at the time.Privacy International on Tuesday told the Guardian it was unlikely that the UK commissioner would revisit the case, even in light of the findings of equivalent bodies in other countries.Google said that it had "been working with the Office of the Privacy Commissioner in its investigation and will continue to answer the commissioners questions and concerns".Experts from the Canadian privacy commissioner's office examined the offending data at Google's Mountain View headquarters. Here, it was established that the incident "was the result of a careless error" of one Google engineer who developed the unintentionally-nefarious code in 2006.The engineer identified "superficial privacy implications" with the code, the commissioner found, but the implications were never assessed by other Google officials and the company was unaware of the presence of the code when its Street View cars were rolled into action.The Canadian privacy commissioner ordered Google to delete all of the confidential data collected in the country and said it must comply withits security recommendationsby 1 February.[This update was added on 20 October 2010: A spokeswoman for the Privacy Commissioner of Canada said: "At this point, our Google WiFi investigation remains open and has not been formally concluded. We await Google's response and will determine whether further action is warranted at that time."Under Canadian privacy law, if, at the end of an investigation, we are not satisfied with the organisation's response, we can go to the federal court to seek an order for the organisation to correct its practices. The court also has the power to award damages."]• This article was amended on 20 October 2010 to amend the subheading and include a comment from the Privacy Commissioner of Canada's office
Group inspecting the car 'F.H. Stewart Enterprise' by Powerhouse Museum Collection. Photo byPowerhouse Museum Collectionon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIBM Java defection leaves Apache sourcers shellshocked &gt;&gt; The Register"An IBM spokesperson told The Reg that IBM wants to be a "strong" contributor to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) and that it will work with Harmony to "transition to OpenJDK". The spokesperson did not say how or when transition would happen."IBM can say what it likes it seems, but the company can no longer be trusted, so far as the ASF is concerned."This is part of a much bigger story relating to Oracle's lawsuit against Google over Android; we'll pick it up later.Knock, knock, Nokia's heavy fall &gt;&gt; Helsingin SanomatVia The Register, a huge in-depth piece by a Finnish paper (in English) looking into Nokia's past and trying to untangle where it all went.. less right than previously. Long but fascinating.Yahoo 3Q Earnings Slides: The Good, the Bad and the Revenue Ugly &gt;&gt; AllThingsDProfits up, revenue slightly down (YOY), page views down 4%, employees up 7% (how??). Is that AOL/private equity bid going to happen now?Nokia N8 (Unlocked) Review &amp; Rating &gt;&gt; PCMag.comSascha Segan (reviewing for the US market, where the N8 is only on sale unlocked) isn't a fan: "Symbian, on touch screens, is a total disaster. I used to love Symbian, and I still do, on non-touchscreen phones. Symbian's interface isn't designed for touch-screen use."Everything about the N8's software is bad. I can't find a good thing to say. When I reviewed the Sony Ericsson Vivaz (1.5 stars), I called it the worst smartphone in America, and I blamed Sony Ericsson for the terrible software. Actually, it's Symbian's fault."Here's How Apple Is Invading The Enterprise &gt;&gt; Business InsiderReinforces an FT story from last week suggesting that lots of companies are trying iPads for various enterprise solutions.Nokia N8 review: Director of photography &gt;&gt; GSMArena.comI got the feeling that they want to like this phone a lot, but the UI put them offas it did me: "The new OS is certainly not up with the best just yet but is certainly a step in the right direction. The Finnish software engineers finally realized that it's a streamlined interface that people want and got rid of the whole tap-to-select-another-tap-to-activate non-sense approach that made Symbian^1 so inconsistent."Ratio Finder &gt;&gt; WeePlaces.comFinds places which have more female checkins (on FourSquare) than male, and vice-versa. Only for San Francisco and New York so far. Patience...Kaspersky hit by cyber criminals &gt;&gt; IT PRO"The Russian-based security firm Kaspersky has fallen victim to the cyber criminals it tries to protect users against, according to reports."The company, known for its anti-virus software, has supposedly been compromised by hackers who have directed users trying to download Kaspersky's software to malicious sites. Once they have reached the destination they are then encouraged to download fake anti-virus software, which could compromise their data security."Ouch.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
