"Hey, My Yahoo, Google Reader, Pluck, Newsgator Enterprise and other RSS readers: Hand over my numbers. You are taking my RSS feed and caching it to serve more efficiently, which would be fine if only you told me how many times you are doing that. But you're not," complainsBuzzMachine's Jeff Jarvis."Why do I care? Because I have an ego. Because I want to see how much RSS I serve and learn about it. Because I want to see how efficient my advertising is. And just because. Damnit."
Not many cars can claim a genuine movie-star pedigree. But Cadillac's CTS is a red-carpet veteran. Chiselled lines, muscular body and a Texan jawline Desperate Dan would envy all helped make the CTS the hunk of Matrix Reloaded. (Though in the event the Cadillac was upstaged by Keanu Reeves's floor-length coat and slow-mo high kicks.) Those of a squeamish disposition also won't thank me for revealing that while making the film, stunt drivers wrecked more than 300 Cadillacs.The movie placement marked an auspicious start for the CTS. The car is built in America, but it was created as an opening salvo into Europe's luxury-saloon market, which at the moment exists solely to keep Germany's car makers rich. Cadillac, along with Corvette, is owned by General Motors, which also owns Vauxhall and Chevrolet, so there's plenty of cash to back up its attempt to tempt us away from BMW and Mercedes-Benz.In spearheading its campaign with a Cadillac, GM has made an inspired choice. For a start, the very word Cadillac sets the pulses of paunchy men revving. Mention the C-word and visions of tailfins and vertical headlamps swim before their eyes. The CTS also happens to be one of the most dramatic and charismatic cars you'll see on the road this year.With its armour-like grille, stacked lights and crisp intersecting planes, it looks like the product of an origami guru suffering from Tourette's. Indeed, it has so many lines it appears not so much folded as crumpled. In an auto world brimming with voluptuous curves and soft corners, the CTS is strict, straight and striking. It is a wellpressed military man in a car park full of sloppy skater dudes.The car has been designed with half an eye on its own history. The tailfins echoed in the CTS's rear lights, for instance, were inspired by the design of a Lockheed P-38 Lightning fighter back in 1948. The Cadillac story actually started in 1902, when Henry Leland and Robert Faulconer started an automobile business named after the French founder of Detroit, Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac. Their first Cadillac was the model 'A', a two-seater buggy which had leather bumpers and a top speed of 30mph. It sold for $750 and was advertised with the line: 'It's Just Good All Over!' By 1905, they were knocking out 60 per 10-hour shift.The 2005 CTS comes with no leather bumpers and a top speed of 140mph. There's a choice of two engines - a 2.8-litre and chunky 3.6 V6. Both, strangely, offer the same consumption: 24 miles to the gallon, which is defiantly green by US standards. And both are automatics (the US wants to conquer Europe but it isn't going to start messing about with stick shifts). GM has allegedly tightened up the springs to give the car 'a sportier, more European feel', but it still feels as soft, comforting and addictive as a box of Krispy Kreme donuts.Any downsides? Just one - the price. For a top-drawer motor it's disappointingly cheap. After all, Keanu Reeves wouldn't get out of bed for &#163;24,850.&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
"Animatronics are primed to invade the living room in the form of a hairy, interactive digital toy: the Alive Chimpanzee by the toy robotics maker WowWee," reckonsThe New York Times."Don't hide the bananas just yet. This chimp is only a head and bust. But its face is eerily realistic to the eye and touch. Roughly life size, the chimp has hidden touch sensors, stereo hearing and infrared sight. It can track objects with its watchful eyes and be startled by loud noises."The Alive chimp-head costs $149.95 fromThe Sharper Image.
There's a great joke in Emma Forrest's novel Namedropper when the heroine says that she has never masturbated: "I don't have the attention span." This is one of the things I think about PlayStations. Like most modern parents with an electricity supply and fleeting amounts of spare cash, my children have a PlayStation but I have never been particularly attracted by them. They look like far too much effort.Be assured that I am no stranger to the electronic arcade game. Even though I was notionally signed up to complete a degree course in English Literature when at university, I spent more time in the games room than I did reading Dickens. Actually, I spent more time last week reading Dickens than I did in three years at the alma mater. Let us say instead, that I spent more time in the games room than I did reading anything from the entire corpus of Victorian fiction.But that was a long time ago, the games room is now a laundry room, for heaven's sake, and no one plays Battlezone, Missile Command or Defender anymore. A pity. I'd show those young pups what a real game was. But the controls for a PlayStation - they look like something you'd find on the dashboard of an alien spacecraft. I can't make head nor tail of them. And the games themselves - there seems to be an awful lot of running about scooping up shiny tokens, which is not my idea of a good time.At the moment the children are fixated by the battles of Star Wars as played by Lego figurines. (Now there is a sentence I couldn't have imagined writing at the beginning of my journalistic career.) As far as I can see, there is no part of the game devoted to zooming through the canyons of the Death Star in your X-wing fighter, which is the only good bit in the entire six-movie marketing franchise and was once the inspiration for a rather absorbing arcade game. You just get a Lego Obi-Wan Who-Is-He flashing an effing light sabre around. One is glad to see the revival of swordplay among children but that's about it for educational value.The tipping point came just last Saturday. My interest in football can be tepid, but there is an atavistic call that goes out to the Slack Dad's mind if the team that enjoys his indifferent support is playing, and the match is televised. Approaching the living room on Saturday, I heard the sound of a football crowd, remembered that Arsenal were playing Wigan and poked my nose through the doorway, only to find two children playing PlayStation football. The request to watch a real football match was met with instant dismissal.Now you may say that this is actually quite good, and if you are going to sit on your arse in front of the telly then you may as well be using your brain rather than just, well, your arse (and your eyes). I am not so sure, and this isn't just because the Wigan-Arsenal game was apparently rather thrilling. It is because I am worried about what the PlayStation is doing to their brains.An article in the Observer, August 19 2001, headlined "Games stunt teen brains", reported on a study that found that computer games hinder development of the frontal lobes in children and teenagers, leading to emotional immaturity and a propensity for violence in later life. I wrote a rather smug article responding to this news, basically saying that as children are insane anyway, there was nothing to worry about, and besides my children are geniuses and angels.Well, it turns out that that picture is going to have to be revised. They are still capable of clever and generous behaviour, but not if the PlayStation is around. While no fragile ornament has been broken by their post-game swordplay - the boys now seem to be incapable of doing anything with their leisure time that is not in some way Star Wars-related - it is only a matter of time.Slack Dad acknowledges the great help that George Lucas and Sony can give when it comes to weaselling out of active, hands-on childcare, but now that even the eldest is beginning to think that she can use the Force, I am beginning to wonder if things haven't gone a wee bit too far.
About 10 years ago, back in another lifetime, I was the deputy editor of a computer gaming magazine and subedited several rags devoted to video games. I was a decade older than the kids who tested and reviewed the games and I felt at the time like I was living in a nursery-cum-video arcade: the office walls were lined with arcade machines that ran Mortal Kombat and Tekken, and any number of first-person massacre fantasies, and every guy in the office - and it was a stultifyingly boys-only atmosphere - could be found at his computer on any given day working his way through the latest games or road-testing the newest joysticks or foot-pedals.And somehow, despite this total immersion in the gaming playpen, I myself only ever played one game all the way through: the original Doom. I was born about a fortnight too late for the VG revolution, and my narrative needs have always been amply served by mere print and celluloid, but I have to say Doom knocked me out. I played it every day at work for two weeks and when I conquered the final level I leapt about like I'd just assassinated God.I subsequently realised that these things come to live inside your head: you start to dream about monster no 267 on level nine or where to find that friggin' plasma-cannon in the slaughterhouse section. And then you start watching Beverly Hills 90210 as if there's still a control pad in your hands and you can shoot Jenny Garth or Iain Ziering in the head at any given moment. Being a seriously addiction-prone sort of a fella, I knew I had to get out of gaming before I mutated into Comic Book Guy off the Simpsons: a fat, sad, lonely, unlaid loser.That's the trouble with movie adaptations of video games, though. In Resident Evil or Tomb Raider or Doom, you lose that interactivity the games offer, and it's Milla Jovovich, Angelina Jolie or The Rock who get to do all the wasting and mass-murdering, not you or I, which frankly takes most of the fun out of the process. If only we could in fact control movies - all movies - with a joystick or control pad, getting carpal tunnel syndrome as we blast the heads off brat packers or make Natalie Portman doff all her clothes.What would Julia Roberts or Charlize Theron look like if their health-bars were seriously depleted and their ammo was running out? Wounds everywhere, dragging half-severed legs behind them as they limp towards the alien-filled boiler room of Planet Doom? So far the only film-makers enterprising enough to offer interactive movies are the porno tribes of the San Fernando Valley, and they only give you the chance to view Tera Patrick's ass from multiple angles. It's time Hollywood proper wised up and rigged up the picture houses with kill, shoot, reload and massacre buttons on the armrests of our seats.
The WarriorsPS2 &amp; XBOXRockstar is a publisher used to courting negative publicity, which also means reaping the whirlwind of ambulance chasers constantly prosecuting you for turning normal teenagers into psycho killers. Back in the real world, the company is still something of a one-hit wonder with the unprecedentedly huge and spectacular Grand Theft Auto series overshadowing other titles, like the dire State Of Emergency or limited appeal Manhunt. The Warriors, with its visceral fights, nice touches and beautifully integrated tie-ins to the 1970s cult film of the same name, suffers from jerky controls and camera and an overwhelming feeling of good ideas recycled once too many times. You also take drugs to heal yourself, which should see the Daily Mail through a slow news week.&#183;Rockstar, &pound;40Fire Emblem: Sacred StonesGame Boy AdvanceMade by Intelligent Systems, the developer that brought the world the wonderful Advance Wars series, Fire Emblem uses a similar strategy-led play mechanic involving no tests of trigger finger skill. Instead, you are given control over a group of well-meaning mercenaries who participate in a set of tightly managed, turn-based engagements that force you to use avatars' individual skills. The adventure game trappings mean there's a lot of text to read and characters who die in battle stay dead, but there's something deeply compelling about the steady character development and high-stakes tactical fighting.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Mario Kart DSNintendo DSIn the days of the 16-bit Super Nintendo, Mario Kart was justly regarded as the ultimate racing game: taut, consistent physics, a beautifully balanced weapon set (guided Koopa shells, banana skins and lightning bolts rather than intercontinental ballistic missiles) and a near-perfect collection of tracks. Subsequent episodes saw the series lose its way, but Mario Kart DS is a triumphant return to the genius of the original game, adding local wireless eight-player action, and a trimmed-down four-player that lets you challenge DS owners worldwide through free access points in (among others) McDonald's, Coffee Republic and airports or indeed on your home wireless connection. And if you don't have one, Nintendo sells a &pound;30 PC-compatible add-on that will fix that. Superlatives fail to do justice to what is the most legal fun you can have while fully clothed.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30
Following his decision to keep The Conway Sisters in X Factor instead of somebody who wasn't Irish or boring, the whole world appears to have turned on Louis Walsh. Follow his fall from grace and bitch on the recent show atwww.xfactorblog.co.uk.For more low culture X Factor kicks here are some other places to visit:www.unrealitytv.co.uk, which will also keep you abreast of developments in I'm A Celebrity and Strictly Come Dancing; forumwww.thexfactorfans.comandwww.jamiemoore.co.uk/Poll.php, where you can vote for evictees.Meanwhile Chico wins the race for getting online first - his official sitewww.chicomusic.comincludes videos from his pre-X Factor recording career. It has, it seems, always been Chico time, we just didn't know it.
I just tested the Technology blog usingthe Web 2.0 Validatorfrom 30 Second Rule, and it scores only 4 out 16, as follows:Uses python? No Is in public beta? No Is Shadows-aware ? No Has favicon ? Yes! Uses Google Maps API? No Uses Cascading Style Sheets? Yes! Mentions startup ? No Appears to be web 3.0 ? Yes! Appears to use AJAX ? No Refers to Flickr ? Yes! Mentions Cool Words ? No Mentions Nitro ? No Refers to web2.0validator ? No Uses microformats ? No Validates as XHTML 1.1 ? No Mentions 30 Second Rule and Web 2.0 ? NoHowever, just by writing this post, I've managed to get the score up to 7 out of 16, which is already half way to being a top Web 2.0 site!By the way, if you can think of some good Web 2.0 tests, you can add them. Seethis blog entryfor more info.
Guardian Unlimitedshows how.
Sign up atMicrosoft Liveand you can:Create up to 20 e-mail accounts within your domain Get a 250 MB inbox for each account* Check your e-mail from any Web-enabled PC Junk e-mail filter protection using Microsoft SmartScreen technology Virus scanning and cleaning of e-mail Seamless access with MSN Messenger, MSN Spaces, etc.* 250MB inbox available only in the 50 United States, District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.For details,read Cynthia's FAQ.Major drawback: the mailboxes are on Hotmail.
When I did amini-review of Google Basefor last week's Technology section, I mentioned the possibility of it being overwhelmed with porn and spam -- a risk that seems so obvious, I couldn't understand why I didn't see it mentioned in any of the earlier coverage.Of course, Google has a SafeSearch feature that should prevent porn from showing up in standard results, but this week "a technical glitch ... allowed porn to leak into Google Base search results," reportsCNet.Todd Ripley, a real estate investor in Asheville, N.C., noticed the problem on Tuesday morning after he uploaded photos of his 2-year-old daughter Jasmine onto his Google Base page. He planned to direct his family to the page but decided against it after a search for "Jasmine" turned up some unsavory results despite the use of the SafeSearch filter."I was just shocked," Ripley said. "I was inundated with page after page after page of basically porn sites."
MondayTomorrow, tomorrow they'll have it tomorrowTuesdayXbox360 initial impressionsUsing girl gamer sites as spamMore WoW deathsWednesdayGet tanked on The Sims 2360 launch patternUbi movesPerfect?ThursdayGamer girls: why are you a geek?Recordable TV on the PSPFridayJonathan Wendel wins serious cash at the Cyberathlete Professional League World TourneyWarcraft suicide updateNgage disngage
Veteran tech site Vnunet.com has posted abrief interviewwith Antti Vasara, Nokia's vice president for corporate strategy, in which the perceptive exec admits that the N-Gage 'game deck' was not one of the company's brighter ideas:"N-Gage is still being sold but it was not a success in the sense of developing a new category," said Vasara. "We learnt that people want to play games on all devices. As such we are integrating the gaming software into Series 60 phones."Hmm, I feel I could have told Nokia that two years ago, thereby saving them a lot of money and effort. Mobile gaming remains a casual endeavour, a minority interest - there's no market for a dedicated gaming phone - at least not in the west, and not until 3D hardware acceleration kicks in. Perhaps this is why Nokia has mentioned getting seriously back into games in 2007. Also, people felt stupid using them to make calls. This is an unappealing USP.As for all that stuff about N-Gage technology finding its way into Series 60 phones, I was under the impression that N-Gagewasa Series 60 phone, just with a different case and an eight-way controller, but what do I know about mobile phone technology?Still, it might be worth forking out for one if you see it going cheap. N-Gage is fantastic for running emulators, and has a couple of its own genuinely excellent games including Pathway to Glory and Splinter Cell Chaos Theory.
Mobiles02 lists its top 50 entrepreneurs02 and Real Business magazine has offered an intriguing "50 to watch in mobile" report, highlighting some of the more interesting companies in the ever-vibrant mobile space.Essentially, 02 has singled out 50 entrepreneurs who are doing something in the mobile phone market, stuck its neck out and said they'll probably do well in the longer term. Nobody's saying there's anything like the dotcom boom that happened a few years back, partly because nobody wants the backlash, but it certainly appears to be a sector with healthy growth.A lot of the companies on the list are doing simple but innovative things. On the blog we highlight Wyless, an organisation that's literally built a better mousetrap. It's done this by putting a microchip into the trap so that when it goes off the manufacturer is informed, and can come around and dispose of the carcass hygienically and quickly.The same technology lets vending machines phone for supplies when they're empty. Others featured on the list - which you can find in full atwww.realbusiness.co.uk/mobile- include games developers, interactive TV service operators and people offering mobile voting technology. There's a healthy balance between young and older entrepreneurs, although only four of the final 50 are women.The sector is likely to do well because there are actually more mobile phones in the UK than people (there are 64m handsets and around 50 million individuals) although, alas, this doesn't seem to stop them getting stolen. 02 reckons the market itself is worth around &#163;1bn.BooksBad jargon guide that may leave you wincingEvery now and then a book falls into your lap that's so good you feel like punching the air. Graham Edmonds' "Bullshit Bingo" (Southbank Publishing, &#163;6.99) is one of those books.As the title suggests, it's not an entirely serious read. In fact there are times when it's a damned silly read, but if you don't recognise an awful lot of it then you've been in better calibre meetings than most.Edmonds has essentially rounded up a load of business terms - the cover has a set of 16 of them on a grid ("ramp up", "move the goalposts", "core business" and the like) and put them into a sort of bingo game.The game is of course an excuse to make the book look a little less like a list of bad jargon, and it works well enough; the real pleasure in this volume, though, is in diving into it and finding, David Brent-like, that you've been using (or in my case writing) a whole load of clunky jargon under the impression that it was comprehensible English.Edmonds offers an actual definition of the phrase and then a preferred definition that an office bullshitter might use. For example in a section on marketing and advertising he defines "connect" as "to talk, make contact", and the bullshit definition is "... generally used by people who have no idea how to communicate properly and are usually mystified by the fact that others don't agree with their point of view. Using the word in conversation signifies the most desperate and least socially adjusted of your colleagues. They are to be avoided, disconnected in fact."There are a lot of examples like this that will be familiar to anyone who's ever read or written a report. Read the book and enjoy it, and be prepared to wince a little as you realise just how much of this guff you've assimilated and use in your working day.OutsourcingIndian call centre delivers curry to LondonersCall centres are becoming increasingly common, even for smaller businesses, and it's no secret that many of them are located overseas. If your business is in London and you're working late, though, it might come as a surprise that you can call for an Indian takeaway and have your order taken in, erm, India.Cyrus Todiwala, who owns Cafe Spice Namaste in Prescot Street, East London, was bemused to find that orders being routed to his business through Lastminute.com were in fact being physically taken in New Delhi. "The crazy part is that we're literally round the corner from our takeaway customers," he says. "Our fax machine can go non-stop with orders from India requesting London lunches, yet we're so close we can drop most orders off by foot."Whether routing an order for Indian food through India is efficient or ludicrous is a matter for your own judgement, but hey, it seems to work ...GiftsVersatile Christmas gift - that's tax deductible tooIt's nearly December which means it's probably safe to mention Christmas without attracting letters of complaint. So, if there's an entrepreneur in your life, what do you get them as a gift for the big day? There's plenty out there that's likely to appeal - if they're male then Marks & Spencer's menswear department now contains what looks like a mid-life crisis section, including toys like remote control Aston Martins so you can recreate car chases from Goldfinger, a snip at 80-odd quid.Obviously a choice of gift will depend on your budget, but given that many entrepreneurs will want something they can use for work as well as home we reckon a small projector is about the best thing to give away. The Panasonic PT-LM2E is lightweight at 1.6KG and is around 20x25cm. Granted, if you were thinking of sending flowers the &#163;699 price tag might be a bit much, but if you're going to use it for presentations it's tax deductible and of course you can use it to watch all those films you'll record over Christmas and intend to view whenever you get a moment.Whatever you give and get, enjoy - see you in January.
On Tuesday, Imentioneda news story circulating the internet concerning a 13-year-old Chinese boy who jumped to his death from a building apparently inspired by World of Warcraft. Well it turns out the story is only semi-accurate.Accordingto Pacificepoch.com, the game in question is actually Warcraft III, and the facts may well have been misrepresented by 'Internet addiction activist' Zhang Chunliang who is suing Blizzard for the death of the boy. Confused? That'll be my fault for not explaining it properly. Here's some more info from Pacificepoch:"The current "fatigue system" government regulation to limit game time targets MMORPGs like WoW, not PC-based games like Warcraft. However, the lawsuit came at a time when the government finally started noticing this type of "addiction." Thus, Zhang is merely an opportunist who swooped in to monetize the publicity surrounding this unfortunate event."Many internet pundits have been drawing parallels between Zhang and US attorneyJack Thompsonwho has similarly hit the videogame industry with a range of lawsuits.
And you thought playing games was just for fun. Nope, Johnathan Wendel, AKAFatal1tyhas once again carried off a massive cash and kit prize for being the mostleet gameron the planet.Here's some great coverage of the man himself - in mainstream news no less! - as well as the results of Monday's massive CPL event in NYC.From theAssociated PressA radio interview on the US'National Public RadioCNNBBCRoll on the World Tour in 2006, when the game will be Quake 4.In other pro-gaming news, Euro leet gamers will be able to have their play closer to home at next year'sWorld Cyber Gameschampionships in Italy.
Are you having a Christmas party this year in your office? If so, you could be in a minority; fewer and fewer companies are doing so. Law firm Peninsula conducted a survey that found 80% of employers plan to dodge organising a Christmas party this year - and that's bad news for the mistletoe industry.Mistletoe, perhaps, offers part of the answer as to why so many parties won't happen this year - a harmless kiss under a sprig may not be construed as so harmless by every recipient. The fact it was the employer who organised the party may cause problems later.Lesley Sorridimi, an HR specialist currently attached to Inspire Scotland, believes the aftermath of an office party during the festive season can actually last until January or February. "The thing is, it's not even in a single department - it's interdepartmental, so all of these people who don't really know each other but might have tensions find they come to the surface with the help of alcohol."It gets worse the more the event starts looking like a school disco. Soreen, the fruit bread people, commissioned some research that seems to indicate that within minutes of hitting the office party we all start reverting to type. The school stereotypes are all in there, says the report; the prom king or queen who has to be the centre of attention, the school bully who has to persuade everyone to match him or her drink for drink, the form captain who insists on organising everybody - you'll see them all. "On the employer's side there's a lot of stress and conflict potential in the whole unnatural event," says Sorridimi.Harassment policyThis is before the legal implications come under scrutiny. Specialist insurer Hiscox takes on a lot of unfair dismissal claims, and some of these have their roots in an office party. Hiscox expert Mark Shaw confirms the company can still be held liable even if something happens outside the office."The law states that a harassment claim stands if the offence took place 'in work or at a work-related function', which includes company parties," he says. He suggests a number of steps including a harassment policy and training and reminders about the policy in the run-up to any party.So, perhaps you've decided to join the majority of organisations this year and not do the festive thing. You could do what one company we contacted for this article did - Steve Earl, MD of Rainier PR, put the matter to a vote among his staff and found the general wish was for a day in Seville rather than an evening of enforced bonhomie, so that's what the company will be doing.One possible option is to leave the whole thing to an expert. Theme Traders is a company that will organise your party for you and expects guests to take responsibility for their own actions. The company came up with this when arranging a party for the launch of an Iron Maiden heavy metal album, when a number of people were expected to behave in a manner not suited to a vicar's tea party."The record company drew up a legal contract for guests to sign as they entered, signing away their rights to sue if they hurt themselves or damaged themselves in any way by they themselves 'going over the edge'," explains managing director Kim Einhorn.Given that the entertainments on offer to the guests included drinking as much alcohol as they wanted, covering themselves with rats and snakes, being spanked in a chamber and getting shocks from the band's electric chair stage prop, it was a sensible move.The same company will happily transform your office into a party paradise with the theme of your choice, and it will do this in the space of three hours. Einhorn accepts that many companies won't have the budget - and this can actually be an advantage. "A good tip is to simply dry hire the props and elements to make the party special, essentially creating the atmosphere on a DIY basis. The employees given this task usually love to take it on and it becomes a team building exercise."Whatever happens, it's important to bear in mind a few sensible pointers. Make sure your venue is close enough to public transport so that people won't be stranded at the end of the evening. If you don't have the budget to pay for indefinite food and drink, make sure your employees are aware of this so they don't grumble when the third pint is on them. And watch the expenses - as Graeme Surtees, tax partner at Horwath Clark Whitehill points out, there's a ceiling of &#163;150 per head on what you can spend before the Inland Revenue decides it's interested, and if you go even a quid over that you're taxed on the whole &#163;151 rather than just the extra &#163;1.And if that doesn't persuade you to consider giving everyone a gift token instead, then nothing will. Look on the bright side: a month from now it'll all be over for another year ...Party faux pasThings not to do at this year's bash:&#183;Declare your unrequited love for a colleague. Even if you're sincere, they'll assume you're drunk.&#183;Try to secure a serious business deal or position. Nobody thinks it counts if you've said it at a party.&#183;Tell your boss what you really think of him and assume she'll take it in good part because of the festive season. She won't, and she'll remember every word.&#183;Photocopy your bum or any other part of your anatomy: the hell with political correctness, it's soooo last century ...
Welcome to the November edition of Business Sense, the monthly section for small and medium-sized businesses interested in the latest technology and business thinking.This section normally appears inside Technology Guardian on a Thursday but, for production reasons, appears inside Film and Music this month.This month: what do bars of soap, refurbished bicycles, sports and leisure goods, children's school bags and conservatory kits have in common?They're the goods the final five contestants in our eBay business challenge are planning to sell over the coming weeks, as they compete to win a &#163;2,500 prize to be awarded next year.We asked for your entries in the last edition of Business Sense, and were overwhelmed by the response. More than 400 of you logged on to Guardian Unlimited to provide us with often very detailed business plans, suggesting all sorts of ways to sell a huge variety of products and services.It was a tough task for the panel of judges to whittle that list down to just five, but we hope the final choice represent an interesting and diverse group of people and ideas.All have a great idea, backed up by a good sense of how they'll be sold on the auction site and - importantly - a good sense of how they are going to source their raw materials or goods.We've already handed &#163;1,500 to our five to set them on their way; lots of specialist advice is to follow. We'll report on their progress - and pass on some of that valuable advice - in the January edition of Business Sense.Elsewhere in this month's edition, Jamie Milne reports on the London nightclub that - pardon the pun - was winning rave reviews for its club nights, but was missing more than a few beats on its balance sheet.It underwent a dramatic turnaround thanks to the bravery of shareholders and the hard work of a brother and sister team, who set about clarifying the business's strategy and refining its offerings. We hope there are a few useful lessons in the article for any other young companies facing similar troubles.Finally, we all know the festive season is approaching, but, as Guy Clapperton reports, many small businesses are wondering if the traditional office parties are worth the risks now involved.We don't want to be party poopers, but his story may offer some advice that reduces the risks from the annual, potent cocktail of drink, colleagues and photocopiers ...
Our challenge was simple: come up with businesses that could be developed through online auction site eBay. And your response was overwhelming: from 456 entries, the judges had a tough task to choose just five.But after hours of deliberation, they whittled the longlist down to a shortlist, and the five eventual winners are unveiled today. Each will receive &#163;1,500 to establish their businesses, as well as training and advice.Over the next three months, Business Sense will follow the five as they test their ideas and tackle a series of challenges. The entrant making the best return on the &#163;1,500 seed money will win a further &#163;2,500.Paul EdwardsThe business idea:Conservatory kits are poor quality and over-priced, according to Paul Edwards. He should know: he has worked for a conservatory supplier for three years, after leaving the Royal Air Force. "The niche is to provide people with a better quality conservatory then they could get, for a lower price," he says of his planned business.Edwards has negotiated directly with a manufacturer to sell him bespoke conservatory kits, so he has no need to buy and store stock in advance of sales. "Conservatories aren't manufactured until they are ordered," he says. "It's a zero set-up cost, that's the main attraction. I can create a company out of nothing."The kits will be made to precise specifications - "I can make it a millimetre different for someone," says Edwards - then constructed by buyers if they have the ability. For those who prefer not to do it themselves, Edwards will provide online links to suitable builders, as well as advice: he intends to use part of the &#163;1,500 to help establish this online material.Why use eBay for items costing between &#163;1,500 and &#163;4,000? "The charges for selling are quite expensive, but the exposure you get is national," says Edwards. "There's nowhere else you could get national advertising for a few pence." Despite being computer-literate, he adds that he is "a complete novice" with eBay.Edwards thinks that the conservatory kits will sell better through the site's fixed price "buy it now" service. He thinks auctions will suit sales of ancillary parts such as handles, which will attract more customers: "There's nowhere you can buy these," he says. "The ancillaries may turn out to be the biggest part of the company. Until I get on eBay, I won't know."The experts' verdict:"The guy's obviously come from the business - he's got all the contacts," says Sean Jones, one of the judges, who runs a motorcycle business through eBay under the trading name "Sean_CoolNess". "There's massive growth in conservatories and home DIY." Dan Wilson, eBay UK's community manager and another judge, adds: "Who would think of selling a conservatory online? But the business is there - bespoke conservatories are in demand."Roger EigenheerThe business idea:Four years ago, engineering student Paul Eigenheer visited a police auction of recovered bicycles. A friend wanted help in buying a decent one, but Eigenheer became interested in the wrecks: "There were lots of bikes left with no wheels or saddles, which people didn't want to purchase, and I could buy very cheaply," he says.Eigenheer consolidated what he bought into usable bicycles, which he sold to other students at Queen's University, Belfast, and then on eBay. He went to a couple more auctions, but didn't have the time when he started work. He has since used eBay to buy and sell bicycle parts and items for a house he is renovating.For the competition, he is returning to recycled bicycles. The focus will be on quality rather than quantity, so he can run the business at weekends: he works full-time as a management consultant. "I'm looking at buying a bike at &#163;300 to &#163;400, maybe spending &#163;100 on it then selling it for &#163;600 to &#163;700," he says. "There's no capital investment, because as a serious enthusiast I've got the tools already." He plans to spend the &#163;1,500 on bicycles to be reconditioned, with a focus on American aluminium-framed bicycles, such as the Scott and Cannondale makes, as well as hand-built British bicycles.Eigenheer plans to stick to his favourite eBay method, starting auctions at 99p and running them for 10 days including two weekends. "To minimise the number of emails I get, I put a lot of effort in on pictures, measurements and writing the description," he says.Next summer, he is entering a 187km mountain stage of L'Etape de Tour, in which amateurs cycle stages of the Tour de France. If the business does well, "I'll put the money towards getting my girlfriend along, and maybe a new bike," he says.The experts' verdict:"It's a clever idea," says Dan Wilson. "He knows about second-hand bikes and doing them up, and he knows there's an opportunity on eBay. It felt like he had identified a niche." Several judges also mentioned the environmentally-friendly aspects of the plan.Denice PurdieThe business idea:Denice Purdie has turned her hobby of handmaking soaps from organic ingredients for her children into her business. She started in August, after her husband had to leave the Navy as a result of serious injuries in a car crash last December. This replaced his full-time salary with a disability income of &#163;10,000 a year.They were determined to stay in their remote home at Colintraive, on Scotland's west coast opposite the island of Bute. "To sustain ourselves here, we've had to push ourselves," says Denice Purdie: her husband does the company's paperwork.Purdie's Scottish Soap Company, which also sells essential oils, linen and airsprays, is already distributing products through 18 shops around Scotland after exhibiting at an October trade fair in Glasgow, with funding from Highlands and Islands Enterprise. These include the gift shop at Loch Fyne Oysters' original restaurant in Cairndow, which at 30 miles' drive north is the Purdies' nearest outlet by road.Denice Purdie says she is aiming for a modern image for her products - "we haven't gone for Scottish twee at all," she says - and has ambitious plans to build a soapery at Colintraive to provide local employment.The business opened an e-commerce website,www.thescottishsoapcompany.co.uk, in September, but so far it has taken just a single order. "No one knows we're here," says Purdie. "We don't have the money to advertise." She hopes that eBay will provide a way of raising awareness, and she also wants to pass her experiences to other local women running rural businesses.Purdie wants to learn how to use eBay for selling before deciding on her approach. So far, she has bought only one item through the site: "I went in for a candle, and bought a swimming costume," she says. The costume, for her daughter, cost 79p.The experts' verdict:"It was fresh, if you'll excuse the pun," says Sean Jones of the Purdies' concept, who also thinks well of a husband and wife business. John Goodhead, another of the judges and London regional executive for the Institute of Business Advisers, says the idea and the location appealed: "It could work. You have to go on a gut feel."Stuart ReedThe business idea:Stuart Reed worked for internet consultancy PSINet, then on his own internet-based business, before volunteering to help in his parents' shop, Reeds of Cambridge, which sells canoeing, camping and running kit.His idea of helping involves establishing a new company, Rapid Retail Direct Ltd (RRD), of which he is director, with the eventual aim of merging with his parents' business.Reed has already established an eBay business for the shop, in Chesterton near Cambridge, which has sold more than &#163;4,000 of goods in less than four weeks. "We've proved to ourselves that it does work," he says.For this competition, he is starting an eBay business through RRD. "My business plan is to become a successful retailer on eBay and through other channels, on the back of selling active sports and leisure products," Reed says, covering a much broader range of activities than the shop. A new website will link to the eBay auctions, offering information on equipment, clubs and coaching.He is keen on eBay Shops, which group the auctions run by a seller. "Originally, eBay was clearing stuff out of lofts and garages," he says, but the shop format shows a seller has a wide range of products. So why not just build a standalone online shop? "&#91;eBay&#93; gets a good ranking in search engines, and it's a lot easier to utilise traffic and customers from an existing site than building from scratch," Reed says.The &#163;1,500 will go on stock for the new business. Longer term, Reed hopes to gain funding from business angels or mentors, eventually building a business both online and through more shops: "You could use them as pick-up points," he says, as well as to show off products, in the way that his parents use the nearby river Cam to demonstrate canoes.The experts' verdict:"This was evidently already a successful business that had identified the opportunity to go online," says Dan Wilson. "He seems to have all his ducks in a row." John Goodhead adds that eBay suits excess or end of season stock: "It's an ideal product to sell."Clare TomkinsThe business idea:Clare Tomkins' business idea might have come to her in a dream, if she hadn't been awake at the time: last summer, she was awake at night with her son, who was suffering from eczema. "I started thinking about bags," she says. "I decided I would make a PE bag and sell it on eBay." She had never used the site before.It worked: "It was quite shocking that someone wanted one," says Tomkins, who describes herself as a "full-time mum". During September and October, she has sold more bags for children's PE kit, with the aim of raising the price of an industrial sewing machine to enable her next idea: book bags, to be made from strong, waterproof material."All primary schoolchildren need book bags to take to and from school," says Tomkins. "When I tried to buy one for my daughter, I couldn't get any except very plain ones - there really wasn't anything suitable, except from the school, and you want to be a little bit different." She plans to make a small range of bags with brightly-coloured patterns, with the option of names to be added after sale.She will use the &#163;1,500 to buy her desired sewing machine and a digital camera: she currently photographs bags with a normal camera, which costs time and money in developing the pictures.For the PE bags, she has started eBay auctions at &#163;5.49, with "buy it now" options at &#163;6.50. "I think I've been selling my PE bags too cheaply," she says, hoping to get advice on pricing from the training."My youngest will be starting at school full-time after Easter, and I'll be looking for a job that fits around the children, and so few do," says Tomkins. But making and selling schoolbags online would.The experts' verdict:"My grandson's just started school, and it's cost my daughter an arm and a leg for a schoolbag," says John Goodhead. "If &#91;Tomkins&#93; can keep the quality good, there's a good business." Sean Jones adds: "A handmade, personalised bag is lovely - it's a cottage industry, moving on to the next level."
Almost a decade after Stelios boarded the first easyJet flight from Luton to Glasgow - well, nine years and 362 days, to be exact - I was standing opposite a petrol station on one of the gloomier streets between Baker Street and Marylebone station. The 16.05 easyBus to the easyGroup's spiritual homeland at Luton Airport was late.Coaches boasting air-conditioning and toilets rolled up and offered to take us to Stansted. Clutching our printouts ("No printout? Pay again!"), we ignored them. At 16.13 a minibus rounded the corner and pulled up at bus stop A, and the driver jumped out.The easyBus was instantly recognisable, even to the passengers whose grasp of English was poor. The slightly bulbous cooper black font - whose "soft, friendly curves" give the easyBrand a "warm personality", according to the new easyGroup brand manual - was superimposed on a grey mesh that had been stuck over the windows and the sides of the van. Inside, the mesh shaded London an even greyer tinge than usual. With all 16 of the seats taken, iPods thrumming, a young French couple pointing out the sights of the Finchley Road and the easyBus barrelling towards the motorway, I put my cheek against the window and closed my eyes. Three quid seemed little enough to avoid the northbound Thameslink train during rush hour.Just under an hour later, we were at Luton, where I had accepted theeasyjetlounge.co.ukinvitation to book a two-hour stay at the Aviance Executive Lounge. This part of the trip was quite definitely not a bargain: in fact, had I booked further in advance, a one-way ticket would have cost less than the &#163;16.99 I paid for the use of the lounge. Despite the warm welcome at the desk, the Aviance lounge is a charmless, viewless room with overhead TVs blaring BBC1 at high volume, a selection of calorific snacks, dog eared back copies of the Economist, the opportunity to pay a further &#163;1.50 for 15 minutes of internet access - and, inevitably, other people's conversations with their secretaries. It's scarcely justifiable on any budget, particularly since the airport now sells BT Openzone Wi-Fi access and a some decent restaurants have opened since the recent refurbishment.The 18.55 to Basel left on time and passed uneventfully: the cabin crew were cheerful and noticeably more relaxed than their counterparts on BA and Ryanair. Still, it was nearly 10pm by the time the cab drew up outside the easyHotel on Riehenring. Rather charmingly, someone had tied orange bows around the pillars outside.Minimalist appealThe Basel easyHotel is the second in the franchise - the first opened in Earls Court in August - and has a certain minimalist appeal which the stuccoed London branch does not. There's no key or electronic card to lose. Residents receive a printout at check-in with a code which has to be typed into a keypad to reach the staircase and open the door to their room.I had wanted one of the cheapest rooms without a window, but those had all sold out: the Basel easyHotel was almost completely full during its first month of opening. Instead, I found an immaculate dormer room with a double bed, a full-length mirror, three hooks and a door advertising the "tinyLoo" behind it. The bathroom pod, which in other circumstances would have accommodated a small wardrobe, was ingeniously designed to incorporate an orange sink, a shower and a toilet.Unless you have the bad habit of typing in bed, balancing a laptop on your stomach and propping up your head with pillows, the easyHotel is a dreadful place to work. There's no table, no chair, no desk and no communal area in which to escape the room. Flicking the light switch turned on a fluorescent strip behind the bed and a bulb on the ceiling, though a slightly more subtle ambience could be achieved by opening the door of the tinyLoo and switching on its light. The effect was mildly disorienting, as if I had come downstairs during the night, opened the fridge door and promptly fallen asleep.The bed, on the other hand, was irreproachable: cotton sheets, fat pillows and two single duvets. If you happen to be sharing a bed with an acquaintance - and I suspect the typical easyTraveller does so pretty often, for reasons of experimentation or economy - the easyBed is thoroughly suitable. I was woken a few times by a mechanical roar that might have been an off-duty tram, but my neighbours were either silent or well insulated. There was no sign of the promised flat screen TV (&#163;5 per 24 hours) or Wi-Fi access (a similar sum).Morning revealed some of the limitations of the tinyLoo. Drainage was slow and water slopped into the rest of the pod as I showered. Worried the ledge would be breached and the tinyLoo overflow, I perched on the sink, dried my feet and jumped onto the bed.The easyHotel doesn't stretch to breakfast, though a vending machine is provided for emergencies. The genial man at the reception suggested the restaurant next door. The net curtains and thick cigarette smoke didn't encourage lingering. I was about to tell the reception I was leaving when I realised that this particular courtesy was unnecessary. My keycode would anyway expire at 10am, I'd paid the whole bill when I booked the hotel online, and there was no minibar or phone bill to settle. Like so many other conventions of foreign travel - free food on the plane, paper tickets, allocated seats - Stelios had realised that checking out of a hotel was a laborious process that could be removed from the equation.I have a hunch that the easyHotel will do better than some of Stelios' other recent niche ventures. Rooms in Basel are hard to find for less than &#163;50 per night; the easyGroup is selling them from 30 Swiss francs. Business travellers carrying more than a Blackberry will find the experience claustrophobic, but for those who want nothing more than a bed and as little contact with humans as possible, the easyHotel does well enough.
When I left Britain I'm sure many of the people I worked for expected me to miss deadlines as I succumbed to the attractions of party island Ibiza. I hoped for a little more in the way of sun, sea and siestas, but without the missed deadlines.To achieve my aim I thought all I needed to do was work a little more efficiently and reduce my reliance on the almost infinite number of displacement activities offered by an internet-connected computer. There'd always be another website to be checked. What if something really important was happening in the world? Ping. There's another email. It could be vital.But in order to earn a living in Spain I still need my broadband, so none of those distractions have disappeared. Now I feel guilty, not just about putting off work, but putting off pleasure as well.My personal productivity is challenged in other ways. There's a totally different rhythm of life here. The US-led "live to work" mentality hasn't got the grip it has in Britain. Work here remains a means to an end. It doesn't even define who you are in the same way as it does in the UK.At the same time working life isn't organised solely for the benefit of the customer. Most shops, including garden centres and hardware stores, don't open on Sunday. Many are closed on Saturdays as well. And forget trying to do anything during the afternoon siesta. Even after you've been here a while this lack of customer focus can catch you by surprise.This attitude is contagious which doesn't necessarily go down too well if, like me, you do most of your work for UK businesses. Everybody's supposed to be in favour of an improved work-life balance. In theory.In practice, most of my British paymasters seem to think I'm on holiday all the time anyway. The fact that I always meet my deadlines does nothing to diminish this belief. And that is all the more frustrating because it's actually quite difficult to take a holiday. Every time I've left the island it's been for a hectic round of business meetings interspersed with the odd family visit and wedding. I wouldn't get much sympathy if I took a break away from them and Ibiza.An added difficulty is the distinctly two-tone nature of the Ibizan year. From November to April there are no flights at all to anywhere outside Spain. Getting back to Scotland, where many of my clients are based, is an expensive, multi-hour nightmare. It's often quicker and cheaper getting from there to the States or Australia. The advantage is that this gives you half the year free of visitors to get on with your work undisturbed. You hope.But the winter is also the time when you see your local friends. The chances are, along with 80% of the population, they'll be directly reliant on tourism for their income and a season which peaks for a few short weeks around August. Some make enough to head for Thailand, Goa or Brazil. The rest eke out the chilly winter nights with cheap red wine and home-grown herbs. There's no work, but it's still a sociable time.Summer or winter, though, one unexpected bonus has saved my working life on numerous occasions. There's a one-hour time difference which means that if I stagger down the hall from my bedroom to my computer at 11am it's still the mildly more respectable 10am in the UK. An extra hour on a deadline or for sleep is just enough for that little bit of depravity on the side.&#183;Nick Clayton is a freelance writer, editor of the August Club website and a web content consultant
When up and coming companies in industries as diverse as the advertising world and the legal and pharmaceutical sectors decide to rethink their entire way of working, the rest of the business world should assume a heightened state of alert.Tim Routledge and John Bunyard, co-founders of The Newcomen Limited, certainly think so. They are veterans of the advertising industry, yet have now shunned almost everything they once stood for to take a new approach to transforming clients' sales. So passionate are they about the importance of the change they have made, they're now writing a book about it.The Newcomen, a new venture named after the father of the industrial revolution, has turned two principles of business on their head: first, that winning customers has anything to do with manipulating them; and second, that businesses require a glamourous image.The Newcomen doesn't have any offices. It is a virtual business that relies on Institute of Directors (IoD) meeting rooms around the country on the occasions it needs to hold meetings. Everything else is done at distance, using web conferencing tools and Skype internet telephony. The Newcomen seeks to slash meeting miles - which means not getting in your car unless you absolutely have to.What's different about the Newcomen is that it doesn't seek to hide any of this from its clients. It's proud of the fact that it is a small dynamic enterprise that uses an external "virtual PA" service (called Moneypenny) as its telephone answering service, and that its mail forwarding address is an IoD hub. As far as Routledge is concerned, all of this is good for business, as it shows that the lion's share of client fees go towards funding excellent services that have been assembled just for that customer's benefit.Routledge is at pains to point out that there is no comparison he can draw on for the model his business has assumed. "The nearest analogy would be with the film industry, or construction, where teams are assembled and broken down with regularity," he says. He prefers to think of the Newcomen as a "federation". "Our affiliates are part of the club - we bind people in with share ownership," he explains. "But they are freelancers or companies in their own right, with their own clients."Minimal overheadsThis approach has substantial advantages. For starters, the business has minimal overheads, since it doesn't need its own premises. Second, the Newcomen has access to the best skills in a wide range of specialist disciplines. "Availability of resources is not an issue in the way that it might be within a traditional company structure," Routledge says. This is because the experts are paid only for their time spent on live projects. "Technology allows them to fit our tasks around other commitments," he says.This enables the Newcomen to offer more than an advertising agency; it considers itself a "business growth consortium", such is the range of consultancy and creative skills it puts at a client's disposal.For Routledge and Bunyard, advertising is no longer the starting point for winning and keeping business. "The new theory for business is all about telling the truth about products and services," Routledge says. "We are about reconstructing businesses from the outside in; we think traditional consultancy is fundamentally flawed. To achieve a real change in sales performance, businesses need to think about the customer experience and what they need to do to create a more positive one."The human brain likes honesty, but most marketing gives you the spin and then disappoints," he says. The Newcomen, whose motto is "honesty, truth and transparency", expects to be measured on its results - ie increased sales for its clients. Time will tell whether the approach works.A similar practice has well served Andrew Woolley, the proprietor of a small, virtual legal practice headquartered in the Cotswolds. He is another entrepreneur when it comes to flying in the face of donkeys' years of tradition to produce better results for his business and his clients.Although Woolley's national team (now nine, and counting) is salaried, the company is a virtual one in that everyone works from home and organises their own hours. The firm's software is hosted remotely too (with specialist legal software and services provider Practice), so that the solicitors can access this from wherever they happen to be via a standard internet connection.Flexible workingSo why the virtual approach? For Woolley & Co solicitors it is the only way to grow at its current speed (Woolley expects to double his turnover to &#163;1.2m in 2006). As a small firm, Woolley can afford to match the salaries of bigger firms because he doesn't have the same infrastructure costs. "We are in Stratford, but I can take on a solicitor in Manchester without incurring the costs of having to set up a local office, which would be financially prohibitive," Woolley says.Heavyweight salaries coupled with the unusually flexible working terms Woolley offers has enabled the firm to recruit some top-notch lawyers.What's impressive about Woolley's story is that he set out with this business model as long ago as 1996, when use of the internet was still in its infancy, certainly in the legal sector. Woolley favours email and the telephone over any other form of communication and finds it laughable that other lawyers reply to his emails with a letter. "We're talking about a huge speed benefit for the client if email is used over the traditional letter," he says. Almost a decade on, Woolley believes his way of working is still seen as very avant-garde.Another market that might not be expected to be taking such a modern approach to running a business is the pharmaceutical industry. But Dr Bill Love, CEO of a small medical research company, believes it is the dynamic nature of his business that has enabled it to create the world's first light-activated cure for the hospital super-bug, MRSA. Despite its tiny size, the company, Destiny Pharma, has recently secured over &#163;3m worth of funding to take its drugs to phase two clinical trials next year.Because large conglomerates dominate the pharmaceutical industry, it is rare for a small firm to achieve success. But Love believes it is the exceptional business model employed by his company that enables it to "punch above its weight", taking risks that wouldn't be deemed commercially viable with larger enterprises.Shared ownershipDestiny has a core team of six people at its Sussex offices, yet the company works with scientists and doctors from around the world by using a virtual community. One resource used by the team is Cordis (www.cordis.lu/en/home.html) - an open-access internet database created by the European Commission to help scientists throughout Europe collaborate on projects. This enables Destiny Pharma to cherry-pick a particular scientist or doctor to help with a specific stage of development. Once it has found a scientist with the right expertise, the two parties become partners. Communication between them is almost entirely through email."For the sort of people we needed to work with, the project needed to be pretty special," says Love. "But because it enables them to remain where they are and work remotely with us, they are more likely to amenable. This also means we can move quickly and into new areas, bringing in new specialists as and when we need them."Despite their diversity, the Newcomen, Woolley & Co Solicitors and Destiny Pharma have learned very similar lessons about running virtual businesses. The most important one surrounds affiliate buy-in.Destiny's Love says: "A key element of why this works for Destiny is that there is a degree of shared ownership in developing the new medicine. Big pharmaceutical companies work on a contract basis, hiring out subcontractors but seeking to maintain 100% ownership over the drug - essentially it's a commercial model offering basic payment for a service."Destiny started out with a similar approach, using service arrangements with its experts from across the world. "The danger here though was that if for whatever reason they were not able to do the work we gave them, we would miss out and the process would be delayed," he says. "We realised that we had little control over this, whereas if they had been working as part of our company we would have been able to ensure the work was done."Destiny now favours a happy medium of shared ownership. "Even if what we're offering our partners is only a fraction of a per cent, this instills a shared interest in the success of the product, which improves the working relationship within a virtual partnership," Love says.The Newcomen reached a similar conclusion: "The need for everybody to buy in - literally - to the virtual organisation concept soon become clear," Routledge says. "Each of our 40 members has had to demonstrate its commitment by purchasing a shareholding. In return, they are the Newcomen's sole representative in their particular trade or profession."For Woolley, there were additional legal reasons his partners needed to become permanent employees - so that he could assume the liability for any malpractice, for example. "The key for me, though, has been giving the lawyers many of the benefits they would enjoy if self-employed," he says. "That means the flexibility to work from the beach in Spain if necessary, or to work evenings or weekends if this means they can enjoy their families more at key points in the day. I wouldn't dream of telling professionals how to manage their affairs; the only rule is that they keep the client happy."
Facebook.com, launched in February last year by three roommates at America's Harvard University, puts a new twist on the growing phenomenon of social networking sites. More friendly than Friendster but with less street cred than MySpace, its focus is on communication between college students - and if academia isn't where you're at, then you are unlikely to get a look in."It was initially a small project that we imagined Harvard students would enjoy," is the introduction from a spokesperson. But after just three weeks, 6,000 communication-hungry students had joined up, and theFacebookteam knew they were on to something big.Every university and high school in the US now has a presence on Facebook, and in February this year, its close-knit clique was joined by the bastions of British higher education, Cambridge and Oxford universities.It now counts 30 UK universities as members, from St Andrews in Scotland to the London School of Economics, with 70,000 users, including alumni.Its success is down to "the versatility of the site and its connection to day-to-day reality," says the spokesperson. "Facebook really works as an information directory and not just a site you go to when you're bored or need entertainment."This is because - uniquely - you can only see the profiles of students at your own university, unless you make a direct friendship with someone from another establishment. This gives "another degree of immediacy" that other social networking sites lack, and means topics posted by your friends really are relevant to your life: where tonight's party is, for example, and what mixer you have to bring for the vodka.The churn factor at most social networking sites, on the other hand, is often blamed on the fact that after six months, you are likely to end up with a collection of 500 "friends" - none of whom you really know, like or live near.Facebook is so popular, says Oxford student Roger Waites, that "it has replaced email or a college message board as the way to communicate". About 60% of students have created a Facebook profile in the past eight months."It's a much more intimate and amusing way of communicating," Waites says. He cites the photo capability - which lets you upload photos and tag them to the profile of the person in the snap - and the group system - which links friends involved in similar hobbies - as some of the best features.The website has expanded to Ireland, Switzerland, France, Canada and Mexico (only at English-speaking universities) with plans for more features and countries.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
FearPC, Monolith Productions/Vivendi, &pound;29.994/5You'd have thought we would have learned by now that you need to be wary of little girls with fixed stares and curtains of long hair who flit across your consciousness. Apparently not. Those who buy Fear do so in the full knowledge that the latest first-person shooter from Monolith and Vivendi is built around spooky encounters with just such an unsettling pre-teen.A friend taunted me by saying "I dare you to play it in the dark with headphones on". I scare easily so that was a no, but even in full daylight, Fear will take you by surprise more than once.You start as a raw recruit to the clunkily named First Encounter Assault Recon team - hence the acronym Fear - tasked with tracking down a madman called Paxton Fettel, who seems to be dispatching people by eating them. Needless to say, your team is gradually taken to bits and soon you are on your own, fighting nasties with some pretty mean weapons - plus Fettel himself.Fettel is hiding inside a sprawling complex of apparently deserted buildings near a dock. It is a great setting, atmospheric and full of dark corners and spooky corridors. Inside, you will find gruesomely dispatched victims, deserted offices, pipes to crawl through and levers to push, as well as discarded weaponry and health packs handily left lying about. And, of course, there is that creepy little girl.Who is she?The complex is not actually deserted: there are legions of bad guys out to get you at all turns. And this is where the real brilliance of the game first manifests itself. This is artificial intelligence with true intelligence, or so it seems. The baddies seem to know what you are thinking, which is pretty spooky.For example, having blasted a handful of them into satisfyingly gory oblivion, you crouch behind a convenient corner waiting for the next wave to storm out at you so you can unleash your firepower and clear the decks before moving on. This is a tactic that works well in most first-person shooters. But, er, where are they? You have seen them flitting around, so why aren't they coming for you? The answer is that they are responding to your tactics. They, too, are crouched in dark corners just waiting for you to pop your head out and take a look. That kind of thing certainly builds the tension, as does the excellent music.Equally creepy are the dream sequences, where images of messy death flash up in front of you, and the moments you catch the girl out of the corner of your eye. Who is she? What is she doing here? And why on earth have her parents let her wander down blood-splattered corridors with a cannibal and some weapon-toting bad guys around?From a technical point of view, this is a stunning game. If your PC will allow you to turn up its settings to something approaching the maximum, it is a visual treat. The lighting is spectacular, with glows and murky corners that wouldn't look out of place in a Constable painting. The physics are also superb: boxes scatter convincingly as you run into them and blood sprays in eye-popping style. The slow-motion you can invoke to make it easier to hit the baddies looks magnificent - and it gives you time to admire their demise.And - unusually for gory shooters - this game has a decent plot. I won't spoil it for you, but it is involving enough to keep you playing to the end, when all is more or less revealed.Be afraidThere is always a "but" with even the most brilliant games. First, Fear is very demanding of your machine. I run an overclocked gaming rig with an Athlon FX-55, 2GB of Ram and two Nvidia 6800 Ultra graphics cards - and to get maximum effects I still had to drop the resolution down to the minimum. If you are thinking of playing this game on a mid-range PC, be aware that you probably won't get the full benefit of its beauty.A bigger objection is that after a while, the game gets repetitive. At each level you will be creeping down darkened corridors waiting to fire off your latest weapon. It's very linear - the route is clearly signposted and there is little scope for free-range exploring. Any puzzles you have to solve prove more of a distraction than a struggle. Very little of the environment is interactive. You cannot, for example, open many doors, nor can you investigate desk drawers for useful keys and suchlike.As for the spooky bits - well, the game certainly has plenty of moments that will make you jump and utter expletives, but after a while you come to expect them. And yes, there are heart-pounding times when you wonder how you're going to get out of a situation without being torn apart. But there are plenty of times when it feels like nothing more than a very well-executed corridor shooter.The creepy girl has her place in the plot but, really, we've seen her type too many times before.This does not mean that Fear isn't an involving and very well done game that's worthy of your money and 12 or so hours of your time. On its own terms, it is superb. But if you are hoping for something genuinely innovative, you might be disappointed.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bluetooth headsets are a wonderful idea, in that they let you make and receive phone calls without having to find your mobile. There are, however, a couple of major flaws with almost all models. First, their odd designs make you look ridiculous. Second, and perhaps more important, the headsets use only one side of your head, which, if you are wearing them for any length of time, feels uncomfortable.Motorola, a company that has pioneered many Bluetooth innovations, including the wireless crash helmet, has clearly taken this on board and offered the RAZRWire shades.At its most basic, this is a pair of really cool Oakley sunglasses, which come in black, silver or gold, accompanied by a dedicated mini Bluetooth adaptor that snaps on to their frame. Alas, the shades/adaptor combi still looks ridiculous but is really comfortable to wear, as the frame, not your ear, takes the weight of the unit.Setting up the system is fairly simple, too, as it paired quickly and easily with our Nokia 7610. Once you have connected the headset to the frame you simply position the earpiece and away you go.There are inevitable downsides. If, for example, you wear sunglasses on your head, when the phone rings you'll have to move the glasses down and reposition the earpiece in your ear. Another flaw is that the trio of control buttons, which enable all manner of facilities from transferring to muting calls, are too small and fiddly to be functional. Realistically, you will probably use only the headset for receiving calls.Aside from its comfort factor, the RAZRWire's best feature is its superb sound quality - the best we've heard from a Bluetooth headset. It also has solid battery life. Our sample soldiered on for three days before it required a recharge.Ultimately, this headset is not for everyone. The design of the shades probably won't be to everyone's taste (and you can't clip the unit on to any glasses, either, just this model and a few others from Oakley) and neither will the price (&pound;200). Yet this won't be the last we see of Bluetooth-endowed sunglasses. Expect cheaper Bluetooth units that clip on to all types of glasses in time for next summer.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Internet radio might be all the rage, but your computer won't make an attractive sight in the living room, regardless of how good it sounds. This digital radio, however, is the epitome of pretty, making boring black-box radio purchases an unnecessary downer.Intempo Digital's KTM-02 radio is designed by Matthew Williamson, the favourite designer of boho-chic actor Sienna Miller. It is Williamson's second collaboration with the manufacturer. Inspired by the Tokyo Georgette print in Williamson's latest collection, it will add colourful retro glamour to any indoor living space. And it sounds good, too.The dualband radio gives you the choice of listening to DAB or FM stations. Four million people in the UK now tune in to digital radio via DAB, where stations are bundled together, often meaning there is less crackle and hiss in the reception.The difference in sound quality between FM and DAB is hardly discernible on most mainstream stations on the KTM-02, although some smaller or newer stations that you can get only on FM sound far away and fuzzy. The main difference for most users will be the ease with which you can find stations on DAB.You can switch between the two frequencies at the press of a button, and can preset up to four channels on each easily. The name of the station, and even which song and artist is playing, is displayed on the clear LCD screen.The KTM-02 is mains and battery-operated, and its size and weight make it perfectly portable. It also has an alarm clock with sleep and snooze functions."The radio is a home-grown, best-of-British product because it was designed in the UK, has been customised by one of the UK's most important fashion designers and the DAB module, which powers the radio, is the latest and most advanced technology from &#91;UK company&#93; Radioscape," says Intempo Digital's Rhianon Lucas.It costs &pound;125 and is available exclusively at John Lewis.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
CNethas word that PSP owners will be able to benefit from digital recording productTiVo's record-and-play capailities on their handhelds, but what about us? As memory serves, TiVo spluttered when it was released in Europe, to be overwhelmed by theSkyPlusvideo service when the time was right. While TiVo is still around in the UK, Rupert Murdoch's product is surely the market leader. Has anyone heard anything about record-and-play capabilities for folks not in North America? Will this be the re-assertion of TiVo or will SKY come along and finish the job?
Boing Boinghave directed gamesblog to a call for essays about being a girl geek. A book out next year, edited byAnnalee NewitzandCharlie Anders, will be "An Anthology by and for Women Obsessed with Computers, Science, Comic Books, Gaming, Spaceships, and Revolution."They're looking for contributors, so if you're a writer, an aspiring one or have a story of personal geekdom to get off your chest, headhere.Geeks are taking over the world. They make the most popular movies and games, pioneer new ways to communicate using technology, and create new ideas that will change the future. But the stereotype is that only men can be geeks. So when are we going to hear from the triumphant female nerds whose stories of outer space battles will inspire generations, and whose inventions will change the future?We want introspective essays that explain what being a geek has meant to you. Describe how you've fought stereotypes to be accepted among nerds. Explore why you are obsessed with topics and ideas that are supposed to be "for boys only." Tell us how you felt the day you realized that you would be devoting the rest of your life to discovering algorithms or collecting comic books. We want strong, personal writing that is also smart and critical.
I have seen a digital camera with 5 megapixels for 250. The next model up, with 8 megapixels, is 400. Is it worth paying 150 for the extra megapixels? Toby WoodOther things being equal, more megapixels will produce a more detailed picture, but they never are. For example, some pixels are bigger than others, because the camera's CCD sensor is bigger. Some pixels have a different shape, and the ones in Fujifilm's Super CCD sensors are octagonal rather than square. This isn't a bad idea, but it inflates the pixel count faster than it increases the picture quality. Some pixels are "interpolated" using software that guesses what a pixel could contain based on the pixels next to it, so a 3 megapixel sensor can produce a 6 megapixel image. If you go by the pixel count, check the sensor size, and make sure you are comparing like with like.Digital cameras take pictures that fit PC screens. If your screen is set to 1024 x 768, then simple multiplication gives 786,432 pixels or 0.75 megapixels. A 5 megapixel camera will take pictures that are up to 2592 x 1944 pixels, while an 8 megapixel camera will probably take pictures at 3264 x 2448. This is only a 26% improvement from a camera that has 60% more pixels and, in your case, costs 60% more. To get an image that was twice as good as a 5 megapixel camera, you would need four times as many pixels, ie a 20 megapixel camera.Obviously you don't need many megapixels to fill a screen, but they are important when printing images. For example, if you want to make a 10 x 8 inch print, and print at 200 pixels per inch (ppi), then you need 2000 x 1600 pixels, or 3 megapixels. Printing at a higher resolution of 300ppi, you need 3000 x 2400 pixels or 7 megapixels. Make your own calculation of how many pixels you need based on the size of the pictures you print and the quality of your printer.In general, beyond 5 megapixels, the extra pixels are of diminishing value for most people, and the difference between 5 and 8 is marginal. The benefits could easily be swamped by other factors, such as the quality of the lens and the manner in which the CCD image is converted into a JPeg. It is therefore essential to read reviews at Digital Photography Review (www.dpreview.com) and perhaps DCP Review (www.dcresource.com) before deciding. However, bear in mind that any pixels you don't capture when you take the picture are gone for ever.
How do you get a website "spotted" by search engines? I mean spotted, as opposed to being high up the list. Nick PeedThe web is a network of interlinked pages and search engines use robot "spiders" to crawl it. Any website will be found if it has incoming links. The more incoming links there are, the sooner a site will be noticed and indexed, so get people to link to your site. Most search engines also allow you to submit your site's address or URL: Google's is athttp://www.google.com/addurl/. It is also beta testing a way to submit sitemaps athttp://www.google.com/webmasters/sitemaps/. This doesn't guarantee inclusion. If your site is no good, it may be found and ignored.
You've seen things: But is Blade Runner one of the greatest geek movies?We had such a good time delving into thebest geek novels- remember, top of the pile came Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy - that I thought it would also be interesting to find out what Technology Guardian readers thought the best geek movies were.It's a much more limited field, of course, with the film industry being far more expensive and restrictive than the writing of books. But we've got a much wider field to look at - from blockbusters like Star Wars and Lord of the Rings through to classics like Blade Runner.First off we have to decide which movies to shortlist, and then run a vote: leave your suggestions of films that could make the list in the comments below...
"A dense bed of light-sensitive bacteria has been developed as a unique kind of photographic film. Although it takes 4 hours to take a picture and only works in red light, it also delivers extremely high resolution," reportsNew Scientist."The 'living camera' uses light to switch on genes in a genetically modified bacterium that then cause an image-recording chemical to darken. The bacteria are tiny, allowing the sensor to deliver a resolution of 100 megapixels per square inch."Update:The New York Timeshas the story plus background info.
As one of the planet's most videogame obsessed nations, Japan is often buzzing with interest about the latest big title. But the latest to get Tokyo talking is Okami, an impressive adventure game from Clover Studios.Visually it is stunning - ornate vistas sculpted via a beautiful mottled paper effect. Yet, the more remarkable aspect is how Okami plays. The player draws on the environment via a calligraphy screen. You can cut trees in half with a stroke of your brush, create water lilies upon a lake by simply drawing a circle and even rebuild parts of the environment by penning in the missing parts. At the Tokyo Game Show earlier this year, the game outshone everything else.The team behind Okami also made the Viewtiful Joe series, and producer Atsushi Inaba is at the helm. "The concept of the game is to paint and interact with the beauty of nature," he says. "Naturally, what we thought to be best suited would be an animal, so the main character is a wolf. The idea was to merge Japanese aesthetics with an element of gaming. Some parts of the game are also based upon Japanese mythology. After all, the wolf is one incarnation of Amaterasu (the main god of the Shinto religion), but we were not overly conscious of its influence. Rather we have tried to capture an aspect of Japan that we are aware of."Therefore, the first thing we created was the overall aesthetic, the staff were inspired by that and Okami was born. The process was led by a picture such as this; perhaps that kind of story or world setting would be possible. Nowadays, it seems that if something is realistic, that is regarded as being 'beautifully represented' in terms of in-game graphics. However, I wanted to express beauty in a different way."The PlayStation 2 is not the most powerful gaming hardware but I think we have shown it is possible to create something like Okami on such hardware. It was technically difficult, though."When pressed on the artistic nature, Inaba responded: "I wouldn't regard Okami as art. We are within kind of a service industry and games exist as entertainment. I don't believe entertainment equals art. However, if people outside Japan receive the game as something culturally unique, I will be happy."Okami will be the first title Clover Studio will release and Inaba is aware of what he has to deliver. "I obviously want Okami to be a good game so our work will be appreciated by gamers. If they say, 'Those guys made an interesting game. What will come next?' then, in my mind, Okami has been a success. I find that the enthusiasm of the players is increasing the more we exhibit Okami.""With a game like Okami, I want to offer a situation where games creators can enjoy developing their games. Yet I do not think it will do any good to the industry if we keep creating games based around war and excessive violence."In the case of Okami, it seems that Inaba may have resolved these often mutually opposing ideals.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The hype over the release of the Microsoft Xbox 360 has been vibrating through US games-related blogs and sites, news reports and MTV specials for weeks. This week it culminated in blow-by-blow coverage of the release geekery on Tuesday at a huge 24-hour-plus party in the Mojave Desert.While we have to wait 10 days until our launch, the Yanks prepare to digest their feast of Thanksgiving in front of the newest and most powerful games machine around.Microsoft has staged a coup by using a very clever marketing technique: the 3,000 fans who braved the desert were treated to a celebrity and musical spectacle, plus non-stop gaming madness. Now these new disciples have gone forth and proselytised to the world.This release process feels qualitatively different from four years ago. Rather than gathering a bunch of cynical journalists together, plying them with booze and liberally scattering the new brand through the room hoping for remnants of good feeling in the coverage, Microsoft has placed the gamers at the centre of the launch experience.It seems as if the industry's relationship with its audience has regressed. Now we're back to the bottom-up marketing tack familiar from the days of the bedroom programmers, rather than relying upon the same rabble of "experts" transmitting information through glossy magazines or over-shiny review programmes. While this suggests I may soon be out of a job, it is a welcome move for the sake of the exponentially increasing gamer market, and the quality of output in general.The PlayStation brand is as much to thank for this as the internet; the former brought gaming to the masses, while the latter gave the masses a mouthpiece to ensure accountability. The mashed-up contributions of fans via the world wide web mean that the big boys have little control over what's put "out there". Instead, they had better focus all their attention on making the consumers, rather than the journalists, happy. Brilliant.This is a positive step. Recent memory has it that an international publisher was planning on docking the bonuses of its development employees if the reviews in games magazines weren't above a certain average.What? Don't give the professional cynics the control over your products - hand it over to the people who matter.Microsoft's Burning Man-style event did the trick because it involved Joe and Jane Gamer. I'm sure the Xbox 360 will have better buzz because of these desert shenanigans than it would have if some joker in the Guardian wrote an article about it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
My phone has everything: camera, polytones, triband, GRPS, internet, MP3 player. The manual is heavier than the phone, which is heavier than my wallet, now substantially emptier for having purchased it. But there is one flaw: the predictive text dictionary.Its lexicon is so dumb it fails to predict the most basic and essential 21st-century words such as tofu, flatmate and Sainsbury's. Instead, it makes dumb guesses: undu, flaunaue and Painbusys.Worse, when it guesses Painbusys, it makes a chirpy optimistic beep, like a puppy that has brought you a child's severed leg instead of the newspaper. "This?" it yaps. "Did you mean this?"No, I did not, I tell it as I fight the urge to fling it at a wall. This happens a lot, about 12 times a day. The technology is infuriating. I don't understand it. For example, some words that my phone doesn't know - Marylebone or Wi-Fi, for example - it stops trying to spell halfway through.But with other words, it allows you to text to the end, cycle through a series of ludicrous spellings before offering you Painbusys. That must mean that Painsbusys is in its dictionary. Someone has put that word there. Who? Why?I still remember the giddy moment when I discovered how to predictive text. I had always been confused by how some friends replied so quickly and so articulately to my missives.I watched, dazzled, one night as a girlfriend composed a lengthy text in an instant. She pointed out the trick, and showed me which buttons to press. Once I had cracked it, there was no going back.But predictive texting was sold to me as a learning technology - the more you text the more your phone expands its vocabulary. But it's a lie. As soon as I turn my phone off, it forgets all the words I've painstakingly tapped in.So every few days I must teach this remedial two year old that I live in Camberwell not Canceryell. That the Indian meal I have cooked contains dhal and parsnips, not fick and rappogs. And that I'm phoning my mum at seven, not sinning.Many mobile companies offer whizzy "where I am" technologies that track your location and send you custom content. Find a restaurant near me, give me directions, and so on.Instead of these gimmicks, how about something revolutionary? A predictive text dictionary not only tuned to where I live, and what century I inhabit, but that knows my demographic group and that I swear occasionally. It would be loaded with words every metropolitan geek needs: Koko, Hakkasan, Kensington, PowerBook, nightbus, Wi-Fi, Limewire, psilocybin and hah - as "hah, you lousy phone, I'm getting an upgrade".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The photographic coverage of the July 7 London bombings was an unexpected aftershock for media professionals. The realisation that almost every image seen on television news and front pages was captured by amateurs sent shivers down the collective media spine. It was confirmation, if any were needed, that digital photography had come of age. Thanks to sales exceeding 200m a year worldwide, including cameraphones, access to digital photography is all but universal among the urban population.What is astonishing is to realise that the important changes - from nearly zero adoption to near-saturation of the market - took place in only five years. While the first patents for a filmless camera were filed in 1972, we had to wait until 1986 for the first digital camera system, the Canon RC-701. It was aimed at press photographers but its $27,000 price tag was hardly an encouragement. The first consumer digital camera under $1,000 arrived in 1994: the Apple QuickTake had a fixed lens and took 640x480 pixels (similar to the quality of an average TV screen). It was apparent that, while it was fun to get a picture without the hassle of processing film, the price was too high for image quality that was, to put it kindly, dilapidated.It was not digital cameras that blocked progress. As with any new technology, the environment had to be conducive. Digital photography needed computers with fast processors capable of dealing with large files - one image file can be bigger than a year's worth of text documents. In the late 1990s, computers were being loaded with ever more memory, hard-disk capacity and extra software to encourage flagging sales.Right time, right placeDigital photography took off only when, at the turn of the millennium, every computer could comfortably handle image files. As the market grew, manufacturing costs dropped. The adoption of cost-saving measures such as sharing components (the imaging chip, image processors, LCD screens and minor optics) between camera models also helped to drive down prices.The impact of digital photography on modern life is in part due to marketing. Aggressive competition between camera makers has forced product cycles - the time between new models - to shorten. Replacement models are being announced almost before the previous camera has reached the market.The arrival of each new model offering more features and more quality at lower prices means that consumers are the winners. And don't they know it: half of all digital camera sales (not including cameraphones) in the US and Europe are to those who already own a digital camera.The intense activity has fuelled a parallel growth in technological awareness: it is no longer remarkable when a grandmother asks her teenage grandson to explain the difference between optical and digital zoom. Retired schoolteachers shop for cameras with a checklist of specifications in a way they would never have done for film-based models.The increased awareness of the technology together with wide access to digital photography has, in turn, thrown the industry into disarray. The headlines - such as Dixons removing film cameras from its shelves, Kodak no longer making black-and-white printing paper and the near-extinction of household names such as Leica, Agfa and Polaroid - all signal the obvious changes.The restructuring of the profession is more subtle, profound and distressing: experienced photographers are finding themselves marginalised, their darkroom skills discounted with a rapidity that makes the destruction of craft traditions by the industrial revolution appear snail-paced in comparison.To join the digital world, these professionals not only have to abandon large investments in equipment and experience, they must retrain to use computers and imaging software. And as film-using professionals are supplanted by digital photographers, so their largely obsolete equipment can be bought for a song.Working practices have changed. The industry has now dumped ultimate responsibility for image quality on the lap of photographers - amateur and professional alike. All the quality control processes formerly ensuring that you got good results when films were developed and printed now sit in your hands.Not only is it your job to download your pictures, you must adjust or manipulate the image if you don't like the results, before printing it out on your printer. And if the results are not perfect, there is no one to blame but yourself.After enjoying a brief respite from having to placate increasingly demanding customers, the industry woke to the horrified realisation that no one makes prints any more. From the happy days of a print made for every image captured, it's now one miserable print for every few hundred images.This is particularly galling because we now take far more images than ever: stories of those who once exposed a roll of film per holiday but now return to find hundreds of images in their new digital camera are not rare. But we show the images on our computers using slideshow features of software such as iPhoto or PowerPoint; we attach image files to the emails we send home; we share our holiday snaps on picture-sharing websites.For the professional, the honeymoon of sensual joy in reviewing pictures immediately and of not having to dash to the lab to get films processed has been replaced by a colder reality. The working day suddenly grew hours longer: with nightfall, we can't put our feet up. No, we sit at the laptop downloading images, captioning and backing up. And, if we are press photographers, we then have to edit the day's shoot before transmitting them.Any attempt to gaze into the crystal ball will be obscured by the sheer number of images being taken. In 1998, 67bn images were made worldwide. We know that because 3bn rolls of film were sold. It is impossible to be accurate, but with a world population of digital cameras exceeding a third of a billion on top of millions of film-using cameras still in use, it is likely that more pictures are taken every year than in the previous 160 years of photography put together. In addition to the other pollutions we have unleashed on ourselves, we may well have to thank digital photography for giving us image pollution.&#183;Tom Ang is a photographer, broadcaster and author of Eyewitness Companion: Photography, published by Dorling Kindersley, &pound;14.99. He was the presenter of A Digital Picture of Britain, shown on BBC2 and BBC4&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bar-room brawls are rare these days, but for those looking to educate themselves in this lost art in time for 24-hour drinking laws, last week's World Summit on the Information Society provided a great training ground.For one, this celebration of unhindered expression was hosted in politically repressive Tunisia - the diplomatic equivalent of booking a Brixton town hall for the National Front's annual get-together. This was, above all, billed as the battle where America took on the world over who controlled the internet.As with all great contests, though, the fighting gave way to respectful resignation. After three days, the participants emerged, not certain what had happened - except that something had been settled.The headline-grabbing issue of who runs the net ended in the status quo. Despite threats that America's control of the internet's spine would be overturned, led in part by the EU, little changed. A combination of diplomacy, determination on the part of the US and pressure on all parties to come up with an agreement led to a compromise: a new international forum that will argue the same points over the next five years.What eventually came out of the summit was two documents: the Tunis Commitment, and the 25-page Tunis Agenda for the Information Society.Much was made of the digital divide, where poorer countries are falling behind through a lack of access to modern technologies. Among the grand words, however, the rich countries still refused to pay for the poorer ones to install vast networks.Critics have pointed to the fact that neither document contains solid promises, but they have missed the point. Europe was never going to agree to fund Africa's much-needed telecoms infrastructure. Likewise, China was never going to get any form of control over the basic foundations of the internet.But what the documents do represent is informed discussion among governments over what can and should be done with the internet so that we should not have to keep on having the same arguments.An important conclusion was that those in power realised they were ill-suited to decide. Instead, the private sector, civil society and international organisations were lauded as vital to the new society.This is the first time that civil society has been given equal status to governments at such a large meeting. In that context, the Tunis documents are revolutionary, foreseeing a new period where governments are not the only decision makers.Guy Sebban, chair of the consortium group representing business at the summit, said a large number of connections had been made between governments of poorer nations and the companies that produce the technology needed.Now that the private sector is part of the system, Sebban explained, governments have learned what business requires to take the risk of investing in their country - what is called an "enabling environment". Those deliberations form part of the Tunis Agenda.The secretary-general of the International Telecommunication Union, Yoshio Utsumi, pointed out another big change. "UN summits only make a paper of principle," he said. "But we have developed a clear mechanism for how implementation will be carried out." It's true - a third of the Tunis agenda is given to how changes will be made, measured and responded to.None the less, everyone was desperate to find something tangible that could be held up to represent this sea-change brought about by information technology.Utsumi pointed to the "golden book" of commitments made during the summit - but that turned out to be bronze, with only 200 unimportant projects listed. Silver highlighted the fact that the Tunisian government underestimated the impact the summit would have on its ability to keep critical voices quiet. The authorities were unable to silence human rights protesters, thanks in no short measure to websites and mobile phones.Elsewhere, there was a blend of good ideas that didn't work and daft ideas that did - a solar-powered laptop looked promising for a second, while there were mobile phones that unlocked doors, bicycles that powered wireless access points and even a courier service that returned net search results 24 hours later by motorbike.But the gold medal went to Nicholas Negroponte, an MIT professor, and his $100 laptop. Everyone mentioned it, from Kofi Annan to heads of state to every reporter in the Kram conference centre.It was such a clear token of what could be achieved with technology that the entire world pretended not to notice the suspicious-looking black cables and box under the table. If that isn't goodwill, what is?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Anyone watching the Sunday night television series about the Pharaohs will be impressed with the data preservation techniques used 3,000 years ago, which have enabled their words and images to be viewed today. Because they wrote on stone, they had none of today's problems associated with viruses or changes in formats and storage techniques that threaten the longevity of our images.There are more photographs around than ever before and, thanks to the growth of digital photography and cameraphones, there may well be more photos taken this year than in the whole of history. But how many will still be there 50 years hence, let alone 3,000?This may seem a silly question to ask when we are being bombarded with wonderful, easy-to-use, websites offering to store online our digitised photos at the click of a button for nothing (for a list seewww.andromeda.com/cgi-bin/photo/showsites.pl). Of course, there is a danger some of these could go bust in a few years, and there is also the question of privacy. Who is responsible if a newspaper publishes your private photos stored on a public server?A survey by McAfee has found that 68% of adults archive their photos only in digital form - because it is so easy to do. But even if our snaps will still be there decades hence, it is an open question whether they will be in a format future computers can access.One problem is recurrence of familiar failures that have consigned much of our past digital data to oblivion: the failure of a hard disk, scratched CD-Roms or changes in storage technology, from floppy disks to external hard drives, to CDs to DVDs, to USB devices.Second, if photos are stored in several ways, some of them could include proprietary technologies that might be superseded 20 years on. Even if you use non-proprietary formats such as JPeg or Tiff, they do not, as Jeff Schewe (inPhotoshopNews.com) and others have pointed out, provide a format for storage of the unprocessed raw sensor data of which there are more than 100 formats from more than 15 camera manufacturers. Third, if you fall back on old technology and use a photo album, remember that ordinary digital photo printers do not deliver as long a life as old-style processed snaps.For the moment, there is not really much alternative to multiple back-ups if you want to be reasonably sure your digital photos will be there in 50 years' time. This means keeping a copy on your hard disk, another on a CD, DVD or external storage unit or one of the burgeoning online storage sites, plus printed copies of treasured ones.The trouble is it takes superhuman discipline to update back-ups regularly in multiple places, let alone ensure they are all labelled and dated so you are not faced with thousands of anonymous tags in future years. This may sound like a lot of hassle. It is. But it is worth doing it until all the preservation efforts around the world bear fruit - not least the $100m Library of Congress project in the US to preserve "a universal collection of knowledge and creativity for future generations".None of this should deter people from buying cameras or cameraphones. They are getting better and cheaper all the time and offer rich opportunities to record life as never before. We now have a wonderful record of Victorian life, thanks to so many early photographs being preserved. If photographers do not think seriously about digital preservation, there is a danger that the information revolution could turn into a new dark age. But if most of the photos now being taken are preserved, it will leave for posterity, as well as our own descendants, an amazing record of what life was like in the 21st century. It would be a tragedy if much of this were to be lost because of a failure to agree a common approach.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Google Base (http://base.google.com) "is a place where you can easily submit all types of online and offline content that we'll host and make searchable online," says Google. In other words, it's a way for Google to suck up information that may not be on the web, but is stored in databases or on your personal hard drive. Your poetry, for example.The main advantage of the database approach is that you can add tags (which Google calls "labels") and fields with values (which Google calls "attributes"). So, if you have a web page devoted to dating, the text could say someone was female, aged 25, and lives in Manchester. The attributes would be Gender: Female, Age: 25, City: Manchester, and so on. Searchers can use these attributes to find what they want. For example, searching for an MP3 player provides nine ways to winnow the hits, such as price, condition and location.When you finally click on a link, you get taken to a web page, as usual. But it's not always an external site. Often it's the personal web page that Google Base has created for whoever posted the information, such as http://base.google.com/base/a/jill.smith, where a=author.There are a number of forms or templates ("item types") that people can use to post jobs, products, recipes, reviews, ads for vehicles and so on. But posting is slow and tedious, and bloggers responded with headlines such as "Google launches dBase, circa 1985, but with less functionality," and TechCrunch's brutal "Google Base Launched. Yuck." However, it looks as though Google expects most data to be uploaded in bulk in a web feed format, either RSS or Atom. This process could be automated easily.Pre-launch speculation suggested Google Base was a threat to newspaper classified advertising and sites such as Craigslist or even eBay. It's a very long way from that at the moment. Apart from the lack of human-friendliness, the searching just isn't good enough.There's also a risk that Google Base could be flooded with links to dubious services, hardcore porn ads and spam. The site says: "Please note that we reserve the right to review all items and make sure they comply with the Google Base Terms and Conditions." It remains to be seen whether Google can delete the bad stuff faster than spammers can upload it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Buzzword swallows flock of conceptsMany people get hung up on the fact that the term Web 2.0 is a buzzword (One foot in the future, November 17). Buzzwords do have their uses - in this case helping to encapsulate a complicated and nebulous set of concepts. Lots of people also complain that many of the technologies involved in Web 2.0 are not new. It is the confluence of technology, economy and culture that is important.Andy BuddShooting the turkeysI challenge Ed Hasted's proposition that "failed" IT projects are due to poor composition of the project team and its skills (Simple steps to making better software, November 17). It is due to projects spending too much time before trying to return some value.Over the past decade, there has been a growing movement of agile development in software, which stretches beyond pure programming tasks into product management and customer management. It is based on best practices that have been shown to work, not doing things that waste time and money and lead to failure.One of the key tenets is that rapid, iterative delivery every few weeks, closely involving the users, leads to the delivery of value quickly and often. In this way, the potential wastage is the cost of a few weeks' work and not several years' work. Furthermore, it gives the person paying for the project a way of visibly measuring progress and the ability to say "stop".John Nolan, LondonIn my experience, the biggest IT project failures are usually the result of unclear objectives and a failure to imagine a feasible new business process.If you start off down the wrong road, it doesn't matter how good your checklist is. Many managers do not know what really goes on in their department. Combine them with an inexperienced business analyst, and you have a recipe for disaster.Imagination is the key, and I don't know how you train it or select for it in an interview.Ken May, PooleOf geese and golden eggsThe anti-virus and anti-spam industry, quite understandably, has a very strong commercial interest in not wanting to tackle the root causes of the problem and nip it in the bud, since that would put them out of work (Cashing in on fake blogs, November 17).Spam frustrates and annoys me beyond belief. The thought that we may never get on top of it (not least, because those combating it have a vested interest in the status quo), I find very depressing.Roger HicksDead ducks in tractionJack Schofield's analogy between IBM and Microsoft (Microsoft's new tricks won't replace its old ones, November 17) is poor. IBM's dominance was usurped by its failure to adapt to the PC model. It has survived only by turning itself into a consulting company.Microsoft's stock price problems are caused not by declining software sales but by difficulty in achieving the kind of growth it used to get. Its growth into new businesses is interesting and it is now achieving traction in areas most analysts thought were dead ducks.Tony WalshCuckoo landWhat is Susan Tomes going on about (Technobile, November 17)? Is she forced to stare at her iPod screen and lament the passing seconds? Put it in your pocket. Problem solved. If you need to, return to your vinyl. But just don't glance at the turntable and see how close you are to the end.Greg HarrisI started thinking about how I listened to music before iPods; I listened to CDs in my room, usually on my computer, in the car and on my Walkman. I was always too absorbed in something else to watch the various bars, and most of the time all it displayed was the track number.Creig P. Sherburne
Pixel pricesI have seen a digital camera with 5 megapixels for &pound;250. The next model up, with 8 megapixels, is &pound;400. Is it worth paying &pound;150 for the extra megapixels?Toby WoodJack Schofield:Other things being equal, more megapixels will produce a more detailed picture, but they never are. For example, some pixels are bigger than others, because the camera's CCD sensor is bigger. Some pixels have a different shape, and the ones in Fujifilm's Super CCD sensors are octagonal rather than square. This isn't a bad idea, but it inflates the pixel count faster than it increases the picture quality. Some pixels are "interpolated" using software that guesses what a pixel could contain based on the pixels next to it, so a 3 megapixel sensor can produce a 6 megapixel image. If you go by the pixel count, check the sensor size, and make sure you are comparing like with like.Digital cameras take pictures that fit PC screens. If your screen is set to 1024 x 768, then simple multiplication gives 786,432 pixels or 0.75 megapixels. A 5 megapixel camera will take pictures that are up to 2592 x 1944 pixels, while an 8 megapixel camera will probably take pictures at 3264 x 2448. This is only a 26% improvement from a camera that has 60% more pixels and, in your case, costs 60% more. To get an image that was twice as good as a 5 megapixel camera, you would need four times as many pixels, i.e. a 20 megapixel camera.Obviously you don't need many megapixels to fill a screen, but they are important when printing images. For example, if you want to make a 10 x 8 inch print, and print at 200 pixels per inch (ppi), then you need 2000 x 1600 pixels, or 3 megapixels. Printing at a higher resolution of 300ppi, you need 3000 x 2400 pixels or 7 megapixels. Make your own calculation of how many pixels you need based on the size of the pictures you print and the quality of your printer.In general, beyond 5 megapixels, the extra pixels are of diminishing value for most people, and the difference between 5 and 8 is marginal. The benefits could easily be swamped by other factors, such as the quality of the lens and the manner in which the CCD image is converted into a JPeg. It is therefore essential to read reviews at Digital Photography Review (www.dpreview.com) and perhaps DCP Review (www.dcresource.com) before deciding. However, bear in mind that any pixels you don't capture when you take the picture are gone for ever.Getting noticedHow do you get a website "spotted" by search engines? I mean spotted, as opposed to being high up the list.Nick PeedJS:The web is a network of interlinked pages and search engines use robot "spiders" to crawl it. Any website will be found if it has incoming links. The more incoming links there are, the sooner a site will be noticed and indexed, so get people to link to your site. Most search engines also allow you to submit your site's address or URL: Google's is at www.google.com/addurl/. It is also beta testing a way to submit sitemaps at www.google.com/webmasters/sitemaps/. This doesn't guarantee inclusion. If your site is no good, it may be found and ignored.Disappearing disk spaceI recently bought a new laptop with a 60 gigabyte hard disk. I installed Microsoft Office (with Outlook, Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint) and the new Adobe Creative Suite, and have only 2GB left.Richard Calvert-SmithJS:A simple way to find out where your space has gone is to run Sean Werkema's freeware program, SpaceMonger (http://tinyurl.com/34q8f). Alternatives are listed athttp://tinyurl.com/bkx8uandhttp://tinyurl.com/dhrzq.On my notebook PC, Windows XP takes up about 2GB for files plus a swap file (pagefile.sys) and a hibernation file (hiberfil.sys). Microsoft Office takes up about 300MB and typical Adobe programs about 100MB each. Adobe reckons Creative Suite 2 Standard needs 7GB. Since a "60GB" drive is really a 57GB drive, that leaves about 47GB not accounted for.Backchat&#183;Raj Panjwani wanted broadband without paying for a BT line. David Dixon points out that ADSL Guide has a list of wireless broadband providers athttp://tinyurl.com/8gqc7.&#183;Chris Dewey asked about buying a digital recorder. Toby Wilson, a training officer, reports good results with Sanyo ICR-B175 and related devices. "They record directly into stereo MP3 format at a choice of qualities. You can plug in an external microphone or use the built-in one. We have had excellent results using them with pupils on a variety of projects." However, Dewey says he found digital recorders too expensive, and took the cheaper suggestion proposed by readers: a portable Hi-MD Sony MiniDisc recorder and an external stereo mic. He says: "The MD recorder uses its own Atrac format on the discs but this can be converted to wav format when transferred to computer using a USB cable. The recording quality is excellent."
When we asked readers to tell us the best geek novels ever written, the response was overwhelming. The winner was Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams, but now we want more. Forget books - what do you think the best geek movies of all time are? Tell us what you think athttp://blogs.guardian.co.uk/technology.
Microsoft held an event for Perfect Dark Zero today. It wasn't as impressive as Nintendo's for the original game, which consisted of "kidnapping" a group of journalists and bundling them off in a van to the unveiling, but a warehouse in London's East End did make some kind of sense. But as for the game, I'm still not convinced.Yes, the environments look great  cobbled streets have never looked so good  but the action itself seems overly simplistic. The AI of the enemies, in particular, felt anything but next-gen as they got easily slaughtered. Of course, this may have only been the section of the game we played, and we were on the easiest skill level, but it didn't feel like a step forward. Roll on review code.What does deserve praise though is the co-op mode  games generally need more of this - which worked well and is likely to be a hit on Live. Multiplayer generally looked impressive, with the ridiculous amount of options that characterised the original title all present here.A chat with the visibly exhausted Rare guys at the event confirmed that it was a real rush to get the game finished for launch. As someone well used to sleep deprivation  3-month old babies, gotta love 'em  I felt their pain. Whether the game was worth their effort remains to be seen, although US reviews suggest it was.
Feedster has refreshed and improved its list of theTop 500 blogs, and you can now use a tag-cloud to group similar blogs together. Engadget is still top of the pops, ahead of Boing Boing and TV Squad. The once mocked Huffington Post is in seventh place.I'm amused by the fact that usability guru Jakob Nielsen's not-a-blog Useit site is 52nd on the list, well above trendier players such as Andrew Sullivan (73), Michael Moore (74), Robert Scoble's Scobleizer (76), Dave Winer (92), Kuro5hin (111), John Gruber's Daring Fireball (124), Lessig News (145) and Doc Searls (149).Update: There's also a blog post abouthow the list was compiled.
I confess I have a bit of a gung-ho attitude to the Internet and revel in the great things on the Web, but today's Society section reminds us that there is another much darket side to it. There is some very nasty stuff out there, and it's even nastier for the children abused in its production. InThe haunted turn hunters, Mark Gould reports on Phoenix Survivors and its efforts "to convict paedophiles and reduce internet access to abusive images".
Confession: I used to tuck my jeans into my socks. It was either that or wear bicycle clips. Whichever, let's face it, I had travelled deep into the realms of fashion solecism. Never mind whether you had on clean underwear or not, you wouldn't want to go under a bus wearing bike clips, would you? To be condemned to an eternity in the Elysian fields with your trousers tucked into your socks.This raises the whole knotty question of what to wear on your bike. The "technical apparel" found in bike shops is incredibly advanced and does the job brilliantly. If you're going for a strenuous three-hour ride in the country, you are sorted: the sporty stuff is superb. But this still leaves the urban cyclist condemned to look like a plonker.The problem is that if you're just pedalling to work or going down the high street to do a bit of shopping, you don't need hi-tech, man-made fibres with wonderful wicking features. What you want is something that won't spontaneously combust from static while you wait at the checkout. That's if you haven't already died of shame from queuing in figure-hugging polyamide.But let's put "men in tights" gags to one side. My moment of revelation came when I realised I was no longer tucking my jeans in; I was rolling them up. Why? The answer is that you only have to look around. Unconsciously, I was copying what couriers do. Bike messengers are the visionary pioneers of the cycling community. Where they go, others follow - just as the smart money in real estate always tracks artists. Wherever creatives colonise, cafes, galleries and restaurants soon follow: before you know it, paint-messed studios have become premium loft space.So it is with cycle couriers: the way they dress - a blend of street- fashion and utility-cool - is the cutting edge. One day soon, someone will catch on and start selling us urban cyclists something both practical and chic - and I'll be first in line. Until then, I prefer my jeans rolled, not tucked.
The SANS Institute has been publishing lists of vulnerabilities for a while, and this year'sTop 20is well worth a look. The site says:This SANS Top-20 2005 is a marked deviation from the previous Top-20 lists. In addition to Windows and UNIX categories, we have also included Cross-Platform Applications and Networking Products. The change reflects the dynamic nature of the evolving threat landscape. Unlike the previous Top-20 lists, this list is not "cumulative" in nature. We have only listed critical vulnerabilities from the past year and a half or so. If you have not patched your systems for a length of time, it is highly recommended that you first patch the vulnerabilities listed in the Top-20 2004 list.The list might remind you of a fix you have missed, and it has links to more information and fixes.
Like grief or a forbidden love affair driven by destructive lust, the response to any major videogame console launch tends to develop in a series of predictable stages. After a brief saunter around the key US news sites and forums this morning it's clear that the US premiere of the Xbox 360 is progressing in the familiar age-old manner.First, of course, there's the unguarded excitement: the queues of young men, thehyperbolic news stories, theinitial showing off, theamusing 'my nightmare trying to get hold of one' anecdotes, and an hour or so later, theinevitable Ebay story. But, no doubt to the chagrin of the marketing men who have spent months stage-managing the event, this stage never lasts long. As soon as off-message members of the hoi polloi actually start trying to use the hardware, reality begins to seep into the carefully purified hype resevoir like foul-smelling effluent.The subsequent more chaotic stage begins withearlyreportsofhardware problems(systems crashing every 10-15 seconds, strange flashing lights..). Then the launch gamesstart malfunctioningand quickly, mere hours after launch, the backlash begins in earnest, with forums,blogsandnews siteseverywhere rushing to get a piece of the critical action.And then finally, inescapably, somebodysmashes one, and puts the pictures on an hilarious website with anti-consumerist leanings.This draws a line under the launch process, and allows the videogaming community to return to normal.Roll on PS3!
Until now Bram Cohen, the creator of revolutionary filesharing system BitTorrent, has maintained a fairly strong resistance to Hollywood's more litigious tendencies. But, as we'rereporting today, he's come to a deal to try and stem piracy.The agreement requires 30-year-old software designer Bram Cohen to prevent his website, bittorrent.com, from linking to pirated versions of popular movies available online, effectively frustrating people who search for illegal copies of films.BitTorrent must remove web links leading to illegal content owned by the seven studios that are members of the Motion Picture Association of America.The article goes on to suggest that this could be an early move to make BitTorrent a more legitimate outlet for copyrighted material. I'm not so sure, but the sooner the industry wakes up the better.
In a deal aimed at reducing illegal internet traffic in pirated films, Hollywood reached an agreement yesterday with the creator of the popular file-sharing software BitTorrent.The agreement requires 30-year-old software designer Bram Cohen to prevent his website, bittorrent.com, from linking to pirated versions of popular movies available online, effectively frustrating people who search for illegal copies of films.BitTorrent must remove web links leading to illegal content owned by the seven studios that are members of the Motion Picture Association of America.The BitTorrent technology pioneered by Cohen - and used by an estimated 45 million people - assembles digital movies and other computer files from separate bits of data downloaded from other computer users across the internet. Its decentralised nature makes downloading more efficient but also frustrates the entertainment industry's efforts to find and identify movie pirates.The agreement represents the latest effort by the entertainment industry to discourage illegal internet downloads. It also demonstrates Cohen's sensitivity toward Hollywood's piracy problems, making him potentially more attractive to studios for future deals related to movie downloads.Cohen disclosed in September his company had raised $8.75m (&#163;5m) in venture funding to develop commercial distribution tools for media companies.The agreement with Cohen would not prevent determined surfers from finding movies or other materials using tools or websites other than Cohen's, but it removes one of the most convenient methods people have used so far.
