&bull; Here's an interesting new development from theBBC, which islaunching a £1m political website, calledDemocracy Live, which allows you to search and dissect videos from parliament - inspired, apparently, by the likes ofThey Work for You.&bull; Thelegal messsurroundingSkypeisnearing a conclusion, reports GigaOm, with the possibility of an agreement over the peer-to-peer technology that eBay didn't buy.&bull; A couple of very interesting pieces onTechCrunchabout the manipulation of social networking sites that certainly leave a bad taste in the mouth:including accusations of unethical business tacticsamong a number of social gaming advertising companies, and this piecefrom a Facebook advertising specialist who used to run spam operations.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
IF YOU want to understand what's going on in the mobile phone business just now, think of it as a hen coop into which two foxes have recently arrived.The first intruder is Apple, which was once a computer company and then had the temerity to break into the mobile phone business, where it has been wreaking havoc ever since. The second predator is Google, which began life as a search engine hell-bent on world domination, and sees mobile phones as a logical stepping-stone on the way. It has only recently found its way into the coop, but last week demonstrated its formidable potential for creative destruction.To appreciate the disruption Apple has caused, look at the mobile phone market as it was in late 2006. It was a vast, stable, mature business dominated by a few global handset manufacturers – primarily Nokia, Sony Ericsson, Motorola, RIM (makers of the BlackBerry) and Samsung – and telecom-derived network operators who were obsessed with "owning" their subscribers.The networks saw the internet as a threat and an opportunity: a threat because of the potential of internet telephony as represented by Skype (established in 2003) to siphon off voice revenues; and an opportunity because they controlled the pipe from mobile phones to the internet and could impose swingeing toll charges on anyone seeking to go online while on the move. So although the mobile phone business was fiercely competitive internally, as an entity it was a very cosy ecosystem.For an outsider to break into such an established market is a pretty tall order, and accordingly most of us were sceptical about Apple's ambitions. After all, Microsoft, with its vast resources, had been trying for years to do the same thing, with very limited success. Within a month of thelaunch of the iPhonein June 2007, however, it was clear that we'd got it badly wrong. Like the iPod before it, the iPhone changed the game by focusing on the internet. Mobile phones had been feeble little machines designed for voice and text; the iPhone was a portable, internet-ready Unix computer that could also make voice calls.The extent of the disruption caused by the iPhone wasvividly conveyed in a presentationto the Web 2.0 Summit by Mary Meeker, the celebrated Morgan Stanley analyst. She thinks the iPhone/iPod Touch is the fastest-growing consumer electronics product of all time – with an adoption ramp steeper than those for the Nintendo Wii, Nintendo DS or Sony PSP. Meeker also says that the mobile internet market is growing much faster even than the web-driven "desktop" internet market of the 1990s. All of which neatly explains why the iPhone has become so dominant so quickly: it was the first mobile device explicitly designed to ride this tiger.The other company that understood the significance of the mobile internet was Google. Unlike Apple, Google decided not to get into the handset business and instead focused on developing a Linux-based operating system for phones that would then be offered to any manufacturer who wanted in on the act. Thus were born the Android operating system and the Open Handset Alliance – the manufacturers to make the phones.Thefirst Android phones – launched about a year ago – were disappointing compared with the iPhone. But it was clear that they had got the key factor right – the centrality of permanent access to the internet – and so it was only a matter of waiting for the next generation of handsets to arrive. Last week they began to appear, led by a striking phone (the Droid) from Motorola. Initial reactions from the technology community are pretty positive, so Apple might be about to acquire some real competition.And not just Apple. The sting in the Android tail was also unveiled this week: Google has launched GPS navigation for the new handsets. It does everything that TomTom, Garmin et al do, and a lot more besides. For example, you can talk to it: tell it to "navigate to the museum with the King Tut exhibition" and it will do an instant Google search and present you with a list of options. Its maps are continually updated because they're not held on the phone. It'll give you live traffic data for your route. And when you get close to your destination it switches to Street View to show what it looks like. And it's free.You can imagine what that did to TomTom shares. The great thing about the technology world is that there is always someone out there whose business plan involves eating your lunch.
Uncharted 2: Among Thieves, PS3Despite videogames' continual promise to put you at the heart of the many adventures the medium makes available, it's incredible how gripping it feels when that promise is actually fulfilled. Uncharted 2 picks up the story of Sir Francis Drake's affable descendant (who's from America, obviously) and his ongoing global treasure hunting mission, in this case sparked by a search for Marco Polo's lost treasure fleet that leads to a greater calling, involving saving the world. Its Prince Of Persia-style scrambling up monuments and structures is incredibly rewarding because, rather than paint arrows on things, it uses lighting and camera angles to suggest your next move, creating natural momentum without resorting to telling you – unless you wander around lost for too long. A rollicking, wittily-scripted yarn featuring jaw-dropping vistas, Uncharted 2 is a magnificently realised and wholly thrilling adventure.Sony Computer Entertainment, £49.99Eye Pet, PS3Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside StoryTo make Eye Pet work, you position your PS3 camera at about knee height and point it at the ground. On screen, you see a virtual monkey-style pet playing around on your floor, chasing your fingers, hopping out of the way of feet and in need of feeding, exercise and light medical attention. Using a specially marked card to manipulate certain objects and x-ray your pet, the true clumsiness of interacting via the camera makes itself apparent as frustration prevails in its poorly explained challenges. With a name straight out of Auf Wiedersehen Pet although otherwise sadly devoid of geordie colloquialisms, Eye Pet is an ambitious augmented reality game that plays like a prototype, your pet's fur waving in the breeze, desperately trying to persuade you that it's a marvel of technology.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £34.99 (including camera)Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Nintendo DSSequel to Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga and the later, better Partners In Time, Bowser's Inside Story deals with the evil Fawful's bid to overthrow the Mushroom Kingdom by infecting its denizens with the blorbs, an affliction that causes them to inflate to the size of small houses. Mario, Luigi, the Princess and her entire court are inhaled by former arch-nemesis Bowser, spending the game traversing his innards, powering up various body parts as situations demand. Fortunately, instead of mid-browns and purples, Bowser's interior is as brightly coloured and upbeat as any Nintendo game, making even the flab zone and its fat-clogged arteries a pleasure to wander around. The interplay of Mario and Luigi's internal quest and its effect on Bowser's larger scale endeavours brings both parts of the game together in a series of highly inventive and satisfying ways. The result is more than 20 immaculately balanced hours of entertainment.Nintendo, £34.99
Radio FailThis site services the simple enjoyment to be had from listening to professional broadcasters screw up live on air. Updated daily, there are clips from numerous local radio stations (but mainly Radio Tay), alongside many from more well-known BBC DJs. Hear vintage dedication pranks – pity the poor Radio Leicestershire DJ who read out Ivor Ardon's Mother's Day request, "Dear Chris, please say a big hello to Connie Lingus who's 69 on Tuesday, she'll be enjoying my meat and two veg on Sunday at 12, wish her all the best and tell her I look forward to seeing her when she comes" – and presenter slip-ups such as Nicky Campbell's syntax meltdown when introducing an item on a hunt in Kent.SongkickAs recorded music has become a less valuable artifact, the live concert has become more important: it's not what music you own that lets people know you're a real fan, it's how many gigs you've been to. If missing out on tickets or tour info is a common malady, then Songkick can provide all manner of pestering devices, but it's the stuff beyond spending cash that makes it an addictive site. Search for any artist from current bands like Muse to deceased legends like the Beatles and you'll find user updated gigographies of past gigs alongside set lists, videos, photos, reviews, ticket stubs and posters. It's like a live music hybrid of Wikipedia, IMDb and a show-off's diary.Blog Roll: HalloweenTrick Or BlogScary Poppins, Halloween playlists, cocktail recipes and decorations.Me And You And A Blog Named BooYouTube treats including 80s horror film trailers, Hulk Hogan's zombie cartoon special and the theme from Ghostbusters.Electronic CerebrectomySuper geeky carved pumpkins plus a bit of Siouxsie &amp; The Banshees.Extreme PumpkinsFlaming marrows and vomit spewing pumpkins.Davy JonesRavens BlightDownloadable masks, free music and zombie games.Monster BrainsA celebration of monsters including vintage Fangoria and dribbling gremlins.What we learned on the web this weekDavy Jonesof the Monkees has frog-eyed moobsThe Smurfsare as tall as three applesKanye's gonnalet you finishThere's moreinside a cup of coffee than we thoughtThe fivegreatest moments in boxing trashtalkGetting a goodnight's sleep is more complicated than one would thinkWhat happenedin the past 10 yearsSausages arefighting backWhat theworld would be like if the internet disappeared tomorrow
The internet is on the verge of its biggest shake up in 40 years, and the most significant one since it crossed from academia to commerce in 1993. Icann, the organisation that oversees internet domain names, has approved the use of non-Latin characters such as Mandarin, Hindi, Cyrillic and Arabic in web addresses.That means that the huge number of people who presently use the internet but are not native English speakers will be able to type web addresses in their own language and navigate to the pages – rather than, as at present, having to add ".com" or ".org" to the end of website names written in their own language – or even write an entire site address in unfamiliar letters. The first applications to register the new generation of domains will start next month, and they could be running by mid-2010, said Rod Beckstrom, the president of Icann, which oversees the development of such technologies online."Of the 1.6 billion users today worldwide, more than half use languages that have scripts that are not Latin-based," Beckstrom said at the opening of Icann's conference in Seoul, South Korea, this week.The conference approved the change today  after more than nine years of work and two years of testing.Lesley Cowley, chief executive of the UK naming organisation Nominet, said: "There are a further five billion people who are not yet online – most of these people are from nations where their language is not based on the Latin script. Allowing non-Latin based scripts will give this large group of people easier access to the web, helping to bring them online and making the internet more inclusive. This move will undoubtedly bring freedom to a globally connected community."Progress towards "Internationalised Domain Names" (IDNs) has been slow because every computer on the internet is actually addressed by a string of numbers; systems called "domain name servers" translate a web address such as "guardian.co.uk" into "77.91.248.30", uniquely identifying it. The problem is that non-Latin letters  – such as 大 月 人 – require an extra layer of software to deal with such "Unicode" characters.But experts have warned that adding Unicode to web addresses could increase the potential for scams.Fake websites using bank details could use characters from other languages in order to fool people.  "The incidental difference between BankofAmerica.com from BánkofAmerica.com would be a prime opportunity for cybercriminals to take advantage of the average web user," Nora Nanayakkara, director of business development at the domain name seller Sedo, told Web User magazine.The measures will mean more people can use the internet with keyboards in their own languages, rather than struggling with unfamiliar Roman letters as used in the west. Thus a Korean user will be able to write a web address almost entirely in Korean script, rather than a few characters in that script with the suffix ".kr". At present, only the domain name can be in non-Latin script."It's more incremental [than previous changes] but it's the single biggest change in 10 or 15 years," Beckstrom said. "It's about making the internet more global and more accessible. One world, one internet."One thing that will not be going away from web addresses, though: the "http://" prefix – which the inventor of the web,Tim Berners-Lee said earlier this monthhe wishes he had not made mandatory in web addresses: "Look at all the paper and trees that could have been saved if people had not had to write or type out those slashes on paper over the years — not to mention the human labour and time spent typing those two keystrokes countless millions of times in browser address boxes."Icann haslet go of its previously tight ties with the US government this yearas it has prepared to move to a more international system.• This article was amended on 2 November 2009. The original referred to Korean users writing in Chinese script. This has been corrected.
There's been an air of disbelief surrounding the opening of Microsoft's first two shops, inScottsdale, Arizona, and Mission Viejo, California. (Microsoft's home town of Seattle doesn't have one yet.) Videos showed a seemingly endless queue for the Scottsdale opening, held in conjunction with the launch of Windows 7, while the Mission Viejo opening got the headline "1,000-plus people crowd new Microsoft Store" in the localOrange County Register."A curtain that shrouded the store dropped and the crowd roared as workers within the store, dressed in shirts matching the primary colors of the Microsoft logo, danced and lined up to give high-fives to patrons as they streamed through the doors," the paper reported.Who on earth were all these people? Windows might have more than a billion users, worldwide, but almost none of them have the level of fanaticism required by, for example, the Cult of Mac.Stephanie Tran, first in line at around 3:45pm on Wednesday, told the OCR it was "partly for her own curiosity, but mainly to secure tickets to a parking lot performance by Canadian pop star Justin Bieber at 5pm today" [Thursday]. Others were no doubt tempted by the prospect of opening-day discounts and free goodies. They might never come back.Microsoft's stores are blatantly a copy of Apple's, and some must have wondered if Microsoft had followed Orange's example inpaying actorsto line up in front of 20 stores for the iPhone's launch in Poland. (Let's not confuse Apples and Oranges.)Still, there could be at least one good reason for buying a PC from Microsoft -- though it is subject to confirmation by real-life tests. The shops are stocking Microsoft "Signature PCs" running mostly Microsoft software. They have "essentials" such as Adobe Reader and Flash, but they don't have any non-Microsoft "crapware".This is a tricky area for Microsoft, because it relies on partners for about 95% of its income: it only makes money when other people make money. This is a contrast with Apple, which is trying to own and profit from the whole Macintosh ecosystem -- hardware, operating system, applications, retail stores, online services -- to the exclusion of as many non-paying partners as it can manage. For example, it may open shops that take business from existing Apple stockists, orwhatever.Apple's vertical integration gives it an advantage in controlling the whole user experience. Microsoft doesn't have any chance of getting that sort of control over PCs (though it's going for it with the Xbox 360 and Zune). The US Justice Department anti-trust case against Microsoft made it clear that PC suppliers could install whatever they liked, and some PCs perform poorly as a result.AsThe Crapware Con, an article at PC Pro, explains:You wouldn't buy a new car that took five minutes to get out of first gear or a new hard disk that was already half-full of files – but plenty of people are unwittingly buying a laptop that's been hobbled before it's even left the factory.Buyers who bought, for example, early Sony laptops running Windows Vista would naturally blame Microsoft for their sluggish performance, as would naïve journalists. It took a knowledgeable journalist quite a long time to clean one up -- see Ed Bott'sFixing Windows Vista, one machine at a time.Microsoft spent a considerable amount of time and money via its Vista Velocity Programme (PowerPoint) to try to rectify the situation, and things have improved. Signature PCs bought from Microsoft's retail and online stores should perform about as well as the operating system allows. If they do, they'll set an example that could improve the Windows PC market. If they don't, Microsoft has only itself to blame.
You run a forum - a small, but to you precious, one - which was set up to be "a bastion of free speech (of sorts)". Its members came from another forum you administer, where certain discussions - both political and religious - were banned because they weren't relevant to the site.Great! But there's trouble in paradise. Recently, one of the members has taken it upon themself to be completely and totally destructive. They're offensive and hateful, despite there being no valid reason for it.But if you ban them, you're breaking your original agreement and the site's founding principles. You suspect they might be causing the trouble to see if they will be banned.Your site software can either prevent them from commenting or not - there isn't a "limit" or "make invisible" setting. You're troubled: do you stick by the founding principles when someone tests them in the worst possible way? Or is there some other solution?What do you do?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My eyes are my favourite piece of technology – after Beijing, I had my eyes lasered to correct my short-sightedness. Its absolutely perfect – can see better than 20/20 now. Glasses and contact are not the most practical things on the water – I wish I had done it sooner.When was the last time you used them, and what for?I use them all day, obviously, but it's really good to see the green light when you're racing in the royal championships.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd upgrade to Superman eyes if I could, with X-ray vision and laser vision. But they might need a few more years in R&amp;D before we get that.Do you think they will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I hope not. I think there's a lifetime guarantee on laser surgery so they can tweak things if they need to. But I'd love to be a grandad with bionic eyes.What always frustrates you about technology in general?It feels like being in a hamster wheel – the nature of technology is that you have to upgrade everything constantly, and it's frustrating trying to keep up to date.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I was an early supporter of the HD-DVD format, and I bought a player and a few films before Blu-ray won that battle and took over. I was absolutely gutted when that happened – it was how betamax buyers felt, I imagine.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?My dad always tought me to save up and buy the best quality that I could afford. He bought an Omega Moon watch in the 1970s, and it's still going strong. I try to follow his example.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Definitely more of a technology nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The most expensive piece of technology I use, although GB Rowing own them, is the Empacher rowing boats we use, which cost about £30,000 each and are built in Germany. The shell is made of carbon fibre so it has a very low resistance profile and it has telemetry equipment that gives you data about how efficiently you're moving through the water. It's a pretty impressive piece of kit.Mac or PC, and why?Definitely Mac now – I converted about 2 years ago. My house is now full of Apple products – I find the design intuitive and stylish, although I don't want to be one of these guys who rants and raves about Mac all the time.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I've got a collection of hundreds of DVDs, because we watch them on training camps, but these days I tend to buy fewer and download more. I tend to buy Blu-rays now for the home cinema experience. My last purchase was The Wrestler, with Mickey Rourke.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think they're a great idea, as long as they work properly and don't go haywire like Marvin the paranoid android [from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy]. But in an ideal world I think I'd still have Stephen Fry as Jeeves waiting on me – that would be perfect.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The Pit Bull hoverboard from Back to the Future II.• Pete Reed MBE is a member of the men's coxless four  Olympic gold medal-winning team from Beijing last summer.
Given the amount of CCTV there is everywhere, we know the UK tolerates spying on its citizens more than other EU countries. But now Britain might be taken to court by the EU for failing to provide the UK citizens with enough privacy and personal data protection.The EU just launched the second step of legal action to force Britain to bring its data protection framework into line with its rules, which guarantee the confidentiality of electronic communication such as emails and internet surfing. Before being internationally embarrassed, the UK has two month to comply with the detailed opinion, which was sent to the UK by the European Commission yesterday and marks the second stage of infringement procedure.The EU Commission has basically identified three failings. First, there is no independent authority supervising the interception of communications and hearing related complaints. Second, there is an excessively wide interpretation of the principle of consent given in Britain's Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. Third, its sanctions against the interception of personal data are too limited.The case came up last yearwhen the technology company Phorm planned a targeted web advertising system. This included the tracking of their customers' internet traffic without telling them. British MEPs protested and campaigners complained to the information commissioner, the interception commissioner, government departments,Ofcomand the police. All refused to act.Government investigation concluded thatPhormdidn't breach European laws on data protection and The City of London police announced as well, that they had found no evidence of illegal activity. So in 2008the campaigners wrote to Viviane Reding, the EU telecoms commissioner.And she responded."People's privacy and the integrity of their personal data ... is a fundamental right, protected by European law. That is why the Commission is vigilant in ensuring that EU rules and rights are put in place," she said in a statement yesterday."I therefore call on the UK authorities to change their national laws to ensure that British citizens fully benefit from the safeguards set out in EU law concerning confidentiality of electronic communications."A consolation might be that the EU Commission has also sent letters of formal notice, the first stage of the infringement procedure, to Romania, Poland and Germany.
Oracle hasn't done enoughto calm the concerns of EU regulators over its take over of Sun Microsystems, and now a filing in Russia has cast some uncertainty over whether Oracle is stepping back from the deal.Oracle filed a request with Russia's Federal Antimonopoly Serviceto withdraw its competition filing for the take over. It's a bit of an odd filing not just for the content, but also because the FAS forward-dated its approval yesterday to today. (Hallowe'en homage toRocky Horror Picture Show? Let's do theTime Warp?)The FT, on its excellent Alphaville business blog, hastranslated the filing, and Miles Johnson provides this analysis:Of course, either way, withdrawing a competition filing from Russia might not signal that the Sun deal is about to unravel.&nbsp; Oracle might have felt it no longer needed regulatory approval on the deal in Russia for whatever reason. And it might have withdrawn the application with a view to re-submitting it.Whatever the case, there are bound to be some very nervous investors out there.However, a commenter points out a story atPC World magazine's site in which Oracle provides details about how it plans to develop some of Sun's technologies. That's not really the kind of talk from a company looking to walk away from a take over.Oracle didn't return calls from the FT before they hit publish. There has been no clarification. With questions of whether Oracle will be forced to spin off MySQL to gain EU approval and this mysterious filing, nervous investors won't be any calmer.
The internet regulator Icann has approved plans to let web addresses be written in non-Latin characters – such as Mandarin, Arabic, Hindu or Russian Cyrillic script – that it says represents the "biggest change" to how it works since its invention 40 years ago.The proposal would mean that domain names – such as guardian.co.uk – could be written in the other languages and be understood natively by the machines that connect computers together over the web.The first such Internationalised Domain Names (IDNs) could be up and running by the middle of next year, said Rod Beckstrom, the president of Icann, which oversees the development of such technologies online."Of the 1.6 billion users today worldwide, more than half use languages that have scripts that are not Latin-based," Beckstrom said at the opening of Icann's conference in Seoul, South Korea, this week. The conference approved the change today, its last day, following more than nine years of work and two years of testing.The Icann vote means there is now a universal internet address code that will work in any language and everywhere. That is needed because the computers that translate the address into a string of digits carrying the destination computer's "internet address" have previously only functioned with Latin letters. The new scheme will translate those addresses no matter what the script used for the address is.That could mean an explosion in the number of people who can use the internet directly with keyboards developed in their own languages, rather than struggling with unfamiliar Roman letters as used in the west.Thus a Korean user will be able to write a web address that is almost entirely in Chinese script, rather than a few characters in Mandarin with the suffix ".kr". Presently, only the domain name can be in non-Latin script; the suffix, such as .com or .org, must be in Latin script."It's more incremental [than previous changes] but it's the single biggest change in 10 or 15 years," Beckstrom said. "It's about making the internet more global and more accessible. One world, one internet."Icann will launch a fast-track process for approving the scheme on 16 November. That should mean the first fully IDN-compliant addresses being in operation by mid-2010.The most likely first users are Chinese, Arabic and Russian operators.However, bringing IDNs to email could take longer, Icann said.One thing that will not be going away from web addresses, though: the "http://" prefix – which the inventor of the web, Tim Berners-Lee said earlier this monthhe wishes he had not made mandatoryin web addresses: "Look at all the paper and trees that could have been saved if people had not had to write or type out those slashes on paper over the years — not to mention the human labor and time spent typing those two keystrokes countless millions of times in browser address boxes."Icann haslet go of its previously tight ties with the US governmentthis year as it has prepared to move to a more international system.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
I've been planning to do this impressions post on the new Sky Player integration on the Xbox 360 all week. Unfortunately the service has been down most of the time and clearly both Sky and Microsoft were overwhelmed by the demand.  I went to the launch on Tuesday and even then it was fairly obvious that the service wasn't ready. The streaming was intermittent and the service up and down. But when it worked it all looked rather impressive. The channels were split into genres and the EPG looked smooth and familiar (of course, we weren't shown it on an SD screen and as usual SD owners will probably suffer here).So why bother with the Sky on your Xbox if you already have it from a dish? The on-demand programming looks attractive but the party mode is probably the largest attraction. The party mode allows your avatar (ie you) to sit with up to 8 friends in a virtual living room and watch the same thing. Clearly sport is the main attraction here – unless you want to gather a group to watch Sky News, which is free with the service? – and you can certainly see the appeal of shouting abuse at your armchair Man U/Liverpool/Arsenal/Chelsea supporting friends.If you don't have Sky then the player offers you to the chance to get access to many of the channels without the need for contract or dish. I used the PC version earlier in the year when I wanted to watch some rugby league. But, and you knew I was going to say this, it isn't cheap.First the good news. If you have Sky already and pay for multiroom then the Sky Player on Xbox is free. You simply get access to all the packages you already pay for. If you have Sky but don't have multiroom then it will cost you a fiver a month to use the player on the Xbox.  Remember that you will need to have a Live Gold account too.If you don't have Sky things get more complicated. The good news is that Gold subscribers get free access to Sky News even if they don't sign up to the Sky Player. Ok, it isn't likely to drag you away from Dragon Age or Modern Warfare 2 but it's nice to have. But assuming you want to sign up to the service then you will need to stump up a minimum of £15 per month. This gives you access to the "Entertainment Pack" – think Sky 1 etc. Prices rise to £34 for access to all the sports channels and – eek - £43 if you include the movies. £50 if you want ESPN as well. A lot of money then and remember none of this content is in HD. Ok, HD streaming would require a fast broadband service but I pay for the online NFL stream and that works fine in HD. Anyway, the pricing details in full:ENTERTAINMENT PACK CHANNELS:G.O.L.D., Sky Real Lives, Sky Arts 1, MTV ONE, Sky Sports News, British EurosportESPN Classic, Sky News, National Geographic, Nat Geo Wild, History, Eden, Cartoon Network, Boomerang, Nickelodeon, Disney Channel, Nick JrSPORT PACK CHANNELS:Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports XTRA + All sports video on demand programmesMOVIES PACK CHANNELS:Sky Movies Screen 1 and Screen 2 + Hundreds of movies from these channels to watch on demand.ESPN can be added to any pack for additional cost.Internet only subscription:Entertainment PackG.O.L.D., Sky Real Lives, Sky Arts 1, MTV ONE, Sky Sports News, British EurosportESPN Classic, Sky News, National Geographic, Nat Geo Wild, History, Eden, Cartoon Network, Boomerang, Nickelodeon, Disney Channel, Nick Jr£15 - Cost per month£27 - Total cost with ESPNSportEntertainment Pack + Single Sports ChannelEntertainment pack + Sky Sports Xtra and the choice of either Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2£25 - Cost per month£34 - Total cost with ESPNEntertainment Pack + Dual Sports ChannelsEntertainment pack + Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports Xtra£34 – Cost per month£43 - Total cost with ESPNMoviesEntertainment Pack +Single Movies ChannelEntertainment pack + Sky Movies Screen 1 or Sky Movies Screen 2£24 – cost per month£36 – cost with ESPNEntertainment Pack +Dual Movies ChannelsEntertainment pack + Sky Movies Screen 1 and Sky Movies Screen 2£32 – cost per month£44 – cost with ESPNSport &amp; MoviesEntertainment Pack +Single Movies Channel +Single Sports channelEntertainment pack + Sky Movies Screen 1 or Sky Movies Screen 2andthe choice of either Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2, with Sky Sports Xtra£33 – cost per month£42 – cost with ESPNEntertainment Pack +Dual Sports Channels +Single Movies ChannelEntertainment pack + Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports XtraandSky Movies Screen 1 or Sky Movies Screen 2£38 – cost per month£47 – cost with ESPNEntertainment Pack +Dual Movies Channels +Single Sports ChannelEntertainment pack + Sky Movies Screen 1 and Sky Movies Screen 2andSky Movies Screen 1 or Sky Movies Screen 2£38 – total cost£47 – with ESPNFull channel pack - including all sports and movie channelsEntertainment pack + Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports XtraandSky Movies Screen 1 &amp; Sky Movies Screen 2£41 – total cost£50 – with ESPNRetail Bundle:A special Sky Player Retail bundle pack will be available in stores from October 27th available to existing and new Xbox 360 consumers:Pack contents:*       1 Month Sky Player Subscription (Sky Sports Pack)*       Media Remote*       3 Month Gold Membership Subscription CardPricing:*       Pack ERP: £29.99Confused then? Yes, in typical Sky style there are numerous packages and options. If you don't currently have Sky it gets even more complex. But if you can't or don't want to have a dish then this is an option.So what do you think then? Assuming the streaming works well would you be tempted by this? Or does it simply cost too much? Or maybe – gasp – you use your Xbox for gaming only?
&bull; Got lists? Twitter lists have begun spread among its users: from a comparatively tiny number (ahem) a few days ago it has now widened them to around 5% (estimated) of the user base.Nobody can quite agree on the value of Twitter lists, or their purpose: are they to get more people going to its web page (where it might, say, serve ads) or find out who users think are important? Or both? Whatever, you can have theGuardiantech recommended list(more welcome). And here'sFake Sarah Palin's list of People I Hate. Verrry exclusive.One interesting point made by Ben Rose: if you create a list with someone in, you can see their tweets in that list. And then you can unfollow them - at which point they remain in your list. So you can effectively follow people without following them. Sneaky.&bull; Saul Hansell at the New York Times (who seems to have become its go-to man on mobile phones) profiles what's going on at Motorola. It seems that the company is pinning its hopes on... Windows Mobile! No, it isn't. It's going full steam for Google's Android. Or, in the words of Sanjay Jha, the co-chief executive (?) there, " Burn the ships and focus on Android".And we'd just like to point out what a bit of pushiness can get you:As luck would have it, one of those engineers, Rick Osterloh, grabbed Mr. Jha just as he stepped off the stage at that first town meeting in August 2008. Mr. Jha had mentioned Google's Android operating system for smartphones. Mr. Osterloh rushed the stage to tell him he was working on an Android phone in Motorola's Silicon Valley outpost that would bring together text messages, e-mail and social-network updates.By the end of that week, Mr. Osterloh was sitting on the corporate jet, flying with Mr. Jha back to California and explaining the Android concept in detail.I'm still wondering why none of these companies are leaping to adopt Windows Mobile. Anyone?&bull; We're still seeing loads of direct message spams on Twitter, and hearing about huge botnets sending tons of Facebook phishing messages. If you get hit, make sure you change your password - and if you use the same password (which you shouldn't) then change it.Reminder: Google can tell you how to make a strong password.&bull; one last thing on Google: you can now export all your Google Docs out of Google as a zip file. More explanation at theData Liberation Front's blog. Wondering who they are? Seeour interview with its chief, Brian Fitzpatrick. Yes, this life of Brian involves Google.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The video is a few minutes long, but it might just be the most important game footage to be seen this year. It's a bootleg of a single mission from Modern Warfare 2, the much-anticipated first-person shooter, certain to be the winter's biggest selling game. It shows the player joining Russian terrorists on a bloody rampage through an airport building; civilians are gunned down as armed men run through the departures lounge, and it's evident that the player is firing too. In one alarming moment someone is shown dragging an injured person across the concourse – the player shoots them both dead.Released onto the internet earlier this week, the blurry footage has already provoked a media backlash, a Mirror headlineproclaiming, "leaked level makes light of terrorist atrocities." Many see in it harrowing evocations of last year's Mumbai terror attacks in which over 170 people were killed. For a while, it wasn't clear whether the sequence was genuine, but yesterday, Activision released a statement confirming its authenticity:"The leaked footage was taken from a copy of game that was obtained illegally and is not representative of the overall gameplay experience in Modern Warfare 2. Infinity Ward's Modern Warfare 2 features a deep and gripping storyline in which players face off against a terrorist threat dedicated to bringing the world to the brink of collapse. The game includes a plot involving a mission carried out by a Russian villain who wants to trigger a global war. In order to defeat him, the player infiltrates his inner circle. The scene is designed to evoke the atrocities of terrorism."At the beginning of the game, players encounter a mandatory 'checkpoint' in which they are warned that an upcoming segment may contain disturbing elements, and they can choose not to engage in the gameplay that involves this scene."So what should we make of all this?Clearly, once again, we will be confronted with difficult questions about the role and duty of videogames as an entertainment form. To some commentators, videogames by their very nature, 'make light' of anything they portray. This is partially about semantics; the interpretation of the word 'game' as something fundamentally frivolous. Partly, too, it is about the legacy of videogames as a pastime for children, for teenagers – not for adults.And then interactivity itself brings in complex moral questions. If a movie were to depict a terrorist outrage, the viewer takes no active part. But in a videogame, you're engaged and complicit. The participationisthe entertainment, and that's always going to be problematic. Activision's argument about seeking to portray the depths of the terrorist cell's immorality in order to stir the player's emotions is sound to a point – it's an established narrative device. But as Tom Hoggins asks in hisTelegraph feature, is it really necessary for the player to throw grenades? And wouldn't similar revulsion be elicited if the player were placed into the shoes of one of the victims? This would, after all, reflect the wonderful opening sequence to the original Modern Warfare, in which the player takes on the perspective of a prisoner who is bundled into a car and later executed.This is also not the first time that the Call of Duty series has forced the player into a morally troublesome sequence. There is at least one moment in Call of Duty: World at War (admittedly created by a different development studio, but still part of the CoD lineage), in which the player has no choice but to shoot a group of unarmed enemy soldiers in order to complete a mission objective. Is there an agenda here to push the boundaries of acceptability in shoot-'em-ups? It's a brave move if there is.On top of it all, context itself is a problematic notion. In this case it appears both vital and valid. What we're robbed of when viewing this illicit footage is what happens before and afterwards, the exact nature of the scene, and the authenticity of the player's involvement. It's certainly far too early for tabloids to be bandying accusations about – but then, when did that ever stop them?The problem is, context can easily become an excuse to portray wanton violence. In the PlayStation title Driver, for example, the gamer is ostensibly controlling an undercover policeman posing as a criminal, but this backstory is immaterial to the game action, which involves stealing cars, smashing other vehicles out of the way – and having lots of fun in the process. That's a very different game, and a very different circumstance, but it's an example of how the framework can be bent to suit the core game dynamic.I'm also not sure about Activision's plaintive claim that the scene can be skipped. It's something of a cop-out, a side-step, rather than a pertinent justification. The point is, it's there – the developers put it there. It is an intended element of the whole experience.Responsibility is the underlying theme in all this. I think this is the deciding factor. Infinity Ward is an excellent developer, it uses narrative in a mature and sophisticated way. Witness the nuclear explosion sequence and the apparent death of Captain Price in Modern Warfare; these are moments of sheer emotional resonance, which would have been fumbled by most studios – indeed they wouldn't even have beenattemptedby most studios. Both moments work perfectly within the game's depiction of a desperate global battle. I'm certain that will be the case here. This development team has no need for cheap controversy, it doesn't have to appeal to the basest instincts of nihilistic teen gamers looking for a few cheap sick thrills.That is why this blurry, inconclusive footage is so important. The scene portrayed may well represent a statement of intent: this is what games are capable of now – unsettling us with powerful imagery, backing us into difficult situations, toying with our moral certainties. It is an 18 certificate game. We must be trusted to test ourselves against this.
Never one to dally too long between hardware updates Nintendo have announced yet another tweak to the Nintendo DS. The DSi XL (known asLL in Japan) will be launching on the 21st Nov in Japan and in "the first quarter of 2010" in Europe.The biggest upgrade is the screen size. They now measure 4.2 inches and are seemingly designed to help the XL compete with theKindleand similar electronic book readers. Brain Training games and a dictionary are bundled too.  Given this, it's fair to say that hardcore gamers are not the target audience for the XL. Should that bother you? Probably not. Nintendo have long since moved on from that demographic. For me the issue is more simple –do we need another version of the DS? Yes, the bigger screens make this a more viable browsing device but isn't it time we had a whole new Nintendo handheld?What do you think? With the DSi only launching last April is it too soon for another DS iteration? Or are the bigger screens enough to justify splashing out?
Fans of Assassin's Creed will be greeted by a familiar face when they load up the latest intalment of the game - author of Join Me and Yes Man, presenter of numerous BBC television shows and all-round nice-guy Danny Wallace will appear in a significant role as a historian in the game. I was granted some time with the one-time Sega Power reviewer to discuss his life in gaming, how it feels to be realised in 3D, and a decidedly unorthodox piece of casting ...How did you get involved in this project?Well, I've got a friend who's a bit of a gamer, very massively, a bit too much actually; one of his rooms is essentially a museum to old rubbish consoles. If I ever get an invite to a fancy games event, I'll always bring him down, and he gets very excited and runs up to lots of game sellers.He was doing that [at the videogame Baftas], and sort of shaking the hands of many men (I didn't know who they were, and he was deeply excited to be there) and then because he'd run off and left me on my own, a gentleman came up to me, happy-faced guy, and he said "Listen mate, I wonder if you'd like to be involved in a project?"Usually when strange men do that, I obviously want to know a bit more, but it was a very friendly thing. It appeared to be about a video game, and I said "Yeah, let's have a talk about it", and it turned out it was Assassin's Creed II, a big blockbuster thing (I played the first one, loved it, wanted to get involved). He said "it could have been written for you - right, could have been written for you, this role."They gave me the script, and the description of the character, which could have been written for me, was a nerdy, lonely sarcastic man with glasses, and I thought "perhaps I've been typecasted", but I read on, and it was fun and it was funny, and that was it - I was sold, and the next thing I knew I was recording it.Why do you think you were chosen by Ubisoft?If I was making the game I might not have been my first choice, but I'm thrilled that they did choose me, and I've got a background in gaming, I think they liked my stuff, thought I was alright. I thought it would be a fun thing to do, and my career has no real plan, I just want to have fun.You've been a writer, radio producer, television presenter, worked in movies, written books - and now acted in a videogame. Do you find it difficult to define what you do now?I guess so. I'm a writer basically, I do other stuff and writing is the core of it, and all of the other stuff feels like a hobby, lots of hobbies really. If a cab driver asks me, I say I work in Argos, that cuts the conversation somewhat, and if he happens to go on ("I love Argos") then as employee of the month, Bath branch, 1994 i think, I've got some background knowledge to get away with it.Tell me a bit more about the character you play in the game.He is the historian and as you play along, I will impart important information to you. He's probably a bit annoyed that he's not an assassin out in the field, because he wears spectacles, not a good look, but he has got a darker side that's revealed. I like to think of it that you, as the gamer, and me, we don't really get on. I like to think of it as one of those teenage American films, where by the end, the hero and my character kind of look each other and go, "you're alright by me" that kind of thing.Do you think it's the start of a trend, casting television personalities or people respected in other mediums in videogames?Yeah maybe, it's happening more and more. I know that Omid Djalili is in a game, and then the night i got approached about this, Jonathan Ross was asked, was being asked right there and then to be in another one, so he's popping up at some point in another game. I thought this would be just a little cameo, just you know, pop up, have fun, and it turned into something a bit bigger which I'm pleased about; it's nice.Is it strange seeing yourself realised in a computer game?It is a bit, yeah, I've seen some pictures but it's only this morning that I've seen it kind of moving around and talking.That's a bit weird, and the fact that in the screen behind you I'm there somewhere, just typing away, and as the gamer you can just go up to me and start bothering me by just pressing the button, and you know I'll just get more and more annoyed - which I think my wife will enjoy doing.You've mentioned your gaming background - something that comes up in your books. Didn't you start out reviewing games as a teenager?Yeah, we were offered the chance at school to do some work experience, just before the proper work experience, like a little taster, and I was offered the chance to do this work in an accountant's office or digging ditches. I thought I'd maybe try and find something more interesting, and itd be a bit more fun.So I bothered Sega Power magazine, and they let me come in. I was doing anything - making cups of tea for people who already had tea, alphabetising things that really didn't need alphabetising, trying to be a bit indispensable. One day a reviewer got ill, and they gave me a go, and I played the game to death, and that was it, suddenly I was part of this team, and I was this sort of voice of youth.I still remember the first thing I wrote, it was issue 34 page 104, I've still got a copy somewhere, and it was actually a little feature. My mum and dad were taking me to America for a few weeks on holiday, and for me America was this incredible Mecca of video games, video game shops on every corner, and I got there, and it wasn't. And also the places we were going, like Maine, and Colorado, weren't exactly the hub of gaming, so I wrote a feature about that for them, and then got to write more. And suddenly got to write a bit more, and I was writing for Gamesmaster, and Total, and lots of other things that unfolded too, after I started writing for them.I found myself at one point doing the tips column in a Nintendo magazine, and I didn't even have a Nintendo. It was a thing called Ask Alan, I didn't know what to call it, and he left, so I called it Don't Ask Alan, and suddenly I was this tipster, but without an actual console. The first book I wrote, the first Danny Wallace book, is a Mortal Kombat tips guide that was given away free with Gamesmaster.Your younger self probably would have been astonished if he knew that you'd eventually be involved in a project like thisYeah, totally, just the idea that you could be in a videogame, back then, was a bit crazy, because you'd get terrible efforts, they'd just look like really flat photos of people, and if you had the real person in a game, it would look like some terrible line drawing. Now you know you can spin around, see people from all different angles, it's extraordinary.Do you still have time for gaming?Yeah, I sort of got back into it in the last few years what with Xbox and PS3, and Call of Duty - I'm a huge fan.I only play online, never the single player game, I like to play against other people, and outwitting and being outwitted and those moments where someone beats you, and it's just great because they've been so clever about it.As for Assassin's Creed, the best thing about that, for me, was freerunning. They had this amazing thing where you can just hold down a button, and aim, and you look like you're incredible - like your hand-eye coordination is second to none - and anytime my wife would walk into the room, and I was doing that, she would just think that I was the biggest nerd in the world, being able to do this. It's like another world, to some people, which is interesting, but it's becoming a lot more mainstream.I enjoy the world of the Wii, when my dad comes round, because it's instinctive. We'd always try and play together when I was younger, but he wouldn't realise for about 10 minutes that we were actually playing one player, and he wasn't actually playing. With the Wii because it's all down to how your body works and hand eye coordination, he'll be jumping out of his chair, this 67 year old retired professor, just like Harry Redknapp. I'm sure he'd appreciate the comparison. That means I'd be married to Louise, this is good.What are games do you look back on most fondly?When I was young your social group in terms of games was really carved up in the kind of Blur/Oasis kind of way, whether you like MegaDrives or ... you had a SNES? Wouldn't have talked to you. So yeah, you had things like Mario and Pilotwings, we had Sonic. And then Sonic 2 came out, that was a big one, so yeah Sonic, that was a big one.Way of the Exploding Fist on the BBC is another that springs to mind, we went out, me and my dad went out one just after christmas, and I spent my £2.70 or whatever, and got that from Woolworths. I remember my mum buying me a copy of Donkey Kong, on the ZX, where you had the tape, and that was another big milestone, then GoldenEye, on the N64, that was a summer I'll never get back, just me and four mates and a 24 pack of Stella.I think everyone of our generation looks back particularly fondly on GoldenEye.Yeah definitely. I used to like the fact that you could see where other people were, and if you knew the map you could go and get them. I had it down so much that I could shoot a rocket in the air and have it timed so by the time that guy had turned the corner it would land on his head. I was obsessive about it.For a more recent choice, it's a tussle between Assassin's Creed and Call of Duty. It would be churlish of me not to mention Call of Duty. I realise this is a Ubisoft thing, but to understand the world of the gamer ... I think everyone will buy both in November, they'll be two sort of milestone games, and Assassin's and Call of Duty, can't have one without the other.Beyond graphics, how would you say games have changed since you started playing?A lot of the same techniques will always be used. In the early days with the coin-ops, button bashing, then the decathlons - all the Olympic games that have come out recently even are still very similar fundamentally. The Wii, that's kind of changing the way we think about how to control games, so I think it's great with a game like Assassin's Creed where there's no longer a kind of set, like a platform game where there's a beginning, middle, and an end-of-level boss, it's a world to explore and a kind of mythology around it.In the future, if we take things like that and incorporate the new technologies that are coming off the back of say, Nintendo's work, you're gonna have this incredible, sort of room, almost, your games room, where you can feel like you're moving around within these worlds. Nintendo have modeled the Wii not on the old way of controlling games but on a new way, where you actually move, and they've thought about the way you think. Stick that with a game like this, and you'll never leave the house.What's next for Danny Wallace?I imagine the franchise will keep me busy for the next 10 years with sequels and then the spin-off movie - the Historian, I'm calling it. I've faxed them, I've not heard back. I've got a new book out this summer. It's a book based on my Shortlist columns and some new stuff as well. There's a sitcom I'm developing and working on, I'll give that a go, and a film script I've just finished that we're sending off soon. They'll probably come back in the next few weeks and say this is dreadful, and I'll start again. In the next year I wanna just write and play games.My career's basically been about finding the fun, and trying to do it well so you get asked to do more, and it's about those moments, trying to do things well, taking things to them really, and if you have an idea, actually doing it the next morning. Even when it feels like it's not going your way, just keep doing it, believing in it.• Assassin's Creed II is out 20 November for PS3, Xbox 360 and PC.
Nintendo's Wii has been one of the most profitable games consoles ever sold, and after its launch in 2006, Nintendo took months to satisfy pent-up demand. This enabled the company to charge a premium price for its hardware and make large profits while rivals such as Sony and Microsoft were losing money on every machine they sold.Traditionally, manufacturers lose money on early sales in order to create a large fanbase. They make it back through sales of high-priced games and, later, on the consoles themselves, thanks to high-volume manufacturing and reducing the cost of the parts.In the early days, Nintendo gained an extra benefit as the main – almost the only – supplier of Wii games. Third-party software developers such as EA had not expected the machine to be such a success and had not planned many games for it.A third factor was that Wii reached many more casual gamers, including the very young and the old. Rivals such as Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Sony's PS3 appealed more to hardcore gamers, who are usually the early adopters of new consoles.Nintendo's winning strategy has unravelled this year, for a number of reasons. First, casual gamers may have cut back their spending during the recession, and they tend to be less bothered about having the latest and greatest titles. They may be buying second-hand ("new to me") games that make no money for Nintendo, or have just tired of their toy.Nintendo has failed to encourage to them with must-have Mario titles. Its only recent blockbuster has been Wii Sports Resort, and Wii sports games look an increasingly tired franchise.Meanwhile on the hardware side, both Microsoft and Sony have cut prices, and their games consoles are much more powerful than the Wii. This has obliged Nintendo to follow suit. In the key US market, the Wii dropped from $249.99 to $199.99.Finally, Sony, in third place in the three-way battle, has done extremely well with the recent launch of a slimmer, cheaper version of the PS3. In September, it was the US's best-selling console for the first time, according to retail sales tracking company NPD. Its consoles are still sold at a loss, but Sony's Jack Tretton was able to boast a 112% increase on the same period last year.Year-on-year, the whole console games industry is suffering from a substantial revenue decline. If Nintendo appears to be suffering more than rivals, it's mainly because it was doing so very much better than them before.But the year's not over. NPD Group director David Riley says: "For Wii, we can expect titles like New Super Mario Bros, as well as some key third-party titles, to hit big for the platform. Will it make up for the losses experienced year-to-date? Who can say for certain, but given the fact that the last quarter of a calendar year tends to represent close to half of annual sales for this industry in the US, we will likely see a strong performance – especially with the recent Wii price cut."
Connections provided by the UK's top three Wi-Fi networks - BT Openzone, The Cloud, and T-Mobile - are all vulnerable to attack by hackers, leaving people at risk of fraud, according to BBC's Watchdog.In a programme due to air on Thursday night, it claims that the thousands of hotspots available nationwide - in hotels, trains, airport lounges and high street food outlets - are less safe than they appear.Watchdog said that itused equipment readily available on the internet to hijack wireless traffic at a variety of hotspots, while experts working with the programme-makers could have been able to take control of other hotspot users' internet accounts. Once inside these accounts, malicious hackers would have then been able to harvest masses of personal data which could enable them to access the users' accounts on a variety of websites, including those for shopping and banking.The form of the attack has not been specified, though it may be what is known as a"man-in-the-middle" attack, where a hacker sets up a personal hotspot and gives it the same name as the official one, while routing traffic through it to the official system. As the internet traffic is transmitted through the hacker's hotspot, the details it contains - including credit card and other information - can be captured.According to Tom Illube, chief executive of internet security firm Garlik, over the last year there has been a tripling in "account takeover fraud, where criminals try and access existing accounts rather than using stolen identities. In light of this he thinks the vulnerability of Wi-Fi hotspots is worrying.Illube said: "I think a lot of people don't realise that using public Wi-Fi that's insecure is pretty much like writing your bank details onto a postcard and popping it in the post and being surprised that someone's read it."Watchdog asked 'Crimewatch' presenter and former policeman Rav Wilding to set up an email account on a laptop at a wireless hotspot. The 'Watchdog' team was able to access Rav's email within seconds before freezing him out of his account altogether. So although Rav was no longer able to use his email, the team still had full access to it.The Watchdog team was also able to access the email accounts of two members of the Watchdog audience, viewing everything the users were doing online, including their email and social networking activities.Illube said: "You don't have to be a super hacker to get into this sort of information and therefore it's becoming more widespread and we as consumers need to be more careful about how we use them and what we use them for."One way to protect Wi-Fi connections at public hotspots is to use a Virtual Private Network or VPN, which creates an encrypted "tunnel" between the source computer and the destination site. That prevents any tapping of the data en route. Although BT Openzone, The Cloud and T-Mobile all suggest using VPNs, only T-Mobile offer them as a software download when users log on.The three providers told the programme that they would do more to encourage the use of VPNs to protect Wi-Fi users.BT Openzone said they were reviewing their "proactive approach to providing secure and user friendly authentication". T-Mobile have now revised the wording on their hotspot homepage to emphasise use of VPNs and The Cloud say that they will make their information on security more easily accessible and are looking at how VPN technology can be developed in the future.
"Windows 7 overtakes Linux usage on guardian.co.uk in just 4 days" says our Martin Belam (aka@currybet) on his blog. These are not officially audited figures, just a snapshot, and they are based on the assumption that visitors' software is telling the truth. Given those caveats, Martin says:We usually expect to see weekday visits roughly break down as XP 55%, Vista 23.4%, Mac 14% and Linux 1.8%. With less people in an office environment on a Saturday and Sunday, XP share drops to around 43%. Vista (31%), Macs (17.3%) and Linux (2.3%) are the main beneficiaries of more varied OS use in the home. On Sunday 25th, Windows 7 usage stood at 2.5%, and Linux usage 2.2%.Anyone reading comments on the Technology blog might get the idea that 90% of our readers use either Mac OS X or Ubuntu. Indeed, we do have a much higher proportion of Mac and Linux users than their global market shares, which look more like 4% and 1% respectively. But Windows is still far and away the market leader, and even Vista is ahead of Mac OS X and all 157 varieties of Linux combined.Havingretweeted@curreybet I was amused by the rapid response fromPC Pro magazine:@pc_pro @jackschofield Pah! Windows 95 is still ahead of Linux on our site :)You'd expect a magazine called PC Pro to have a high ratio of Windows users and early Windows 7 adopters.Its traffic, it says, is: Windows XP (41.45%), Vista (24.5%), Windows 7 (12.9%), Macintosh (7.8%) and -- what a shocker! -- Windows 95 (6.8%). Linux is bundled into "Other".PC Pro says: "Windows 7 passed the 10% barrier for the first time on Friday, the day after the new operating system went on general sale."Later, PC Pro came back with a list of itstop 23 operating systemsby browser statistics, which showed that lots of relics are still in use. Indeed, Windows 3.x, launched in 1990, is still in 12th place.However, it's when you get right down to the bottom of the list that the prefects of the old-school begin to emerge. Ten of you have turned up at our website this month running IBM's OS/2. Two of you, and I'd dearly love to know who you are, have viewed this website using a Commodore Amiga.Many people will be watching their logs now to see whether they need to change their sites or their coverage to reflect what's happening in the market following the consumer launch of Windows 7. Some of us are also waiting for NetApps to put up its next set of Market Share figures.InSeptember, NetApps reckoned that Windows XP had 71.51% of the market, followed by Vista (18.62%), Mac OS X 10.5 (3.03%), Windows 7 (1.52%), Mac OS X 10.4 (0.96%) and Linux (0.95%).These figures are obviously out of date. NetApps saw Windows 7 break through the 2% barrier on 10 October, and I'll be amazed if it isn't above 3% on Saturday 31 October.There are lots of reasons why NetApps and similar surveys will be inaccurate. A site called Vista Essentials will probably attract a high proportion of Vista users, while Linux Today will pull in more Linux users. Local Taipei sites may attract mostly Windows XP users (there are hardly any Macs around), whereas sites that appeal to rich Californians should attract lots more Mac fans. And so on.NetApps' numbers are based on about 160 million visitors per month to a global selection of web sites, to try to reduce these effects. And even if they're wrong, the market share trends should be broadly correct.
Today is the internet's 40th birthday. Well, not exactly the internet but Arpanet – the Pentagon-funded research project that is the predecessor to the internet. Forty years ago, a simple message "Lo" (it was supposed to be "Login", but the system crashed) was sent between two computers at two Californian research labs and a net was born. What happened next – the development of the now global internet, the web that you are reading this on – has had an impact on all of us. Last week, the Guardian published aninteractive people's history of the internettelling the story of how that happened and interviewing some of the people who made it so.Charley Kline and Bill Duvall – who made that first connection between the University of California, Los Angeles and the Stanford Research Institute – are in there, as are pioneers of politics, social interaction and gaming online.Kline admits the importance was not recognised at the time. "It was neat that it was working ... but nobody recognised that it was the beginning of something," he says – but what would develop from that first connection has had a huge influence on how we live today.It is also worth remembering the perhaps unexpected nature of those who made this military-funded network. Oliver Burkeman spoke to Leonard Kleinrock, the UCLA professor who led the project, for a complementary piece on howthe internet changed the world for ever, noting that the Arpanet's development into what we have today was never inevitable.It was a crucial idiosyncrasy of the Arpanet that its funding came from the American defence establishment – but that the millions ended up on university campuses, with researchers who embraced an anti-establishment ethic, and who in many cases were committedly leftwing; one computer scientist took great pleasure in wearing an anti-Vietnam badge to a briefing at the Pentagon. Instead of smothering their research in the utmost secrecy – as you might expect of a cold war project aimed at winning a technological battle against Moscow – they made public every step of their thinking, in documents known asRequests For Comments.That thinking followed through and the internet – open both for people and machines thanks to the run-anywhere systems at its heart – would eventually win out over attempts in the 1980s to create more tightly controlled networks. It is also a spirit that informed Tim Berners-Lee's later World Wide Web (not the same as the internet) when the Cern European particle physics laboratory released it royalty-free for anyone to use.Lots more contributed to the internet we have today – bulletin boards, Usenet, dial-up modems, innovators and hobbyists outside the research labs – but Arpanet was the foundation stone and is worth remembering.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
TalkTalk, the second largest internet service provider in the UK, has threatened to launch legal action if business secretary Peter Mandelson follows through with his planto cut off persistent illegal filesharers' internet connections.Carphone Warehouse-owned TalkTalk, which has more than 4 million ISP customers and owns the Tiscali and AOL brands, claimed the government's plan was based on filesharers being "guilty until proven innocent" and constituted an infringement of human rights."The approach is based on the principle of 'guilty until proven innocent' and substitutes proper judicial process for a kangaroo court," said Andrew Heaney, the executive director of strategy and regulation at TalkTalk. "We know this approach will lead to wrongful accusations."The government plans to look at increased action against illegal downloaders, including potentially suspending the accounts of persistent offenders, from July 2011 if a 70% reduction in online piracy is not achieved by sending warning letters. Customers will have the right to appeal if they are targeted and their connection subjected to technical measures."If the government moves to stage two, we would consider that extra-judicial technical measures, and would look to appeal the decision [to the courts] because it infringes human rights," Heaney said. "TalkTalk will continue to resist any attempts to make it impose technical measures on its customers unless directed to do so by a court or recognised tribunal."BT, the largest ISP in the UK, said it "remains concerned" about some of the government's proposals and is "interested to hear whether or not customers will have some form of fair legal hearing before their broadband supplier is required to take any action against them".Chris Watson, the head of telecoms law at legal firm CMS Cameron McKenna, said that the opportunity to appeal was "very different to the legal safeguards that&nbsp;normally apply&nbsp;to the determination of the infringement of&nbsp;intellectual property rights and it may be incompatible with the&nbsp;European convention on human rights".However, Tony Ballard, partner at media and entertainment law firm Harbottle &amp; Lewis, said that Mandelson's plan to suspend internet connections did not breach human rights regulations."This issue over whether removing someone's internet access breaches&nbsp;some&nbsp;fundamental&nbsp;right has been quite clearly settled by the European court of justice," Ballard added. "It ruled&nbsp;in a Spanish filesharing case last year that&nbsp;a user's fundamental rights are not absolute but have to be weighed&nbsp;against the rights of others, including copyright owners."Ballard said that it is for the "individual states and their courts to hold the balance". He added that Mandelson clearly had an eye on France where a tough "three strikes" cut-off policy has been implemented and approved by the French legislature."The key questions are going to be around how the ISPs will manage the burden of proof, who is going to be responsible for&nbsp;the final decision to deny someone&nbsp;access to the internet&nbsp;and how that denial can be challenged&nbsp;in court," he added.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
* Google has made its search "more musical", it says onThe Official Google Blog. Now if you search for something musical, "the name of a song, artist or album -- your search results will include links to an audio preview of those songs provided by our music search partners MySpace (which just acquired iLike) or Lala," says the post.Should you so desire, you'll also be able to click on a  MySpace or Lala link and buy the full song. If you live in the USA.Courtney Holt, president of MySpace Music,posted a separate announcementgiving more details, and said:The Google integration is a direct result of the MySpace acquisition of iLike. I'm especially proud of the agility with which we evolved an iLike/Google initiative into a deeper integration with MySpace. I know this is only the beginning of what we can achieve working together and I thank the iLike team for their hard work in bringing this product to life.* Yahoo boss Carol Bartz seems to be doing some home decorating before getting into bed with Microsoft's Steve Ballmer (not literally, of course). As our colleagues atPaidContent have reported, the two companies have extended the deadline for their controversial search and advertising deal:"We still have some papering to do, we still have some things to nail down," she said. "Don't be worried it won't be consummated. The (letter of intent) is binding."The deal specified that Yahoo and Microsoft would sign "definitive agreements" by 27 October, 2009. The deadline has passed. But it won't happen again. The happy couple have wisely decided not to give an exact date for the ultimate deal.* And finally, the US is buzzing with stories about a new mobile phone announced by Verizon with the headline:Hello Humans: Droid By Motorola Arrives Next WeekIt runs the latest Android 2.0 and promises: "High-speed Web browsing, voice-activated search, customizable large screen, access to thousands of Android applications and hundreds of widgets and the best 3G mobile network in the country."The 3.7 inch 854 x 480 screen is obviously an attraction compared with the iPhone's 480 x 320 pixels. Other features include the 5 megapixel autofocus camera (with flash), USB connection and SD card slot. We can but hope the keyboard is nicer to use than the one on the Android G1. Otherwise, Verizon uses CDMA so we presumably have to wait for someone to come along with a European GSM version.Engadget hashands-on videos.
Why is Microsoft calling it Windows 7? Shouldn't it be Windows 9?Chris ParkinsThere have been bucketloads of Windows releases including the old DOS-based versions (3.0, 95, 98SE etc), NT-based New Technology versions (XP, Vista) and server versions, so it all depends what you want to count. On the Windows Team Blog,Microsoft's Mike Nashclaimed: "Simply put, this is the seventh release of Windows, so therefore 'Windows 7' just makes sense." Later, hetried to justify thatby counting all the 9x variants as version 4.0.No count makes sense but Microsoft confusingly called its first NT operating system "Windows NT 3.1" and so the next major release was NT4. Windows 2000 naturally became 5.0, and after XP was released as 5.1, Vista became version 6. The next one therefore had to be Windows 7. And it sounds nice.Of course, if you check Windows 7, it's actually numbered 6.1. There are lots of dumb programmers out there and — as with Windows XP — not incrementing the version number reduces the risk of software incompatibilities
I've bought a new desktop running Vista Home Premium. After copying files from the old computer and installing and setting up the programs I need, which add up to about 120GB, I find almost 200GB of the 500GB hard drive has been used.David MenarryThe hard drive industry uses "decimal bits" (powers of 10) because that gives a bigger number than the "real bits" (powers of 2) used by software. Your 500GB hard drive is seen by software as around 466GB. The hardware manufacturer has probably taken a chunk for a "restore partition" so that you can easily reinstall the operating system. Microsoft has probably taken some for System Restore and a Shadow Copy. And programs always occupy more hard drive space than they appear to need because each file must occupy at least one sector.Go to the Control Panel's Administrative Tools section and run the Disk Management program. A check that includes hidden files and folders, including operating system folders, should give you a better idea of whether any drive space is actually missing.
How do you get the CCleaner download gratis? Every way I try, it asks me for $29.95 to continue.Chris WhitfieldA few other readers also ran into problems, but anyone can download CCleaner for nothing fromhttp://www.ccleaner.com/download— either directly or from FileHippo.If downloading a free program, always follow the published link or a real search result. "Sponsored links" (ie adverts) may lead to soundalike programs, sites that charge for free software or even what are, in effect, malware sites.
I'm using AVG Free with Windows XP. Should I change to Security Essentials?Andrew WhiteI generally take the view that "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". Microsoft Security Essentials (MSE) is being well received and is worth a go if you need to change your anti-virus software for some reason. However, if you're happy with AVG, Avira AntiVir, Avast or a similar free program, I'd stick with it for now.
My niece's Facebook account has been taken over by someone who is putting up very bad things about her.Tina BardwellFacebook provides online help, and the help centre'sHelp page 797coversSecurity: Account was hacked or "phished". The section headed "My account has been hacked" has a link to a form you can fill in.In general, the quickest approach is to go tohttp://www.facebook.com/reset.php, enter the account's email address and ask for the password to be reset (ie changed).
We're used to the film industry grabbing successful games and converting them into flaccid, poorly conceived movies. Heck, we've even heard about perfectly good movies being translated into unbearably derivative games. But it's rare that a Hollywood studio pays out for the rights to a game most people have never heard of.Well nowapparently, blockbusting producer Jerry Bruckheimer has picked up  2005 turn-based strategy game, Shattered Union, for cinematic treatment. Developed by PopTop Software (now part ofFiraxis Games), the PC title imagined a nightmarish near-future in which a second American Civil war kicks off after an unpopular new president declares martial law. Several factions then battle for control of the country.Clearly, what's attracted Bruckheimer to this game is not its startling commercial success or its amazingly innovative and exciting implementation of table-top strategy dynamics - because both of those are clearly not true. No, the attraction is of course, the underlying concept - the idea of an America at war with itself; it's high concept popcorn movie gold dust. And during an era in which the film biz is so short of original ideas it'll happily turn to, say, Mayan prophesy for a saleable concept, it's no wonder producers are rampaging through their games collections looking for the next big 'idea'.So anyway, to save Hollywood some time and effort, can you think of other obscure/cult games with interesting stories that would work well - or actuallybetter- as movies?Here are my three suggestions...Grim Fandango (LucasArts, 1998)The critics loved its imaginative combination of Aztec mythology and film noir, but commercially, this wonderful Tim Schafer creation sunk like a brick wrapped in metal chains. Would work brilliantly as the next Tim Burton, Shane Acker or Wes Anderson animation.The Longest Journey (Funcom, 1999)Hugely rich and detailed adventure following feisty student April Ryan who finds herself trapped between two parallel dimensions disintegrating into each other with potential catastrophic consequences. Once everyone has stopped making Tolkein, CS Lewis and Philip Pullman tie-ins, this would make an epic and unusual sci-fi/fantasy flick. Peter Jackson or Guillermo del Toro to direct, of course.Second Sight (Free Radical Design, 2004)Parapsychology researcher John Vattic wakes up in a medical research centre with amnesia and a range of new, highly destructive telekinetic powers. What happened? That's what you find out through the course of this conspiracy-fuelled action shocker. Possibly one for Hideo Nakata.
Although we'd all like to think that we can completely separate our virtual and real-world experiences, it's never quite as simple as that. Who hasn't, at one point or another, emerged from a ten-hour Counter Strike session only to scour the street for camping spots? And conversely, surely you've had moments where you spot a cool building or rundown industrial area and think, 'that would make a hell of game level'.I think, through the omnipresence of game culture and conventions, and the growing popularity of virtual worlds in general, our sense of reality is becoming more plastic; our interactions with the world around us more playful. I don't think parkour could have evolved in a pre-videogame world - it's games that have taught us to see scenic objects as potentially interactive components. Similarly, the rapid implementation of GPS technology into our lives has been eased by games - we're all used to HUDs with radar displays and directional commands, we're prepared to be told what to do by disembodied computerised voices.That's my theory anyway, and it also handily explains the rise of urban gaming, which brings videogame-type experiences to real-world settings. You may well have heard, for example, of Pac-Manhatten, in which New Yorkers enact Pac-Man in locations around the city. In 2006, students at the Pennsylvania State University set up theirUrban Gaming Club, which runs a selection of strategic and physical videogame-like challenges with names like Humans vs Zombies and Battle Royale. I also really liked the concept behindBig Urban Game, commissioned by the University of Minnesota in 2003, in which three teams moved enormous inflatable game pieces through the city based on routes voted in by the public.Some urban games use gadgets - GPS-enabled phones and digital cameras being regular elements; some are purely tech-free. But they all borrow concepts of interactivity, co-operation and navigation from computer games. Sure, board games and role-playing games are surely also an influence (indeed the concept of Live Action Role Playing has been around for many years), but videogames are the modern driving force, because titles like GTA, Saint's Row and Crackdown have taught us to view cities as massive sandboxes.Anyway, there are two intriguing opportunities to test out urban gaming for yourself over the coming months. Between October 29 and November 1, you'll be able to check outGreat Street Games, in which residents of three areas - Gateshead, Middlesbrough and Sunderland - will be able to compete against each other via interactive playing arenas created using projected light and thermal-imaging technology. The event is part of Bupa'sGreat North Runcultural programme.Then on November 5, a documentary namedPlaymakerswill be showing as part of the Sheffield Doc Fest. Directed by Ivo Gormley the film documents the creation of an urban game of the same name by social games collectiveHide &amp; Seek. After seeing the documentary, you'll be able to go outside and test the game for yourself.Elsewhere, I've probably gone on aboutGameCityenough, but the festival has two urban gaming experiences - alive version of Crysis, taking place in the market square, andBlast Theory's latest experiment,Rider Spoke, "combining theatre with game play and state of the art technology".Ultimately, urban gaming is the positive manifestation of those lingering fears that we can no longer tell fact from fantasy. Sure we can, but that doesn't mean we can't try to make the world more like a game.
Search your social circleGoogle Labs has introduced an experimental feature that finds things by your social-networking friends: Google Social Search.Analogue turn-off(PDF)More than 7 million TV viewers will leave the analogue age next week, as the digital switchover reaches the north-west of England.Dress code for avatarsA Gartner report has "identified six tactical guidelines" for using avatars in&nbsp; a business environment.A path to easier accessIBM researchers say their "visual editor", which lets web developers plan out the order in which their sites are read, will help make sites easier to use on mobiles and by the visually impaired.Christmas dreamingThe Toy Retailers Association announced its annual "top 12 dream toys" list yesterday.Play the awards gameBafta has releases the schedule for those who want to take part in its 2010 Video Games Awards.Cultural advanceCulture24, the not-for-profit guide to British museums and galleries, has a new website.Follow that pizzaDomino's is celebrating 10 years of online ordering in the UK by releasing a Pizza Tracker app for the iPhone.
I intended to give the 3D internet a miss for a while after writing last week. But that was before Mike Fotoohi, a freelance software engineer from London, emailed me. When he told me that he and a few friends, working for five years in their spare time, had built a 3D version not just of capital cities, as others have, but of the entire planet that was better than Google Earth, my first reaction was to get off the phone pronto.But his enthusiasm was infectious and it ended up with him bringing his own bulky PC to our house for a demo. I was impressed. He uses public resources such as US aerial maps, geographical data from  GIS.com and the wonderful openstreetmap.org, in which people the world over are mapping streets for public benefit. His team has welded the data from these sources together using their own 3D engine to reproduce every street on the planet in three dimensions. Unlike Google Earth or other versions you can, in theory, walk around the entire world with your avatar, or "virtual you".They have mapped streets in central New York in detail and an avatar – customised to look like me – successfully wandered around the Times Square area (hhttp://bit.ly/timessq). Buildings further away become 3D shells as his team hasn't the resources to fill in details.How can he get around this? Simple. Anyone, anywhere can build on the 3D foundations of any mapped house in the world. He wants it to be the Wikipedia of a 3D internet with a revenue stream to finance expansion which their own company, micazook.com, can't afford. When those who build houses get to a trusted level they can become moderators, just as happens with Wikipedia. He hopes to make money by having three levels of membership (homeless, visitors and residents) allowing anyone to buy and sell land, buildings, clothes etc or run clubs with his company getting a percentage. There could be a speculative land grab when it goes public. There is already a virtual casino and he demoed an engaging kids' game of sheep being rounded up into a pen.That there is a market is shown by Second Life, which will generate $500m this year from buying and selling virtual goods such as land and clothing. Eventually, they hope to let residents elect mayors to govern in a democratic fashion. Second Life cost tens of millions of dollars to build.It is amazing that a few backroom guys in the UK even dare to challenge giants like Google by working in their spare time, using up less than £50,000 so far. They are very focused and have made very clever use of public resources. Their unique contribution is a software "engine" that takes raw data and converts it into a 3D space. There are no patents on it – apparently it is hard to get them on physics engines – but they claim a two- to three-year start over Google, Microsoft and Yahoo, from which they didn't even get a reply when they asked for help.On the basis of other virtual worlds I have seen, they ought not to have much trouble raising venture capital despite a lack of patents. They will need a lot of money to buy servers to support lots of users. A wider question is whether something that relies partly on the geeky art of self-building (though it is very easy to do) will prevent it getting a massive popular base. Also ownership of buildings in virtual worlds that have a real life equivalent is beset with problems about IP rights and "brand degradation". Do you have any rights to a building or shop in a virtual world that has the same co-ordinates as your own in the real world?They will know more when they go into public beta-testing later this year. I have no idea if there is a serious flaw within it or whether someone else in a bedroom in California is doing something similar. But what I saw worked well and I wouldn't be surprised if it was a serious success.
Network drives have made astonishingly limited progress in the home. I suspect there are two reasons: first, people can't see the benefit over having a single (cheaper) drive to plug directly into their machine. Second, configuring them with Windows is an utter pain because it introduces the unnecessary idea of "Workgroups". Er, hello, Microsoft? I'm at home. Why do I need a "workgroup"? Windows 7 improves this over XP: it has (Windows 7-only) "Homegroups". Hmm.But as we have more computers – and internet devices – at home, and need to share files among them, as well as having big media files and collections we want to be network-accessible (for, say, Sonos's music system or the Neuros OSD, both of which I've reviewed in the past 18 months), a networked drive becomes less a luxury, more an obviously smart move.However, when you buy a networked hard drive, make sure it's your last one ever. That is, make sure that it's big enough to have tons of room for huge amounts of files; because if you have to replace it after a year, copying the files over from the old one will be tedious.I think I've found the last networked hard drive I want to buy: the LaCie d2 Network, which comes in 500GB, 1TB (that's terabyte) and 1.5TB flavours. The prices are respectively £145, £170 and £230. You can see that the sweet spot is 1TB; apparently the hike in price-per-gigabyte for the 1.5TB version is to do with how many platters can be squeezed into the enclosure, and the high price-per-GB of the 500GB version is to do with the cost of, well, the enclosure and so on.The d2 has a faintly worrying blue light on the front, but that can be controlled remotely – as of course all of it can through a web interface. There is also a LaCie Network Assistant program you can use for Windows, Mac and Linux, which has a so-so interface – but in fact, a web browser is plenty.I used it with an Apple machine, where it shows up immediately (no messing with workgroups, thank heaven); you can configure network shares for Windows, Mac or Linux boxes. You can even set it up as a Time Machine backup drive for an Apple machine (which I don't recommend over a wireless connection; too slow).The d2 has UPnP/DLNA – Universal Plug &amp; Play/Digital Living Network Association software. That is, it advertises itself and its files to any media-playing device on your network. This is excellent for devices such as Windows Media Centers or Apple's iTunes; you can put your entire iTunes library on it and iTunes will find it.Looking about the web interface, you notice the usual things – folder permissions, administration, user sharing control of shares – and a surprising extra: "torrents".Pardon? Torrents?Yes: the d2 comes with a torrent downloading program built in. Upload a torrent tracker file (the tiny one you initially download) and it will head off and quietly get on with downloading it. This will surely have some people in the video and music industries frothing at the mouth. I tried it on a Ubuntu distribution and, sure enough, a day or two later I looked and it was done.The Gigabit Ethernet connection is very welcome – small businesses will certainly like the speed if everyone is on Ethernet  - but might get lost if your wireless connection isn't at least 802.11g (the 54Mbps speed). The only complaint I could find, and believe me I looked, is that there's only one USB socket for plugging in or transferring data from external storage. Most drives in this class come with two sockets. When that's the worst to be said, you know you've found a winner.Pros:versatile, simple, spacious; DLNA; torrents (a dubious bonus)Cons:only one USB port; 500GB and 1.5TB versions relatively dear
Of course not. If you are weak-willed enough to believe that – or if your manager is, and has therefore cut off your access to the social network – then consider a few facts.The "survey" that came up with that number was carried out, as Mike Butcher of TechCrunch Europehas noted, by a company that makes staff-monitoring equipment. It has an interest in selling things to companies to stop their staff "wasting" money by – allegedly – spending 40 minutes a week on social media.If the company (which we won't name) succeeds in selling some of its equipment to anyone as a result of the survey, then that will be a net gain for the UK economy through its sales. So Twitter won't have lost the economy money – why, it'll have generated some, though one would have to offset that against lost productivity through not being able to contact customers, clients and others through the social network.But the economic justifications for Twitter go well beyond selling slightly spooky monitoring equipment.Louis Halpern, CEO of the digital marketing agency Halpern Cowan, thinks that idea that time on social media sites is "wasted" is nonsense: "The first step to getting a return on investment from the time employees spend on social media is to empower them to use social media to help their business," he said in response to the "survey". "A company's employees are its most effective advocate, and can directly sway the opinion of customers and stakeholders … Customers will only continue to buy if they feel good about the service they're receiving, which staff actively posting positive sentiment online can impact directly."Sometimes, naturally, the use of social media goes awry. Halpern acknowledged as much when discussing the recent case of Dixons Store Group staffbeing abusive about customers on Facebook. But with companies such as Dell and JetBlue recording millions of dollars in sales through Twitter, it's clear that the network has value; and newspapers find it useful in contacting sources, getting readers to their site and even, occasionally, helping overturn injunctions – the latter service being hard to price but definitely socially valuable.The fear that employees let loose on the internet will waste time is as old as Sir Alan Sugar, who thought it had "obvious disadvantages" when used by web-surfing staff and that it could "all go pear-shaped". (He did answer his own emails, though.) The reality though is that people at work have always found ways to waste time. The key problem for managers remains, as ever, finding ways to make them like their work enough not to. In that respect, non-work use of Twitter and Facebook and the rest aren't the disease; they're the symptom.
Lord Mandelson'sproposals to cut off "persistent" file sharersdo not make financial sense, according to estimates of its cost put forward by those who would have to implement it.British Telecom and Carphone Warehouse estimate that running the enforcement system would cost about £2 per broadband line per month - a total of £24 per broadband line per year. With 17.6m broadband connections in the UK as of September, means it would cost £420m annually to run a system to defeat a problem the music industry complains costs it £200m per year.Lord Mandelson said that "ISPs and rights-holders will share the costs, on the basis of a flat fee that will allow both sides to budget and plan."If the costs of running the system are equally shared between rights-holders and ISPs, that means that ISPs will have to push up bills for the majority of law-abiding customers who do not download illegally, while the rights-holders spend as much as they claim they are losing.Reactions from the music and music streaming industry to Lord Mandelson's reasserted determination to cut off "persistent" file-sharers has not been positive either.For we7, the music streaming website, chief executive Steve Purdham was unimpressed."This morning at the government sponsored C&amp;binet forum Peter Mandelson backed a tough three strikes policy for file-sharers, echoing the hard-line position taken in France. This is a move which is directed at protecting the media industry and copyright law but one which entirely misses the heart of the issue."Piracy is a reaction to an unsustainable situation, where reasonable, legitimate access to music has struggled to match demand. File-sharing sites have risen in the gulf between what consumers wanted and what has been available. Internet users don't want to use p2p networks; most are far from intuitive, full of sub-standard products and leave users' computers open to attack and infection."In the same way that the vast majority of consumers buy products from reputable retailers and not on the black market, most would rather support artists and their livelihood by consuming licensed music. Creating a variety of reasonable and sustainable models for providing music to consumers is key to ending rampant piracy. This is the approach that should be taken by the government rather than criminalising consumers and driving pirates further into the undergrowth."At we7, we believe that sustainable ad-funded music is a first step in migrating the pirate to legitimate consumption. In order to keep generating the music we love, artists need to be paid. People want to support the music they care about. But it is not for them to find a way to do that; the onus is on the government and the industry to monetise music instead of demonising and punishing the general public."The key problem that companies like we7 and Spotify face is that - unlike supermarkets buying products such as DVDs or milk - they cannot, officially, negotiate bulk discounts. Officially, the streaming sites have to pay the same per-song royalty whether they stream 1 millions song per month or 10 million. In internet parlance, music streaming doesn't "scale".That means, briefly, that music streaming companies can't succeed unless they can find magical ways to generate huge sums of money - which we already know they can't. The availability of piracy, and free sites, and giveaway CDs, and simply having friends who can send you files, means people will only pay for something that's enormously simple to use - such as we7 and Spotify.Alex Ljung, chief executive and co-founder ofSoundCloud- an online audio platform that lets music professionals upload music to let them embed or share it online, said:"It's unfortunate that the top level conversations around digital music are so focused on strategies for limiting access, when what's needed is more innovation around providing alternatives to illegal file sharing."In the few years that the government has poured their time and resources into pushing through unworkable three strikes rules, developers and start-ups have been successfully innovating in the other direction: working directly with artists and labels to provide music fans with accessible, safe, legal options forstreaming and downloading music in ways that benefit the industry.""There's still a long way to go, but the tech sector success stories far outweigh any of the attempts by governments to directly obstruct or criminalise music file-sharers."
Why Windows 7?Why is Microsoft calling it Windows 7? Shouldn't it be Windows 9?Chris ParkinsJack Schofield replies:There have been bucketloads of Windows releases including the old DOS-based versions (3.0, 95, 98SE etc), NT-based versions (XP, Vista) and server versions, so it all depends what you want to count. On the Windows Team Blog,Microsoft's Mike Nash claimed: "Simply put, this is the seventh release of Windows, so therefore 'Windows 7' just makes sense." Later, he tried to justify that by countingall the 9x variants as version 4.0.No count makes sense but Microsoft confusingly called its first NT operating system "Windows NT 3.1" and so the next major release was NT4. Windows 2000 naturally became 5.0, and after XP was released as 5.1, Vista became version 6. The next one therefore had to be Windows 7. And it sounds nice. Of course, if you check Windows 7, it's actually numbered 6.1. There are lots of dumb programmers out there and — as with Windows XP — not incrementing the version number reduces the risk of software incompatibilities.CCleaner free?How do you get the CCleaner download gratis? Every way I try, it asks me for $29.95 to continue.Chris WhitfieldJS:A few other readers also ran into problems, but anyone can download CCleaner for nothing fromccleaner.com/download— either directly or fromFileHippo. If downloading a free program, follow the published link or a real search result. "Sponsored links" (ie adverts) may lead to soundalike programs, sites that charge for free software or even what are, in effect, malware sites.Facebook account hackedMy niece's Facebook account has been taken over by someone who is putting up very bad things about her.Tina BardwellJS:Facebook provides online help (facebook.com/help), and covers "Security: account was hacked or 'phished'". The section headed "My account has been hacked" has a link to a form you can fill in.AVG or MSE?I'm using AVG free with Windows XP. Should I change to Security Essentials?Andrew WhiteJS:I generally take the view that "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". Microsoft Security Essentials is being well received and is worth a go if you need to change your anti-virus software for some reason. However, if you're happy with AVG, Avira AntiVir, Avast or a similar free program, I'd stick with it for now.Missing drive spaceI've bought a new desktop running Vista Home Premium. After copying files from the old computer and installing and setting up the programs I need, which add up to about 120GB, I find almost 200GB of the 500GB hard drive has been used.David MenarryJS:The hard drive industry uses "decimal bits" (powers of 10) because that gives a bigger number than the "real bits" (powers of 2) used by software. Your 500GB hard drive is seen by software as around 466GB. The hardware manufacturer has probably taken a chunk for a "restore partition" so that you can easily reinstall the operating system. Microsoft has probably taken some for System Restore and a Shadow Copy. And programs always occupy more hard drive space than they need because each file must occupy at least one sector.Goto the Control Panel's Administrative Tools section and run the Disk Management program. A check that includes hidden files and folders, including operating system folders, should give you a better idea of whether any drive space is actually missing.Backchat• Saul Steve wanted to fix the keyboard on a laptop. Tony Schroder, Andrew Richards and Anne Barry, sensibly suggested plugging in a separate keyboard. Something like the PC Line PCL-SK1, £6.99 from Currys or PC World, should be fine, and Maplin has a large collection. Check if you need a USB or PS2 connection.
Last week's consumer launch of Microsoft Windows 7 showed further progress in an industry that depends on introducing new products with new features, enabling users to do more things more easily than before.When Microsoft launched Windows XP (for eXPerience) in October 2001, people tended to share the family computer (hence fast user-switching), but it didn't even provide a decoder to play DVDs. XP was claimed to run in 64MB, and support for 2GB of memory seemed to provide plenty of headroom. It was also a 32-bit operating system, with its 64-bit version targeted at Intel's new Itanium chip.Today, people need a system that plays DVDs and high-definition Blu-ray movies, that makes Wi-Fi and home networking easy, and that supports both large memory spaces and today's 64-bit processors. When a DVD can hold 4.7GB of data, and a Blu-ray disc 25GB or 50GB, a system originally designed to max out at 2GB is hardly optimal.Of course, when XP was launched, plenty of people said it wasn't necessary, and they were happy using old DOS-based versions such as Windows 95, 98, and 98SE. No doubt this was true, but technically it was absurd. XP provided dramatic advances in power and reliability.However, XP was incompatible with many old programs and peripherals, it needed new drivers, and the interface needed some relearning. In general, people are comfortable with what they know, so there was lots of resistance.Three years ago, we went through a similar but smaller transition with Windows Vista. This introduced new plumbing, toughened the security (XP had proven embarrassingly insecure) and provided a complete 64-bit version for widely-used 64-bit processors.Again, Vista was incompatible with numerous old programs and peripherals, it needed new drivers, and the new user interface required relearning. As always, there was resistance.In this case, the resistance had some success. Microsoft hadn't got enough support from what it calls "the Windows ecosystem" in terms of software compatibility updates and good quality drivers, Vista's hardware requirements were too high, and the security features annoyed people.But the need for the Vista's advances has not gone away. That's why Microsoft has built Windows 7 on the same foundations – just as it built XP on the foundations of Windows 2000 – while fixing Vista's "pain points" such as security alerts. Windows 7 thus runs better than Vista while using fewer resources, and both Microsoft and its ecosystem partners have worked to make it compatible with more old applications and peripherals. Business users can even run their old stuff virtually in XP mode.Of course, not everyone will upgrade. There are always early adopters, keen to be among the first to use a new system, and late adopters, who will hang on to the old stuff long after they would have been better off upgrading.Because Windows has more than a billion users, both groups will be large. Even if Windows 7 is the most successful operating system of all time, and picks up 300m users by the end of next year, that's still less than a third of the installed base. Windows XP will be in the majority for another few years.The one thing to be clear about is that while XP has been a huge success in this decade, it's not going to survive much of the next one. It will now decline, slowly, along with its hardware and software support.There's no urgent need to switch to Windows 7, especially if you don't need a new PC. But you will almost certainly change eventually – and when you get to know Windows 7, you'll probably like it.
If laptop users were willing to pay an extra two dollars to upgrade their power supply units, the world could save more than 200m tons of carbon a year, according to a leading component supplier in Taiwan.Delta Electronics, which makes more than half of the boxes at the end of the world's power cables, wants consumers to be informed of the carbon and energy efficiency of its products so that they can make a choice about whether to pay extra for greener computers.The current energy efficiency standard for switching power supplies on laptop computers is 87%, though many firms fit devices that fall well below this level.Delta says its best equipment could reach 93% for $1 or $2 more. It is not yet widely adopted because computer firms such as HP and Dell are reluctant to pass on the cost to consumers."The point is, consumers never know the efficiency of their computers," said Delta Electronics' founder and chairman, Bruce Cheng. "We are serious in our efforts to reduce global warming by our unrelenting research into ever more energy efficient products."The firm expects to sell about 63m adaptors this year. With an improvement of eight percentage points, it estimates the average laptop could save 8.8kWh a year."Consumers should ask for higher efficiency. That's why we want a carbon label on goods. We would be the biggest benefactor," said Emelie Yeh, a company spokesperson.Taiwanese firms supply most of the IT components, fans and power supply adaptors in computers and household appliances. Peter Rowling, of the environmental consultancy ERM, welcomed the push to inform the public. "This is good because carbon labelling is about disclosure, but what is important is that it looks at the whole life cycle of the product. We also need to know the energy and resources that go into products."Taiwan is moving in this direction. Last month, AU Optronics, a leading producer of LCD televisions, announced one of Taiwan's first carbon-footprint verification schemes. Other firms are expected to follow.Delta, however, said users could make big energy savings simply by switching devices off when they are not used rather than leaving them on standby. The company estimates that 5% of the world's household electricity is wasted this way each year – equivalent to the annual output of a 12GW power plant.
March 1993, a Herefordshire village. A flickerlingly illuminated child, his crimson face no more than a foot away from a bulbous television screen, pauses to wipe away a drop of sweat from his tautly scrunched brow.  "Just … a few … more …" The screen flashes, small hands grip the rectangular controller with a furious strength. "Donatello … just … a few … more."I still have the nightmares. Well, perhaps not nightmares, but I do think about it sometimes. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles on the NES – the first game I never completed.There's been a lot of discussion about the aesthetic augmentation of games, or the adaptation of core gameplay mechanics to different environments and technological capabilities, but an often overlooked question about changes in gaming over the past 20 years is whether they've become less difficult.Buy a game now and you'll assume that, with some practice and patience, you will work your way to the end. On the recent Gameswipe programme on BBC4, Dara O'Briain compared his experience of being stuck in Gears of War with that of a book not letting you read the final chapters unless you passed a test on it. A good analogy, perhaps, but the assumption that you'll even get to the end is a fairly recent convention.Back in 8-bit days, the book wouldn't just seal off the final chapters: if you lost concentration along the way it would send you right back to the beginning again. You needed huge chunks of uninterrupted time to tackle even fairly basic games.Dizzy on the NES, a charming puzzler platformer, would take a good six or seven hours to finish. I remember entire Sunday afternoons set aside, only to end in death and dishonour for my egg-shaped companion – and then I had to start all over again next weekend.The exasperation as hours of constant gameplay were wasted through a single mistimed jump is hard to replicate today. Your average first-person shooter or adventure game is chock full of save points, power-ups and hints – making things more accessible, certainly, but also much easier.Perhaps there was no equivalent in my childhood to the level of skill required to handle crucial moments in an online game of Halo 3 or Call of Duty.  But these multiplayer challenges borne of competitiveness have existed in some level since the days of Pong.Another huge change is that the rise of the internet means help is available for pretty much every difficult moment in every game. YouTube videos, online walkthroughs, cheat codes – all at your fingertips to quell even a moment's exasperation. Compare this with early 90s gaming, where £1-a-minute helplines and occasional tips from games magazines were pretty much your only resource.It all reflects a marked shift in the appreciation of games from a challenge to an experience – the reward is not in simply 'beating' the game, but in becoming immersed in its narrative.It was interesting to hear at a recent games event Charles Cecil, creator of the Broken Sword games, comment that a revamped version of Beneath a Steel Sky had a hint system added: people just aren't willing to be stumped as they once were.It's a cliché to say that we live in an impatient society, but it's sad that the thrill of solving a puzzle after a week of aimless fiddling, or finishing that infernal Turtles swimming level after months of tears and tantrums is something today's gamers miss out on.
Google's Android 2.0 mobile phone OS isn't just a bit snappier with more synchronisation built in. It also hasfree turn-by-turn navigation included.If you work for, say, a satnav company such as TomTom, you might be getting slightly uncomfortable about this. It was OK when mobile phones ate up camera makers and alarm clock makers and Filofax makers and music player makers by including them free in their products (as Vic Keegan has been pointing out for years). But including sat-nav in a phone for free? Are they mad?It's not clear yet whether this is US-only, or whether it will apply to every country that Google Android 2.0 will be sold in. However, given that it appears to be built on Google's map navigation algorithms, and that it has already shown that it can adapt its mapping system to update in real time on GPS-enabled mobile phones (examples: iPhone, Android 1.x phones), it seems likely that it's coming here too. It's only a matter of time.The Android 2.0 software will let you search "in plain English", by voice, give you "live traffic data" (which will definitely depend on local licensing of data), "search along route" when you need to find a business (petrol station perhaps?) en route, satellite view, and street view (of course). As Keith Ito, who wrote the Google blogpost says, "Take Google Maps Navigation for a spin, and bring Internet-connected GPS navigation with you in your car."Note that those won't all be as inclusive as you'd expect from a properly equipped sat-nav device. But Garmin, which has attempted to fight back by launchingits own phone, might want to consider whether it can really do better. There's also theTomTom kit for the iPhone, which has had some peoplewincing at its price- are you going to lash out £100, which is about the price of a standalone sat-nav anyway?The tendency of the mobile phone to swallow any ancillary device continues, though. New Scientist was clearly right: the mobile phone is thereal ID card that we carry around.
Google is heavily pushing its upcoming real-time collaborating tool Wave. And what would be a really serious signal? Have a guess. Right, an app store! Exactly this application storewas mentioned at a recent Google Technology User Group meeting in London, where Lars Rasmussen and Stephanie Hannon mentioned it in their presentation andthey just confirmed it.As the technology siteThe Next Webreports, the Wave Application Storewould make it possible for developers to earn money for their efforts developing for the platform. The success of the iPhone app store, which has just passed 100,000 approved applications, came as a surprise, and seems to be an alternative to the free culture of the internet, where users are not willing to pay. So the Google Wave app store seems a good idea to attract developers to Google Wave, as they can market their apps to consumers with Google taking a cut by revenue-sharing.Among technology journalists Google's answer to the question "What would e-mail look like if it was invented today?" is often judged as "innovative", but questioned "truly useful?". So far no one can say if Wave will take off, as the product is not fully developed. Beta testing just started(read the Guardian review here), and only 600,000 people are testing worldwide right now. But more and more ideas come up, asgamers see some potential, as well asit might be a useful tool for reporting in journalism.
In this week's episode of Tech Weekly, there's also a potted history of Microsoft, including how Solitaire helped the world learn to use a mouse, as well as a look to what the future might hold thanks to the launch ofWindows 7.Our own Jack Schofield gives his definitive conclusion as to whether it's worth upgrading, and Charles Arthur discusses where Microsoft fits in, in the wider OS landscape, with competition fromSnow Leopard,Ubuntuand Google's newChrome OS.Plus, there's this week's news including Orange announcing the date they will start selling the iPhone, Nokia suing Apple for alleged breaches of patents, the hacking of the Guardian jobs website, and Barnes and Noble's new Nook ebook reader.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Business secretary Lord Mandelson has said he is confident his plan to stop illegal filesharing will be approved by parliament and that the measures will be as effective as France's tough "three strikes" policy.Mandelson,who today unveiled plans to introduce measures including suspending the internet connections of illegal downloaders, argued that while less draconian than the French plan, the UK's approach would be tough enough to tackle online piracy."The French approach is based on criminal law, as I understand it, therefore ours is different," said Mandelson, in a press briefing at the government's digital creative industries conference C&amp;binet. "Our [plan] is not identical, but [will be] no less effective for that."Mandelson said that the UK's policy was a "different menu of legislative measures" which did not signal a "cave in" to demands from rights holders to adopt a tougher strategy.&nbsp;"[I am] strengthening what already exists," he added. "We will bring the law up to speed."He said he was confident that the controversial strategy will  be approved by parliament to allow implementation from April next year."Of course I am confident it will go through parliament," he added. "[This is] because parliament always responds well to soundly based and intelligent legislation."David Hendon, the director of economy at Mandelson's Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, said many of the details on how suspending persistent illegal filesharers' internet access might work could not be established until nearer the potential implementation time  of mid 2011."If it [illegal filesharing] is a massive problem we could turn on a fast, powerful response," added Hendon. "If there is a little problem we can be more proportionate. How draconian we are will be a matter for the secretary of state to decide at the time."Hendon reiterated that internet suspension was a last resort and outlined the technical measures that the government could use before cutting off connections.He said that the first line of measures would include "squeezing bandwidth to a few hundred kilobits", which would stop illegal downloading by persistent offenders but still allow them to send email and shop online.Another step would be to tell internet service providers to implement download limits – such as a megabytes per day cap – which would stop large files such as films being downloaded. "If none of these work we would move to our last resort [of internet suspension]," Hendon said.He added that the government had not decided how long suspensions might be, or how long the process of going from warning to suspension might take.ISPs will be told to take action against individuals when their illegal filesharing is "above a certain proportion of the whole problem", according to Hendon. He did not, however, state what that level of activity might be."This is the first time the secretary of state will have the powers to respond to what people are saying to him [about tackling illegal filesharing]," he said. "But we don't want to kill online Britain."ISPs and rights owners will be expected to split the cost of policing the new system, with a fixed fee charged for each warning notification sent out.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".&nbsp;
Lord Mandelson has "warned internet users today that the days of 'consequence-free' illegal filesharing are over,"according to my colleague Mark Sweney. This will no doubt give most of the large copyright owners a warm glow, but whether it will make any practical difference is another matter. I suspect it won't.The government plan has two stages....In stage 1, a "rights holder" is going to identify the IP address of an illegal uploader by "phishing" on a file-sharing site, then get the ISP to send that user a warning letter. After sending more than one warning, the rights-holder takes legal action.In stage 2, the ISP takes "technical measures" against the "serious infringer", who can then appeal to "an independent body established by Ofcom". (These "technical measures" may include the not-very-technical suspension of the user's account.) If that appeal is unsuccessful, the "serous infringer" can appeal to a "First Tier Tribunal", following which the "technical measures" are either re-implemented or dropped.It sounds like an expensive and extremely bureaucratic plan where the cost of implementation will be far higher than the cost of the content. Mandy's thinking is presumably that making a public example of a small number of "serous infringers" will discourage others. It should certainly discourage peer-to-peer file-sharing, at least among those smart enough to realise that if they are downloading something, they are probably uploading it as well.But even if the government managed to drive all the peer-to-peer file-sharers offline, they would simply change the way they share files -- as they have previously.The obvious way, and one that is already widely used, is to upload files to a service such as Rapdishare, from which other people can download them. While Rapidshare is the best known example, there must be dozens of similar services. Maybe Mandy thinks he can block encrypted files downloaded from servers in different countries, possibly using proxies. I suspect he can't.Incidentally, Rapidshare works a lot better than BitTorrent, so this could actually increase the total volume of copyright violations.Perhaps the British government could simply block all transfers of large files? Well, another trick that was widely used in the days before Rapidshare -- and still is -- was to split a movie in hundreds of small files and share them via Usenet or even by email. It's not hard to lash together a bit of software that automatically downloads hundreds of 1K files from different (free!) mail services and joins them together.Good luck blocking that.Could the British government simply turn off the intertubes, throwing the baby out with the bathwater? People will still exchange files. In the days before digital, mix tapes and VHS cassettes were passed around in clubs and pubs. Take the net away and people will start passing round 25GB or 50GB Blu-ray discs. I bet Mandy would be amazed just how many MP3s and DivX movies fit on one of those….There have been lots of very wise words written about the value of copyright in today's multimedia society -- people likeCory DoctorowandLawrence Lessigare well worth reading. My point is simply that even if Mandy doesn't believe them, his plan isn't going to stop the sharing of copyright content. That's been going on for decades; it will go on for decades to come.There's also a larger point about how far the internet should be "free" (as in libre, not as in beer) and how much it should be policed by ISPs.In my view, it's legitimate for ISPs to interfere insofar as they are defending the operations of their part of the network. For example, I've complained before about theabusive nature of BitTorrent, and I'd be very happy to see BitTorrent traffic limited or blocked for the benefit of those of us who don't use it.How far ISP's could police particular bits of content is another issue, but some people are trying. For example,Audible Magicsays its can sample networks and "seeing what packets are there that may contain parts of a audible track or video file". It uses a fingerprinting technology based on "a database of over 3m songs and 250k films" and says it's about to start a full trial with a British ISP. It's technology has been promoted by the The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), anddebunked by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF).But if the British government really wants to do something useful about policing the net, it could encourage ISPs to act more promptly -- or just act -- against botnet PCs pumping out spam, and compromised servers attempting drive-by malware downloads.If you need to log on to some corporate networks, you need proper authentication, and your PC gets a quick virus check whether you like it or not. If ISPs made similar efforts, ordinary users would be better off.
Internet Explorer 6 is the most popular web browser, according toNet Applications' Market Share website, and it's also the most hated. Its use has beenraised in parliamentary questions, and even Microsoft would dearly love to be rid of it. The browser is "insecure", lacking in features, and just too old to observe almost a decade of new web standards. Yet despite internet campaigns against it, such asIE6 No More, the browser launched with Windows XP in 2001 seems likely to continue for a few years yet.The current supremacy of IE6 is, of course, a temporary aberration. Both IE7 and Mozilla's Firefox 3.0, previously its main rivals, are in decline as users switch to IE8 and Firefox 3.5. However, it's a sobering thought that even adding the market shares of Firefox 3.0 (9.62%) and Firefox 3.5 (12.65%) together, the open-source browser still falls short of the antique IE6 (24.42%) onNetApps figures for September 2009.Force quitThe sort of people who would be outraged if Microsoft were to change a single byte on their hard drives without permission have been calling on Microsoft to force users to upgrade. Microsoft, naturally, won't. People who use Windows Update have already declined to upgrade to IE7 or IE8, and as the man in charge of IE's development, Dean Hachamovitch, says on the IEBlog: "The choice to upgrade software on a PC belongs to the person responsible for the PC."Hachamovitch's phrasing is deliberate, because "the person responsible" for keeping IE6 often isn't the user. An unknown but probably large proportion of IE6 users are inside enterprises, where software is locked down and infrequently updated. If a big company is running hundreds of thousands of PCs, any changes have to be tested against hundreds of applications to make sure everything will continue to work. Also, rolling out software changes on a large scale is expensive, even though there are tools designed for the job.Simply because the majority of large companies are still using Windows XP, many of them are still using the browser that came with it. From their point of view, it's the simplest and cheapest option – productivity be damned.Telling these locked-down IE6 users to upgrade "is not only pointless, it's sadistic",according to Digg's Mark Trammell.Another brake on progress is bad programming. Some companies developed intranets and websites for IE6 – perhaps using Microsoft's FrontPage 2000 software – instead of for the most widely supported web standards. If their in-house applications require IE6, they cannot upgrade to IE8 or Firefox without changing their applications as well. Again, that's an expensive proposition.Governments are in the same situation as large corporations, and the British government is another major IE6 user. Some departments are upgrading to IE7, such as the Department for Work and Pensions and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. But the Ministry of Defence, which has 300,000 desktops worldwide (including ships), said it was sticking with IE6, "and at the current time does not have a requirement to move to an updated version".The issue was put on the ministerial agenda by technically aware Labour MP Tom Watson, who pointed out that the government recommended against using IE6 on security grounds. Why didn't it take its own advice? He used parliamentary questions and got at least18 answers about the government's use of IE6. Nobody had bothered before."There's an emerging guard of webworkers, and we're not giving them the tools to do their jobs properly," Watson complains. "I'm trying to get a culture change across government. It's not just about IE6 but about things like social networking tools." However, he reckons that for the UK government "killing off IE6 could have a dramatic effect on the market."Microsoft certainly welcomes that idea. "It's not good news for us to have people on IE6: we really want them to move," says Ian Moulster, product manager for the .NET platform at Microsoft in the UK."In the UK, IE8 is now the most used web browser, followed by IE7 and then IE6, according to NetApps," Moulster adds. "We're not allowed to tell you the figures: you can only get them from NetApps if you pay. I can tell you IE6 is dropping slowly, but it's not going down as fast as we'd like."Moulster says some individuals still use IE6 out of choice "and see no reason to change"."We're keen to tell them about the security aspect: that IE8 is the best browser at protecting you from phishing and socially engineered malware attacks, and it's free to install."Rendered obsoleteMicrosoft is also spending time and resources working with large companies "to break their reliance on IE6", Moulster says. "We expect IE6 to go down faster as Windows 7 ramps up. Windows 7 is really the thing that's changing their minds. We're getting a much more positive response now than we were 12 months ago. There are still some tough challenges, but there's only so much you can do."The change can't come soon enough for web developers, who are often abusive about the problems they have catering for IE6's quirks, and its failure to follow standards not thought of when it was developed. The sort of people who tend to be outraged if something doesn't work with their chosen operating system, with less than 5% of the worldwide market, think sites should simply refuse to cater for the 25% or so still using IE6.And Google, which professes not to be evil, has come up with the idea of letting websites specify a different rendering engine – one that benefits Google – inside IE. "At first glance this looks like it might be a useful option," wrote Mozilla chairman Mitchell Baker in a blog post, "but a deeper look reveals significant negative repercussions". You can imagine the outrage if Microsoft tried the same trick.Unsatisfactory as it is, we're probably stuck with IE6 until more companies upgrade from XP to Vista or Windows 7, in which case they'll be using IE7 or IE8. As Moulster says: "They might not be on IE8 but at least they won't be on IE6!"
In January 2003, Steve Jobs announced to a slightly surprised Macworld audience that "this is going to be the year of the notebook for Apple". There was a clear ambition to push up the sales of portables – on which margins tend to be better than on desktops.Jobs was right in spotting an unstoppable trend: the rise of the laptop. This is a category that now includes not just "notebooks", as Apple always refers to them, but also, since 2008, the smaller "netbooks". As Moore's Law – a halving of cost for the same spec – has applied to processors, RAM and even disk storage, laptops have become not just an interesting option for a second computer, but the primary machine for a lot of people.Apple didn't quite manage to make 2003 the year in which sales of laptops exceeded those of desktop; it was July 2005 before that happened, and April 2006 before it began to happen consistently. But now laptop sales always exceed desktop sales for the company; in the past quarter, when it sold a record 3m computers, nearly three out of every four was a laptop.And though Apple is the leader in this trend, laptops are taking over computing, especially with the rise of netbooks.Looking at the trends in computer sales, you may wonder when laptop sales will overtake those of desktops worldwide. The answer is simple: they already have. For 2009, 159m portable machines (a segment that includes both notebooks and netbooks) will be sold, compared with 124m desktop machines, according to the research company IDC. Gartner says that in the first quarter of 2009, desktop sales declined 16% year on year; laptop sales fell by 3%, but netbook sales leapt sixfold, so that they now make up 20% of all laptops sold.Leaving your desk behindFor computer makers, the shift to laptops offers a chance to increase profit margins – although all but Apple still struggle in what has become a commodity market. (Apple is estimated to have around 75% of the share of laptops sold in the US priced over $999.) Netbooks have once again eroded those margins, but the fact that you can't build your own laptop, while it is comparatively easy for anyone to take a chassis and build a desktop machine, leaves more margin in that sector. Those are the bald numbers – but they hide a much more subtle and far-reaching shift in the way we now live our lives, says Richard Holway, the veteran analyst who is chairman of TechMarketView."The obvious and banal answer [to why laptops are selling better and better] is that people don't sit at desks any more," says Holway."In about 2002 or 2003, we started to talk about 'mobile internet devices' which were, at that stage, only available in one form – your laptop. Which, I would remind you, weighed about 3kg, cost £1,500, and was something that was at best luggable even then."But we said then that the world was moving towards a situation where 'knowledge workers' would do things on the move, from a number of different devices, which had to get smaller and be able to link to the net at broadband speeds, anywhere. I called it the 'Holway Martini moment' after the old Martini ad 'Any Time, Any Place, Any Where'. This is 'any time, any where, any device.'"The point, Holway says, is that people don't just want to do computing anywhere in the world – they also want to do it with a multitude of different devices.That change could have dramatic effects on how companies think about their investments in computers, and how they should expect people to work. The spread of mobile internet access has changed approaches to connectivity. Just as mobile phones evolved over the past 20 years from being a luxury, to an expensive alternative to the landline, to a cheap necessity, so internet access on the move is evolving too:from a near-impossibility to a pricey extra to something that is becoming more affordable, driven by the widening access to 3G networks, Wi-Fi connections and even WiMax, a sort of long-distance Wi-Fi.But that doesn't only have implications for the makers of laptops and providers of mobile internet connectivity; it also affects companies that have relied in the past on desktop machines for revenues. That means, for example, Adobe, whose clients tend to be those in graphics-heavy environments, who need powerful desktop machines to do their tasks – and Microsoft. It may be significant that both have announced significant falls in revenue and profit; in July,Adobe even introduced short-time workingfor its staff as a cost-cutting measure, while Microsoft has announced expense reduction measures. True, Microsoft receives money for Windows licences;  but it has been hit hardest by netbook sales, because it got less money per installation than for a full-sized notebook or desktop; and netbook sales have exploded, especially in Europe. Arguably, every netbook sale until the launch of Windows 7, even if it has a Windows XP licence, represents lost money for Microsoft; on a notebook or desktop, it could charge the maker for a pricier Vista licence.In January, Microsoft announced falling results in which revenue from sales of Windows fell by 8% "as a result of PC market weakness and a continue shift to lower-priced netbooks". On the latter, Microsoft is hoping that Windows 7, released last week, will pull it out of a financial hole; but netbooks still represent a serious threat to that model, and the launch, expected next year, ofGoogle's Chromeoperating system – targeted, again, at netbooks – could begin to eat into Windows revenue if it gains any significant traction.A moveable feastThe trend towards laptops has been growing for a long time. In the US, laptops first outsold desktops in the retail market for a full month in May 2005,according to the research firm Current Analysis. NPD Group, which looked at revenue rather than units,saw the crossover happen two years earlier,in May 2003.Laptops had inched towards that crucial measure a few times, but in 2008 the US swung over wholesale towards them;the Los Angeles Times noted in January 2008that the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railway had bought 4,000 Dell machines – of which 60% were laptops, in order that rail inspectors could file reports from trucks, and other staff could work from home. "They were in a totally tethered world, and now they have no tethering [to desks] at all," Jeff Campbell, the BNSF's chief information officer, told the LA Times.Holway thinks that this is our future and we should adjust to it, because device makers, and those providing accommodation, will cater to it. "I've just been on holiday on a ship which had Wi-Fi in every cabin. And no, it wasn't an oligarch's yacht – just a cruise ship. And then I was on the Jordanian desert, where we drove for five hours into the middle of nowhere, to meet some Bedouin and spend the night there. You could see the stars and everything. I started wondering what the strange glow near the ground was. It was all their mobile phones. And in the morning, on the way out we passed a mobile phone mast about the size of the Eiffel Tower – which they all used to keep in touch."Banking on changeMobility isn't just for knowledge workers. Almost everyone needs it, Holway contends: "I had a man come to fix my front door lock, and he was able to send the invoice and my credit card payment through from the doorstep via his phone. Community nurses are getting mobile devices so they can plan their day's work and stay up to date with changes." Where the mobile phone, used for a voice call, used to be the method used for constant connectivity, now it is a mobile internet device, used with data connectivity, that does the same tasks – or multiple ones, such as finding a location, checking details before doing a job, checking details while on the job, sending an invoice, and processing a credit card transaction. The only places where you might still need desktop machines? "Banks," Holway allows. "But at the end of the day, the number of jobs that are purely static is going to fall and fall."For that reason success in the future is likely to lie with companies that can make the best mobile internet devices, as those are the ones that have the best chances for growth. That, too, is not encouraging for Microsoft, which has been pushed into third place in the smartphone market by RIM and Apple, and nowfaces a significant challenge from Google's Android: the Taiwanese handset maker HTC, previously responsible for more than 80% of Windows Mobile sales, is switching to Android. Losing with netbooks, losing on mobiles: Microsoft may have a problem with the mobile workforce.In fact, all sorts of expectations are changing. "Which company sold the most portable computers in the UK last year?" Holway asks, and leaves the answer hanging. "HP? Dell? No – Acer. It's because of netbooks. Everybody's buying them."
While speaking at theGameCity festivaltoday, Katamari Damacy creator Keita Takahashi apparently confirmed that he's designing a playground in Nottingham. No really, it's something he's alluded to before, but now this is actually going to happen. Fromtweetscoming out of Game City, it looks like the plan is for something suitable for both adults and children. And dogs...From the press release:The iconoclastic and much-loved game designer is spending a month in Nottingham where he will consult school children, local communities and the NCC Landscape Architect to discuss and develop ideas for the playground.Councillor Dave Trimble, Portfolio Holder for Leisure, Culture &amp; Customers at  Nottingham City Council said, "We're delighted to have Takahashi-san on board and very much looking forward to working with him on this unique collaboration."After considering several sites NCC has selected Woodthorpe Grange Park for the Takahashi-created playground. The site's natural rolling hills may add to the design and enable some interesting and playful landscapes.Takahasi has often made comparisons between game design and architecture, and certainly there are parallels to be drawn between play areas and games - they're both constructed environments designed to enclose, direct and facilitate enjoyment. But could he be starting a new trend? What would happen if more designers took his lead?I think Id could knock up a cool, if rather dangerous, Quake-themed adventure playground - all multi-levelled enclosures and trampoline jump points. And how about a Super Monkey Ball one, in which kids are bundled into huge hamster balls and allowed to explore at will?Any others?
Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, warned internet users today that the days of "consequence-free" illegal filesharing are over as he unveiled the government's plan for cracking down on online piracy.Mandelson, speaking at the government's digital creative industries conference, C&amp;binet, confirmed that the internet connections of persistent offenders could be blocked – but only as a last resort – from the summer of 2011.He added that a "legislate and enforce" strategy was the only way to protect the intellectual property rights of content producers.The strategy, which will be officially set out in the government's digital economy bill in late November, will involve a staged process of warning notifications with internet suspension as a last resort."It must become clear that the days of consequence-free widespread online infringement are over," Mandelson said. "Technical measures will be a last resort and I have no expectation of mass suspensions resulting."The legislation is expected to come into force in April next year.The effectiveness of the warning letters to persistent illegal filesharers will be monitored for the first 12 months. If illegal filesharing has not dropped by 70% by April 2011, then cutting off people's internet connections could be introduced three months later, from the summer of that year."If we reach the point of suspension for an individual, they will be informed in advance, having previously received two notifications – and will have the opportunity to appeal," Mandelson added. "The British government's view is that taking people's work without due payment is wrong and that, as an economy based on creativity, we cannot sit back and do nothing as this happens."Mandelson said that the strategy was a "proportionate measure that will give people ample awareness and opportunity to stop breaking the rules". "The threat for persistent individuals is, and has to be, real, or no effective deterrent to breaking the law will be in place," he added.There would be a "proper route of appeal" for those that do have their internet accounts suspended, Mandelson said. He added that he did not want to see internet service providers "unfairly burdened" by the new system."ISPs and rights-holders will share the costs, on the basis of a flat fee that will allow both sides to budget and plan," he said.The staged roll-out of the strategy will see Ofcom assess the effectiveness of the warning notification system on cutting illegal filesharing, backed by the threat of legal action by rights holders and content companies, in about April 2011.If the 70% reduction is not achieved the use of technical measures to cut off persistent offenders' web access will be introduced by about July 2011.Should this system be introduced repeat offenders will be warned they are infringing and then, in a second letter, told that technical measures could be implemented.&nbsp;Further infringement will lead to the offenders' names being put on a "serious infringers list", with ISPs then "obliged to exercise technical measures".No timetable was given by the government for the speed with which the process can progress from a warning letter to internet suspension.When infringers are informed that they face having their internet access suspended, they will have 20 working days to appeal to an independent body, to be established by Ofcom. The suspension will not come into force until the appeal has been heard.If the first appeal is unsuccessful the infringer can lodge a second appeal within 20 working days.Cutting off illegal filesharers' internet access was originally ruled out in Lord Carter's Digital Britain report released in June.However,in August Mandelson's department for business innovation and skills launched a consultation documentthat proposed considering taking a tougher stance, including suspending internet connections. &nbsp;• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
In the final part of Peter Molyneux's BAFTA lecture the veteran games developer talks about his latest project -Milo.Has anyone here heard of Milo or seen any videos? So the idea is that we've got this wonderful new controller, we've got online and the power, so what do we as creative people do with that?  And you know, I've always had this dream, this insane and stupid dream, and that dream was to create something that lives.You can see, let's go back to those examples, the first thing I said to you guys, that four by four pixel face, I believed that I was creating something that was alive even though it was 4 by 4 pixels.  I have never succeeded in doing that, we tried again with Black and White, we tried with elements of Fable with the dog and that dream was so compulsive for me because for me, the beauty and magic of technology, the wonder that it can is to create something which can be truly amazing and so when this, I keep wanting to point to this, this is Natal by the way everybody, when this came along that's the time we said "Right, can we dare to create a character which anybody interacting with that character would truly believe was alive?" and we took that challenge and I admit to you now that a lot of it is smoke and mirrors and tricks, but that doesn't matter.What matters is that you truly believe that this thing is alive so what we did was we realised we couldn't do a full adult because adults are complicated emotional things and instead we chose a child either a boy or a girl, an eight year old and we realised the thing that was so exciting about it, if you really felt like there was something that was alive on the screen, something that could see you, something that could meet you, we realised the thing that you would get most joy out of is feeling like you were inspiring that thing.So what we've done is created a boy called Milo, this is his current image if you compare that face there and the hundreds of little muscles behind that face and you are going to see the current, where we are with that face in a minute, you compare that to that four by four pixels, you can see how much as an industry we've moved on.  We've created this boy, or a girl, you can choose a boy or a girl.This boy or girl starts off when you first meet him, he's moved from the city into the countryside, he hasn't got any friends, he is starting school in two days time and he sits there and looks out at you, looks you straight in the eyes and he says "You know what, I need a friend, and you are going to be my imaginary friend."  And everything that you do with Milo inspires him and changes him and you see the glory of him improving.So let's have a little look, this is an E3 demo that we did, so I apologise for my bit but they just give you a flavour of what we are trying to create.(Shows video)Okay, we showed that at E3 and what I am going to ask Geoff here who is one of the producers on the Milo project to do is demonstrate that OCR moment. I would have loved to have, my ambition today was to show you the whole experience but there is lots of corporate policemen that would probably have assassinated me on stage to do that so we've sneaked this in and I really want to show you a couple of things.For a start, one thing I should explain is that the lighting here is not right, being on stage is not absolutely right but you can see, I don't know if we can get this on the big screen, you can see that Milo will recognise me, just for time's sake, drawn some things.  Milo will recognise shapes, but what is happening here?(Milo demo)Firstly the process of scanning is really lovely, you just reach your arm up, you can also scan in three dimensional objects, for example if you are eating an apple you can give that apple to Milo and he will carry on eating the apple.  Or the other thing that is amazing about this technology and this is the online portion of inspiration, we are collecting continuing to collect and improve his object recognition skills.This technology is something that is being worked on by Microsoft Research being able to object recognise any object and we are continuing to collect that, with all the Milos that will be released we will be centralising their recognition of everything in the world and the idea that you can feel like that connection with the world that's out there is really amazing and what I would like to happen is a bit after the talk if anybody wants to come up and try this out they are more than welcome to.Let me just finish by saying, because I realise I am really over time, let me just finish by saying this, the most successful games in this industry probably sell about 10 million units.  If we start to challenge the foundations stones and some of those foundation stones I talked about today, I really, truly believe in Clive Sinclair's original vision.  How we entertain people, what we do, can really change the world in a significant way and anybody in this room that's in this industry, just go back on the projects you're working on, the things that you touch, just ask yourself "Why are we doing this, why are we doing this this way?  Who are we really trying to appeal to?"  Because I believe that computer entertainment is a truly wonderful thing and people want to feel that sense of wonder that's out there.I hope that you've had a little glimpse of some of the things which I feel are happening this year and some of the wonderful, brave, new worlds that we will be going into in the next couple of years.Thank you very much indeed.ENDWhat do you think then? Sold by Milo and Natal?
