The Information Commissioner's Office has warned employers in the UK that it would have "very serious concerns" if they were to ask for Facebook login and password details from existing or would-be employees, following reports of such demands in the US.A spokesman for the ICO said: "The UK Data Protection Act clearly says that organisations shouldn't hold excessive information about individuals, and it's questionable why they would need that information in the first place."In the US, two American senators are asking the US attorney general, Eric Holder, to investigate whether the practice of employers asking for Facebook passwords during job interviews is violating federal law.Troubled by reports of the practice, Democratic senators Chuck Schumer of New York and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said they are calling on the Department of Justice and the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to launch investigations. The senators are sending letters to the heads of the agencies.Associated Press reported last week that some private and public agencies around the country are asking job seekers for their social media details. The practice has alarmed privacy advocates, but its legality remains murky in the US.In the UK, however, it would potentially put employers in breach of the Data Protection Act because it would constitute "excessive" information about an individual, the ICO indicated. "We would have very serious concerns if this practice was to become the norm in the UK," said a spokesperson.On Friday, Facebook warned employers not to ask job applicants for their passwords to the site so they can poke around on their profiles, noting that it would break its terms of service. The company threatened legal action against applications that violate its long-standing policy against sharing passwords.A Facebook executive cautioned that if an employer discovers that a job applicant is a member of a protected group, the employer may be vulnerable to claims of discrimination if it doesn't hire that person. Facebook profiles often include personal information such as gender, race, religion and age – all details that are protected from being used to determine employment suitability by federal employment law. The same strictures apply in the UK.Facebook said in a statement: "We don't think employers should be asking prospective employees to provide their passwords because we don't think it's the right thing to do. While we do not have any immediate plans to take legal action against any specific employers, we look forward to engaging with policy makers and other stakeholders, to help better safeguard the privacy of our users."Not sharing passwords is a basic tenet of online conduct. Aside from the privacy concerns, Facebook considers the practice a security risk.Senator Schumer said in a statement: "In an age where more and more of our personal information and our private social interactions are online, it is vital that all individuals be allowed to determine for themselves what personal information they want to make public and protect personal information from their would-be employers. This is especially important during the job-seeking process, when all the power is on one side of the fence."Specifically, the senators want to know if this practice violates the Stored Communications Act or the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Those two acts, respectively, prohibit intentional access to electronic information without authorisation and intentional access to a computer without authorisation to obtain information.The senators also want to know whether two court cases relating to supervisors asking current employees for social media credentials could be applied to job applicants."I think it's going to take some years for courts to decide whether Americans in the digital age have the same privacy rights as previous generations," said American Civil Liberties Union attorney Catherine Crump in a previous interview with the AP.The senators also said they are drafting a bill to fill in any gaps that current laws don't cover. Maryland and Illinois are considering bills that would bar public agencies for asking for this information.In California, Democratic state senator Leland Yee introduced a bill that would prohibit employers from asking current employees or job applicants for their social media usernames or passwords. That state measure also would bar employers from requiring access to employees' and applicants' social media content, to prevent employers from requiring logins or printouts of that content for their review.
Top 10 games chart, week ending 24 March 2012PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)22 (–)Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)13 (2)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (69)PS3 (24)PC (6)34 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (36)Wii (7)3DS (5)265 (3)Ssx(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)46 (10)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (39)PC (5)Wii (2)207 (–)Kid Icarus: Uprising(12+)3DS (100)18 (20)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (38)PC (9)229 (19)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (27)3DS (13)VITA (10)1110 (6)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (65)3DS (36)1711 (9)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (45)PC (6)1812 (–)Final Fantasy Xiii-2(16+)PS3 (65)Xbox 360 (32)613 (5)Mario Party 9 (3+)Wii (100)414 (14)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (38)PC (18)2015 (7)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (37)1916 (–)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (38)PC (3)1817 (–)Shogun 2: Total War Fall Of The Samurai(16+)PC (100)118 (17)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)1119 (–)Ninja Gaiden 3(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (42)120 (8)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (84)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (5)52UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 21 new apps for you today:MOG for iPadStreaming music service MOG is one of Spotify's rivals in the US, but isn't available in the UK yet. Strangely, its new iPad app is. Anyway, a slick interface provides access to albums and artist-generated radio, with the ability to download tracks to the tablet for offline play.iPadAlltop for iPadFounded in 2008 by Silicon Valley entrepreneur Guy Kawasaki, Alltop styles itself as an "online magazine rack" aggregating content from blogs and websites. Now it's launched an iPad app, promising a personalised selection of stories from more than 35,000 RSS feeds.iPadLos Angeles Times AR PlayerIt looks like publisher Tribune is preparing for an augmented reality experiment with its Los Angeles Times newspaper. An app has gone live for iOS that will "bring to life an upcoming AR enabled edition of the newspaper". There's no indication which AR platform the newspaper is using.iPhone / iPadFish: A Tap EssayThis is a very intriguing idea: "A Tap Essay, unfurling its argument tap by tap, using bold typography, bright colour, and a few surprises..." The essay focuses on the difference between liking something on the internet and loving it, and is the work of writer Robin Sloan.iPhone100 Jazz Legends by BBC Music MagazineBBC Music Magazine has rounded up its choice of the 100 greatest jazz musicians for this iPad book-app, with biographical entries for each as well as an iTunes widget to serve up samples from their back catalogues.iPadLondon ZooLondon Zoo now has an official Android app, which can be used to buy tickets, plan a day's visit and check out what talks and events are taking place. Within the zoo, it acts as a map to show which animals and facilities are nearby. It joins the existing iPhone version.AndroidPocket BrainCan't find a human brain to dissect in the real world? Try this virtual version instead. Created by Pocket Academy, it's an iOS app for medical, nursing and health care professionals to visualise the brain and communicate with patients and colleagues.iPhone / iPadSoulCraftMobileBits' ambitious action RPG SoulCraft came out before in a version for devices with an Nvidia Tegra processor, but now it's opening up to more devices. Still in beta, it sees you adventuring through cities including Venice, Rome and New York battling demons and humans alike.AndroidChannelCaster Personalised News MashupMashup? It's 2008 again! No, ChannelCaster is one of the wave of news aggregation apps in 2012, and has already been popular on Android. Launched by OneLouder, it curates articles in channels including news, sports and entertainment, while also pulling in tweets, YouTube videos and Flickr photos.iPhone / iPadBloomsbury Lexicon Reference DictionariesNot one app, but a set of 28 based on Bloomsbury Publishing's set of print reference dictionaries for areas including law, politics, accountancy and banking. They've been turned into apps by Tagstar Publishing, charging £4.99 per app.iPhoneCooper's Pack New York CityThis is a marvellous idea: "Children's Travel Guides based on stuffed animals traveling around the world, city by city". This one focuses on New York, and is aimed at 5-12 year-olds, along with their parents.iPhone / iPadGrabRadioGrabRadio is the latest internet radio-streaming app looking to take TuneIn's crown. Available on Windows Phone, it offers more than 35,000 stations, as well as podcasts. It integrates with Microsoft's own music store to buy songs that you've heard, too.Windows PhonePinspire"Discover, collect, and share images you love on Pinspire..." Hang on, that sounds familiar. Yes, Pinspire is an unashamed clone of Pinterest, launched by German entrepreneurs the Samwer Brothers. Now it has an official iPhone app too.iPhoneThe London Book FairThis year's London Book Fair event has an official app for iPhone and Android, offering a schedule, exhibitor and speaker listings, floorplan maps and social features. The link above is for Android buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneMy DisabledGo LondonIn good time for London 2012 comes this guide to the capital, rating 20,000 venues and attractions on accessibility grounds for disabled tourists (or, indeed, disabled Londoners).iPhoneApp Talk BetaIn more accessible-apps news, App Talk helps partially sighted and sight-restricted users to find other apps that are optimised for their needs, using audio description via Android's Text2speech library.Android0870 – Daily Star EditionThe 0870 app helps you find cheaper numbers to call companies' customer service departments from your mobile phone. It's usually a paid app, but now has a sponsorship deal with the Daily Star Sunday to make it free on Android – theiPhone versionhas also been dropped to free.AndroidMyBizTrackerIntuit's new iPhone app is aimed at small businesses in the UK, helping them to track their finances. It helps keep a running total of income, expenses and balance, while storing photo records of invoices, bills and receipts.iPhonePolitico for TabletUS political site Politico has a new app for Android tablets, promising "the fastest, most in-depth coverage of the president, Congress and the 2012 presidential race".AndroidLovehoney Sex ToysApple approving a sex-toys app? Yep. This lets you buy all manner of rumpo-gadgets from the UK online retailer, paying using your PayPal account.iPhoneLewis Carroll's JabberwockyThis looks fun: a "typographical adventure" based on Lewis Carroll's famous Jaberwocky poem, developed by Scott Laserow.iPad
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWelcome to the Post-PC era &gt;&gt; Jeff AtwoodI'm incredibly conflicted, because as much as I love the do-anything computer ... I'm not sure that many people in the world truly need a general purpose computer that can do anything and install any kind of software. Simply meeting the core needs of browsing the web and email and maybe a few other basic things covers a lot of people. I believe the kitchen-sink-itis baked into the general purpose computing foundations of PCs, Macs, and Unix make them fundamentally incompatible with our brave new Post PC world. Updates. Toolbars. Service Packs. Settings. Anti-virus. Filesystems. Control panels. All the stuff you hate when your Mom calls you for tech support? It's deeply embedded into of the culture and design of every single general purpose computer. Doing potentially "anything" comes at a steep cost in complexity. Very, very small PCs - the kind you could fit in your pocket - are starting to have the same amount of computing grunt as a high end desktop PC of, say, 5 years ago. And that was plenty, even back then, for a relatively inefficient general purpose operating system.Now can we start talking about the real Foxconn? &gt;&gt; BloombergTim Gulpan, who been reporting on Foxconn and China for more than a decade:In our reporting, as "Inside Foxconn" detailed, we found a group of workers who have complaints, but complaints not starkly different from those of workers in any other company. The biggest gripe, which surprised us somewhat, is that they don't get enough overtime. They wanted to work more, to get more money. Less than a year later, I went back again with another colleague. We went inside the same Longhua campus in Shenzhen, which required Foxconn's approval, and chatted with workers. We stood outside the gates (possibly the same gates where Daisey claimed he found underage workers), with Foxconn unaware we were there. We wandered farther into the local neighborhood shopping strip, among the bubble-tea stands and food vendors, where the young workers went on dates and caught up with friends. These weren't Daisey-esque scenes of woe and horror. Rather than forced labor and sweatshop conditions, workers told of homesickness and the desire to earn more money-two impulses that seemed to drive each other for workers planning to go home once they'd earned enough.Don't Steal Ideas, It Is Discouraging &gt;&gt; Mike GranadosPlagiarizing someone's idea because you don't like their person is spiteful and spite has been the justifying tone behind a lot of Dustin [Curtis]'s critics. Yes Dustin came off as an arrogant ass and I think he will learn from this experience. But does that really justify ripping of the dude's idea and hard work and then sharing it with the world? Absolutely not. If the community accepts copying and re-distributing ideas because someone doesn't like the person who originally built it, that would be chaos. Anyone could use that as an excuse to reproduce anyone else's work.The context: Curtis created his own blogging platform, which he showed in a blogpost; someone else created their own copy, arguing that Curtis should have open-sourced it. But you can use this same argument for other intellectual property. Note Granados's extra comment at the end of his post.Report: Nokia paying AT&amp;T for exclusive employee use of the Lumia 900 &gt;&gt; wpcentralFirst, we know that the phones started arriving at AT&amp;T stores over the last two days and that employee training on the Windows Phone OS (and this specific hardware) will take place on March 26th, April 6th and 7th at those outlets. Next is the big news: AT&amp;T has designated the Nokia Lumia 900 for 'Company Use' meaning all Front Seller employees are eligible to receive the phone at no cost. The trade off is though is that employees have to turn in their current 'Company Use' phones, namely the iPhone and certain Android devices.Reportedly paying $25m for that. Coming out of Nokia's, or Microsoft's budget? We'd hope Stephen Elop would have got Microsoft to cough up on this. Key question: how many of the staff will take it up?OH HAI SEXISM: discussion &gt;&gt; Hacker NewsFollowing aStorify about sexism based on a Twitter row, Hacker News (you know, where all the bro-grammers gather) discusses whether there is or is not sexism in programming, and if so whether it's good/bad/indifferent.BlackBerry loses top spot to Apple at home: corporate Canada &gt;&gt; BloombergCanada's love affair with the BlackBerry is waning. Research In Motion has been ousted from the top spot for smartphone shipments in its home market for the first time, trailing Apple Inc.'s iPhone. RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, shipped 2.08m BlackBerrys last year in Canada, compared with 2.85m units for Apple, data compiled by IDC and Bloomberg show. In 2010, the BlackBerry topped the iPhone by half a million, and in 2008, the year after the iPhone's debut, RIM outsold Apple by almost five to one.Canada generates about 7% of RIM's revenues, but fell about 23% from a year earlier. RIM's next quarterly results will be announced on 29 March. (Data about other platforms isn't given in the story.)Wikipedia struggles to close the gender gap &gt;&gt; DailyDotAnyone with Web access can edit Wikipedia. However, only a small percentage of women take advantage of that privilege. A look at the encyclopedia'sdemographicsshows that 91% of its active editors are men, meaning just nine percent are women. In commemoration of Women's History Month, a group of Wikipedia editors - both male and female - had a frank,round-table discussionabout how to make steps toward closing that gender gap. The chat was organised and written up bySarah Stierch, a Wikimedia Community Fellow who aims to bring more women and women's content to Wikipedia.Esther Dyson on the Angel Crowd: It's "Very Self-Referential" &gt;&gt; peHUBDyson, who has been investing in startups for ages, talks about both whether there are women angel investors (there are, you just don't hear about them) and whether the buyouts you hear about are overpriced.How the police can get a data dump of your passcode-locked iPhone &gt;&gt; YouTubeFrom the description: "Video giving details of how to detect the passcode and perform a dump and decryption of the iPhone together with new support levels for Android devices." You hope that only the police have this.More Android 4.0 smartphones to launch in 2Q12 &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe supply of smartphones running on Android 4.0 will increase substantially starting the second quarter of 2012, with mid-range to high-end models coming from brand vendors including HTC, Samsung Electronics, and Sony Mobile Communications, while China-based handset makers may launch models based on Qualcomm's 7227a solution and MediaTek's MT6565 platform for the entry-level segment, according to industry sources. Smartphones running on Android 4.0 account for only 2-3% of all Android phones in use currently, the sources indicated.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Early on the morning of 16 March, Wong Tat joined a line of about 100 people waiting for the launch of the new iPad in a chilly rain outside an Apple store on the outskirts of San Francisco. When the doors opened, he was among the first to buy his quota of two iPads – the maximum Apple allows per person. Then, sporting a bright red cap for easy identification, Wong began to direct a stream of people toting their new tablets to a silver Mercedes 4x4 in the parking lot.After about two dozen of the neatly boxed iPads had been put in the trunk, the 4x4 sped to a nearby run-down hair salon and massage parlour. There, the haul of tablets, costing about $12,000, was transferred to red, white and blue wholesale bags, which Wong then spirited out the back door into another car. "They're headed for China," said Amy, a thirtysomething hair stylist at the salon who had joined in the pre-dawn operation outside the Apple store. She would not divulge her last name.The iPads had embarked on the first leg of a journey that would ironically return them to the country where they were assembled in the first place. They may have been stuffed into suitcases and taken by passengers on a flight to China, or possibly flown by courier to the duty-free territory of Hong Kong and smuggled in students' backpacks across the border onto the mainland.Demand for Apple products, coupled with severe constraints on local supply, has created a thriving black market. A 16Gb iPad bought in San Francisco for $499 – about $540 including tax – can be sold for more than $1,000 in Shanghai the next day. Apple says it sold more than 3m of the devices – which now come 4G-ready with a sharper "retina" display – in its first weekend."You can pretty much determine when the first iPad arrives in China by monitoring the first flight out from the US on launch day," said an Apple employee who was not authorised to speak on behalf of the company.The same process happens in other cities: on the same day that Wong was at work in San Francisco,the London Evening Standardreported that "black market gangs" had hijacked the launch, with buyers leaving the Apple Store in Westfield with the standard two iPads and then handing them, still in their shrinkwrapped boxes, over to eastern European men. It quoted Martin, 33, one of the people who queued to go into the Apple Store in Covent Garden again and again, and who explained: "I hope to get around 70 iPads today. I will be sending them on to India. The guys who are queuing get paid £10 or £20 for a day's work. I know them from my community centre, word gets round that this job has to be done."Companies that make iPad accessories, such as cases and speakers, also hire people to wait in line on launch day, a source involved in that business said. Because accessory makers do not get an early peek at Apple products, they have to scramble as soon as new iPads and iPhones hit the streets to reconfigure assembly lines and craft accessories that fit any tweaks in the design, he said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.Nursing the husk of a new machinePeople like Wong, dubbedhuangniu, or "yellow-bull black-market operator" in Chinese, have operated richly lucrative businesses. They pay people like Amy – codenamed "nurses" because the word "hush" sounds like "helpers" in Chinese – $20 to $30 to queue to buy an iPad or iPhone for resale on the black market. Factor in as little as $12 to ship each device via a Chinese shipping agent, and small wonder Wong and his ilk found it worth their while.But it is getting tougher and costlier to smuggle the devices into China as the Chinese customs authority has told some US-based shipping agents not to accept orders of iPads, and warned travellers to declare their gadgets at the border and pay a 10% import duty on electronics.Two small shipping companies that ship to China, BLZ Express and Global Courier Services, said they now refuse iPad shipments. BLZ, based in Fremont, California, posted a notice on its website this month saying: "Our clearing warehouses have stopped receiving iPad in accordance with a recent customs authority notification." UPS and FedEx, the largest US package delivery companies, did not return requests for comment.In Shenzhen, across the border from Hong Kong, an online report from the state-owned Guangzhou Daily – a mouthpiece of the local government – said the newest iPad was among 20 taxable goods that should be declared by travellers."I stopped carrying iPad a few months ago because now the customs at Shenzhen can be pretty strict," said a Chinese student in Hong Kong, who declined to reveal his payoff for smuggling.Meanwhile, Apple now simultaneously launches devices in multiple countries, boosting availability and depressing black market prices, although the new iPad with its higher-quality display was available in fewer countries initially than its predecessor. A key launch venue is Hong Kong, however, which wasamong the 10 countries for the initial launch– unlike last year, when the territory, a key channel to China, wasnot included in the launch day."It's getting really hard to do this compared to previous years," said Amy, who wore a dyed red streak in her hair, as she trimmed a young man's "faux-hawk" hair style in the San Francisco area salon. An electronics dealer in Oakland, California, said he struggled to break even this year, a far cry from previous iPad releases when he shipped upwards of 1,000 tablets and pocketed profits of $50 to $100 per device sent to his buyer in Hong Kong.This year, he had no choice but to send 250 iPads via FedEx – which quotes $110 to ship a tablet weighing about 1kg to China – hours after they hit US stores. The same-day launch of the tablet in 10 territories, notably including Hong Kong, curtailed demand. "This whole game is over," the dealer complained. "There's an overabundance of supply. The market's flooded." He said he visited only a couple of stores in the San Francisco bay area for tablets, with the Chinese black-market selling-price falling every day that passes.Proudly wornDespite that expansion in inventory, demand in China still outstrips supply. Online retail site Taobao.com carried iPad listings last week for as much as $1,100, though $600 to $700 price tags were more common. While iPads and iPhones have become badges of western chic and status to upwardly mobile Chinese, they are usually the last to be able to buy them directly from Apple stores.Industry sources say smugglers operate out of multiple countries, but mainly in the US because that is where stores carry the most products.Last Friday in Hong Kong, stores ran out of the newest iPad within hours. They are now sold via a daily lottery there, while they are still readily available in many US stores.The Chinese "nurses" are easy to spot: they stroll in, hand over a note describing the model they want and leave as soon as they get it, whereas an ordinary buyer will often take their gadget out for a test drive before leaving the store and ask sales staff numerous questions. "Apple has gotten so big that they can flood the market. Before they released it, they probably had been making them for six months and had them sitting in a warehouse. Now they are selling it in Asia and Australia, and it's out 16 hours before us," said the Oakland dealer.
Hey, it's Monday! What happened to the weekend? Ah well, how did it go for you? Any gaming?
Two weeks ago, at theSXSWitechnology festival in Austin, Texas, a huge crowd gathered in the Austin Convention Centre to hear a conversation between Sean Parker, Facebook's founding president, and former US vice-president Al Gore. For nearly an hour, the two men talked about internet activism and how it could be used to reboot the political process in America. As they spoke, to the right of the stage a young woman was sketching rapidly on a large white board. At the end of the talk, when the entire board had been filled with pictures and diagrams, people crowded around it and took photos.That woman was Nora Herting, one of the founding members ofImageThink, a company that specialises in turning discussions such as this – as well as speeches and private meetings – into visual stories. The initiative is based on the idea that people are more likely to understand and retain complex information if it is presented visually rather than in a purely verbal form.By the time Parker and Gore had left the stage, images of the whiteboard were already circulating online. Later on, audience members who wanted to recall the highlights of the session – just one among hundreds at the festival – could use the visualisation to refresh their memory, while anyone who had missed it could take in the flow of the conversation in a single glance.Compressing knotty discussions into easy-to-digest visual stories is hard work. Before they started Image Think in 2009, Herting and her co-founder, Heather Willems, spent four years at a consulting company in New York where part of the job involved what they call "graphic facilitation". They would turn up at private business meetings and engage the participants by sketching the discussion as it unfolded. Backgrounds in fine art helped, but getting their drawing up to speed took practice."We had to very quickly develop a visual language," says Willems. "Now, if somebody talks about innovation and change, there are immediate icons that pop into my head. We're constantly trying to develop our skills: listening and synthesising as well as the more graphic components of the work."Now, the little start-up is working with some of the biggest organisations in the US, including Google, Disney, Microsoft and Nasa. The advertising and PR giant Ogilvy commissioned ImageThink – Herting, Willems and a small team of freelance illustrators – to sketch the talks at SXSW.Several things have contributed to their success. One, according to Herting, is the rise of information visualisation across the media and in business, born out of a fatigue of PowerPoint and the need to communicate clearly and succinctly in a time-starved digital world. Another is a current vogue for hand-drawn visuals, particularly in advertising. "There's a great strength in having a human connection – a hand-drawn image – when everything is so digital," says Willems. "It's a nice contrast."Without digital cameras and internet connections, of course, ImageThink wouldn't have nearly the same exposure. But at SXSWi, the largest technology festival in the US, where everyone is looking for the next high-tech solution, it's good to know that a lone person drawing on a white surface with a set of coloured marker pens can still hold a crowd in thrall.
Come the inevitable zombie apocalypse, the ability to run a few miles to evade the shuffling hordes would be handy, which is whereZombies, Run!(App store, Six to Start &amp; Naomi Alderman, £5.49) comes in. Teaming up with novelist Alderman, and using crowd-sourced funding, the developers have created a running aid/audio adventure combined, offering something far more engaging than the athletes' monotoned encouragement on Nike+.Over 13 missions (with 17 more to come free in this first season), you take the part of Runner 5 and have this tale of the undead piped into your ears. As you run, the iPhone's GPS tracks your pace – the moans growing louder as brain-eaters approach, forcing an increase in tempo to escape them. You also collect items as you run, which are used to bolster the survivors' base, adding an extra layer of interest beyond the number of calories burnt. The missions last about 25 minutes, consisting of five sections interspersed with your own tunes: perfect for all levels of jogger.It may seem odd that running is required to escape "the walking dead", but an engaging story provides a better reason than most to hit the road – until of course the zombies actually rise and provide some truly deadly motivation.
TheBBC Microis 30 this year. It got its name from a BBC project to enhance the nation's computer literacy. The broadcasters wanted a machine around which they could base a major factual series,The Computer Programme, showing how computers could be used, not just for programming but also for graphics, sound and vision, artificial intelligence and controlling peripheral devices. So a technical specification was drawn up by the BBC's engineers and put to a number of smallish companies then operating in the embryonic market for "micro" computers.Two of these companies were based in Cambridge. One was Sinclair Research, the eponymous vehicle of Clive Sinclair, a self-made man who worshipped his creator. The other was Acorn, a company co-founded by an ex-Sinclair employee, Chris Curry, and Hermann Hauser, an aristocratic-looking Austrian physicist. The story of the rivalry between these picturesque outfits has been memorably told inMicro Men, a TV film that combined a riveting technological tale with brilliantly comical dialogue (and which isstill available on YouTube).Acorn got the BBC contract, for reasons that baffled Sinclair but nobody else. Their computer combined good industrial design with significant technological innovation. It had, for example, a proper keyboard, an open architecture (which meant that it could be used to drive other electronic devices), a relatively powerful 6502 processor (the same as the Apple II) and an elegant operating system. It came in two versions, imaginatively labelled A and B, depending on the amount of RAM on board. Model B had 32 kilobytes and cost £399 – which is equivalent to about £1,200 today. Given that steep price, Acorn expected to sell about 12,000 of the machines, but in the end wound up selling 1.5 million of the things.When you switched it on, this is what you saw:BASIC&gt;In other words, it waited for instructions, written in the BASIC programming language. The BBC Micro wouldn'tdoanything by itself. But it turned out that this was the key thing about the machine. It stimulated thousands of people – particularly teenagers – to write programs to do anything from managing household budgets to controlling laboratory equipment to simulating aircraft and, most importantly, to creating computer games. And, as a result, the BBC Micro bred a generation of British computer wizards who went on to set up companies – for example in computer gaming and chip design – that have changed the world.The strange thing is that much of this was lost on successive generations of UK policy makers and politicians. For a long time they looked at the BBC Micro and shook their heads sorrowfully. Granted, the thing was ingenious; but it wasn't what consumers needed. What they wanted were informationappliances– pre-programmed devices with no user-modifiable components. And since the Americans were better at producing such appliances than the Brits – and had a huge internal market to play with – the BBC Micro was a bit of a dead end, industrially speaking.In the 1980s and early 1990s, there might have been something to be said for this defeatist view. The creation and marketing of physical products that have to be sold in boxes by retailers is indeed an American speciality. But once the web took off in 1993, the logic underpinning scepticism about the value of computer literacy started to evaporate. The open architecture of the internet dramatically lowered the barriers to market entry by enabling anyone with a good idea and programming expertise to create world-beating information goods and services. Computer software is pure "thought stuff": it requires few resources and little investment. If you had a good idea that could be realised by shipping data-packets across the net, then the network would do it for you with no questions asked.This penny has taken a long time to drop in this country, but mercifully things are beginning to change. Policy-makers are waking up to the realisation that an understanding of computing is not a luxury but a critical national resource. In a world increasingly run by networked computing, societies that don't have those skills are doomed to becoming passive consumers of devices and services that are created by industrial elites located elsewhere. That's why the story of the BBC Micro is relevant to all our futures: we have to re-engineer the revolution that it triggered.As if to underscore that point, the party taking place in Cambridge on 25 March tocelebrate the birthday of the BBC machineis being held in the corporate HQ ofARM, the British company that now dominates the world market for mobile processors – the chips that power mobile phones and other portable computing devices. Why is that significant? Because ARM is one of the many Cambridge companies that emerged from what Hauser and Curry and their colleagues created in 1982. Truly, from some Acorns do mighty oaks grow.
Abandoning the save-the-day zombie killing ofResident Evilspast,Operation Raccoon Citycasts you as the bad guy. Set alongside the series' second game, the nefarious Umbrella corporation has sent in its corporate army to ensure no evidence of their genetic experiments survives.Each character in this squad-based shooter has a set role and abilities, be they demolitions, surveillance or healing, that can be enhanced through gaining experience between missions. While a solo mode is offered, the game is best enjoyed online with humans in place of the disappointing AI filling your ranks. Multiplayer modes deliver some variety, though mostly adapt familiar tropes such as base defence and team deathmatch. However, while the idea at the heart ofOperation Raccoon Cityis a good one, the execution is lacking. Sloppy melee combat, awkward cameras, and sluggish controls diminish what could have been a great co-op game.
Kid Icaruswas last seen as a Mario-style platformer on the Gameboy 20 years ago, and while its original audience might since have become parents and homeowners, the game itself has grown into a frantic 3D shooter with unique stylus controls.Although "grown" maybe isn't the word. The tone is self-consciously adolescent, set by the gawpingly irreverent back-and-forth between winged hero Pit and his goddess patron-cum-flight control handler, Palutena. And you'd be hard-pressed to call the controls an advance, the 3DS again wrestling with a lack of a second directional pad (unless you shell out for the Circle Pad Pro) and using the touchscreen for aiming. This works fine while Pit's in the air, but every level finishes on the ground, where swiping the screen to turn is teeth-grindingly inaccurate. Add to this the fact that these controls put such a strain on players' left hands that the game comes packaged with a plastic stand and much of the bright, explosive promise ofKid Icarusis squandered.
For many years theNinja Gaidenseries has brought contemporary action gaming a flavour of the past, often simply in the form of its intense difficulty. A decade ago, when video game designers became wise to the fact that less demanding experiences might sell more copies,Ninja Gaidenstill stuck to its arcade roots, pushing players with outstandingly testing blade-based melees.Ninja Gaiden 3, the latest in a long and convoluted series, with far more than a trio of titles to its name, also evokes a sense of the past, not through its difficulty, which has been pared back, but in a way that may disappoint modern gamers familiar with the choices available in today's blockbusters. Steeped in cliche,Ninja Gaiden 3offers a particularly linear experience, where the route from A to B leaves little room for player experimentation. Narratively it is a muddled web of terrorist groups, shadowy organisations and ninja lore, and throughout it delivers painfully familiar action game stereotypes without a hint of irony or hammy B-movie charm.What's more, whereas previousNinja Gaidentitles have offered a showcase of what is possible graphically on games machines of the time, visually this latest in the series, though technically capable, is artistically unambitious. Elsewhere the voice acting tumbles forth with little grace, the game world feels slightly empty of interactive detail, and on occasion the action is something of a slog of repeated battles.And yet for a release so easy to lambast,Ninja Gaiden 3has many strengths. With the series' trademark difficulty reduced, it is an accessible entry point to the challenging world of "hack'n'slash" action games. With an investment of effort it can be entertaining, and at times engrossing. After the opening chapter, much of the combat becomes especially satisfying, thanks in part to a control system that allows for some highly skilled showmanship on the player's behalf, balancing simplicity with a scope for personal flair. At its best,Ninja Gaiden 3is unusual, intense and rewarding, but its dated structure and failure to continue to flout gaming conventions limit its appeal.
Price £40,950MPG 47.1Top speed 149mphWhoever is in charge of passing on news of the financial Armageddon that's about to engulf us has clearly forgotten to tell Audi. This month the German manufacturer announced its results for 2011. In Britain, 113,703 cars were sold, while worldwide 1,302,659 factory-fresh Audis went to their new homes. With profits nudging €5.3bn, it was the most successful year in the company's 100-year history. At the glitzy press conference streamed live from the HQ in Ingolstadt, the firm's chairman, Rupert Stadler – the 49-year-old son of a Bavarian farmer – sowed the seeds of yet more success: "We want to grow faster than the market as a&nbsp;wholeagainin 2012."  It's Rupert's own miracle-grow!So how on earth does Audi do it when so many others can't? Yes, its cars stand on the top step when it comes to automotive engineering. Some are beautiful, too, and some are very fast. Some are boring and not so fast. All are superbly well made. They're safe, too, and reliable, and powerful. Actually, Audi could be just another word for "supremely competent". But, and it's a big BUT, they're not cheap. In fact, they're wearyingly expensive. And who is it exactly that has 30, 40, 50 grand and more to slap down on a car? Do people just walk into showrooms, splurge, and then surge back out into the evening traffic in an attic-conversion's worth of German car? No they don't, because this is how it works… It's a&nbsp;trap.The list price of the A6 is £30,145. That's a lot, but for that you get a&nbsp;lot of family car. It's roomy, super-lightweight, smooth and a joy to drive. In fact, 30 grand seems like a&nbsp;fair price. But then, while you are in the showroom, or on the website, you catch sight of the extras… (Stop! You are now at the door of the temple and about to lose all sense) …and you've already spent £30,145. Residuals on an Audi are excellent, you think, so why not upgrade that engine? The all-aluminium 3-litre TDi looks juicy – and that's you up to £41,460. Big swallow, but come on, this is a treat, you've earned this. You're worth it.Then, oh, what about that three-spoke leather-trimmed multifunction steering wheel? That's only another £155 for heaven's sake. Interior lighting? You've always wanted ambient lighting so you can make  the inside look like a cocktail cabinet… that's £595. And while you're here the self-closing tailgate – well, that's virtually essential, and can be fitted for £1,180. Then you're tempted by the privacy glass, the four-zone air conditioning, the loading-bay fixing kit and finally,  well you love your music, but £6,300 for the Bang &amp; Olufsen sound system? Oh go on then. And suddenly, your perfectly decent A6 costs a whopping £80,165. You've doubled the price of your carandboosted Audi's profits.And yet all these extras are little more than a garnish of vanity on an already covetable status symbol. The one that really isn't is Night Vision Assistant with Pedestrian Detection (£2,100) – an infrared radar that detects pedestrians stepping out in front of you and, if you fail to brake, takes over and slams on the brakes. It is, literally, a life saver. In a more moral universe it wouldn't be an extra – it would be the first thing that a carmaker fitted.Light fantastic: an essential for the safety-conscious motorist – or cyclist. Photograph: ObserverStay safe when you break downThe hard shoulder is one of the most dangerous places for the broken-down motorist. To help alert other road users the RAC have developed a Personal Hazard Light. Looking like small 4-inch wide circular spacecraft, the warning light has 16 superbright LEDs which give 360-degree coverage for up to 300m by day and 1,000 metres by night. The light comes in three different colours, is waterproof and crushproof. You can leave it on the road at a distance from your car or, as it is magnetic, fix it to the boot or bonnet. You can even put it on the roof so you are visible from the air! The light can be rechargeable, mains/car charger included (£29.99) or replaceable battery (£25). But you can obtain a 20% discount on the light by typing in "OBSERVERPERHAZARD" at the checkout onpersonalhazardlight.co.ukWhy fuel-efficient driving will save you moneyWe now know that fuel is going to become even more expensive from August. But don't despair, there are some basic things you can do to get more miles to the tank.Here, the breakdown specialistsGEM Motoring Assist, have come up with 10 rules for more fuel-efficient motoring:1. Get it checked: modern car engines are complicated pieces of machinery which rely on a vast array of electronic components that can easily fail. To ensure maximum efficiency from your engine, have your car serviced regularly by a recognised garage. A poorly tuned engine can use up to 50% more fuel and produce up to 50% more emissions than a car that is well looked after.2. Tread carefully: ensure that your tyres are always inflated to the correct pressure. If you're running around with just one tyre deflated by 20%, then you can expect your fuel consumption to rise by 5%. You'll also face the additional costs of replacing the tyres prematurely as well as compromising safety.3. Lose weight: never carry unnecessary weight in the car as it will reduce efficiency. You can expect fuel consumption to rise by 1% for every 1% of the car's weight you add, so golf clubs, push chairs, tool boxes should be removed when they are not needed. Also remove roof racks, cycle racks and storage boxes as they affect the aerodynamics of the car.4. Eliminate short journeys: make a point of not using your car for journeys of less than a mile, if it's practical. You won't be able to walk back from the local garden centre with sacks of compost, but if it's just a quick nip to the shops, then consider walking or cycling. Cold engines are thirsty engines, so that mile-long journey will be relatively expensive, however light-footed you might be.5. Plan ahead: take a little time to plan your journeys to avoid congestion, to ensure you take the best route and that you know exactly where you are going. An estimated 350,000 tonnes of fuel is wasted every year by people being lost in their cars.6. Slow down: reducing your average speed can have noticeable effect on your consumption. Most cars run at their most efficient around 60mph. Every 5mph above that and you will lose 6% of your fuel economy.7. Nice and easy does it: most drivers could save a significant amount of fuel by simply reading the road further ahead and slowing earlier for traffic lights and other hazards, thus avoiding unnecessary acceleration, heavy braking and then acceleration again while pulling away.8. Keep your cool: most cars are now fitted with air conditioning, but if the extra cooling is not needed by you or your passengers switch the air conditioning off to reduce demand on the engine. However, the system must not be turned off for long periods as harmful bacteria can build up and could prove costly to repair. Use air conditioning sparingly but ensure it is on for several minutes at least every couple of weeks. Remember, at higher speeds opening car windows may save the use of the air conditioning, but it will increase the "drag" on the car thus outweighing the fuel saving. So keep windows and sun roofs closed on faster roads.9. Explore for fuel: the price of fuel can vary greatly between suppliers. However, if it requires an extra journey to seek out where to save a few pence per litre there may not be an overall saving in money. Try to remember where the best deals are and fill up when you are passing rather than make a separate journey.10. And finally: if you are able to avoid just one journey each week, by walking or cycling, the financial saving at the end of the year will quickly add up.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
A new smartphone game developed by two Britons, one an award-winning novelist, with funds raised by crowd-sourcing and no budget for marketing, has become the world's highest-grossing health and fitness app during its first fortnight of release, beating even such giants as Nike.Released just weeks ago, Zombies, Run! describes itself as "an ultra-immersive running game for the iPhone, iPod Touch, and Android" with a narrative edge. Instead of focusing on fitness, it casts the user as the struggling survivor of a zombie apocalypse. Players undertake sorties to gather supplies, with the drama playing out in fully scripted audio; success is measured in further segments of the unfolding story.Sales are expected to top 100,000 soon, despite the full version costing more than £5, and media specialists say the game's success has many lessons for the industry.The game is the brainchild of Adrian Hon, founder and head of London games studio Six to Start; and Naomi Alderman, Orange prizewinning novelist and  game writer and aficionado.Alderman says their inspiration was a "learning how to run" course she took in spring 2011. "At the start of the course the instructors asked us why we wanted to learn to run. Most people talked about getting fitter, but one woman answered 'to escape the zombie horde!'"The idea stuck and, when Hon told her about his ambition to develop a fitness app that "made the actual act of running itself fun", Zombies was born.Crucially, the pair decided that rather than attempting to raise funds from a conventional investor or games company, they would use the website Kickstarter to crowd source their budget. A three-minute video pitching the game was uploaded to the site in September 2011, and swiftly captured the internet's imagination. $73,000 of pledged funding from 3,464 donors poured in – more than five times the initial target – as well as more than 30,000 "likes" on Facebook. Not only had they raised their money and ensured the project's viability: they had gained a highly effective marketing campaign into the bargain.Development with a small team began in October 2011. A Six to Start employee gave up his bedroom so that it could be turned into an impromptu recording studio, where a cast of professional actors assembled to record seven hours of bite-sized scripts. Crowd-sourced funding meant that there were no investors to keep on board and thus, in Alderman's words, "no need to waste time trying to explain what you're doing."This meant abold pricing strategy, with the full version  on release for $7.99 (£5.49 in the UK): the highest price of any game in the global top 200 on the App Store, and a far cry from the cheap-and-cheerful model dominating gaming on mobile devices.  However, Six to Start's tactic has paid off.The Entertainment Retailers Association announced that for the first time the video games industry is Britain's biggest entertainment sector.Modern audiences are increasingly willing to spend wherever the most entertaining experiences are found.The lesson seems to be: give people something fresh, gripping and alive to play to its audience's interests, and they'll not only pay a premium price, they'll pay up front for you to make it. It's a proactive model echoed in the actual process of using Zombies, Run! More than 250,000 miles have been run in aggregate in the game. The conventional image of a passive, sofa-based digital culture looks out of date.Hon says the word "game" itself is rapidly losing its usefulness. "We have these fantastic devices in our pockets that can connect to the internet, detect your location and speed, take photos, and play sounds, but we treat them like they're just faster Game Boys."Zombies, Run! itself has more in common with an audiobook or radio play than it does with most games. For Alderman, this crossover is the essence of their success: it's "the first fitness game with a real story, not a marketer's idea of a 'story' which means picking one of three 'cool characters' to be your 'coach'. Games are great at motivating action. But stories add meaning to your action. That's the sweet spot I think we've hit."
Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360In Resident Evil, Tyrant was a slab-like monstrosity of a character that created moments of sheer, uncontrollable terror. In Raccoon City you get attacked by herds of little tyrants instead, robbing them of emotional impact and making them merely tedious bullet sponges for your squad. Offline, it's all but unplayable as near-inert computer-controlled team mates stand around watching while your position is overrun by mutants. Online, it's not as bad, but the game's "triple threat" environment just equates to occasional random death by monster.Capcom, £37.99-£44.99Silent Hill Downpour, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360Silent Hill Downpour. Photo: PRWith a brutal opening that the rest of the game struggles to match, you're introduced to a new, more exploration-friendly Silent Hill. When combat arrives it is deliberately clumsy, lending authenticity to the game's everyman hero but making handling his enemies a bit of a chore. Weapons wear out and there's an appalling famine of ammunition, while puzzles reek of deja vu. Well-intentioned set pieces create drama and the odd effective scare, but fail to evoke the creeping dread that typified whole sections of the original Silent Hill and its sequel. The latter, bundled with Silent Hill 3, is  conveniently out this week in HD.Konami, £37.99-£39.99Blades Of Time, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360Blades Of Time. Photo: PRAyumi is a wearyingly familiar variety of pointy bikini-clad warrior lady whose sassy attitude is even sharper than her razor-like swords. Blades Of Time's grindhouse sensibilities and clearly modest budget give it a B-movie atmosphere. Its single innovation is the capacity to rewind time repeatedly, creating multiple time-shifted iterations of Ayumi attacking from every direction. Artistic finishing moves add to the bloodless cartoon carnage dished out in a blur of swords, magic and rifle head-shots, but despite a feeling of power as you unlock Ayumi's abilities, Blades Of Time is no classic.Konami, £24.99Games newsKid Icarus: Uprising. Photo: PRAlso out this week areArmored Core V(PS3 &amp; Xbox 360), for fans of Japan's peculiar brand of lumbering bipedal walking tank;Ninja Gaiden 3(PS3 &amp; Xbox 360) puts you back behind the mask of Ryu Hayabusa;Kid Icarus: Uprising(Nintendo 3DS) reinvents Nintendo's least-known mascot in a surprisingly deep game;PokéPark 2: Wonders Beyond(Wii) introduces real-time combat to fastidious Pokémon collecting duties;We Sing Pop(Wii) actually also has you singing some R&amp;B and indie in this family-friendly lyrics-censored croon 'em-up;Total War: Shogun 2 – Fall Of The Samurai(PC) supplies more highly strategic large-scale ancient battle simulation for admirers of Sun Tzu; andUtility Vehicles Simulator(PC) delivers all the thrill of obeying the speed limit in accurately recreated dustbin lorries.
My girlfriend – there&nbsp;she is already! – is pregnant. Thirty-nine and a half weeks, actually. So she's uncomfortable, achy, groany, big; in need of all sorts of support and the odd massage. Which makes the arrival of a Mercedes-Benz CLS 350 somewhat serendipitous. It's the perfect car for the very pregnant (so&nbsp;long as they're very rich, too).There's loads of room inside. It's&nbsp;much warmer, cosier, plusher and more comfortable than our house. At home I'm always having to bolster her up with cushions. In&nbsp;this car, buttons do all that. There's a button to adjust the seat cushion, the thigh cushion, the back rest contour in the lumbar region, and in the upper back region, etc etc etc. The seat will heat her up, or cool her down; it'll even give her a massage. Better than I do, apparently. She can watch TV in luxury while being massaged. I'm redundant, except I&nbsp;sometimes get a call, asking me to bring snacks out to her in the car. Ha, you can't do that, can you, stupid car.On the move it's perfect for my girlfriend's state, too. The ride is silky smooth. German automotive technology soaks up the inadequacies of Brent council's roads and highways department. But the car can spring to life if you suddenly have to get somewhere pretty effing pronto. A hospital, say. Which is what happens. Though we don't take our executive luxury sedan to the hospital – well, parking's hard around there, and I'm worried what broken waters will do to the porcelain-coloured Exclusive Passion leather seats. So that's the end of the pregnancy part of this review.Chapter TwoIt's a couple of days later, and there are now three of us&nbsp;in this car, and in this review (and&nbsp;this life, too, I guess, though I&nbsp;haven't quite got my head round that one). It turns out this is the perfect baby car as well. It's that smoothness again – not just the ride, but the gentle clunk of the doors closing, the way the music and lights fade off; nothing is sudden. So the chances of a rude awakening are diminished (and there have been enough of those in the past couple of days). There's even something in the boot, a kind of shelf, that could double up as a nappy changing table (though if the Mercedes press office is reading, we didn't, promise).Anyway he loves the car, looks smug and content being chauffeured around in it. I imagine that if he gets&nbsp;used to this level of luxury at an&nbsp;early age, he won't settle for anything less in later life. A fat cat in&nbsp;the making, I think, very able to support his old dad a bit farther down&nbsp;the line. And in the meantime, a new character in this column. Take&nbsp;a backseat, girlfriend.Mercedes-Benz CLS 350 CDI BlueEFFICIENCY SPORTPrice£66,228Top Speed155mphAcceleration0-62 in 6.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption46.3mpgCO2 emissions160g/kmGreen rating5/10Cool rating7/10
Hunched over their iPhones in a bar waiting for friends, fingers tracing patterns on the screen; laughing as they stare at their HTCs on the bus – have you noticed something strange going on with people and their mobile phones recently?There's a simple explanation: they are playing a game,Draw Something, a sort of online Pictionary that has been downloaded 35m times in the six weeks since it was created by New York game firm OMGPOP. In the last week more than 1bn drawings were created on the game as people tried to illustrate words and names for their opponent to guess. It's now the top downloaded free app in 85 countries across the world.Draw Something is the latest classic board game to be reinvented for the digital age. Words With Friends is the new Scrabble, Monopoly is a hit online. But none has rivalled the phenomenal growth of Draw. The game has been a winner from day one - it was averaging three drawings a second the day it was launched – and six weeks later the five-year-old OMGPOP has been sold for $180m (£113m) in cash to Zynga, owner of other highly addictive online games includingWords With FriendsandCityVille.Draw Something was the 35th game created by OMGPOP. They had tried other drawing games but this one was an instant smash. Some words are easy for players to portray – like rainbow, sun and fish. But finger painting Daft Punk or Stephen Colbert with primary school drawing skills is more than a tad tricky.The game has slight variations across the world. In London you might get "snog" – a word Americans don't use – while in Europe there is no chance of getting Tim Tebow, a star football player across the Atlantic. For Swedish players OMGPOP added Ikea. But what attracted Zynga was its universal appeal.David Ko, chief mobile officer at Zynga, had been a player from day one. "There were all these really nice, surprise moments," said Ko. "The words, watching the drawings, I was really enjoying it."Ko admits his drawing isn't that good. In the beginning he even scribbled notes in the drawing, which is pretty close to cheating. "I'm OK with chair and ring, then they'll slip in some pop icon."He met up with Dan Porter, OMGPOP's chief executive, and the two hit it off immediately. They both had "hundreds" of apps on their phones and Ko thought Porter and his crew would be a good buy for Zynga.It is not Zynga's first purchase – but it is the biggest. The firm handed over $53.3m for Words With Friends creator Newtoy in 2010. But with Draw Something it reportedly had to fend off rival bids from Disney and games giant Electronic Arts.More than 1bn apps are downloaded every month on Apple devices and another billion on Android, Google's rival mobile system. To stand out, you need something special. Ko says that difference is "social" apps. "People are busy. They want quick ways to say hi, to keep in touch."And there is no better way to do that than through games. Maybe you don't have time to call but if you are playing a game together, to me it feels more social."I have lots of friends I keep in touch with on Facebook but when I do this one to one thing with Draw Something or Words With Friends, it feels a little bit more special." Clearly 35m other people and counting agree. But opinion is divided over whether Draw Something can really be worth $180m.Michael Pachter, managing director of Wedbush Securities, described the price as "reasonable". "It doesn't require a lot of work to make it popular in several languages, and is the kind of game that will give their international growth a boost," he said.Arvind Bhatia, managing director of Sterne Agee &amp; Leach, disagreed. Most people choose the free version of the game, he said, and Zynga will have to convince them to spend money buying extras like new colours and drawing tools, and Bhatia is unconvinced that is a big business. On top of that, he says, being this month's hot game is no guarantee of long-term success. "You can have the bragging rights to the number one game, but for how long? And it's not that easy to make money on the games," he said.There were mixed signals for the Draw Something school on Friday when the game lost the top slot for paid apps to the latest flight of fancy from that other mobile gaming phenomenon, Angry Birds. The free version of Draw Something still rules the free charts and Ko is promising that under Zynga's wing Draw  will add new features (chat, probably, and maybe a gallery to store your images) and different games that will keep the world coming back.It remains to be seen whether Draw can repeat Angry Birds' success. But if it does not there will soon be another game along that will have us hooked.
Facebook has hit out at the practice of employers asking for access to the accounts of their staff and potential hires.The social network's chief privacy officerErin Egancalled the practice "distressing" and threatened legal action against companies that violate its users' privacy."If you are a Facebook user, you should never have to share your password, let anyone access your account, or do anything that might jeopardize the security of your account or violate the privacy of your friends," she wrote on a blogpost Friday.Egan warned that employers who do ask for access could be setting themselves up for problems that they are not anticipating. "For example, if an employer sees on Facebook that someone is a member of a protected group (eg over a certain age, etc) that employer may open themselves up to claims of discrimination if they don't hire that person," she wrote. Employers also face liabilities if they do not handle the private information properly, Egan said."Facebook takes your privacy seriously. We'll take action to protect the privacy and security of our users, whether by engaging policymakers or, where appropriate, by initiating legal action, including by shutting down applications that abuse their privileges," she wrote.The statement comes after Senator Richard Blumenthal pledged to outlaw the practice. This week the Connecticut Democrat and former state attorney general toldPoliticothat these type of requests amount to an "unreasonable invasion of privacy"."I am very deeply troubled by the practices that seem to be spreading voraciously around the country," Blumenthal said.The backlash follows a series of reports that employers are increasingly asking job applicants and current workers for access to their social media and email accounts in order to check up on their online behaviour.Maryland Department of Corrections,for example, was recently condemned by the American Civil Liberties Union for demanding that a prospective hire turn over his Facebook password during an interview.The ACLU called the policy "a frightening and illegal invasion of privacy".
There is nothing quite like sitting down with family and friends and playing a wholesome game to bring you all together.Well, Draw Something –  whose creator OMGPOP has just been bought by Zynga for a reported $200m (£120m) – is nothing like that.Unlike traditional board games, where players compete face to face across the table, Draw Something demands that you get your head down and concentrate on the tiny screen of your mobile phone (or perhaps an iPad, if you are particularly flash and require a bigger canvas).The app is basically an interactive version of Pictionary, and is ridiculously addictive. You are given a choice of three words (graded from easy to hard), and once you've picked one, you set about drawing it with your stubby finger marking increasingly indecipherable lines on the screen. Having sent the drawing to your competitor, they have to work out what it means in as short a time as possible.Choosing the easy option only earns you one gold coin, and there isn't much fun in drawing a door. The action is all in choosing the hard option. How, for example, do you draw Holland? Well, it turns out, it's a man holding a big spliff, standing next to a tulip. It worked for me, anyway.But try drawing RZA, leading member of US rap collective the Wu-Tang Clan, when you know the person who has to work it out is rather more interested in Handel than hip hop? That's when you've got a challenge.But, be warned. The app might be free, but Zynga has its eye on your pocket. Once addicted, you'll soon find yourself wanting to buy the add-ons, like more colours for your palette, which is where they expect to make the real money.
One of Sony's many claims about the capabilities of the PS Vita is that its handheld can deliver a deep and immersive home console experience to gamers on the go. If you wanted proof of this statement, you could cast an eye at Ninja Gaiden Sigma Plus, a PS Vita port of Team Ninja's enhanced PS3 update of their 2004 slice 'n' dice.It not only looks fantastic, but its gameplay is still just as engrossing as it was when it was first released as an Xbox exclusive, thanks to its incredibly polished fighting mechanics.Players who walked the path of the ninja with Ryu Hayabusa know what to expect – indeed, they've probably played this game in one of its earlier versions. To those who are unfamiliar with the Ninja Gaiden series, Sigma Plus is probably as good an entry as any other – and that's quite an achievement. In it, players take on the role of Ryu who returns to his home village in order to infiltrate the dojo of his uncle and clanhead. Once Ryu has matched his fighting skills with his uncle (the game's first boss), he sets out to avenge his slaughtered ninja clan. The early stages offer up a decent tutorial, familiarising the player with the game's controls and introducing them to its combat system.Crucially, the first chunk of the game also rams home the point that Ninja Gaiden isn't a game that can be beaten through button bashing. Tight focus and chained attacks are key to surviving any battle – be it against ninjas, demons or armed soldiers. Players not only have to learn Ryu's lethal attack combos, they have to exercise patience and timing to successfully deploy them. They'll also have to deal with one of the most rubbish cameras in gaming, which doesn't do well in tight, enclosed spaces. Then again, this has been a problem with all the Ninja Gaiden games on next-gen consoles, as is evidenced by the heaps of smashed console control pads the series has left in its wake.So Ninja Gaiden Sigma Plus, like all of its forebears, is hard, but incredibly rewarding. Players who are newbies even have a lower difficulty level they can start off on so their first experience of the series needn't be a baptism of fire. Alongside that new addition, the port has made some attempt to incorporate the PS Vita's touchscreen controls into the proceedings. Players need to tilt the screen and tap opponents in order shoot arrows at them, and the magical fire Ninpo attack requires them to tap the rear touch-surface to line up symbols on the screen. To be honest, these controls don't sit right with Ninja Gaiden's old-school combat system and they notably break up the flow in the action.However, the PS Vita controls, while feeling shoehorned in the proceedings, are not deal-breakers overall. Ninja Gaiden Sigma Plus is still a fantastic game, and whether you're a newcomer or a long-time fan of the series, this is an essential purchase for PS Vita owners. Just remember to count to 10 when frustration sets in because angrily hurling your control pad to the ground is no longer an option.• Game reviewed on PS Vita
Facebook has confirmed that it has acquired about 750 patents from IBM as it girds itself for litigation, including a lawsuit by Yahoo, and prepares a war chest of what one patent lawyer says are an essentlal tool in any sizeable company's defences.Patents have become so essential to any technology company, says Dr Alex Frost of the UK patent practice Boult Wade Tennant, that "whatever size you are, if you threaten someone's business, they will use [their patents]. It's as true of software as it is of television makers or electronics components." (Boult Wade Tennant acts in the UK for clients including Yahoo, Motorola and Samsung.)The patents are believed to cover various technologies to do with software and networking, and apply in the US, where software can more easily be patented than Europe. Yahoo is suing Facebook there, claiming that the giant social network – which is preparing an initial public offering on the US stock market – has infringed 10 patents Yahoo has been awarded since it was set up in 1995 relating to advertising, privacy controls and social networking. Facebook was set up in 2004.At the time, Facebook – which has already passed Yahoo in advertising income and profitability – said Yahoo's actions have been "puzzling".But for Yahoo, with a new chief executive who is trying to re-establish the company's lost primacy in online advertising, the move against Facebook is logical. And it is the same action that has been done by technology companies for years around Silicon Valley. Although it is almost certain to be concluded with a financial settlement – either a royalty or licensing deal – it shows Facebook's weakness as a young, fast-growing company to the power of patent portfolios. At the end of 2011, Facebook had just 56 US patents, a relatively small number compared with other big tech companies; Yahoo owns more than 1,000. IBM has tens of thousands of active patents.The essential elements of a patent are that it should be "non-obvious" to a person in the field where it is created, and contain an "inventive step" which makes it work. That doesn't preclude young software companies from creating patentable ideas; but they are often not set up to harness their own creativity effectively in the way that older companies, with legal departments, are.Young companies are thus frequently a target for patent litigation. In 2002 Google, then an upstart search engine which had only just become the largest online, wassued by Overture, then an independent company, which claimed that the now-famous AdWords system for showing "relevant" text adverts against search results infringed on its patent. Google insisted it hadn't. But in August 2004, with its own IPO looming and Overture now owned by Yahoo,Google licensed exactly those Overture patents and gave Yahoo 2.7m sharesto settle the case.Even for companies which do nothing except software – such as Facebook or Yahoo – patents are still useful, and can be awarded in the US. But Frost points out that the European Patents Office (EPO) interprets patents differently from the US Patents and Trademarks Office. The latter has been criticised for awarding patents too easily, though if they are used in a court case then the defendant can seek to have them re-examined and potentially struck off. In the US, patents can be awarded for software that does little more than provide a different interface.The key difference, says Frost, is that in Europe a "software" patent must be shown to have a "material effect" - that is, something measurable clearly happens as a result of using it. "It might be a more efficient computer, or a more effective user interface," he says. That makes it unlikely that the Yahoo-Facebook battle will spread from the US to Europe, even though the majority of Facebook's users are outside the US.Even so, the struggle between the two could be slow to reach a result. The Google-Overture case, which took more than two years to be resolved, was comparatively quick. Another famous software law battle,between SCO Group and IBMbegan in March 2003 with SCO Group claiming $1bn in damages because, it said, IBM had "devalued" its version of the Unix operating system. The case was put on pause in September 2007 when SCO went into bankruptcy; if it ever emerges, the case will begin again.More broadly, the fact that software can be patented at all is a source of great frustration to some activists, who argue that software is not like a physical invention, and so should not be patentable. While they have had some success – notably in getting the EPO to include the "material effect" clause - the overwhelming weight of commercial acceptance is still that creating software involves work, and that innovative work deserves to be rewarded.Frost says: "there's a judge's saying relating to copyright, which was that it is the result of 'the sweat of the brow'. There's a feeling with some software patents that people are getting something valuable – a patent – for virtually nothing. But companies like Microsoft, Yahoo and Adobe have developed software which involves the creation of huge amounts of intellectual expenditure. What comes out isn't physical like a mousetrap, but conceptually it is a 'thing'. If it does something, and it's different and better than what's gone before, then the argument is that it deserves to be patented."
The first time I ever heard someone declare the death of copyright, it wasn't a dreadlocked GNU/Linux hacker or a cyberpunk in mirror shades: it was a music executive, circa 1999, responding to the launch of Napster.I thought he was wrong then and I think he's wrong now — as is everyone else who's declared copyright to be dead.The problem is in the name:copyright. TheStatute of Anneand other early copyright rules concerned themselves with verbatim copying because copying was the only industrial activity associated with creative expression at the time. There were lots ofcraftsassociated with culture, of course, – performing music, plays and dance, painting pictures, and so on – but these weren't industrial activities.There was no apparatus associated with them that allowed them to take place at vast scale and speed. And though there were some cultural gatekeepers – gallery owners, performance venue bookers, guilds – they had a much more tenuous role. Unlike printers (the industry), they were neither in the position to make a lot of money from a single creative act, nor in the position to alienate all that money from a creator, nor in the position to raise investor capital with the expectation of such money, nor in the position of having to fend off competitors who cut into their markets with duplicates.When performance, visual media, and three-dimensional works became susceptible to industrial-scale distribution, we extended "copy"right to them, even though there weren't necessarily "copies" taking place.Copyright was, is and always will be properly viewed as "rules governing the supply chain of the entertainment industry", and as the entertainment industry expanded, we expanded the rules to cover its new activities. Rules for industry can be a good idea, after all. At their best, they rebalance negotiating positions among different players in the industry (for example, the lack of negotiating leverage that artists have at the beginning of their careers), ban unscrupulous sales tactics, and defend competition from the monopolistic instincts of industrialists.The "copy" in copyright is there because of an accident of history: once upon a time, to "copy" was to do something industrial. Copying required physical plant, employees, premises, trading. While not everything industrial could be reduced to "copying," all copying was presumptively industrial. There were ways of non-industrially copying things – a sculptor could copy another sculptor's work by application of her eye and hand and chisel, a writer could dip his quill and set out the lines of another writer – but it wasn't really necessary to explicitly declare that this wasn't the kind of thing regulated by copyright. Such activity was almost always invisible to rights-holders, and even if an individual work happened to rise to the attention of a rights-holder, he would seem like a bit of a fool trying to apply industrial rules to individual actors. It's like asking your neighbours to register as a bed and breakfast because they've got guests in for the weekend who've chipped in for groceries.Industrial rule-making processes tend to be dominated by the powerful, the incumbent, and the wealthy. They're better-set to organise themselves, they're already familiar with the ins and outs of government, and they have the tautological legitimacy of success: "You are an upstanding firm because you got rich, therefore the way you got rich must be upstanding." As a result, copyright tended (and tends) to favour the interests of investors in creative works – labels, studios, publishers – at the expense of creators, who are more diffuse, and who are undermined by the "irrational" nature of creative work.People raise capital for business – publishers, labels, studios – on the basis of an informed confidence that a market opportunity exists to recoup the investment. In the absence of any anti-competitive moves, you'd expect there to be about as many "investor" businesses in the creative sector as best evidence suggests can be supported, plus a little more representing an optimistic view of how to grow the sector.On the other hand, creators create because they can't help themselves.Even though I earn a living from my copyrights today, I always knew that I would be insane to count on this, and today I know that I am as lucky as a lotto winner. I have met so many talented writers who haven't gotten any breaks, and some of them have given up, but many of them continue to produce. They're not writing because they rationally believe that they will someday replace their day-jobs' salaries with royalties, advances and commissions – they write because they must.As a result, the supply-side of the copyright industries always has a glut in excess of demand. There has never been, and will never be, an industrial regulation that will supply a living wage to a sizable fraction of those who dream of quitting their day jobs and pursuing the arts. We might attain this through a system of grants, or through the technological attainment of some kind of post-scarcity society, but there just aren't enough people who want to pay money for enough industrial entertainment product to pay the way of everyone who nurses the dream.So on the one hand, you have a relatively stable and organised investor/distributor group in the copyright industries, and on the other hand, you've got this diffuse horde of creators and would-be creators.Each is lobbying for copyright rules that favour their interests, and by and large, the creators lose. This leads to the doubly tragic life of the creator: even for the tiny minority who "make it" into the system, the result is often an abusive work-for-hire relationship with dodgy accounting, rotten contracts, and no shortage of out-and-out ripoffs that leave "famous, well-off" artists in penury at the end of their careers.At various times in the history of industrialised entertainment, new technologies have engendered new copyright rules. Radio gave rise to blanket licenses; phonograms (initially in the form of player pianos) engendered compulsory mechanical licenses on compositions. Some of these were "good" rules and some were "bad" rules – where "good" can mean "pro-competition" and "fair to creators"; and "bad" can mean "anti-competitive" and "unfair to creators." Creators and the investor/distributor sector spend a lot of time arguing about the best way to manage these regulations and how they should be reformed.But they also spend a lot of time arguing and lobbying aboutpersonalactivities – from kids who share music over MegaUpload to amateur film-makers who upload their own mashups to YouTube. Most of this activity involves some commercial entity somewhere along the way, just as a writer who copied out an inspiring passage from Milton would have to buy her quills and paper and ink somewhere. But YouTube isn't part of the entertainment industry. It's a platform for sharing every kind of video there is, from momentous footage of a wartime atrocity to personally important footage of a wedding reception to trivial and unobjectionable footage of cute things being cute. It is more like paper than a publisher; more like film than a film studio; more like a microphone than a recording studio.Anyone who is paying attention – including a sizable slice of entertainment executives – understands that limiting copying on the internet is a doomed exercise, and that the attempt necessitates the mass surveillance of every activity on the internet, widescale censorship, and the extension of complex, difficult-to-understand regulations to populations who have no hope of understanding them and who shouldn't be expected to. It's as though the industry has suddenly decided that singing in the shower counts as a regulated "performance" and now it wants to ask plumbers, shower-fixture makers and soap manufacturers to help it stamp out piracy, and wants cameras in our bathrooms and long legal agreements for anyone who desires to legitimately sing while he scrubs.Even if shower-singing started to significantly displace a revenue stream for the entertainment industry, the idea of expanding an industrial regulation into a private domain is not only unworkable, it's inherently unjust.There's still plenty of things for which we can use "copyright". For example, there's some evidence that requiring licenses for digital sampling provides a small but important income stream to an earlier generation of artists who got done over three ways – first, because the rules were written with corporations' advantage in mind; second, because the corporations cheated; and third, because they were largely from ethnic minorities who got a bad deal from the justice system in general.If licensing sampling turns out to be the best (or least worst) way to redress these old wrongs, then copyright can create a streamlined system of licenses that makes it easy to license, and stages the compensation in proportion to the follow-on artists' earnings.Instead, copyright has done just the opposite. By reifying copying (instead of competition or a fair deal for creators), a series of copyright rulings and laws have created a system where any traceable, widely distributed song that samples ends up taking a license; where the licenses are so expensive that only a few may be economically included in each song; and where the only reliable access to sample-licenses is through the big four labels, who are accustomed to dealing with one another and are hostile or indifferent to independent parties.This has produced the worst possible copyright outcome. Instead of an industry regulation that promotes competition and rebalances the diffused and ineffective bargaining power of creators, the sampling regime we have today does the opposite. It dictates that the critically and financially successful sample-based music that predates the sample-for-licenses world can't be made at all today – the two most successful sampling albums of all time are Paul's Boutique by the Beastie Boys and It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back by Public Enemy; both would lose millions if produced and cleared today. It also dictates that nearly every artist who wants to make the "sampling-lite" music that modern practice demands ends up with a major record label, even if the artist believes she can do better on her own or with a small independent.Add to that the 45-year retrospective extension of copyright on sound recordings and now you have a world where pretty much anything you've ever heard of is in copyright and requires a licence, which requires signing your life away to the big four. Imagine instead that we created a sampling regulation similar to the mechanical royalty for cover songs. Add up all the samples in each song and then require a proportional royalty from revenues earned by the song. There are details to be sorted – dealing with overlapping samples, and establishing use thresholds for the minimum sample length covered by the rule and the maximum sample length it countenances before we just say, "You're not sampling, this is just a reissue, pay the mechanical royalty." There's the accounting, auditing, collection and payment.The system would be ungainly compared to the one that gave us It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back, but not so ungainly as to prevent the creation of such a record outright. And it sidesteps the major competitive and negotiation issues for labels and artists. So long as it only sought to regulate commercial recordings – industrial activity – it would have no impact on amateurs who upload to YouTube, and it would make it easy for a successful amateur to make the leap to pro, by filing the necessary paperwork about her sampling and then paying a portion of her income to the appropriate parties.This is just one example of how we can craft regulations for the entertainment industry that value creation, investment and innovation, without criminalising fans or attacking the internet. The internet era is not – and should not be – silent on the question: "How do we ensure that creators and investors get a chance at money?" That's all copyright ever really wanted an answer to.The inability of copyright to regulate cultural activity isn't anything new. It's probably true that this inability reduces the profitability of some entities in the entertainment industry's supply chain, just as it increases others'. But that's just a question of profit maximisation, not survival.The problem is that the entertainment companies treated the increased ease of copying in the age of the internet as a signal that copyright should be expanded to cover more people and more activities, far outside of the entertainment industry. What they should have done is picked a new proxy for "this is an industrial activity within copyright's scope" and soldiered on regulating themselves, without trying to regulate the whole world at the same time.It's time to stop declaring copyright dead because we aren't willing to let it be the ultimate regulator of everything we do with a computer.
After many years of lobbying, a couple of close calls and one almighty let-down in 2010, the UK games industry has finally done it – it has secured a commitment to tax breaks from the government. Although positive murmurs could be heard in the run up to the budget announcement, it seems few insiders allowed themselves to believe that chancellor George Osborne would deliver a full tax credits proposal.As late as last week, Richard Wilson, the chief executive of developers' trade body Tiga and the spearhead of the industry's fight for tax credits, was speaking in terms of potential compromise: perhaps the treasury would consider extensions to the more restrictive R&amp;D tax credits; maybe there would be a promise to look into the notion of wider tax initiatives at some point? All that is in the past now.On Wednesday, the chancellorcommitted to providing tax credits for the video games, animation and high-end television industries, "subject to state aid approval and following consultation". He also claimed that his ambition was to turn Britain into the technology hub of Europe. A fairly unambiguous proposition.Watching the Commons speech live on Wednesday, Wilson was understandably ecstatic when the chancellor reached the part about games. "I almost leapt out of my seat," he says. "By making this announcement, the government has recognised that games are culturally as important as films – that is huge, that's an awesome achievement."The second thing is, it will mean a massive financial boost to the games sector – we should see £188m of investment expenditure because of this proposal. It's fantastic news for games and it's fantastic news for the UK economy."Positive reactionReactions have mostly been positive and enthusiastic within the industry. Bobby Kotick, the chief executive of US-based publishing giant Activision released an immediate statement: "This is a great first step and should put the UK in a stronger position to compete with other countries offering incentives for video games production. The UK is an important centre for development talent, employing 9,000 people in the video games sector, and anything that promotes further investment should be welcomed."It was a sentiment echoed by other major publishers such as Electronic Arts and Ubisoft, who also issued supportive missives. Which brings us to an important point surrounding the tax credits issue: most major publishers have closed UK studios in the last two years.Activision shut down the Liverpool-based Bizarre Creations in February 2011, Disney closed Black Rock, a veteran Brighton developer, in July, while Electronic Arts shuttered its Guildford studio, Bright Light, in January of this year"The UK is a vital centre of game development and we intend to maintain a strong presence here," said an EA statement. But nowadays the publisher has just one developer, Criterion, in the UK.Although still a major player in the global games industry, Britain has dropped from third to sixth in the development rankings over the past five years. While countries such as Canada and France have seen an influx of investment by offering tax breaks to games companies (In Quebec, government subsidies meet 37.5% of games industry payrolls) Britain has been subject to a brain drain as talented development staff have moved abroad for better salaries. Is there a chance tax credits could reverse that trend?"Well, tax credits send out a strong message that the UK is the best place in the world to develop games. That in itself will attract inward investment," says Ian Livingstone, life president of publisher Square Enix and chair of the Creative Industries Council's Access to Finance Group."We've certainly got the talent here – we're the most creative nation in the world – we just have to make sure those creatives are empowered with a skilled labour force, access to finance, and tax credits that level the playing field internationally."Games are a serious businessPerception seems to be a key element here. While Britain is still producing some of the best games in the world (Grand Theft Auto, Batman, LittleBigPlanet), smaller studios are suffering partly because of a lack of support from venture capitalists and business angels. If nothing else, a nod from Osborne is an indication that this is a business to take seriously."It's an important first step in raising the profile of the sector," agrees Colin Anderson, the managing director of Dundee studio Denki. "It's saying that the games industry is open for business. Not nearly enough has been made of this - lots of people are saying, well, what are tax breaks going to do for MY business, but that's missing the point."There's a bigger picture here. We tend to have a very insular view, we think games are mainstream because we're all into them, but I can't stress enough how un-mainstream the games industry is when you go and talk to investors - it's still the black sheep of the creative industries, let alone the wider business community."But now the government is saying, 'we recognise that you guys are as important as film and television'. That's a great benchmark. At the moment there aren't enough investors savvy enough to be investing in the games sector, so anything we can do to incentivise them to take a chance on games is good."Of course, the details of the credits have yet to be bashed out, but we have a good clue in the structure Tiga has requested in its reportA Video Games Tax Relief: An Incentive to Build a Sustainable Video Games Development Sector, which exactly echoes the tax credits being provided to the film industry. This equates to 20% tax relief on production costs for games costing more than £3m to produce and 25% on games costing between £50,000 and £3m. But this will based on UK expenditure, using British staff.Will tax breaks hurt the indies?Assuming these rates are adopted, will the system really start attracting those big publishers back into the county? Livingstone is convinced it will. "Look at the effect of film tax credits in the UK," he says. "We know for a fact that Warner Bros and Disney have produced films in the UK because of both the talent availableandthe incentive of 20% tax credits. Those films could easily have been made elsewhere, but they weren't. We hope that similar attitudes will exist with games."This may well bring its own problems however. Lol Scragg, chief executive of games business consultancy Gamify, worries about the eco-system of development in the UK. "Whilst I have no knowledge of the detail of what is being offered, I do have a concern that any benefits could be to the detriment of the independent game developers we currently have in the UK."I fear that the large international companies could set up their megastudios here whilst hoovering up the talent currently in the independent sector, purely for the reduced costs of labour. I hope that Tiga are involved in any tax credits consultation to ensure that the greater benefit comes to indigenous UK owned and based companies, rather than just being cheap labour for our French and American colleagues."It's a legitimate concern, but there are plenty of insiders who feel the effect will be the reverse: that tax breaks will help to support small studios, working on original development. On Thursday, I spoke to Dave Bailey, CEO of Mediatonic – a UK studio specialising in mobile games.Although the company currently does a lot of work with publishers in the US, Bailey believes the availability of tax breaks would make it more rewarding for his team to produce original titles. "Well, it's going to be 20% cheaper for us to make games," he says, bluntly. "We do make our own original titles but this means we can potentially put more money into them, with tax credits mitigating some of the risks."He isn't alone. "We are all about innovation," says Roberta Lucca of Bossa Studios, a Shoreditch start-up that just won a Bafta award for its social game, Monstermind. "We started with four founders using our life savings to do something creative. For us this announcement is a great incentive: in order to innovate you have to take risks, but this lessens them.""I went to GDC last week and a lot of British companies were doing work-for hire," adds Oli Christie of Neon Play. "But there's a real desire among developers to make their own games. Working on original IP is much more fun and rewarding, and you're driving up the value of your own studio. There are so many talented young companies and I think that's where the drive for growth is going to come from in this country. Zynga should be buying UK studios, not OMGPOP."What's the next move?The big question is, what happens now? Osborne has provided no further information on his tax break plans beyond the brief mention on Wednesday. The whole substance of the proposal remains undecided.The next step will be a period of consultation. "It has to go through the government and the treasury," says Livingstone. "They have to decide how it's going to work, who will be able to qualify, the limitations. Like the film industry, there may be a cultural test – that doesn't mean you'll need to have red telephone boxes throughout your game, it's about having a certain amount of British production talent working on the game."It will then have to go through EU approvals to make sure it's not contravening any state aid laws – that will take about a year. The important thing is, the industry has to come together as one to consult with the government to make sure it gets the best deal."Despite the lack of solid information, a few possible figures are circulating the industry, and UK studios have begun working out the ramifications. "From what I understand, the tax break will be worth £15m in the first year and £35m in the second," says Miles Jacobson, studio director of Sports Interactive, creator of the hugely successful Football Manager series."At first, we thought that didn't sound like much, but then, it's a start. It's something. At Sports Interactive, if we successfully claim tax credits, we'll be looking to re-invest that money into creating new jobs, which in turn will make our games better and more competitive."This is a common theme. "The beauty of it is, when tax credits come online, we'll be able to re-invest even more into jobs." says Imre Jele of Bossa Studios." Over the last year we've created 30 jobs and if we have credits, if we can save 20% on our production, that's 20% we can put toward wages. It's also about making it easier for game developers fresh out of university to start their own companies. It's a very exciting moment."There are dissenting voices, however, and these are important. When I asked Ricky Haggett, founder of talented studio Honey Slug about the meaning of the budget announcement, he gave a very different answer."There's a wider issue here, which is whether tax breaks for the UK games industry is even appropriate. And on a personal level, I'd prefer it if the government was taking steps to equalise the huge difference between rich and poor: tax breaks for the games industry come as part of a package which contains some of the most awful things this coalition government is doing to the UK – so I don't feel it's appropriate to celebrate one part which happens to affect my own situation."There's something in that, of course. But then, with billions of pounds a year to pump into the UK economy, the digital creative industries can at least provide a hint at a more optimistic future. It's hard not to be excited by that. And amid the anger directed at the 50p top-rate tax cut, at the bankers and businessmen growing ever more rich off a defunt fiancial sector, there is the bright potential of brilliant young high-tech studios making a stab at turning around the country's fortunes.This is, as Jele put it, all part of a moment – a tipping point. During the process of lobbying for tax breaks, game developers have also joined with the wider technology community to campaign for better computer science education in schools. In January, Michael Gove committed to re-addressing outdated ICT teaching. Within the space of a year, the climate has utterly changed for the high-tech industries in the UK."I think this is the most important time in UK games production for 30 years," says veteran developer Philip Oliver, co-founder of Blitz Game Studios. "In 1982, Acorn launched the BBC Micro, Sinclair had the ZX Spectrum… those machines introduced a whole generation to computing. Now, if tax breaks and computer studies in schools are followed through, this will revolutionise not just our games industry but all digital creative industries in the 21st century."It will significantly increase the National GDP and global exports. It will become a fast-growth sector; and it will be employing many thousands of talented individuals in creativity rewarding careers."
You certainly can't accuse Rovio of a lack of ambition for Angry Birds Space, its fourth Angry Birds game.Its announcement was beamed to Earth from the International Space Station, its launch day saw the company turn Seattle's Space Needle tower into a giant slingshot, and the game itself is being promoted through partnerships with NASA, National Geographic, Nickelodeon and Samsung.The game's launch is A Big Deal, and understandably so given the well-over 700m downloads of previous titles Angry Birds, Angry Birds Seasons and Angry Birds Rio. The new version may tick all the stunt-marketing boxes, but the important question is how it stacks up as a standalone game.The basicsAngry Birds Space has launched on two mobile platforms – iOS and Android – as well as a PC version sold through Rovio's own website, and a Mac version sold on Apple's Mac App Store.Pricing varies: 69p on iPhone, £1.99 for iPad, £2.99 for Mac, €5.95 for PC (just under £5), and a choice of free-with-ads or an ad-free paid version on Android.Yes, the Angry Birds are in Space, although they've brought along their pig enemies and stolen-eggs plotline to feel at home. As before, the pigs are lurking in wooden and stone structures that must be destroyed by catapulting the birds at them.The game includes 60 levels split into two zones: Pig Bang and Cold Cuts. A further 30 levels are available in something called the Danger Zone, unlocked with an additional 69p in-app purchase (IAP). Rovio says more zones and levels will follow in the coming months.Planets' gravitational fields affect your strategyWhat's new?The setting isn't just for show. As you slingshot the birds around various space-rocks, they're subject to the planets' gravity, adding an additional layer to the physics-based gameplay. Sometimes you'll be firing them through two or more planets' gravitational fields, requiring some sharp thinking.There are new birds, too. A blue, square Ice Bomb Bird freezes the scenery and pigs, setting them up to be smashed by the next projectile. Meanwhile, the green Monster Bird is heavier than his peers, while the Super Red Bird has more of a grenade effect, triggered by tapping him.Yes, all three will be sold as plush toys in the near future. How did you guess?There is also a new power-up to replace the Mighty Eagle of previous game. Space Eagles can be triggered at any time, and see a giant bird batter through a wormhole to squash anything in their vicinity.Unlike the Mighty Eagle, which cost 69p via IAP, this isn't a pay-once and use-forever power-up. Instead, you can earn the one-use Space Eagles through playing – every so often you're awarded another three – or buy them in a range of bundles. 20 for 69p, £1.99 for 80, £5.49 for 280 or £13.99 for 980.Angry Birds Space also includes five mini-games (or "Eggsteroids") that nod towards older games: Space Invaders, Breakout, Super Mario Bros and so on. They're unlocked by blasting five golden eggs lurking in five of the main game's levels.The Danger Zone pack offers 30 more levels for 69pThe good bitsThe key thing about Angry Birds is that the original game didn't get popular through a juggernaut marketing campaign. Its original momentum came from genuine word-of-mouth buzz, because it was very fun to play and very, very addictive.That's still the case with Angry Birds Space. The swipe'n'tap controls remain simple and accessible, and the game walks the line between being too easy and too frustrating with aplomb. It's just right.Casual gamers will be able to unlock all 60 of the basic levels reasonably easily, even if they just get one star on each. Nailing three-star ratings on all will become an obsession for many players, as in the previous games. The Danger Zone levels also provide a decent challenge for more hardcore players.The gravitational fields and new birds add enough new elements to make Angry Birds Space not feel like a rehashing of the formula for people who've played some or all of the previous games, too.Space Invaders gets an homage in one of the bonus levelsRoom for improvementA lot of people will be playing Angry Birds Space on several devices: an iPhone and an iPad for example, or a PC and an Android smartphone.Frustratingly, they're not interoperable: your scores and level-unlocking progress can't be maintained across them, even though on iOS, Rovio is using Apple's Game Center platform.Talking of Game Center, it's a shame that Angry Birds Space isn't more social. If you tap back out to the game's homescreen on the iOS versions, you can look at your Game Center friends' scores. But a Facebook icon merely invites you to "Go and like Angry Birds in Facebook".Angry Birds on mobile may be a different beast to the separate Facebook version, which is built around social features like seeing your friends' scores as you complete levels.Even so, Rovio could have used Facebook Connect to put something similar in Angry Birds Space. An additional benefit would have been connecting players of the game on different platforms: iOS players seeing the scores of Android-owning friends and vice versa.Angry Birds Space feels a bit short: 60 free levels at launch, versus 260 in Angry Birds Seasons and 180 in Angry Birds Rio. Those games grew to that size through updates, though – in a year's time, Rovio will likely still be pushing content to Angry Birds Space too.Three-starring every level will become an obsession for many playersConclusionAngry Birds rubs a lot of people up the wrong way, as seen in the spirited comment debates whenever The Guardian writes about it.Some really do see Rovio as a bunch of hacks who got lucky with a game that wasn't that original in the first place, and who have since been milking it dry while strutting around the world telling everyone how clever they are.Well, here's my take. They're not a bunch of hacks: there is real craft on show in Angry Birds Space. The merchandise and spin-offs may be ubiquitous, but the gameplay still feels fresh, with enough new elements to reawaken the addiction for players of the previous versions.Hopefully Rovio will beef up Angry Birds Space's Facebook functionality in a future update, and perhaps tackle that persistent-state-across-devices problem too.In the meantime, beneath all the Angry Birds As Phenomenon noise lurks a genuinely excellent game, whose success has been built on quality, not just hype.
You'd be forgiven for being wary of anyone who talks about gamification, with the term having become a buzzword for a lot of people whose main talent is, well, spouting buzzwords. But that doesn't apply to everyone.Ed Cooke is a Grand Master of Memory – a title awarded to people who prove they can memorise 1,000 random digits in an hour; the order of 10 decks of cards in an hour; and one deck of cards in under two minutes.His business partner Greg Detre has a PhD in neuroscience from Princeton. When the pair talk about "gamifying language learning", they're not messing about.Their company is calledMemrise, and it was the first UK startup to graduate from the Techstars Boston incubator, before going on to raise $1.1m of seed funding from some prominent US investors in February 2012."We're using crowd-sourcing, game-dynamics and lots of memory science to turn learning into a recreational sport," explains Cooke. "Technology should allow us to make learning massively more efficient and enjoyable."The idea is that people can learn languages, while also contributing their own content to help others. Memrise started with a website, but has also releasedan iPhone app.One of the core theories is that people memorise vocabulary using animations, drawings or photographs – "mems" is the word Cooke uses to describe them – and are then prompted to test themselves at the right time to keep them in memory. A "colourful garden of memory" to be specific, which involves lots of game mechanics.Cooke says mobile is an important part of Memrise's future. "It's the perfect thing for downtime in the bus queue or while waiting for a sandwich," he says. "It's inherently enjoyable. I think that what we think of as the education market is going to blend a lot with the entertainment market."Cooke also has strong views on why something like Memrise may appeal to young people ahead of traditional educational material they encounter at school, based on what he's seen while doing talks in schools around the UK."It's quite striking how, with all the best will in the world, it's quite difficult as a young person now to really care about anything inside a school," he says."The experience is so much less engineered than a decent computer game. If you think about all the resources and thought that have gone into creating the experience of a computer game, and then compare that to a geography lesson…"Cooke says Memrise's website currently has a wide range of age groups using it, from schoolchildren through to people in their 60s and 70s. It's starting to benefit from a network effect too: the more people on the site, the more there are contributing new content for the mems.He adds that Memrise has been watching social games like FarmVille very carefully – Zynga Boston boss Nabeel Hyatt is one of its seed investors – and understanding how their motivational dynamics work."FarmVille allows you to create something which is immediately social, and which binds you into motivating patterns of reciprocity within the game, which is why people click billions of times a day on pieces of virtual ground," he says."What we're trying to do with Memrise is take some of those dynamics and use them to enchant learning."Hence the garden of learning, which is the educational equivalent of a FarmVille farm: something visible to show off the progress that you have made. When a Memrise user has learned 1,000 words of, say, French, they have a blooming digital garden to show it.How does the company make money? It's early days, but Cooke says it's unlikely to involve charging for basic access to Memrise's site or apps."Our dream business model is based on building a community at large scale which can disrupt the normal way that knowledge is transferred, and then find ways around the sides to make money without directly charging for the central product."For now, it's all about building that scale and attracting users – something Cooke accepts will involve a new round of fundraising at some point. For now, he's focused on building a community of people engaged with Memrise."Learning is bound up in school with the least enjoyable things, and in one sense, a lot of the things you learn at school you're too young to really care about," he says."But learning is fun. It's the core mechanic of games: that sense of change and mastering yourself. That's our dream: turning learning into pure recreation."
When Kid Icarus: Uprising was teased at the 3DS's launch, it was met with a certain amount of head-scratching. The second sequel to a rather weird 1986 NES platform game (and the first Kid Icarus game since 1991), it hardly resembled a standard-bearer for Nintendo's stereoscopic 3D handheld console, although it would undoubtedly stand out from other 3DS games. It then took much longer than expected to arrive – but the good news is that that time appears to have been put to good use.Whether it will be to everybody's taste remains to be seen, but Kid Icarus: Uprising is both original and thoroughly playable. It's also very weird indeed. With a theme loosely based on Greek mythology (so loosely that you swear you can hear the sound of Robert Graves posthumously revolving), you play an angel called Pit, who has been given the task of rescuing the Earth from the tyranny of a reborn Medusa. Pit has been granted the gift of flight by by his mentor, the green-haired goddess Palutena.The action starts with Pit in flight. While Palutena controls the direction in which he flies, you can move him around the screen using the circle pad and aim attacks using the stylus – your right forefinger isn't a viable alternative as it covers too much of the screen. To fire, you use the left trigger; you can fire continuously or wait for attacks to charge up, and there are special attacks to be found that can be launched by touching prescribed areas of the touchscreen. This control system sounds cumbersome, but it works beautifully – with one massive caveat. If you're left-handed, Kid Icarus: Uprising may well prove unplayable, although it does support Nintendo's Circle Pad Pro add-on.There are also land-based sequences, in which the control system remains more or less the same, except the circle pad lets Pit strafe, and dodge if you whack it quickly in any given direction, while swiping the screen to the left or right changes Pit's view 90 degrees in that direction. As you progress, you find platform elements creeping in – jump-pads let Pit reach higher levels, for example, as do grind-rails. Even the platform elements seem refreshingly unconventional – in Pandora's labyrinth, for example, you have to reveal hidden paths by shooting in front of you.Since Pit is in charge of Palutena's army (although he takes on Medusa and her minions single-handed), he has access to some outrageous weaponry that becomes available in the form of collectables dotted around the game's levels. You can choose between ranged, all-round or melee-based weaponry (although the latter deliver ranged attacks when charged up), and even combine weapons to your own specification.It's just as well that you're never knowingly under-armed, as you have to overcome some pretty fearsome enemies (especially when on the ground). Each chapter ends with a boss, most of which require a tactical approach: happily, Palutena points out what you have to do. And the enemies you fight are generally extremely freaky-looking, often along the lines of floating eyeballs or even what appear to be the nose and eyes of Mr Potato Head.Add that to periods of eye-poppingly garish art-direction, some intricate level design (often, you have to dodge around when flying at speed) and a constant, pun-laden and thoroughly surreal dialogue with Palutena that takes place constantly, and the overall effect is trippy at the very least and often positively psychedelic. The Pit-Palutena dialogue sometimes descends into cheesiness, but occasionally makes you chuckle. And to emphasise the game's off-kilter feeling, you often encounter health-restoring food items such as hamburgers and doughnuts.There are some extras beyond the (fairly meaty) single-player game, including the ability to face off with your mates in arena battles or against them in free-for-alls, and you can battle locally using AR cards. Plus there's a mosaic that is revealed as you achieve in-game targets, and you can set the difficulty level for each chapter, gambling hearts and getting the chance to find more exotic weaponry in return.Graphically, Kid Icarus: Uprising is astonishing to behold, given that it was designed for the 3DS – which is just as well since at times, it gets incredibly busy in visual terms, and if it wasn't crisp and sharp to look at, it would get confusing. Overall, it feels fresh, original and exhilarating to play, and thanks to its off-the-chain level of bonkersness, it should appeal to young and old alike. One thing is for sure: you won't be mistaking it for any other game. It has cult classic writ through it like a stick of rock.• Game reviewed on Nintendo 3DS
I have to confess to feeling a little irked when I saw Lionel Messi doing keepy-ups on the cover of the new Fifa Street. Not that I have a problem with Messi as either a player or a person, it's just that he didn't look like an outlandish caricature of himself and lightning wasn't flying out of his feet.This told me that Fifa Street was going the same way as SSX, EA's other reboot of a gem from EA Sports Big's back catalogue, where all the zany, incredibly fun silliness in past iterations has been replaced with an aesthetic that is both unblinkingly serious and achingly cool.This, as anyone who remembers the hey-day of Fifa Street, is a pity. In the past, Fifa Street was a cartoon-like and refreshing alternative to EA's Fifa franchise. Its players weren't sportsmen, they were superheroes who could pull of flamboyant tricks, run up walls and bang in goals with bicycle kicks from miles outside the box. This isn't the case anymore; now the players look just like they do in real life. The arenas they frequent are graffiti covered carparks and indoor arenas. Even their tracksuits look licensed.But, if you're prepared to look past the cooler-than-thou presentation, Fifa Street is an admittedly excellent game, even if it does comes across like Fifa's show-off younger brother. The focus here is all about individual ball skills, trick dribbling, faking out opponents and building up fluid momentum while moving the ball up pitch. It feels, and to some degree, plays a little bit like an arcade fighter; players need to learn all the finesse dribbles and trick moves, and then chain them together to get the better of their opponents.The controls will be familiar to anyone who has played a Fifa title in the last few years; the face buttons, triggers and bumpers all mirror Fifa's interface, with a couple of exceptions. The left-stick, for example, is essentially the player's toolbox for faking out opponents. Flicking it this way and that produces heel-chops, feints and step-overs, but rotating it in set patterns produces pirouette moves, rainbow flicks and a host of other nifty tricks to baffle opponents.Pull the left trigger, and your player plants one of his feet in the ground and wheels the ball around, baiting opponents and protecting the ball with his body. Once their opposing number starts to harry them, players can quickly flick or feint away with the ball and create space for pass or a shot on goal. Click the right bumper and your player starts to juggle the ball with their feet. They can then flick it over or past an opponent, or pull it back over their own shoulder if they're being crowded.In defence, the key is busting up any momentum the opposing team tries to get going, and this means sticking to your opposing number like glue. There's no slide-tackling in the game, but players can execute standing tackles as well as bump and barge each other. Fifa 12's tactical defending system is plugged into the proceedings, so players can jockey and contain attackers.While all of this sounds rather complicated, it's actually an absolute breeze to get to grips with, thanks to the World Tour mode, where players can set the difficulty on a match-by-match basis. This means that they can proceed at their own pace, although those who decide to ratchet up the difficulty earn more than novices in the form of unlockable gear, such caps, hoodies, shorts and so on.The World Tour is essentially a selection of the different match types available in the exhibition mode, with a championship tournament serving as a finale for each region. Aside from the standard five- and six-a-side tournaments, there are three-on-three games, Last Man Standing matches, Futsal games and Panna matches. Last Man Standing is a four-a-side contest in which a team loses a player every time they score, and wins the match when they have no one left on the pitch. This may sound a little weird, but it's actually a lot of fun. In Futsal games, the goalmouths are bigger, there are no walls to bank passes off and fouls are penalised. In two-on-two Panna matches, players build up point in a "bank" every time they successfully nutmeg an opponent. When they score, any points they have in the "bank" are added to their overall tally. They can also lose their team's "bank" balance if an opponent manages to put one past them.During the tour, players will start a team, and fill out its roster with players they've played against, players created by their online friends, or more creations of their own. During matches, their players also earn XP from executing cool moves and scoring, which can be used to upgrade their individual attributes, turning them into better attackers, defenders or goalies. The multiplayer mode allows users to also take their team online and compete in for bragging rights and trophies.So it seems, in the end, that Fifa Street's new cooler, slicker presentation sits better with the game than I first imagined. Yes, it's a far cry from the arcade-like iterations of yesteryear, but in truth it's all the better for it. It might look and feel quite flash, but it's got the depth in content and mechanics to back it up. Above all though, Fifa Street is loads of fun to play, and that's a feature that is as welcome as it was – at least by me – initially unexpected.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A selection of 19 new apps for you today:StarrediPhone app Starred promises that it "turns Twitter Favourites into something useful". How? By making tweets that you've favourited into a reading list that you can come back to later, or share with friends. An Instapaper for interesting tweets, sort of.iPhoneAngry Birds Space PremiumAt the time of writing up theAngry Birds Space launchon 22 March, only the free Android version of Rovio's new game was available. Since then, the premium version has gone live, stripping out the ads.AndroidFingerprint : Whole Wide WorldUS startup Fingerprint is focused on making entertaining educational apps for kids. Its latest app is aimed at 5-8 year-olds, taking them on a tour of the world with elements of geography, history and culture. For more on Fingerprint, readApps Blog's interviewwith the company.iPhone / iPadGames for KidsTalking of kid-apps, Swedish developer Wombi has been porting its apps from iOS to Android this month, with Games for Kids an excellent introduction to its work. Six mini-games with three levels of difficulty should mean it appeals to a range of children.AndroidZoo Story 2Mobile social games developer TeamLava's latest Android title is Zoo Story 2, a follow-up to its previous game where players build a zoo and populate it with animals. Slightly worryingly, this time round cross-breeding elephants and polar bears is on the menu.AndroidMove the Turtle: Programming For KidsI spent my formative tech-years trundling a robo-turtle around the floor while learning the Logo programming language. Now there's an app for that, although in this case the turtle is virtual. The app aims to teach children as young as five years old the basics of programming.iPhone / iPadRollerhogBritish publisher Neon Play's latest iOS game has an interesting backstory: it's the winning idea from a competition run by apps magazine Tap! looking for game ideas. Patrick Jamison's spark has become a colourful rolling game that looks like the bouncy lovechild of Tiny Wings and Whale Trail.iPhone / iPadPairYou wait ages for a private social networking app for you and your partner to come along, then three turn up (almost) at once. Following in the iPhone footsteps of Cupple and Between comes Pair, which is the work of startup TenthBit. It's based around a timeline of photos, video messages, chat and location data.iPhoneKoopio: Daily Deals &amp; CouponsKoopio is the latest smartphone app that wants to serve up daily deals and discounts for the businesses around you. It aggregates the deals from other services including Groupon and LivingSocial, and covers 500 cities in the US, UK, Canada, Australia and Singapore.AndroidEARS|ONLYThis iOS app offers curated playlists of dance music chosen "by top DJs in electronic music". It can stream them to a nearby hi-fi using Apple's AirPlay technology, and promises to play nice with "luxury car" sound systems too.iPhone / iPadTap Paradise CovePocket Gems has been one of the other very successful social mobile game developers, and Tap Paradise Cove is its latest iOS release. It extends the world-building formula to island settlements.iPhone / iPadNokia Play ToThe latest Windows Phone app to emerge from Nokia's Beta Labs is Play To, which uses DLNA technology to wirelessly stream photos and videos from a smartphone to TVs, Blu-ray players and PCs.Windows PhoneDeezerStreaming music service Deezer has released a BlackBerry PlayBook app, making it one of the first of its category to launch on RIM's tablet.BlackBerry PlayBookBeWeather HDSlick weather app BeWeather HD has made the leap to BlackBerry PlayBook, providing forecasts for around the world.BlackBerry PlayBookLego Ninjago: Rise of the SnakesLego's latest iOS game is based on its Ninjago sub-brand, as youngsters build their own virtual ninja and do battle. Yes, with snakes, but also with one another.iPhone / iPadMonster TimeMonster Time is an impressive-looking iOS app to help children learn to tell the time – analogue and digital clocks – with the help of some colourful monsters.iPhone / iPadArt Jam TranceArt Jam Trance is a very nifty-looking visual remix app, which sees you triggering beats and samples by tapping cartoon objects and icons on-screen.iPhone / iPadBrasil QuestIn plenty of time for the 2014 football World Cup in Brazil comes this game, which involves guiding an alien called Yep around various cities in Brazil. It's the work of Embratur, the Brazilian Tourist Board.Android / iPhoneMr.Robot..."In front of the obsessive-compulsive disorder, procrastination, paranoia, social phobia, manic, anorexia, narcissism and so on, how dare you say that you are completely normal?" asks the App Store listing for book-app Mr.Robot... Well, it's certainly a pitch.iPhone
Xbox owners – did you picture yourselves making the most of the late spring sunshine this year? Whole days spent in the park, catching up on those George R.R. Martin books you got for Christmas? Perhaps a few jaunts to the coast? A hike or two maybe?Right, forget all that, you're going nowhere. Yesterday Microsoft announced its latest season of major Xbox Live Arcade releases. The action will kick off on 18 April with the idiotically addictiveTrials Evolution(for 1200 Microsoft points), before moving on to the Frank Miller-inspired hack-n-slasher, Bloodforge (25 April, 1200 points) and the colourful and lovelyFable Heroes(2 may, 800 points).The promotion ends with the much anticpated console translation ofMinecrafton 9 May. It'll come in at slightly more expensive 1600 Microsoft points, but offers four-player splitscreen and online multiplayer, as well as a clever new crafting system and tutorial aid for those who haven't spent the last year building reproductions of the Taj Mahal in the PC version.There's some other interesting news too. From April, XBLA titles will be offering not 200 but400gamer points, as well as up to 30 Achievements. It's a tacit acknowledgement of the fact that certain digital releases have offered more depth and longevity than many full-price retail titles.So yes, any of those interest you?
Two US Congressmen have written to Apple and 33 publishers of social iPhone appsrequesting detailson how they gather, store and use data on their users, as the row over apps privacy rumbles on.The pair – Henry A. Waxman and G.K. Butterfield – sit respectively on the Congress' energy and commerce committee and its commerce, manufacturing and trade subcommittee.They are looking for answers following the controversy earlier this year around apps uploading their users' iPhone address books to their servers without asking permission.Apple chief executive Tim Cook is receiving one of the letters due to his company publishing the Find My Friends app – Apple is separately being questioned by the congressmen over its wider iOS privacy-protection policies.The letters are also being sent to some of the most prominent figures and companies in the social networking and mobile industries: Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, LinkedIn's Jeff Weiner, Twitter's Dick Costolo,  Foursquare's Dennis Crowley, Instagram's Kevin Systrom and Pinterest's Ben Silbermann.Path chief executive Dave Morin is also getting a letter. His company's app was the first to be fingered publicly for address-book uploading, although it soon emerged that many more apps were doing the same thing.The other companies receiving letters are Foodspotting, Synthetic, Turntable.fm, Quora, Eye2i, Tapbots, Remixation, Schematic Labs, Massive Health, Trover, District Nerds, SoundCloud, Hipster, Forkly, Tiny Review, Fashism, Banjo, Localmind, Redaranj, Ness Computing, Socialcam, Piictu, Stamped,  Glancee, d3i and SK Planet.These companies aren't being accused of malpractice, it should be noted. "The apps were selected for the inquiry based on their inclusion in the 'Social Networking' subcategory within the 'iPhone Essentials' area of Apple's App Store," explain the congressmen."The members want the information to begin building a fact-based understanding of the privacy and security practices in the app marketplace."Each developer is asked nine questions about their app, how they deal with user data, and what privacy policies they have in place. Written responses are required by 12 April.Rivals (and journalists) will be looking forward to the answers to the first question: "Through the end of February 201 2, how many times was your iOS app downloaded from Apple's App Store?"For now, the enquiry seems to be focused on iOS apps specifically, rather than those on rival platforms like Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry.Action is already being taken outside this enquiry, though. After the initial story about uploading contacts broke, Path and its rivals quickly pushed out updates to their apps to make it clear what information was being uploaded and why.In February 2012, the Californian attorney generalbrokered an agreementwith Apple, Google, Microsoft, RIM, Amazon and HP to force apps developers to be upfront with their privacy policies.  The app store owners also agreed to offer ways for their users to report apps that don't comply.Meanwhile, earlier in February, the US Federal Trade Commissionmade its own recommendationthat app stores and developers must provide clearer privacy policies for apps aimed at children."Companies that operate in the mobile marketplace provide great benefits, but they must step up to the plate and provide easily accessible, basic information, so that parents can make informed decisions about the apps their kids use," said FTC chairman Jon Leibowitz at the time."Right now, it is almost impossible to figure out which apps collect data and what they do with it. The kids app ecosystem needs to wake up, and we want to work collaboratively with industry to help ensure parents have the information they need."As the congressional letters sent out this week show, the pressure for this awakening process is now being applied to a much wider cross-section of the apps industry.
A quick burst of 4 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew iPad Display Technology Shoot-Out &gt;&gt; DisplayMateApple has taken the very good display on the iPad 2 and dramatically improved two of its major weak points: sharpness and color saturation - they are now state-of-the-art. Our lab tests and visual tests agree with Apple's claim that the new iPad has "the best display ever on a mobile device" so we have awarded the new iPad the Best Mobile Display Award in DisplayMate's Best Video Hardware Guide. But there's more...the new iPad's picture quality, color accuracy, and gray scale are not only much better than any other Tablet or Smartphone, it's also much better than most HDTVs, laptops, and monitors. In fact with some minor calibration tweaks the new iPad would qualify as a studio reference monitor.(Via Ars Technica via @rquick.)Download Adobe Photoshop CS6 Beta &gt;&gt; Adobe LabsThe world's best digital image editing software is about to get even better. Explore Adobe® Photoshop® CS6 beta for a sneak preview of some of the incredible performance enhancements, imaging magic, and creativity tools we are working on. Discover for yourself why Photoshop CS6 software will be a whole new experience in digital image editing.First reports are very positive - notably that you can now search layers by name. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)Apple's haptic touch feedback concept uses actuators, senses force on iPhone, iPadIn an effort to make touchscreens less static, Apple has proposed that future iPhones and iPads could feature actuators that would provide haptic feedback to users, and also include sensors that would measure the force at which a user touches the screen. The concept was unveiled this week in apatent applicationdiscovered byAppleInsiderentitled "Touch-Based User Interface with Haptic Feedback." The use of actuators underneath a touchscreen could allow users to actually feel elements on the screen, such as buttons or controls.Actuators are lousy. That's what the BlackBerry Storm uses. Senseg's technology is miles better. Note though that the noise about haptics is getting gradually louder. We'd hope to hear it for Android and Windows very soon. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)New iPad Wi-Fi issues seem to be software related, should be easy to patch &gt;&gt; 9to5MacWementionedearlier that some new iPad owners were reporting issues with Wi-Fi. The problem seems to affect all models of the new device with both users of the 4G LTE model and the Wi-Fi-only model experiencing poor Wi-Fi reception. Many forum posters compared Wi-Fi reception with their other iOS devices and MacBooks on the same network:...unfavourably. We didn't notice any particular problems with the test version of the New iPad. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Yes! Friday! What you up to this weekend?
The Spanish surrealist painter Juan Gris is the latest cultural figure to be honoured with a Google doodle.To mark the 125th anniversary of the artist's birth, the search engine has transformed its logo using cubist imagery he helped pioneer.Gris was born José Victoriano Carmelo Carlos González-Pérez in Madrid on 23 March 1887. After studying art in Spain he moved to Paris in 1906 where he became a friend and contemporary of artists including Henri Matisse and Amodeo Modigliani.By 1910 he had developed his his own cubist style. His work typically featured jagged and angular arrangements of objects or people painted using a palette of muted tones.Google's doodle features stylised representations of musical instruments - familiar components of Gris's surrealistic vocabulary.Gris, whose painting Violon et Guitare sold for $28.6m at auction in New York in 2010, was also acquainted with fellow Spaniard Picasso, whom he regarded as his mentor. His 1912 Portrait of Picasso is claimed to be the first cubist work not painted by Picasso or the French painter Georges Braque.Gris died in 1927 aged 40 after suffering from chronic kidney failure.
You say there's a problem getting women into technology? The real problem might be the men.In the past few days, the tech industry – more specifically the chunk of it located over on the US west coast – has hardly covered itself in glory.First there was the example of Sqoot, which earlier this week made a rather weak joke in a call for an event called the Boston API Jam: "Women: Need another beer? Let one of our friendly (female) event staff get that for you." AsBetabeat points out, this quite quickly lost them a couple of sponsors. Sqoot said sorry, in aGoogle docand on Twitter; thediscussion then carried on over to Hacker News, where you'll find that quite a few commenters … don't quite get it. Such asthis one:Actually that's the funny part, this "joke" was in no way belittling women, it's idolizing them. It was made at the expense of the stereotypical male geek to whom women are otherwise inaccessible. Somehow it was appropriated as being about the female attendees.Oh, man. How to explain this? Ah, someone did, almost at once:Yes … it's idolizing women … as sexual objects offered as a perk to male coders so that they can serve the men. As a female coder, I'd rather not be offered as a perk to male coders. So, yeah, this is belittling.Let's understand it again: being female isn't a disadvantage in coding. If you have to ask, consider thatAda Lovelacewas arguably the first programmer, and thatGrace Hopperonly, you know, invented the compiler, among other things.To bring things up to date, the UK has a couple of women making a big difference in our access to coding and data – Emma Mulqueeny, who runs Rewired State, and Emer Coleman, who was very influential in getting the London Datastore opened up and is now working away inside government getting data pushed out in the same way.But while being a woman in programming isn't like living under the Taliban, it clearly carries its own frustrations. This morning I followed a link on Twitter to a blogpost by The Real Katie,expressing her annoyance as a female coder as being told to "lighten up":Let me tell you, I love coding. Been doing it since before I hit puberty. I did it when I barely had the money to keep a server up. I do it on the weekends and evenings, and I'm teaching my kids how to do it. I've spent thousands of dollars to go to conferences so I can learn more about it. Why would I ever leave the profession where I got paid real money to do what I love?In short, I got tired of being told to 'lighten up.'This industry is one of subtle sexism. I almost prefer outright sexism, because at least that you can point out. The subtle barbs are usually dismissed as something I need to not care about. It was a joke! Sheesh. Why are you so sensitive?! All I did was make a joke about you needing to be in the kitchen!There's plenty more; it is a story of the frustration of being female in a role where gender should be utterly unimportant and yet weirdly is. It's a sort of background hum of sexism; the sort that can drive people out of promising careers, and leave the "brogrammers" looking at each asking "where are all the women?"Having read that I followed a tweet by Kevin Marks which plunged me into what seems to me a quite amazing Twitter conversation, where an initial trigger – a video that really objectifies women – leads quickly down a dark path of implications, accusations, excuses, sidestepping and lines like "I have a family!"It was kicked off by a tweet from @shanley – Shanley Kane – towards Christian Sanz and Reuben Katz, who run a company called Geeklist.@csanz@rekatzwhy the ads with a woman in her underwear dancing around to dupstep? &mdash; Shanley Kane (@shanley)March 22, 2012I compiled the whole back-and-forthover at Storify. (I'd embed it here, but it's really very long.) If you're male, the real question to ask when you read it, is: how much of this behaviour goes on which you just don't notice? (If you're female, please tell us.) I've no axe to grind here; I'd never heard of any of the participants before today. I don't have any animus towards anyone; I don't want to see startups fail. But if you read it, the two men handle the objection from Kane poorly.The backlash has been quite dramatic – so much so that Katz hasquickly moved to apology mode, with a post entitled "public apology" which says:We never meant to offend any woman and are very sorry as we clearly have.We did not create the video at question. It was created out of love for Geeklist by a great Woman entrepreneur. Support for her company. Design Like Woah. She makes shirts and made awesome ones for us. She also goes way out of her way to help us ship to our men and women alike globally who love our brand.They're trying to take the video down, though it's complicated as it's actually owned by the videographer friend of the woman who sells the T-shirts.Katz continues:As for our handling of the twittersphere. We could have handled it better. I know Shanley personally, have skyped and emailed her many times and interviewed her for a job at Geeklist. She is an awesome candidate that as a startup I was very sad the timing was not right to work together. Of our 5 person team 2 are women and I am certain they can speak on our behalf as respectful gentlemen in the workplace who create a welcome environment for all. I also own a business with my wife where we have over 350+ women employees. I've built my career over 15 years working to make this world a better place for women, mothers, and children.In my wildest dreams we would never wish to offend any woman. The initial request made sense and we were discussing finding Gemma to take it down, when we got taken off guard a bit by her continued comments. We handled those poorly, but felt we had to defend ourselves. We apologize as well if our handling of the tweets offended anyone.It's good that Katz (and, one feels sure, Sanz too) have recognised that they handled the whole thing badly. In some ways this could be looked at as a "brand management" issue – if the person who had complained to the Geeklist duo had been male, how would it have played out? If you've got an example, please point us to it. (You can generate a conversation from an original tweet by plugging the tweet's URL intotwitter.theinfo.org.)And meanwhile ask yourself whether there's really no sexism in computing – or whether the answer to "why aren't there more women in technology" might have anything to do with the people who are already there.
Social gaming firm Zynga has paid a reported $200m to the makers of Draw Something, an online drawing game that has attracted over 35 million players in its first six weeks.Zynga, the company behind Words With Friends, FarmVille, CityVille and the majority of the most popular online games, announced late Wednesday that it was buying OMGPOP, maker of Draw Something.No price was announced, but according to Dow Jones newswire the figure was somewhere between $200m and $250m. Disney and Electronic Arts, the games company, were also believed to have made offers for the company.Over 35 million people worldwide have so far downloaded Draw Something, a game where players draw images based on selected words, from French dance pioneers Daft Punk to basketball sensation Jermy Lin, on their mobile devices and their friends guess what they are trying to depict. Zynga says it is already the top word game in 84 countries. In the last week, more than a billion drawings were made on the application."The OMGPOP team has created a game that's fun, expressive and engenders real social interaction. Draw Something has captured the imagination of millions of people around the world," said Mark Pincus, founder and chief executive of Zynga. "We're honoured to have the opportunity to partner with and support such an innovative team of creative inventors."The purchase is the largest Zynga has made, dwarfing its previous big buy, Newtoy Inc, maker of Words With Friends. Zynga paid $53.3m for Newtoy in 2010. The game company made 22 deals in 2010 and 2011, spending $105.1m.Analysts speculated that a bidding war drove up the price. "A reported $200 [million-plus] price tag for a six-week old game will justifiably raise eyebrows," Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter wrote in a note Thursday."Clearly, Zynga believes that this is a unique evergreen-type game that can become a long-term growth franchise. They are also focused on the cross-marketing potential between Draw Something and Zynga's players. Our initial reaction is that a bidding war likely led to too high of a price for the developer, but we really won't know if that price was justified for some time," he wrote.
I have amassed a lot of data about our family history (papers, photos etc), which I keep in a folder on my computer. This folder is subdivided into 37 sub-folders, some of which also have sub-folders. It amounts to about 1GB of data so far. I would like to share this data with other family members in various parts of the world – safely, given its personal nature. I was going to copy the folders onto a CD and post it, but if a CD got lost, anyone could easily access the data.Options I have considered:1. Encrypting the data, but I'm not sure how to do this.2. Using pen drives which I believe can be password protected. But they are a bit expensive.3. Uploading the data to something like SkyDrive or DropBox. The problem is the limits on the amount of data and folders.Any suggestions or recommendations?David BogleThis is a tricky one, because there are dozens of different ways to share files and photos, and different families have different levels of interest and computer expertise. You could try a couple of different approaches with one family member before choosing what you think is the most suitable system for all concerned.A decade or so ago, many of us used Yahoo Groups, which was called eGroups until Yahoo bought it in 2000. It was easy to set up a private family group where people could hold online discussions and share files and photos – just what you want.Yahoo made changes that upset many regular users (or at least, some vocal users), and I thought it might have disappeared, but it is still going atgroups.yahoo.com. However, each group only provides 100MB of free storage, and Yahoo doesn't sell extra space. That means it's not an option for your gigabyte of data, though it could still appeal to other readers.Today, most people would do the same sort of thing by starting a closed user group on Facebook. Conversations within the group cannot be seen by non-members. Facebook provides a free and convenient way to share low-resolution versions of photos, and you can add them to groups, but I'd worry about keeping them private. Further, while you can create documents in Facebook Groups, Facebook is not suitable for file storage.Microsoft's SkyDrive is a better alternative because it can handle both document files and original photos, though the main attraction is that it provides 25GB of free space. You can share things with other family members by emailing them a link to an item, which might be a single photo or a whole folder.SkyDrive lets you limit to sharing to particular names or email addresses. This is secure enough for most people's family photos, which are generally not very interesting to non-family members (unless you're a movie star, or similar), and the price is unbeatable.It also works well for non-expert users because it's integrated with the Microsoft's free desktop email program, Windows Live Mail. This makes it easy for people to upload photos to SkyDrive and email people the links, rather than sending photos as email attachments. You can drag-and-drop files as well.Geeks and more expert users are more likely to useDropbox, which has had the oddsecurity glitchbut is, I think, secure enough for you. Dropbox makes it very easy to share files and photos. The main drawback is the price. The free Dropbox service provides only 2GB of space, which could be enough for your purposes. However, the next step up is a Pro account with 50GB of storage, which costs $9.99 per month or $99 per year.Dropbox allows you to share files on a continuous basis. However, you could distribute the bulk of the files in one go, so everyone has a copy, then share the smaller number of new and updated files on Dropbox or one of the many similar services.The modern equivalent of sending out a bunch of CDs or DVDs is to upload the files to what we now seem to call "cyberlockers". You compress and password-protect your folders in manageable chunks – around 200MB to 400MB, perhaps – and upload them to a cyberlocker for other family members to download. You just email family members a link to each file and (separately) tell them the password.There are still dozens of free cyberlocker sites available, though a number have stopped working following US actions against Kim Dotcom's Megaupload in New Zealand. (Cyberlockers are often – though not exclusively – used to share copyright music and movie files.) However, you could open a free account atRapidshare, which no longer has a limit on the size of files you can upload. Files are not stored permanently unless you buy a pro account, in which case, Rapidshare space is "unlimited".MediaFireis a popular alternative, but it no longer allows password-protected files (which were being used to hide unacceptable content), and free users cannot upload any files larger than 200MB. The ban on password protection eliminates it as far as you're concerned – you need passwords to maintain privacy – though you could sign up for a pro account.Alternative cyberlockers could include Hotfile, Filefactory, Depositfiles, Oron, Uploaded.to, Turbobit, and Filefat, but I've not used any of those myself. You should upload a test file to any cyberlocker you might use and get someone to test the download before uploading the serious stuff.Finally, you could continue to store all the files yourself and let other family members access them remotely. This is another geek thing to do, and could be convenient if you happen to have an old PC that you could use as aFreeNASserver. Alternatively, you could deskill the whole idea by buying aPogoplug"personal cloud" device for £39.95 (see Charles Arthur's Technophile:Get plugged in with Pogoplug).The usual drawback with this approach is that if you share a 500MB file with 100 friends, the file is uploaded 100 times over your phone line, whereas you'd only upload it once to a cyberlocker. This probably doesn't matter when sharing things within the family. However, it seems to me that uploading files to Dropbox or Rapidshare or a similar online service might well be simpler for all concerned.With most of these approaches, you can make your data more secure by adding password protection. I almost always do this by compressing (encoding) individual folders using WinRAR, which has a built-in password system. Officially, I recommendTrueCryptfor maximum security, though I very rarely use it.It may help if you keep compressed or encrypted folders fairly small. If you change a single file in a large folder, you will have to upload the whole archive all over again. Worse, each family member will have to redownload the whole archive.In every case, you should use a strong password, which means not a dictionary word, at least eight characters long, and containing both letters and numbers. (Ideally, it should also include both upper and lower case letters, and a bit of punctuation always helps.) This doesn't mean the US government couldn't crack it if it didn't care about the cost, but that it would require more effort to crack than anybody would think it was worth.Your house doesn't need to be as well protected as Fort Knox, and you probably don't need a similar level of security for your family records.
The Silent Hillgames have always been psychological horror stories. When the franchise launched 13 years ago on PlayStation, it was the game's unsettling dream world that set it aside from other titles in the genre. If survival horrors such asResident EvilandDino Crisiswere the gaming equivalent of conventional slasher pics, Silent Hill was more like David Lynch'sMulholland Drive. Not content just to deliver the kind of short, sharp scares that send your popcorn flying – though it certainly did that – it went further, soaking the gamer in unease, uncertainty and cold sweat.Games in the series take place in the eerie ghost town of Silent Hill, a sort of shifting, smalltown purgatory, prone to deceiving and deluding both the hero and the player. In the abandoned shops and houses of Silent Hill, no one is quite as they first appear, and reality swiftly dissolves into an occult otherworld. There is no horde of Identikit flesh-eating zombies, no crypt of blood-sucking vampires, no stalking velociraptor. Silent Hill's monsters are the sort of twisted, Freudianabominationsof whichHP Lovecraftwould have been proud: they are monsters of the mind.The original, 1999's critically acclaimed Silent Hill, followed everyman father Harry Mason on a search for his missing adopted daughter. The enemies he met were notionally representations of his ambiguous feelings towards his mysterious daughter: among them, gruesome, warped schoolchildren and lurching, bulbous nurses. Not only was the town not all it seemed, but Mason's child, it turned out, had a dark and painful past of her own.In Silent Hill 2, released two years later for PS2, absent husband James Sunderland arrived in search of his wife, believed to have died in the town's hospital after a long and painful illness. He fought his way through writhing organic mannequins and thick, puckered lips of twisted flesh to discover that, in fact, she had been released from hospital and, frustrated at the shadow of her former self that she had become, he had smothered her on her return. The monsters he was fighting were manifestations of his guilt, denial and sexual frustration; he had come there, he realised, to be punished for his crime.Successive instalments - and there have been plenty - told stories just as bleak and twisted but, as horror franchises tend to, the series eventually outstayed its welcome. What had once been bold and original became a mechanical, predictable formula. So expectations for the eighth instalment in the series,Silent Hill: Downpour(Xbox 360/PS3) were never exactly high. And on the basis of a couple of hours with the game, I'd say it is in very little danger of exceeding them.The one thing it does still get just right is the fear. From the moment hero MurphyPendletonarrives in the wooded outskirts of the town, every footstep is tense, every corner daunting, and every opened door a relief. The designers build suspense expertly, making the player wait long enough in the eeriness to relax before striking with a quick, cruel fright that should provoke at least a jump, if not a scream, from all but the most hardened horror fans.In fact, if it had been a horror film, Downpour could well have been a classic. Sadly, when you come to play it as a game, the terror swiftly gives way to tedium. Much of the gameplay is about puzzle-solving in the familiar form of doors that need unlocking and machines in need of repair, but it is often left to the player to search blindly for the right tools. Usable items are indistinguishable from general clutter, leaving the player to patrol the extremities of each room in the hope of spotting a "Press A to pick up" prompt. Once you have found the only interactive item in the room, the puzzle element becomes simple trial and error.More frustrating still is the combat. Unable to lock on to enemies, the player must either aim each attack with impossible precision, or swing blindly at the air like an idiot. The system is made doubly annoying by the fragility of the weapons. Even a thick lead pipe somehow disintegrates after hitting a monster a few times, leaving the player scrabbling around for a weapon in the middle of a fight, a section they could have released on its own under the title "Dropped Contact Lens Simulator".The storytelling in Downpour is as dark and shocking as ever, and the setting just as creepy, but if the franchise carries on being this frustrating to actually play, fewer and fewer players will want to walk the streets of Silent Hill. And, eventually, it really will become a ghost town.
A selection of 12 new apps for you today. Note, Angry Birds Space isn't included, as I'vecovered this separately.Dr. Seuss Beginner Book Collection #2Oceanhouse Media has released its second iOS compilation of Dr. Seuss book-apps. Pay £7.99, and you get five: Green Eggs and Ham, Dr. Seuss's ABC, The Cat in the Hat Comes Back, There's a Wocket in My Pocket and Hop on Pop. Voice narration, sound effects and word-highlighting for young readers are all included.iPhone / iPadWeather FlowFollowing in the footsteps of slick Windows Phone app Cocktail Flow comes this weather app, providing current conditions and forecasts for cities around the world, in a stylish swipe-based Metro interface.Windows PhoneDiscovr PeopleThe Discovr series of apps, which help you find new music, films and apps respectively, have been downloaded more than 2m times so far. Now they've been joined by a fourth app, Discovr People, which uses the same flowchart-style interface to find interesting people to follow on Twitter.iPhone / iPadFitbitHealthy app Fitbit has a new Android version to join its existing iOS app. It logs food and activities, setting a daily calorie target to help you shape up. It works with the Fitbit Wireless Tracker gadget to keep data synchronised.AndroidBeatstreamMusic apps developer Smule (of Magic Piano, Glee Karaoke and Leaf Trombone fame) has a new iPhone game that uses your device's music library to generate levels. The gameplay sees you smashing through barriers in rhythm to the music as a "two-faced" arrow.iPhoneBiscuit's BirthdayiStoryTime has brought HarperCollins' popular children's book Biscuit's Birthday to iOS, with the original book having sold 16m copies in its printed version. Interactivity includes colouring, puzzles and a memory game. In the US, the app is also out for the Kindle Fire and Nook tablets.iPhone / iPadBlurttBlurtt is an app that aims to help people express themselves by grabbing images from the web (or their own Camera Roll) and adding text, before sending the results via email or MMS, or posting them to Twitter and Facebook.iPhoneWunderlistTask manager app Wunderlist has made its way to Windows Phone, with the new version synchronising with users' existing accounts on whatever devices they've been using it.Windows PhoneDoctor MoleAndroid app Doctor Mole is used to scan moles on your body, and compare the images over time to gauge whether you need to pop to the doctor's for a professional opinion.AndroidMoshcamiOS app Moshcam offers video footage of hundreds of gigs, with artists including Jane's Addiction, Blondie, Gary Numan and The Kills all featured.iPhone / iPadBiocBioc is a "biomorphic clock" app for iPhone where the on-screen clockface is made up of hundreds of coloured cells that shift and swirl about in patterns based on natural phenomena like solar flares and cellular motion.iPhoneForeigner – Live in ChicagoWaiting for an app like you... This one's as cold as ice, it'll be a juke box hero on your iOS device etc etc etc. Yes, Foreigner have a live app offering video footage of a gig in Chicago.iPhone / iPad
On a sunny afternoon in Paris, Adrian Lacey – the IP development director from Ubisoft in France – is holding court. A room full of journalists stands in front of him scribbling notes as he explains the details pertaining to Ghost Recon: Future Soldier's co-op multiplayer. It is, he says split between two modes. There's the co-op multiplayer, in which up to four players can tackle the campaign just as they would in single player, except with humans replacing the AI. And then there is the brand new Guerrilla Mode."When we were looking at Ghost Recon: Future Soldier at the beginning of the development cycle," he says, "we knew wanted a mode which was more dynamic. What happened was that we were talking to one of our Special Forces consultants and they told us about some of the missions they'd seen in Afghanistan."Obviously NATO forces were large on the ground, but being a huge military army can have a limited effect when you're fighting a guerrilla war, especially in region where everyone's walking around carrying some sort of gun. It makes it very hard to distinguish between who is and who isn't an enemy.""Now, what would happen is that local villages would pay warlords protection money. So when the Special Forces troops would drop into a village, the civilians would leave because they knew there would be a fight. The village elders would contact the warlords and demand service for their protection payments. So the Special Forces troops would have to fortify their positions and hold their ground as waves and waves of insurgents were sent their way."Lacey continues for a bit, but the furious scribbling in the room around him has died down somewhat. This is because all of the games journalists have looked at their pads and seen the phrases "fortify their positions", "hold their ground" and "waves and waves [of enemies]". And we all now have a pretty good idea of what Guerrilla Mode is. It's a Horde Mode.This means that Ghost Recon: Future Soldier is yet another shooter whose developers have decided to build a version of Epic's game-changing co-op survival challenge from Gears Of War 2. It may have its basis in the genuine tactical realities and challenges facing modern military forces in combat zones – as much as the rest of GR's mechanics do – but that doesn't change the fact that it has the same structure, set-up and goals for players that the Horde Mode in Gears does.In Guerrilla Mode, up to four players are dropped into a map and they're given a quadrant highlighted in green to defend – let's call it a "green zone". Two crates – one containing weapons and another containing equipment such as grenades and claymores – are dropped into the map with them, and the players have a small slice of time to plant traps, get into position and then lock and load. Once the timer stops, enemies begin pouring into the map. If the players survive the onslaught, they unlock more weapons and equipment and the next wave of enemies increases in number and becomes a little heavier armed.After 10 waves, the map's "green zone" moves to a different location, and players need to make their way over to it, secure it and begin defending it again. The game ends once the players survive 50 waves of enemies, or if all the players die, or if enemy forces manage to occupy the players' "green zone" for too long.So Guerrilla Mode bears more than a passing resemblance in structure to Horde Mode. That having been said, Guerrilla Mode is a better fit for Ghost Recon's tactical style of play than one might think. First off, the game's AI is craftier than most, and as enemies enter the map, they immediately start to seek cover, flank the players and use sustained fire keep the players' heads down. This means that certain sections of the map can turn into choke points – worth noting when the players have a window of time to set up claymores.Players also have the option of stockpiling their equipment. While they're limited to the amount of grenades, for example, they any pick up on each drop, they are able to add to any ordinance they didn't use during a wave. So, if the "green zone" shifts from a fortified spot to one with multiple entry points, and you've managed to keep your claymore count up, you can position your mines to do most of your defending for you.While players need to be tactically minded, the style of play needed to survive in Guerrilla Mode is far more frenetic and action oriented than the series has been known for in the past, where slow-paced stealth and mission prep are large factors in success. This slower-paced gameplay hasn't been stripped out altogether, mind. Players will experience plenty of that in the game's single player and co-op campaign. For the latter, however, they will need a decent headset.This is because in co-op, all four players need to be aware of their teammates positions and movements at all times. The reason for this is that if any of them dies, the mission they're on is aborted. To that end, players need to watch each others' backs, stay hidden from enemies, report any information about the terrain they pick up to their comrades, and above all else, hold off pulling the trigger on their weapon until their teammates give them the go-ahead. Lone wolves should look elsewhere for their shooter kicks; if you don't work together with your teammates, you'll not only fail every mission, you'll probably lose yourself some online mates into the bargain.Both of the missions shown to journalists in Paris featured the loose, open-ended, multi-track approach that made the Ghost Recon series a hit to begin with. In one, the team was tasked with infiltrating a compound filled with Russian soldiers. Here, the progression was divided between scouting the terrain – using sensor grenades and a UAV drone – and positioning the squad to cause the maximum damage, then taking out multiple targets simultaneously. The players had dense foliage and the odd building to hide behind for the most part, but the level also featured a rather difficult boss battle in the form of a tank that rolled in midway.The second mission was set at night and the squad started outside a Russian airfield. While infiltrating the grounds and picking up a package were the main objectives, stealth was the order of the day, as if one member of the team was spotted, the mission was over. To that end, the squad needed to stick to the shadows, take cover behind vehicles and containers parked on the runway and do everything they could to ensure that none of the bodies they left behind could be spotted.It's interesting that Ghost Recon: Future Soldier can accommodate two different shooter approaches in two separate co-op modes. From a design point the two sit well next to each other, and it can't hurt the game's chances since this ultimately broadens its appeal. It really is starting to shape up as a varied and compelling package – and there's a still a competitive multiplayer mode to look forward to. In the meantime, watch this space … and buy a decent headset.• Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier will be released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 25 May
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle said to rethink Wallet strategy amid slow adoption &gt;&gt; BloombergGoogle is weighing changes aimed at improving its Google Wallet mobile-payment system following slow adoption and the departure of two key managers, according to people with knowledge of the project. The company is considering sharing revenue with carriers such as Verizon Wireless and AT&amp;T to get them to embrace the technology, which lets users pay for items at checkout by tapping phones on a reader device, said the people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are private... "They are in a bit of a re-evaluation pattern right now," said Rick Oglesby, an analyst at Boston-based research firm Aite Group. "It's going much slower than anticipated."It's Not About File Size: Why you should learn to stop worrying and love the new iPad &gt;&gt; Mag+What's an hour of a great experience worth in megabytes? Who decided that there is an optimum size for a digital magazine? And what is it? 50MB? 200mb? Sitting and waiting for a magazine to download at any size is a hassle, but with Newsstand auto-downloads and progressive downloading (coming soon to Mag+), I think this has largely been mitigated. My point is that I don't believe people actually give a flying frog about file size--they care about value. And most content creation companies have not yet even begun to tap what can be done in this space. For instance, why not instead of just delivering Walking Dead as a video file, make it an "issue." In it, you could have interviews with the actors, slideshows of behind the scenes photos, an interactive game, a live feed of news from the show AND the actual episode itself, playable in full-screen and over AirPlay.Errr... because nobody cares about that stuff? What people want is the content, not how the actors got there. Hearing that stuff takes *away* from the content. It breaks the fourth wall.The Guardian GoogleTV project, innovation &amp; hacking. &gt;&gt; Dan CattEx-Flickr core, now Guardian developer Dan Catt explains how and why and where and what he did the Guardian's Google TV project. (Note: he ignored the spellcheck on "cognitive".)The Browser You Loved To Hate &gt;&gt; Microsoft Internet ExplorerVery clever, self-mocking campaign by Microsoft. Bird-based communication. Bikes that are hard to ride. Unnecessary beanies. All go through a dip in popularity over time, then reassert. Enjoy, why not?Hat Trick!!! - Nokia Lumia 800 Windows Phone is the best-selling phone in all Finnish networks in February &gt;&gt; Mr. Windows Phone FinlandDespite what you might expect from his somewhat clear self-description, Mr Windows Phone Finland isn't garnishing the truth. (Also: "Lumia" means "snow" in Finnish.) The others make interesting reading too.IS HE NUTS? This Guy Thinks He Can Beat A $5.5 Billion Company With A $10 Million Funding Round &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJanuary 2011:OMGPOP CEO Dan Porter tells us the company will use the money to "aggressively" hire Flash and mobile developers as it re-orients the company around the iPhone and Facebook. Right now the company has 35 people. Founder Charles Forman is now leading mobile games development.Is he nuts to turn down Zynga? Read on.The 1,825 night success &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisDraw Something was first launched on OMGPOP's website five years ago. It remained there, as a relatively obscure game, without much usage. Six weeks ago, it was ported to iOS. Today, the company is worth $180m.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Angry Birds fans craving a fresh fix of Rovio's game franchise can breathe a sigh of relief: the latest instalment, Angry Birds Space, has now been launched on several devices.The new game isavailable for iPhoneand in aseparate HD version for iPad, costing £0.69 and £1.99 respectively.An Android version is also nowlive as a free downloadand in-game advertisements, while Rovio isselling a PC versionfrom its own online shop, and aMac versionin Apple's Mac Store. Ad-free versions of the Android game will follow.While the core formula of catapulting birds at pigs remains intact, Angry Birds Space adds new gameplay elements including gravitational fields, and new birds with their own destructive capabilities.There is also a new power-up – Space Eagles – which can be earned by playing or bought as an in-app purchase. 60 levels are included in the initial game, but more will be added as free updates and in-app purchases."This launch marks a huge step for us as a company, and our whole team and partners have really pulled together to bring out a fantastic array of exciting products and experiences.," says chief executive Mikael Hed in a statement. "We hope that our fans will find all things Angry Birds Space as delightful as the Rovio family does."Rovio has previously promised an official companion book published by National Geographic as well as animation and retail elements for the Angry Birds Space launch. Nickelodeon will be screening an exclusive short film based on the game on Friday 23 March, which will include six new bird characters.Device-maker Samsung is also a key partner for the Angry Birds Space launch, with an exclusive level for owners of its Galaxy Note device who get the new game.The animation includes this video explaining how the bird characters got into Space in the first place:Rovio will be hoping the new game continues the startling growth for Angry Birds, which had passed 700m downloads on all platforms last time the company released public figures.With the three previous games in the series still riding high in app stores, the franchise is likely now closer to 1bn – a milestone that Angry Birds Space may well help it surpass sooner rather than later."It's the first time we have everything available on launch day: animation, toys, books, candy, everything. It's massive: most Hollywood movies don't have this. And this is just the first phase of our space programme. There is more to come," Rovio's Peter Vesterbackatold The Guardianin February 2012, while preparing for the launch.Rovio is also rolling out some stunts for launch day. That includes an installation piece in Seattle at the Space Needle landmark featuring a 300-foot tall slingshot and giant Angry Bird. US mobile operator T-Mobile is the partner on that.
Zynga has bought games developer OMGPOP for a rumoured $210m, just seven weeks after the latter's Draw Something game was released for iOS and Android.The New York-based developer will continue to develop the Pictionary-esque game, while also working on new mobile IP for Zynga, reporting to the publisher's chief mobile officer David Ko.In that first seven weeks, Draw Something was downloaded 35m times, and on the day the acquisition was announced (21 March) it had 13.3m daily active users, 4.8m more than Zynga's most popular social game Words With Friends.The game is a bona-fide craze, but OMGPOP has worked hard to become an overnight success. The company was founded in 2009, and released 35 social games before Draw Something. That's reminiscent of Rovio, which famously developed 51 mobile games before striking gold with Angry Birds.Neither Zynga nor OMGPOP has officially confirmed the $210m figure yet, but TechCrunchreportsthat it's $180m up front plus a potential $30m earnout payment, and GigaOmbacks that up.The acquisition – and specifically that figure – has sent shockwaves through the mobile games industry. There are a lot of developers pouring scorn on Zynga for paying such a large sum for what they perceive to be a fortunate one-hit company.That said, every developer I've talked to admits they would have taken the money without a second thought if they were in OMGPOP's position.Many wonder why Zynga didn't simply clone the game and spend big (but not $200m big) on user acquisition. And there are a fair few developers fretting that this deal is a sign that the mobile games industry is locked in a freemium-fuelled bubble heading for an inevitable pop. No pun intended.There are some clear reasons why Zynga bought OMGPOP, and why it paid so much. Buying Draw Something so rivals couldn't is one of those.Japanese social games companies GREE and DeNA are both rich enough to hold wallet-waving matches against Zynga, and both are mustard-keen to beef up their presence in the West. DeNA acquired US social-mobile games company ngmoco for $403m (including earnout) in October 2010, while GREE paid $104m for rival OpenFeint in April 2011.Given those previous deals, Zynga's decision to bid high and early for OMGPOP is more understandable. Its job now is to ensure players don't get bored with Draw Something and melt away – or if they do, to ensure they melt away to Zynga's other mobile games.So what else now? OMGPOP will continue adding new features to Draw Something, including chat and the ability to save scribblings for posterity."Zynga offered us a chance to focus on Draw Something. They know the power of the game and they planned with us how to let it keep rolling in the same fun, irreverent and social way that it has been," writes OMGPOP chief executive Dan Porteron Zynga's blog."That was really important to us. And they are working with us on everything else – improving performance issues in the game, planning for new games, finding even more developers to work on the game and more… So to players of the game, don't worry. Nothing's changing and now all the features you want – chat and sharing and galleries and more – will come even faster."Other independent studios with a hit (or more) will be considering their own possible valuations, and hoping for DeNA, GREE and other big games companies to go on their own acquisition sprees to hoover up popular mobile titles and scale up their player networks.And if OMGPOP is worth $210m, what does that mean for the valuation of Rovio? Angry Birds is now well over 700m downloads in its various incarnations, with new title Angry Birds Space making its debut today (22 March).The Angry Birds games had 30m daily active users in October 2011, and likely more now, with a proven secondary revenue stream (25m plush toy sales so far) and all manner of other spin-offs on the way.Yet if its valuation is inflated further by OMGPOP's selling price, the pool of companies that could afford to buy Rovio shrinks further too, nudging it further towards an IPO, or a sale to an entertainment giant like Disney rather than a fellow games firm.The real lesson of Draw Something, though, is the dizzying pace of the mobile apps industry right now. A game that launched on 1 February accumulated 35m downloads in seven weeks before its creator was sold – if the reports are true – for $210m.This is the scale with which new digital brands are emerging in the apps world. The question now is which will be next – and just how frenzied will the acquisition scramble be around it?
Activists such as "Anonymous" who hack into government and corporate computer networks and then release files to embarrass those organisations were responsible for more than half of all known data thefts last year, according to a new survey.That's a big change from recent years when the motivation behind most cyberattacks has been to make money, according to the US mobile carrier Verizon Communications , whichoutlined its finding in one of the biggest annual global surveys on data loss(PDF).The company's researchers worked with law enforcement in the UK, US, Australia, Holland and Ireland, and reached the conclusion after reviewing roughly 174m records stolen in 855 incidents. They found that 58% of the stolen data was due to so-called "hacktivism" in 2011, while no losses had been attributed to that cause in previous surveys."It's not just about the money any more. It's a big change in our adversaries," said Bryan Sartin, head of Verizon's computer forensics unit and co-author of the survey. The report notes: "Doubly concerning for many organisations and executives was that target selection by these [cyber activist] groups didn't follow the logical lines of who has money and/or valuable information."Anonymous, a loosely organised collective which is the most prominent hacktivist group, claimed responsibility for a string of incidents last year, beginning with attacks on the websites of the governments of Tunisia, Algeria and Zimbabwe. Other targets included military contractors, law enforcement agencies and corporations including Sony, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and Apple.But in a major blow to its hacktivism efforts, US authorities revealed earlier in March that a leading hacker known online as Sabu secretly became an FBI informant last year, providing evidence that led to charges against five other suspected members of the international hacking group LulzSec, which carried out a number of breaches.Cybersecurity analysts said that they expect hacktivism to continue, though it may not be as severe."It may be episodic, with peaks and valleys," said Andy Purdy, chief cyber security strategist for CSC, which helps companies and government agencies fight cyber attacks.Mary Landesman, senior security researcher with Cisco Systems Inc, said that she thinks the influence of hacktivists will wane.She believes that the hackers who are arrested get caught because they become too focused on a need to become famous and make mistakes that enable law enforcement to catch them. "That has discredited Anonymous as a whole," she said. "When you see your buddy going off to jail, it's a great sobering force."Verizon said that it does not know what percentage of all data breaches is accounted for in its survey. The company said that it did not make sense to compare data from 2011 with that of previous years because it collected information from more law enforcement agencies than in earlier surveys.CSC's Purdy said that businesses needed to keep their eye on intellectual property theft, which did not score as high on Verizon's survey, but had become of growing concern as reports grew about corporate breaches apparently driven by national interests which silently targeted commercially sensitive data.Only about 4% of records stolen were related to intellectual property, yet those secrets clearly have more value than that number would suggest. Some 39% of breaches affecting large organisations targeted sensitive organisational data, copyrighted information, trade secrets and classified information."Systematic online theft of intellectual property rises to the level of national security significance because of its impact on competitiveness on major American companies," said Purdy, a former Department of Homeland Security official responsibility for cyber security.In November, a US intelligence report to Congress warned that China and Russia were using cyber espionage to steal US trade and technology secrets to bolster their own economic development, and that posed a threat to US prosperity and security.Verizon said that it obtained data from the US Secret Service, the Dutch National High Tech Crime Unit, the Australian Federal Police, the Irish Reporting &amp; Information Security Service and the Police Central e-Crime Unit of the London Metropolitan Police.The company said that nearly all of the attacks were not highly difficult to launch and could have been avoided if the victims had done a better job of implementing basic security measures."I'd love to tell you we see a lot of indications that companies are getting better and more secure," Sartin said. "But if you look at where these companies are falling down, it's still unfortunately in common sense."
Happy Thursday! Watcha doing?
After a three-year hiatus, Resident Evil is well and truly back in 2012, with a positive welter of releases bearing the imprint of the genre-defining survival-horror franchise.3DS fans have already enjoyed the stupendous Resident Evil: Revelations, and the next full-blown iteration of the series, Resident Evil 6, is due to arrive in November. If you can't wait until then, you might want to check out Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City, which provides an intriguing starter while the main course is assembled.There have been plenty of Resident Evil sub-games in the past, which tended to take place in the game's familiar universe and either deviate from its core gameplay or flesh out hitherto unrecounted parts of the storyline, but few displayed much credibility. Operation Raccoon City, though, is different.Gameplay-wise, it's a squad-based third-person shooter, with the emphasis very much on action, so it feels quite unlike the core games to play. Yet at the same time, it feels gloriously familiar, since it takes place entirely in Raccoon City, at exactly the time the events in Resident Evils 2 and 3 were playing out. It's Resident Evil, but not as we know it, yet exactly as we know it.Capcom brought in developer Slant Six, best known for the more recent SOCOM games, to make it, so it won't surprise to learn that its gameplay feels not unlike that of SOCOM. Thus, you get a basic storyline (although there are still – mercifully short – cut-scenes to be found as you hit checkpoints in its missions), over-the-shoulder shooting with a Focus mode that brings up a more or less first-person perspective and the ability to choose between six characters with different attributes – an explosives expert, two all-rounders, a scientist, a medic and a stealth-merchant.From these operatives, employed by Umbrella Security Services (that is, the military wing of the company that caused the zombie outbreak in the first place, which has inevitably been your enemy in Resident Evils of yore) you make up a four-person squad, and must make your way through seven satisfyingly long missions surviving the unwelcome attentions not just of zombies and mutants (BOWs or Bio-Organic Weapons in Resi-speak) but also of SpecOps squads.What ensues is deliciously hectic and, in the glorious tradition of Resident Evil, both challenging and scary. And even what you would characterise as the game's flaws don't mar the experience – it's not the most polished or lavishly crisp-looking game, but that just brings back memories of Resident Evils 2 and 3.The AI controlling the other three members of your squad is pretty dumb, but you earn Experience Points (XP) for reviving them, and it would be too easy otherwise. Plenty of characteristic Resident Evil elements pop up – there are green herbs, for example, that give a health boost mid-battle, and weapons crates containing the likes of grenade launchers and flamethrowers. And there are new mechanics which make eminently good sense: as well as health-sprays, there are anti-virus sprays, essential if you get bitten (or vomited on), since you will then become infected and, after a while, turn into a zombie.You can cash in your XP on new abilities, both active and passive, such as incendiary ammo or body armour, which can be triggered for a short period and upgraded by spending more XP. Zombies' heads pop in an incredibly satisfying manner if you get your aim and timing right. And you can buy and upgrade a superb array of weapons.The BOWs you encounter act pretty effectively as bosses, and you often face dilemmas such as whether to eliminate the SpecOps troops in order to concentrate on, say, the Hunters, or to let them cause as much damage to the Hunters as possible, even though you run the risk of them concentrating fire on you. And there is plenty to delight committed Resident Evil fans. The missions take in familiar venues such as Birkin's lab, the hospital and the library, you encounter old friends like Leon S Kennedy and Nicholai Ginovaef and there's a sub-plot involving reacquiring control of a Tyrant.Best with friendsFun though the single-player game is, Operation Raccoon City really comes into its own when played with others via Xbox Live or the Sony Entertainment Network. You can play four-versus-four team deathmatches, with one side as USS and the other SpecOps.Heroes is Deathmatch, with players assuming the role of an iconic Resident Evil character such as Claire Redfield. Biohazard is similar to capture the flag, except with vials of the G-Virus to collect. But our favourite is undoubtedly Survivor, which is essentially the same as Gears of War's Horde mode, except it's played out against the backdrop of a helicopter flying in to extract you, which triggers a free-for-all when it arrives, as those who react slowly won't get a seat.Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City isn't the sort of game that will win awards – it's too rough around the edges in certain respects – and it's important to bear in mind that it's best experienced multiplayer rather than solo. But it's great fun and adds a fresh spin to a key time and place in the Resident Evil universe. It will bring a smile, in particular, to those who remember Resident Evils 2 and 3 with fondness. Sure, it's a footnote in the Resident Evil oeuvre. But it's a good appetite-whetter for Resident Evil 6.• Game reviewed on PlayStation 3
Ten cities were named as beneficiaries of £100m of government money to help develop ultra-fast broadband and Wi-Fi in the budget – while smaller towns were also promised a further £50m of investment for the first time.Chancellor George Osborne said Belfast, Birmingham, Bradford, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle and London will bid for their share of a £100m "super-connected cities" subsidy, aimed at ensuring universal access to 100 Megabit per second internet links.Government officials said the money will be used in neighbourhoods where private companies such as BT Group and Virgin Media are unlikely to invest – but critics dismissed the chancellor's national internet strategy as "half-hearted".According to the Treasury, by 2015 the money will deliver ultrafast broadband coverage to 1.7m households and 200,000 businesses in high growth areas as well as high-speed wireless broadband for 3 million residents."Two years ago Britain had some of the slowest broadband speeds in Europe; today our plans will deliver some of the fastest," said the chancellor. "But we should not be complacent by saying it is enough to be the best in Europe when countries like Korea and Singapore do even better."Osborne also told parliament in his budget speech the £50m smaller cities fund was agreed after lobbying from Brighton Kemptown MP Simon Kirby.His 2012 budget identified broadband as one of the government's four infrastructure priorities, alongside roads, railways, clean energy and water. But critics say the £150m for cities plus £530m already promised for rural broadband fall short of the investment needed to compete with better infrastructure abroad.While Osborne claimed the fastest speeds in the world would be available in British cities, millions of homes in other capitals including Paris and Moscow already have access to speeds well above 100Mbps because their telecoms companies are laying fibre cables from the exchange direct to homes.A direct fibre connection is considered future-proof because it can in theory deliver speeds of 1,000Mbps or more. BT's plans largely involve laying fibre to street cabinets and relying on copper wires for the last leg, which will restrict speeds."This half-hearted approach to funding broadband infrastructure short-changes the British economy and British society," said Morag Lucey of telecoms billing group Convergys. "Against the backdrop of the £200bn being invested in energy and transport infrastructure, funding from all public sources for broadband up to 2015 is likely to be smaller than government revenue from the digital dividend spectrum auction."The government could raise up to £4bn by auctioning airwaves next year for super-fast 4G mobile broadband, and Convergys says some of the money could be used to fund more fibre for the UK.Dana Pressman-Tobak, managing director of fibre broadband startup Hyperoptic, said: "In order to compete in a global broadband arena the government needs to take a long-term view and focus on encouraging broadband providers to adopt fibre-to-the-building models in cities. Anything less is not ideal."BT has no targets to bring fibre direct to a stated number of buildings in the UK. Residential customers will be able to order it, with speeds of up to 300Mbps, but the cost is so high that initially only businesses are likely to pay for the connection.Hyperoptic believes public money would be better spent bringing broadband to rural areas, a view which was echoed by Julia Stent, director of telecoms at price comparison site uSwitch.com: "Although there are still broadband blackspots and speed issues in some urban areas of the UK, we worry that the major towns and cities will speed ahead of the rest of the country in the premature quest to become fastest in the world. The government's chief concern should be the provision of a service to those areas lacking decent broadband infrastructure before pursuing the likes of Korea and Singapore."A spokesman for BT said: "Speeds of up to 80Mbps will be available to 10m homes this year and that number will rise over the next few years to close to 90% with the help of government funds. Not only that, speeds of 300Mbps will be available on demand across that footprint ensuring that businesses and consumers across the UK have access to world leading speeds should they wish."
Six years ago today, the world was sent its first tweet. With just two words – and far shorter than the 140 character limit – Twitter founderJack Dorseywas the first human to publicly tackle the microblogging platform's big question: "What are you doing?" His answer:inviting coworkers&mdash; Jack Dorsey (@jack)March 21, 2006Pretty practical for a groundbreaking moment in web history.So what wereyouwere doing the first time you entered the Twittersphere?If you can't recall, check outMy First TweetorTweet#1to jog your memory. Tweet us your first words using the hashtag #myfirsttweet and we'll retweet our favorites.Feeling shy? Don't! Here are a few examples of notorious newborn tweets to get your # flowing:Barack Obama, with more than 13 million followers, the president is far and away the most popular politician on Twitter:Thinking we're only one signature away from ending the war in Iraq. Learn more athttp://www.barackobama.com&mdash; Barack Obama (@BarackObama)April 29, 2007Lady Gaga, Twitter monster that she is, is the first person to boast more than 20 million followers:op rehearsing for my video just dance and am now at wmc to perform at the Armani and nervous records party. But I am no nervous record!...&mdash; Lady Gaga (@ladygaga)March 27, 2008Celebrity chefPaula Deenwould become an internet meme in her own right, but on Twitter she controls her own message:Hey Y'all, getting ready to cut the ribbon on my new buffet in Tunica&mdash; Paula Deen (@Paula_Deen)May 23, 2008Oprah Winfreysays "you get a tweet and you get a tweet and you get a tweet!" Not really, but this was her first one:HI TWITTERS . THANK YOU FOR A WARM WELCOME. FEELING REALLY 21st CENTURY .&mdash; Oprah Winfrey (@Oprah)April 17, 2009Former New York CongressmanAnthony Weiner's first tweet is rather ironically heartbreaking given the medium (and his misuse of it) is what woud ultimatelylead to his downfall:i have a follower!&mdash; Anthony Weiner (@RepWeiner)October 25, 2009Rap mogul and self-styled style iconKanye Westhas proven a master of the koan-like tweet:Up early in the morning taking meetings in Silicone Valley&mdash; Kanye West (@kanyewest)July 28, 2010In a chronological list of first-ever tweets, this is guaranteed to be the only time you'll findGloria Steinemwedged between Kanye and Charlie Sheen:Stayed up last night to finish reading 400 pages of -- & write about - new Shriver Report. See what you think.http://tinyurl.com/yjo3vec&mdash; Gloria Steinem (@GloriaSteinem)October 15, 2009ActorCharlie Sheen's very public flame-out last year netted him more than a million followers in a single day when he joined and introduced the following hashtag:Winning..!Choose your Vice...#winning#chooseyourvicehttp://twitpic.com/455ly9&mdash; Charlie Sheen (@charliesheen)March 1, 2011Pope Benedict XVI, a pious tweeter if ever there was one:Dear Friends, I just launchedNews.vaPraised be our Lord Jesus Christ! With my prayers and blessings, Benedictus XVI&mdash; Vatican - news (@news_va_en)June 28, 2011Dr Ruth Westheimeris an excellent follow – she tweets timeless sex tips and famously tried to crowdsource what a sexual position named after Jeremy Lin might look like:And please people, don't do anything silly like going outside during hurricane to have sex. Tell u're friends you did it, but don't do it.&mdash; Dr. Ruth Westheimer (@AskDrRuth)August 27, 2011Samuel L Jackson's might be the best first tweet of all time (withDanny Devito'srunning a close second):Can-a muh fukkasay fuck on here?&mdash; Samuel L. Jackson (@SamuelLJackson)October 11, 2011Rupert Murdochis a late-comer to the medium, and his odd initial tweets raised suspcions that it might be a phony account:Have just. Read The Rational Optimist. Great book.&mdash; Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch)December 31, 2011What were your first 140 characters? Tweet them at us with #myfirsttweet and we'll RT our favorites.Here are some of your #myfirsttweet posts from todayFrom Slate editor,Jeremy Stahl:RT @JeremyStahl: First tweet ever. Better be good, or I might lose any number of my four followers... //#myfirsttweetmyfirsttweet.com&mdash; Jeremy Stahl (@JeremyStahl)March 21, 2012Rola Kershadidn't have to look back, she tweeted for the first time today:Those who say the least are usually those who have the most to say...#MYFIRSTTWEET:D&mdash; Rola Kersha (@RolaKersha)March 21, 2012A bewilderedDaniel Crowereached out to the Twitterverse for comfort:#myfirsttweetHello, I don't get this. Is there anybody out there?&mdash; Daniel Crowe (@UrbanCrowe)March 21, 2012Jonny Eberlewas rather trepedatious:Hi, Twitter. My name is Jonny. Pleasure to meet you. I think we'll get along, just as long as you agree not to devour my soul.#myfirsttweet&mdash; Jonny Eberle (@jonnyeberle)March 21, 2012WhileStefan Campbell's thought of ways to turn a profit:VERY new here. If you get more than 7 followers, can you claim tax for a religion? 2010-09-26 13:11:09#MyFirstTweet&mdash; Stefan Campbell (@StefanTheNurse)March 21, 2012Lauren Salayworried about Hurricane Irene:"hoping#Irenetakes her tango out to sea and skips over the VA coast. not a good forecast for an end-of-summer beach shebang"#MyFirstTweet&mdash; Lauren Salay (@laurensalay)March 21, 2012Nouveau Brokeexplained his handle:$21.05 in the bank, $2.00 ATM fee. You do the math...#MyFirstTweet&mdash; Nouveau Broke (@NouveauBroke)March 21, 2012Adam Estesstill can't answer the question in his first tweet:shortbus?&mdash; Adam Clark Estes (@adamclarkestes)September 4, 2007
