It is difficult to believe that the video revolution is less than four years old, so pervasive have been its effects. While video uploads to the web had existed before, the explosion is down to the rise of YouTube, which got funding in November 2005 and was taken over by Google a year later. It hasn't looked back since.According to Hitwise, it accounted for 63% of all visits to UK video sites in February and more than 66% if other Google video sites are included. The next best was the BBC, whose iPlayer captured 11% of the market, itself an astonishing feat. No one else managed to get above 2%.YouTube is not only hugely popular in its own right, but it has become the de facto parking lot for videos on other sites. Although the success of videos has been fuelled by an "I wanna be a celebrity get me in there" culture, it has also had important cultural effects. It has unleashed a global demand to learn film-making and editing. The next generation of directors will come from the Polytechnic of YouTube even if their films are shown online or on mobiles rather than in cinemas. No one should underestimate the educational value of the stampede into videos. Whether it is GCSE maths or germinating seeds in paper towels, rest assured there is a video to explain it to you: just go to a search engine and type in "tutorial" and whatever subject you like, and sit back and enjoy. Small wonder that exam results are improving when there is instant access to so many answers.Nor is all this showing any signs of abating. The forces that shaped it – increased bandwidth, falling storage costs and improving screen definition – are still in full swing. In recent days I have been testing Flip's new Mino HD, a high-definition (and even lighter) version of the original Flip video camera, which confounded expectations by becoming a big seller despite the fact that so many mobile phones already had a video function. The reason is simple: it was exceptionally easy to use. The Mino HD, which is about to be released in the UK, is even better. You press a button on the side for an instant power-up, then just press the red button to start or finish recording. It can do up to 60 minutes of high-definition recording before being inserted into the USB port of your computer whence it automatically uploads the content into your photo service (whether Mac or PC) while recharging the battery at the same time.The quality of the output, while only just qualifying as "high definition", is very impressive viewed from a computer screen (see samples here) and is good enough to make a serious film. It can be uploaded to YouTube, which now accepts HD videos, though the quality is not as fine as on a computer. While not cheap at £170, the quality is much better than on any mobile I have tried. The downside is that you can't send it by wireless directly to a website as you can with smartphones (as long as you use Wi-Fi or have an unlimited data tariff).Video is not calling all the shots, as the success of podcasting has shown. I have been trying out an addictive new service by the London-basedAudioboo.fmenabling you to broadcast audio (ie, talk) for up to five minutes wherever you are, complete with a relevant photo (though only for the iPhone and iTouch at present). When I mentioned it last month it hadn't launched. But after using it recently in London and in a street in Paris (with public Wi-Fi) I'm impressed. It even produced a map to show where I was in Paris. Like Flip it works first time just by pressing the record button. When you have finished press "publish" and up it goes to be viewed – along with other "mobcasts" – by whoever wants to. Whether this Twitter-meets-podcast service takes off globally remains to be seen but people are already joining from Australia and the US even though the site is still testing. It looks as though a video blogging service is in the pipeline. No wonder pundits are predicting 2009 will be the year when mobile video takes off.victorkeegan.com
Google recently took another step along the path of surveillance as a service, launching whatit called"interest-based advertising", and which everyone else calls "behavioural targeting". These are systems that collect extensive personal data, for marketing purposes. To best understand the issues, it's important to separate out the social ends – refining ads – from the technological means, which is massive monitoring of user activity. Too many discussions of the topic get bogged down in what's essentially an argument of "the end justifies the means", where a nominally beneficial goal of better advertising is presented as sufficient to trump all further implications.Google is not the first company to get into this business. And it plans to only use information from websites that run its ads, not sensitive sources such as searches or stored messages. Still, given the number of sites that participate in its "AdSense network", and the immense attention on the company's conduct, arguably we've gone a little further down the road to hell.Google has been taking pains to distinguish its new program from internet service provider (ISP) monitoring systems such as Phorm, which havedrawn much criticism. Tim Berners-Lee hassummed up the threatas: "To allow someone to snoop on your internet traffic is to allow them to put a television camera in your room, except it will tell them a whole lot more about you than the tele­vision camera". If Google can convince people its surveillance is merely a warm and fuzzy way of helping you shop, while ISPs' surveillance is akin to warrantless wiretapping, that gives Google an enormous advantage in collecting information to sell to advertisers. A Business Week articlebluntly stated: "Phorm could present strong competition for the ad-serving platforms purveyed by the likes of Google and Microsoft".As the law professor Eric Goldmancommented during the controversies last year, in a post on his Technology &amp; Marketing Law Blog: "From my perspective, the battles over the legality of Phorm and NebuAd are a smokescreen for the real issue, which is that marketers who have only server-level data don't want to compete against someone who has a better dataset than them. So expect plenty of continued fireworks over Phorm and NebuAd, but don't kid yourself that it's only the ­privacy advocates beating up on them."I'm continually impressed by how Google is able to influence press coverage of its initiatives, in a waymany other corporate behemoths must envy. One strategy it seems to use is rather than simply issuing a boring statement, it wraps a policy announcement around a tech gimmick. The shiny part distracts the non-tech media, while the techie part captures the interest of experts. Too many supposed watchdogs end up distracted by the equivalent of a chew toy.In this case, the smoke and mirrors devices are an "Ads Preferences Manager which lets you view, delete, or add interest categories", labels, and browser plug-ins for opting out. While these are all laudable in the abstract, they will be irrelevant for the overwhelming majority. But to grasp how little it matters in reality, one need only be aware of the difficulties Google has in educating webmasters about using tools for basic site management. If it's a struggle with an audience that is relatively expert and usually highly motivated to perform search engine optimisation, it won't work well for ordinary users dealing with less urgent concerns.In the same way that "total personalisation is total surveillance", complete knowledge of one's interests entails complete monitoring of one's actions. At the very least, there should be safeguards and oversight that do not rely on the assurances of big businesses, which have every incentive to minimise any lapses or failings. No matter how benign the original intent, large collections of personal data, especially combined with the economic pressures of a deep recession or a government interest in data-mining for security purposes, are fraught with the potential for evil.sethf.com/infothought/blog
When Ada Lovelace was working with Charles Babbage on the first digital computer, the Difference Engine, back in 1842, employment in IT was at an equality nirvana: exactly 50% of the workforce were female. Lovelace's contribution was to use the Difference Engine to work out Bernoulli numbers, and to debug some of Babbage's programming ("This she sent back to me for an amendment, having detected a grave mistake which I had made in the process," Babbage wrote).Lovelace is thus frequently described as the first computer programmer, and has been remembered down the years: the Pentagon named Ada, intended to be an "error-proof" programming ­language, in her honour – but her example is one that modern women and their daughters seem not to be following. Indeed since her time the gender ­balance in computers has got considerably worse.On "Ada Lovelace day" on Tuesday, theWomen in IT scorecardfrom Intellect, which represents the UK IT industry, showed that only 23% of the 1.2m IT workforce (597,000 in the IT industry itself, 650,000 IT professionals in other industries) are female, compared with 45% in the UK working population as a whole.Looking ahead, the pipeline offers no encouragement: in computer science and IT-related subjects, females account for just 15% of both applicants and acceptances in 2008, while women account for just 9% of those taking computing A-Levels, a proportion that has steadily fallen over the past five years.And to add insult to injury, where women do have jobs in IT, they tend to be in user support, and operations such as "database assistants" and clerks.Yet the survey also shows that females outperform males in IT-related A-levels – even though at the top of the industry, the number of men with higher qualifications is far above the average across all professions. And women tend to be less well-paid than men (though it's not clear whether those on the same pay scale get the same pay).The question is, why aren't women going into IT and programming? Carrie Hartnell, head of industry strategy for Intellect, says there are many problems, including a lack of role models, uncertainty about the future of the industry, and "negative press around it".The peak time for female participation in IT was during the dotcom boom, when they were 23% of the IT workforce – due principally to their presence in small startup companies at the time.And what are companies missing by not having women in their IT teams? "Studies have shown that if you have a good gender mix the team is more innovative, comes up with smarter ideas, is more productive, and more efficient. It's time for the UK to acknowledge this issue," says Hartnell. Ada Lovelace may be dead, but we still need her thinking.
Garage geneticsOh joy, oh to a brave new world in which deadly organisms mutate on their own to become deadlier, we now have the process being helped along by "biohackers" (The geneticist in the garage, 19 March). But it's all right: "Something like smallpox is hard to get" and "They're not harmful pathogens". How do they, and we, know? Perhaps the biohackers and the bankers and insurance brokers could bring all together and brew up a really toxic debt.Mike HancockSt Austell• Of course, it would be easy for individuals to slip through the cracks if they really wanted to … but the same is true of the old system as well. Maybe the best way to make sure we don't get wiped out by a rogue scientist is to do the best we can to avoid making them feel disenfranchised and unappreciated.futurismic.com• The phenomenon isn't new or surprising to anyone who reads more than the comics or Wall Street analyses – and similar fiction. We are a species that loves to tinker. It's how radio advanced. It's probably how we got the wheel.eideard.wordpress.comApple's updateWow, the power of marketing - who knew that world's most anticipated consumer product couldn't cut and paste or do video?twitter.com/nmackin.Linux, or notThis article (Linux is still an adventure game, but now it's really worth playing, 19 March) isn't really a fair reflection of modern GNU/Linux. If you buy a printer properly supported by Linux, it really will just print and scan straight after being plugged in. Like buying any device for any operating system, before you buy a printer, you should check it is properly supported.In this case the place to look islinuxfoundation.org/en/OpenPrinting. Same with the USB sound card. The writer also didn't mention the technical or philosophical thinking behind GNU/Linux, which is the whole point for it. As a left-leaning paper I would expect you to pay great attention to the philosophy of the free software movement.Name and address supplied• For a media player that handles large collections Banshee may be worth a try; sudo aptitude install bansheePete Yatesby email• Andrew Brown can't find an elegant jukebox for Ubuntu. Has he tried Amarok or Songbird. Or the one I use, Rhythmbox? All are simple, clean and handle large libraries and play­lists.Doug GowanHornsey• But in summary even though the Dumb Equity Funding Party is over for now, much of SXSW's panels still seemed to be a Last Hurrah for the Good Old Days. I'm not sure it's all beer and loathing in Austin, to me it seemed more that there was still widespread denial of The Crunch, with only a few panels dealing with such grubby terms as Returns on Investment.broadstuff.com• Breakthrough innovation seems to have dried up. Sure, I still get the occasional pitch but do I really want to look at version 2.x of yet another billing application? Or hear from the latest self-proclaimed "leader" in cloud computing? Well yes, I might if they really have something interesting to say that addresses a need for the enterprise. Sadly, that seems to be lacking right now.blogs.zdnet.com• Really enjoyed Aleks Krotoski's comment on social gaming -it'll be interesting to see how this sector develops this year.twitter.com/KtBergsonCracking the codePersonally, local supermarkets is not where I see the benefit of QR-Codes or barcode scanning (Phones are close to cracking the barcode, 19 March). I see barcode scanning becoming very useful if you plan to make a big investment in say … an LCD television; you could walk into a large retailer, size up the item, check out its spec then scan and compare for a cheaper price elsewhere. Most people say buying on the internet is cheaper. Barcode scanning software could well cement this fact.mobile-barcodes.com• Once again we lag behind Japan. And, apparently, Australia. Phones and barcodes, who knew?twitter.com/junk_monkeyJava's not workingJava's slow decline is coming mainly from the culture behind it (Mind your language, 19 March). When coming up with the specs for web application development with Java, Sun and its partners had a chance to make an alternative spec that would allow Java to be integrated into a regular web server and Java apps run like CGI or PHP scripts, but they didn't, and that's costing them today.There is nothing particularly special&nbsp;about the syntax or the libraries of the major dynamic languages, PHP aside, that make them naturally better than Java. Rather, it's the way that the&nbsp;Java environment works on the server-side.codemonkeyramblings.comID cards• An interesting article from the Guardian that outlines the complications of the project, and the government's less than impressive track record with them.• And still no word from our local representative as to what advantages he thinks ID cards will bring.rothervalley.wordpress.comThe view from the streetI have just read that the photographs on Street View are said to be the views that any person could see driving round the streets of London. My parents, who are both in their 80's, live in a London suburb that is covered by Street View. Ever mindful of security, they have surrounded their property with a six foot solid wooden fence so that no one can see that the rear entrance to their house is, in fact, out of sight of any view from the road.I am horrified to see that the pictures of their back garden have been taken from an elevation that clearly shows anyone interested how to break into their house without being seen.How on earth have we allowed this to happen?Did Scotland Yard really agree to this or did they agree to something else and the photographers just ignored the boundaries?I do hope that as a respectable newspaper you will take up this issue as I am sure there must be thousands of people who do not realise the detail to which these pictures go.B. RichardsonBad AppleAs someone who has recently switched from a PC to an iMac, I am astonished by the poor design of the new keyboard. How a company credited with such expertise in design can produce a keyboard which is almost guaranteed to cause repetitive strain injury, I do not know! The board forces one's hands towards the centre of one's body, flouting a main tenet of good ergonomic design, the num pad, delete key, page up and page down, home, end and seven spare function keys have all disappeared and the arrow keys are reduced in size and crammed into the space occupied by the letters. I can see why Apple is rejected by so many corporations, the device is simply impossible for anyone with touch typing skills and a heavy keyboard workload - if it got its act together and produced a genuine ergonomic keyboard as standard for the iMac it could do much better, as I am convinced that the total costs of ownership of an iMac are considerably below the equivalent costs of the PC.Professor Tom WilsonSheffieldSXSWi: tough timesAleks Krotoski (Game theory, 19 March) raised an interesting point about a traditional internet conference being hijacked by "casual gaming webgeeks". Advances in technology have opened the sector to younger, creative and more flexible developers.Like the music industry, the gaming industry will struggle to find stability. Generation Y increasingly expects free content at their finger tips. This leaves the industry with two options – create free games for marketing purposes or rely on customer to part with their cash. With the credit crunch taking hold, and casual gaming taking off, the market for traditional console-based gaming is set to get tougher.Darrell Wilkins,creative director, ­Specialmoves• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
Local councils have been told to open up their vast resources of data about the environments in which we live, work and play. The latest annual survey of local e-government includes a plea to authorities "to get a permissive copyright policy on your website, publish your data in a way that computers can read easily, don't charge for your data and respond positively to people who ask you for basic data sets".The message, in theBetter Connected survey of local government websites, is a welcome reminder of councils' pivotal place in the three-year campaign to Free Our Data. Local authorities' databases contain large amounts of information that may be of interest to data-mashers and other re-users.However, authorities vary widely in their attitudes to making it available. They can do this because, unlike central government bodies, councils own the intellectual property in the data they produce. (The situation is further complicated by datasets containing data from other public bodies, such as Ordnance Survey.) Encouraged by Whitehall to act more commercially, several authorities have begun to treat datasets as a revenue-generating asset - even though they will have been collected and curated with taxpayers' (whether individuals' or companies') money. Islington council, for instance, now demands payment for downloads of its planning policy map.Neither the Office of Public Sector Information nor the Cabinet Office, which for the past year has promoted free data as part of its "Power of Information" agenda, can order councils to set their data free. The message relies more on peer pressure - it will be read by the council managers who would be responsible for making technical changes to set data free.The report urges councils to sign up to the web 2.0 vision. But it warns that much still needs to be done to make basic public services available on the web, a goal in theory achieved in 2005 - "the web is the least successful channel in terms of customer satisfaction. Councils need to invest much more in getting the web channel right."The Cabinet Office will demonstrate its own thinking about what happens when e-government meets web 2.0 as it unveils a new civil service website this week. It will include a new civil service jobsearch with a common format for ads that can be used by commercial sites. Civil service job news will also have its own Twitter channel.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
While other tech companies watch plummeting stock markets with fear, Amazon's Adam Selipsky is quietly enjoying the recession. "It's hard to quantify but the current economic environment is helping our business," he tells me confidently, in a conference room with a panoramic view of downtown Seattle.He's got some impressive statistics to back up his claims: a customer base that's growing at 10% a quarter, using services that are three times as popular as a year ago and that offer 99.95% reliability. They are numbers that would have turned heads even in IT's boom times. Now they seem positively fantastic.This is what working with your head in the cloud can do to you. To evangelists such as Selipsky (and as vice-president for product management and developer relations for Amazon Web Services, "evangelist" is one of the few words not in his job title), cloud computing is the saviour of IT. It's scalable, affordable and profitable. It's reliable, flexible and green. It's Christmas, your birthday and new year all come at once.The idea behind cloud computing is deceptively simple. Instead of buying and maintaining your own computing hardware, why not simply rent hard drive space, database storage and computing power from a company such as Amazon (or Microsoft or Google)? Let them worry about operating systems, security patches and upgrades, while you get on with running your business - and saving money."Every executive I speak with is trying to do the same or a greater number of projects with a static budget," says Selipsky. " We offer the opportunity to take capital expenditure and turn it into operating expenditure. That's always a compelling value proposition for a CIO [chief information officer] but particularly so in today's capital-constrained environment."Virtual storageThe growth of Amazon's Web Services has been little short of explosive. Just a year ago, its Simple Storage Service (S3) contained around 12bn "objects" (usually a single file, up to 5GB in size). Now it's home to 40bn and climbing rapidly. When Amazon's virtual computing service, the Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), launched less than three years ago, it attracted impoverished startups and web 2.0 entrepreneurs. Now it has working partnerships with everyone from the Max Planck Institute and the New York Times to Sun, Oracle and even IBM."There's a mix-shift under way," says Selipsky. "It's natural that smaller, newer companies tended to be early adopters. They're more risk-tolerant and have fewer legacy infrastructure issues. What has been a surprise to us is how quickly enterprise adoption has accelerated in the past year. We've now got larger companies who are totally deployed on mission-critical applications in a meaningful way. For example, there are hedge funds who are doing their daily trading algorithm optimisations on EC2, as well as [the pharmaceutical company] Eli Lilly conducting basic research."The technology analyst IDC shares Amazon's upbeat vision. It expects spending on cloud services to almost triple over the next five years, reaching $42bn (&pound;29bn) by 2012. Crucially, IDC also predicts that cloud computing will capture nearly a third of IT spending growth by 2013. Merrill Lynch goes further still, estimating that cloud computing can slash the cost of business applications by 60%-80%, and pegging the potential market at more than $160bn.With such rich pickings on offer, clouds are gathering from other quarters. Microsoft's Windows Azure will offer storage and processing that mesh neatly with legacy systems, while Google's App Engine is using its expertise in large-scale data centres to offer currently free hosting of web applications. There are also dozens of smaller rivals floating into view. Do these rival clouds herald storms ahead for Amazon? Not according to Selipsky."Our competition isn't Microsoft or Salesforce or GoGrid," he insists. "It's the disk drive in the computer. Far more important than differentiating ourselves from the big rivals is to differentiate ourselves from the way customers have been doing IT for the past 30 years. There has been a significant awareness shift in the last couple of years, but the majority of users are still buying a bunch of hardware, installing a bunch of software and putting it all in their basement."Despite this, Selipsky acknowledges that Amazon's cloud could evaporate as quickly as it formed. "There are no upfront commitments, no usage contracts and no minimums," he says. "Amazon Web Services are purely pay-as-you-go and you can fire us on a minute's notice without telling us. Our CEO [Jeff Bezos] sometimes says: 'You shouldn't wake up in the morning terrified of your competitors, you should wake up terrified of your customers'."Selipsky must have felt a touch of terror when Amazon's S3 service failed for seven hours last July, paralysing some of AWS's 490,000 registered customers, including the industry darling, Twitter. If so, he's hiding it well. "Our customers have been very forgiving with us because they've seen that our overall performance has been superior to the performance they've been able to achieve elsewhere," says Selipsky. "The question is not whether it is literally 100% but how does it compare to the performance of services elsewhere?"The truth is that all large-scale cloud services have suffered high-profile downtime. Google's Gmail service has suffered at least five major outages in the past six months, including a two-hour hiatus in late February. More worrying, perhaps, is that Amazon's affordable cloud services have also proved popular with the digital underworld. Marketeers using EC2 to generate massive quantities of junk email led the anti-spam organisations Spamhaus and Outblaze to blacklist whole ranges of EC2 internet addresses. Law-abiding users unable to send email via Amazon's cloud were understandably annoyed."It's an incredibly small percentage of what goes on in EC2," according to Selipsky. "And one person's spam is another person's targeted advertising. But if we see a pattern of abuse, we will prevent access to an individual account."Mechanical labourAnother facet of Amazon Web Services attracting criticism is its Mechanical Turk website. This "marketplace for human intelligence" allows businesses to offer micro-jobs to individual web surfers. The tasks typically involve classifying images, populating databases, searching websites or harvesting emails, and usually pay just a handful of cents each."It's a very exciting service, there's been nothing quite like it in the world before," enthuses Selipsky. "We think that it has the potential to be a very significant business as more and more workers get involved."Businesses seem keen to take advantage of this ability to farm out repetitive digital tasks for peanuts, with the Mechanical Turk portal currently showing more than 33,000 jobs available to anyone with a web browser and broadband connection. The problem is that, in the absence of minimum wage regulations and the legal protections offered through traditional employment agencies, pay levels tend to be very low: $2 (&pound;1.40) a hour or less before tax, with no holiday pay or sick leave.Selipsky rejects charges of exploitation, saying: "Our experience is that if the pay is not adequate then the work does not get done. Some groups of workers are doing this as they do other things, they might be watching TV or whatever else they're doing in their lives. A lot of workers find work they think is fun and do it for fun."However, Selipsky happily admits: "What's very interesting about Mechanical Turk is that it's actually very capitalistic. The free market really does produce winners and losers."One conclusion seems inescapable. Any company eyeing a healthy share of a $160bn cloud computing business while running a marketplace where workers are paid in cents is well on its way to becoming one of this recession's biggest winners. Let the bad times roll.Head in the clouds&pound;160bnThe potential market for cloud computing, according to Merril Lynch7The number of hours that Amazon's S3 service failed for last July$2The usual hourly pay on Amazon's Mechanical Turk skills market
Save the earthEarth Hour is trying to get 1 billion people to collaborate to turn off their lights for one hour on 28 March.People power for OpalThe Natural History Museum wants the public to map biodiversity as part of its Open Air Laboratories project.The easy answerBurnside Telecom has launched a desktop GSM phone that can automatically answer calls in handsfree mode.Skype for SIPSkype hopes to attract business users by, at long last, supporting the industry standard Session Initiation Protocol (SIP).Living room DellOn 27 April, Dell plans to launch an all-in-one computer for family and kitchen use.Getty gets FlickrGetty Images, the giant picture agency, has "handpicked images" from Flickr.Improved GoogleGoogle has started off ering more and better suggestions for related searches on its results page.It's an internet worldThe annual internet world trade show is at Earls Court, London, 28-30 April.DS hits 100mNintendo says it has shipped more than 100m DS games consoles, and will launch a DSi version on 3 April.
Next week, we'll try it with catsIf you only watch one video today about shepherding sheep wearing LEDs at night to play field-scale games of Pong and other computer games ... make sure that it's this one. (Even if it's an advert.)New from Apple: the Mactini!Peter Serafinowicz on BBC2 has the style of those Apple explanatory videos just right. In fact, we're going to check that this is a spoof. Just in case it isn't, we're ordering three right away.I'd worry, but I'm busy watchingA slightly scary Alec Baldwin, advertisingHulu.com: it softens the brain. Is that why we can't get it in the UK?• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Seated inside one of China's most advanced science laboratories, two PhD students dressed from head to toe in protective white suits listen intently to Mariah Carey's pop classic Hero. It is not the song, but the millimetre-thin, transparent strip making the sound that captures their attention - a nano-speaker they hope will revolutionise where, and how, we listen to music."This is cutting edge," says Professor Shoushan Fan, director of the nanotechnology lab at Beijing's prestigious Tsinghua University. Without a cone, magnet or amplifier, the speaker, which looks little more than a slim film of see-through plastic, can be used to transform almost any surface into an auditorium. It is made from nanocarbon tubes which, when heated, make the air around them vibrate, producing the sound. "The speaker's bendy and flexible," says Fan. "You could stick it to the back window of your car and play music from there."Mega investmentFan's nano-speaker is just the tip of the iceberg in China's sweeping nanotech programme, which has the potential to transform its export-based economy and nearly every aspect of our lives, from food and clothes to medicine and the military.Nanotechnology - the manipulation of matter on an atomic scale to develop new materials - is an industry predicted to be worth nearly &pound;1.5tn pounds by 2012, and China is determined to corner the biggest chunk of the market.Its investment has already surpassed that of any other country after the US. Since 1999, China's spending on research and development (R&amp;D) has gone up by more than 20% each year. A further boost will come from the &pound;400bn economic stimulus package announced by the Chinese government this year, &pound;12bn of which has been ringfenced for R&amp;D.Tiny superpower"The overall trends are irrefutable," says Dr James Wilsdon, director of the Science Policy Centre at the Royal Society, and author of the Demos report"China: The Next Science Superpower?". "China is snapping at the heels of the most developed nations, in terms of research and investment, in terms of active scientists in the field, in terms of publications and in terms of patents."Fan hopes the economic crisis, which has led to thousands of Chinese factories closing, will force the country to move from the manufacture of low-end products such as toys and trainers to more hi-tech goods such as nano-touchscreens for mobile phones. His team is working on a material to replace the indium tin oxide (ITO) used in the kind of touch panels found on BlackBerrys and iPhones. "ITO is very expensive and breaks if bent," he says. "We're developing thin nanotube films to replace ITO. It can bend and it's much cheaper."China now produces more papers on nanotech than any other nation. Nanotech plants have sprung up in cities from Beijing in the north to Shenzhen in the south, working on products including exhaust-absorbing tarmac and carbon nanotube-coated clothes that can monitor health. Last month, researchers from Nanjing University and colleagues from New York University unveiled a two-armed nanorobot that can alter genetic code. It enables the creation of new DNA structures, and could be turned into a factory for assembling the building blocks of new materials."There's no end of areas in which nanotech is already being used," says Wilsdon. "It's the product of targeted investment for the development and refinement of novel nanomaterials. And the reason the Chinese focus on that area is because it's closer to the market."Small-scale warChina, like the US, is also assumed to be focusing much of its R&amp;D investment on military applications. "There's a lot of concern about the use of nanotech with weapons," says Wilsdon. "I'm sure China is spending significant amounts of their  R&amp;D budget on military uses."Tim Harper, founder of the nanotech consultancy Cientifica Ltd, says carbon nanotube composites could be used to strengthen armour, that non-scratch nano-coatings are being developed for cockpits and researchers are trying to find a nano replacement for military-use batteries. "The US is working on all of these things, so I'm sure the Chinese are doing much the same," he says.Underlying these developments are serious safety concerns. Nanoparticles are so small they are easily inhaled and absorbed through the skin. Dr Andrew Maynard, the chief science advisor to the Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, says that some nanoparticles could be deadly. "Nothing has yet been confirmed, but there are strong suggestions that inhaling these particles could cause lung cancer or lung disease," he says. "If carbon nanotubes behave anything like asbestos, we won't know what the health impacts are for about 20 years, because that's how long it can take from exposure to the onset of the disease."Most experts agree that a system of stringent safety regulations and comprehensive quality inspection checks is needed before China's nano-coatings, cosmetics and clothes are stocked by supermarkets. "The economic crisis could prove the catalyst that Chinese nanotech companies need to get this system in place," says Harper.Under the microscopeThe global nanotechnology market could top $2tn by 2012, predicts Tim Harper, founder of the nanotech consultancy CMP Cientifica. "What we see is a big take-off in 2011, and by 2012 the industry is really going to be booming," he says. "We've been pumping hundreds of millions of dollars into the nanotech industry for the last decade and we're finally getting to the point where we're seeing products being manufactured and sold."Harper predicts that by 2010, areas of nanotechnology and biology will have merged, setting in motion the production of a wealth of new drugs and clinical equipment (such as the vials of nanomaterials for use in health products, clothes and cosmetics). His research sees nanotech pharmaceutical and healthcare products worth an estimated $3.2tn by 2012, with military-use nanotech products taking 14% of the total market and worth $40bn.Nanotech products for the motor industry will make up a 4% chunk of the market, while nano-foods are likely to corner up to 2%. Nanotech products designed to tackle water, air and soil pollution will also be big business in 2012. "In terms of environmentally beneficial materials, in some ways the Chinese are further along in their thinking than even the US," says Harper. "They are already putting together a system to work out how we can use these technologies for the good of the environment." The US may still lead the nano surge overall, but Harper believes China will be on a par with the EU and US by 2012.Richard Appelbaum, from the Center for Nanotechnology in Society at the University of California, puts the global nanotech market figure at $2.6tn by 2014, or 15% of manufacturing output in that year. China, along with 40 other countries including the US, UK and Japan, is investing in nanotechnology "as a major key to global economic competitiveness", he says.If any one nation succeeds in cornering the giant's share of the market, it "would be sufficient to confer global economic leadership on the country", he adds.
Remember how Dell wasgoing to bring out a smartphone, to compete with Apple's iPhone? You know, rather as it brought out an MP3 player to compete with the iPod? Perhaps not.But Michael Dell did say something to that effect yesterday,according to Business Week, which notes that he remarked "It is true that we are exploring smaller-screen devices."Well, you may have noticed that there hasn't been a Dell smartphone to compete with the iPhone or, um, other modern smartphones. And meanwhile Apple goes from strength to strength: it's just been mentioned at a mobile conference today that Apple has 67% of mobile internet requests in UK and US - and is "killing the competition".Notes Business Week:Dell has tried its hand at smartphones before, with little success. The company discontinued its Axim personal digital assistant in 2007 following several years of lukewarm sales. "They didn't have a particularly exciting portfolio," says Neil Mawston, director for wireless device strategies at consultant Strategy Analytics.Really? Not particularly exciting? I'm shocked, shocked. Business Week suggests that Dell might want to try a "mobile internet device" (MID) - sort of like a big screen iPod Touch. Personally, I'm not holding my breath. MIDs are the mules of the tech world: weird half-breeds that don't (breed).Now,the Barrons blog suggeststhat Dell has indeed come up with a smartphone - which has been turned down by the network operators for being too, um, Dell-like. Ouch. What's wrong with a bit ofsui generis, exactly? Michael Dell demands to know.But while everyone seems to be agreed that a Dell-originated smartphone is going to compete with the iPhoneabout as well as it did with the iPod- can you think of any other potential rivals around who it might buy?Well, Barrons has a good idea:why isn't Dell bidding for Palm, which has a brand-spankin' new OS and a soon-to-be launched handset with the Pre that are getting good reviews, is capital constrained, and which has a market cap under $1 billion? Dell, on the other hand, has plenty of cash, an apparent desire to sell mobile phones, good connections with corporate IT departments, and at the same time can't get the attention of carriers because the phones it came up with are too dull. Seems like a match made in heaven.In fact, this looks like an even better fit than that. Much of Palm's offerings now use Windows Mobile. Dell could sell it against that. The kudos that Dell would get from buying Palm - which is riding high (ahead of the Pre's launch) - could give it a boost that it badly needs.Dell hascash reservesof $9 billion.Palmhas a market cap of about $950m, cash of $220m - and debts of $395m. It's living on its bankers' and venture capitalists' goodwill, having recently come up with astinker of a quarter. Yet the buzz around it is hot - the Palm Pre is the smartphone that everyone wants to get their hands on.Smartest thing Dell could do? Splash out on Palm, push it like mad, and don't try to interfere too much. Hell, they both deserve to do well. And it would save us from the pain of having to see the inevitable press conferences, picture calls and press releases for a Dell-designed smartphone - to be followed, about 30 seconds later, by websites doing "50 things the Dell smartphone can't do that the iPhone can".Come on. Buy Palm. You owe us - and yourself - that much, Michael.
I blame Josh for this.I'm standing in a bar in downtown Palo Alto, with a beer in one hand and my other hand on the shoulder of a man so large that he could probably kill me with a single swipe. Josh, who – let me be as clear as I can be – I blame for this, has his hand on the giant's other shoulder. Our hope is that we can restrain him long enough to allow the escape of the tiny girl he's bearing down over and threatening to beat up. Her crime, apparently, was to drunkenly spill her drink on him. His response is, to say the least, disproportionate – in the way that it would be disproportionate to respond to a child kicking the back of your seat on a plane by stabbing it in the face with your plastic knife."Come on, man, it's over," says Josh, calmly, like they teach you in those "how to break up a fight" articles in Esquire. "Seriously – fighting a girl? What the fuck is wrong with this crazy fat prick?" I ask, like they don't. Seriously, where are all the bouncers? That's probably Josh's fault as well.This was supposed to be my week off. A week, between the disappointing memory ofSouth By South Westand the impending British booziness ofWebmission 09, when I'd stay away from drinking and parties and cirrhosis of the liver and instead made some headway on the book my publisher thinks I'm writing. This was supposed to be one of those 'indoor' columns where rather than going out and do something, I simply trawl through Techmeme for an amusing story and pontificate on it, pegging it to beingtrapped in a hotel roomorwinding down for New Year. I thought perhaps I might write about Google Street View – maybe offering a few words of advice to the British privacy activists who are calling for itto be shut down. Assuming, of course, I could find a way to stretch "shut up you whiny paranoid bitches" over 1,000 words.And then Josh, who was visiting San Francisco for a couple of days from London, went and spoilt it all by saying something stupid like "I've hired a HumVee for $50, let's go to a party in Palo Alto."Actually, to be fair to Josh, it was less the promise of the HumVee and the free beer that convinced me to go, and more the possibility of filling a huge gap in my knowledge of the internet industry. The party was organised by a company that develops games for MySpace and Facebook users and the guest list comprised app developers of all stripes, including people who build applications for the iPhone. As a BlackBerry user (carrying it makes people think I have a job), the world of iPhone apps has long been a fascinating mystery to me – a sector I know nothing about but which, I had a hunch, might offer an answer to the question of how to successfully sell content online.Consider the numbers: as of last week, according to Apple, over 800m applications have been downloaded from the officialApp Store. A majority of those were free downloads but a still huge number were paid for. Of the price of each app – usually a dollar or two – 70% goes to the developer and the other 30% goes to Apple. It's that 70% that really interests me.Take, for example,Tap Tap Revenge– the iPhone's answer to Guitar Hero.Tapulous, the game's maker, claims it has been downloaded over 5,000,000 times. Of those, 100,000 people have opted to buy one of the premium versions, like the Weezer-branded edition which, for just under $5, comes complete with a number of previously-unreleased tracks from the band. Thanks in large part to sales of Tap Tap Revenge, Tapulous broke even last December, despite only having made its first sale in September. When you consider the huge sums they have to pay the record labels in licencing fees, that's an amazing achievement – especially compared to the state of almost every other sector of the paid consumer content business, outside pornography.With ad revenues in the toilet, theSeattle Post Intelligencerhas just closed its print operation and gone "online only" –  now such a common euphemism for "died" that my gravestone will probably read "Here lies Paul Carr – now available online only". Across the country, Long Island-basedNewsdayis preparing to replace its free site with a fully paid offering despite the near-impossibility that they'll convince readers to pay for something that was once free. In fact, with the notable exceptions of theWall Street Journaland theFinancial Times(both of which are more like trade publications than mainstream newspapers), readers have shown themselves resolutely unwilling to plunk down their credit card details for news.The music sites are starting to get twitchy too. This weekLast.fmannoucedthat, from the end of March, it will be charging users outside the UK, US and Germany €3 a month to listen to music. Stockholm-basedSpotify(which can't be accessed outside Europe at any price) already charges for its ad-free service – which, given how few real ads they seem to have sold ("Hi, I'm Roberta from Spotify..."), is where their only hope of profitability in the downturn lies.  Even at the niche end of the content spectrum, times are changing. Loren Feldman's1938mediawhich specialises in daily video shows featuring puppet versions of web 2.0 stars recently went from free to 'freemium' – still offering a few free taster videos but charging fans $7 a month or $50 a year to see the rest.The question everyone is asking is not whether to charge, or which paid model is best (as any heroin dealer will tell you, freemium is the way forward) but rather what content people will actually pay for.  Some publishers insist that consumers will pay for quality, which is perhaps the most idiotic thing I've ever heard. If that were true then, when Sirius satellite radio launched in the US,  instead of poaching Howard Stern to lure over paid listeners, they'd have hired Charlie Rose to read out Proust. Meanwhile, the idea that people will pay for quality news or investigative journalism is simply the stuff of journalism professors' wank fantasies.Which brings me to the hunch I wanted to discuss with the developers at the party: that, when it comes to what content sells online, it's Tap Tap Revenge and iPhone apps in general that tick every box.Box one:Tap Tap Revenge offers an experience you can't replace anywhere else for free. The same, weirdly, is true with Loren's puppet shows – even if someone else mimicked his style and his use of puppets, they still wouldn't be Loren. Services like Last.fm fall into a sort of murky middle ground – the tracks they play are easy to find elsewhere for free but their way of recommending them based on your listening habits will be enough for many users to quite happily pay. The experience of learning the day's news, on the other hand, can be replicated almost anywhere without paying a penny, so why bother reaching for your credit card?Box two:Tap Tap Revenge is distributed by Apple, for use on an Apple device. This creates a purchase path that takes seconds, not minutes. A lot of content producers obsess about price; how much should you charge for an article, or a song or a video? These people are idiots. In the real world, people pay the wrong amount for things all the time – £1.20 for a newspaper just to read a single article, £4 for a McDonald's when they're not even hungry, £10 for a drink in an expensive bar. And yet many of those same people would balk at paying a single penny to read an entire newspaper online. Why? Because the real cost of an online content purchase is price + hassle, where hassle is represented by the effort it takes to dig out your credit card, fill out a lengthy form and figure out how to access your purchase. This same ease of purchase is why Amazon'sKindlewill succeed too.Box three:Tap Tap Revenge customers actually own their purchases. We humans have been conditioned that when we pay for certain things, we get to keep them and take them anywhere. Newspapers, books, CDs, DVDs and games are just a few are just a few of the things that fall into that category. And yet, online subscriptions to newspapers, or access to streaming music demands that we change that behaviour. There's something that feels inherently more valuable about something we download than something stuck in the cloud – not least because we don't have to find a Wi-Fi hotspot every time we want to enjoy it. Apple and Amazon understand this, and so do people likeZe Frankwhosevideo showsare available to watch free online, but are also sold in downloadable bundles of 50 (for $5) through the iStore to fans who want to own them on their iPhones or video iPods.My hunch – in a nut – is that producers of desirable content who can tick at least two of those three boxes will succeed in selling it, and those who can't will fail. But, knowing nothing about the apps business, it was just a hunch – which is why, when I spotted Zach Allia from Tapulous standing by the bar at the party, I headed over to pick his brains.I would have made it too, had Josh not noticed – at that exact moment – a commotion erupting between a fat bully and a terrified girl at the other side of the room. By the time we'd split up the fight, found a bouncer to throw out the fat man, calmed the crying girl and necked maybe half a dozen sambucas from the free bar to celebrate our gallantry, Zach was nowhere to be seen.Disappointed, I stuffed a couple of bottles of free beer into my coat pockets for the ride home – safe in the knowledge that if the bouncers couldn't spot a fight, they certainly wouldn't notice me breaching the licensing laws – and went in search of our designated driver. My hunch would remain a hunch and my knowledge gap a gap. But hell, it was my week off and at least I'd got to ride in a HumVee, get drunk and wade into a fight. If anyone accused me of simply pontificating about something I'd read online this week, I could distract them with the story of how I helped rescue a damsel in distress in Palo Alto.And, failing that, there was always plan B.I could just blame Josh.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Jane McGonigalis an inspirational speaker. The Director of Game Research and Development at the Silicon Valley-based think tankInstitute for the Futureis responsible for some of the most exciting innovations in alternate reality gaming and real-world game design, from the 2004 Microsoft XBox campaignI Love Beesto the 2007 environmental crowdsourcing challengeWorld Without Oil. Since joining IoF, she's focussed on creating games that, as she described yesterday at her keynote at the 2009 Game Developers Conference, make people optimistic about the future.McGonigal believes that game developers have some of the best reasons to be optimistic; she argues that they have the skills to make people happy. To make her point, she offered five forecasts with five game design challenges that tap into what she believes are the games industry's greatest assets.First, McGonigal believes that game designers can create sustainable happiness, a combination of human interaction and personal rewards. To demonstrate the possibilities, she offered theTop Secret Dance Off, a web-based 'happiness engine' that showcases anonymised videos of people dancing - often (knowingly) badly - and provides the facility for viewers/players to give them 'choreopowerups' (+1 for beauty, for example). Players can power up by performing increasingly difficult dancing tasks (e.g., dancing on a zebra crossing). The result is a real-virtual world experience using game mechanics that makes everyone involved demonstrably happier.Next, McGonigal believes game designers have mastered persuasive technologies, or human-computer interfaces that can increase capabilities and offer new experiences through new interactive media. Games likeChoreWarsmake doing the dishes fun by disguising them, while a crowdsourcing projects like World Without Oil, an experiment that challenged players to come up with solutions for our diminishing oil reserves, encourages the people to think in different ways to solve real world problems. This is also reflected in mainstream games likeLeft4Dead, where players must to work together to stave off zombies and avoid the end of the world.Game developers, McGonigal argues, are also excellent at exploiting an engagement economy: success in this industry depends on harnessing crowd noises and collective intelligence. World of Warcraft players, for example, spend a phenomenal amount of time online: if their productivity was applied to web intelligence, they would be able to generate the content of Wikipedia in 5 days. In fact, they have createdWoWWiki, the second-largest wiki (after Wikipedia) in the world with more than one million registered users and 71,000 content pages. This is the holy grail in compelling web content, the reason so many web designers poured over McGonigal's keynote at SxSWi 2008; the websites that have succeeded in implementing these techniques includeFoldItandGalaxyZoo- real world problems that are being solved by the wisdom of crowds.Game developers will also be responsible for bringing programmable reality - using overlays of technologies - to the real world. Google Map games, location-aware games and other integrated content are still in the realm of web experimentation:SharkRunnersandSkyChallengeare 'games' in the sense that game mechanics - competition, primarily - have been shoe-horned into real-world, but with the introduction of biosensor controllers and GPS-enabled consoles, new game products are on the horizon.Finally, McGonigal argued that game developers structure their products in such a way as to encourage investigation, but in a context that emphasises flexibility, frustration (in a good way) and uncertainty. She proposes that this scaffolding provides a formula that can be applied to larger issues. The intended outcome is an audience personally empowered to change the world.Such a large remit can overwhelm many developers, so McGonigal offered several thought-experiments for budding designers that apply to each of these larger goals:First, if you could make one person measurably happier, who would it be and what would you make for them?Second, if you could change what one person does every day (for a time period) or if you could change what one group thinks, what would you change and how would you do it?Third, if your game could get 100 people to do one thing online, what would it be and what would it add to?Fourth, if you could make a game by embedding one micro-controller board or one sensor in one physical object, what would it be and how would you play with it?Finally, if you could make a game that connects two unlikely communities to do one extraordinary thing together, what would it be and what would they collaborate on?Any thoughts? She's listening. If you want to take up any of these challenges, get in touch with Jane at jane +at+ avantgame.com.
Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation and the free software movement, created a bit of a stir last year whenhe told the Guardianthat the concept of using web-based programs such Google's Gmail was "worse than stupidity".Now he has returned to the fray with an article on The Javascript Trap.Stallman wants people to run free software so that they can read and change the source code and share the results. That's possible when you run programs on your own PC. Web-based (so-called cloud) applications -- mostly written in JavaScript, but sometimes in Flash -- don't provide for that. They just download huge chunks of code to your PC without even telling you.Stallman writes:For instance, Google Docs downloads into your machine a Javascript program which measures half a megabyte, in a compacted form that we could call Obfuscript because it has no comments and hardly any whitespace, and the method names are one letter long. The source code of a program is the preferred form for modifying it; the compacted code is not source code and the real source code of this program is not available to the user.Browsers don't normally tell you when they load Javascript programs. Most browsers have a way to turn off Javascript entirely, but none of them can check for Javascript programs that are nontrivial and non-free. Even if you're aware of this issue, it would take you considerable trouble to identify and then block those programs. However, even in the free software community most users are not aware of this issue; the browsers' silence tends to conceal it.And, of course, if you don't like Google's proprietary software, there's nothing you can do about it except not use Google. You can't easily inspect Google's Gmail code, and you can't write your own software to replace it.Stallman doesn't have any real answers at the moment. However, he has put down a marker and told the people who believe in free software (or, as a breakaway faction calls it, "open source") that online/cloud-based web applications are not free.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Privacy campaigners expressed alarm today over government plans to monitor all conversations on social networking sites in an attempt to crackdown on terror.A Home Office spokesman said that the internet eavesdropping plan, which would be set out in the next few weeks, would cover any social network that allows people to chat to one another, includingFacebook,MySpace,BeboandTwitteras well as internet calls onSkype.He said the proposal would update existing plans to store information about every telephone call, email, and internet visit made by anyone in the UK on a central database."We have no way of knowing whether Osama bin Laden is chatting to Abu Hamza on Facebook. Or terrorists could be having a four-way chat on Skype," he said.He said the government was not interested in the contents of the communication: "What we want to monitor is that so-and-so is logged on to that site and spoke to so-and-so. It's the who, when and where, not the content."But he conceded that in "high-profile cases" the police would want to examine the contents of social network chatter. "The security service would want the ability to capture information that could lead to conviction," he said.Under the new proposals, the sites that host social networks could be required to hold data about who users correspond with for up to a year.Privacy campaigners criticised the plan, saying it would be another unwieldy, costly and unnecessary failure.Shami Chakrabarti, director ofhuman rights group Liberty, said: "The widescale use of social networking websites highlights the enormity of government ambitions for a centralised communications database for the surveillance of the entire population … Technological development is used as an excuse for centralised snooping of a kind that ought never to be acceptable in the oldest unbroken democracy on earth."Michael Parker, spokesman forcampaign group NO2ID, said the government was enforcing data sharing and the pillaging of private information. "Their plans for the intercept modernisation programme were completely unworkable to begin with and are becoming more so with every addition they suggest. The idea of tracking calls, texts and emails made by people in the country is unspeakably offensive."The plans were first revealed by the Home Office minister, Vernon Coaker, last week at a Commons committee hearing on a draft EU directive that does not cover social networking.He said the government's intercept modernisation programme proposals may be extended to include "the retention of data on Facebook, Bebo, MySpace and all other similar sites".He added: "The government are looking at what we should do about the intercept modernisation programme because there are certain aspects of communications which are not covered by the [EU] directive."Coaker acknowledged that the plan would raise fresh concerns about the right to privacy."I accept that this is an extremely difficult area. The interface between retaining data, private security and all such issues of privacy is extremely important," he said.The Home Office spokesman said a consultation paper, to be published shortly before or after Easter, would explore the practicality of the plan.In a statement the Home Office added: "The government has no interest in the content of people's social network sites and this is not going to be part of our upcoming consultation. We have been clear the communications revolution has been rapid in this country and the way in which we collect communications data needs to change so that law enforcement agencies can maintain their ability to tackle terrorism and gather evidence."To ensure that we keep up with technological advances we intend to consult widely on proposals shortly. We have been very clear that there are no plans for a database containing the content of emails, texts, conversations or social networking sites."On Monday theJoseph Rowntree Reform Trustpublished a report claiming that a quarter of all the largest public-sector database projects, including the identity cards register, were fundamentally flawed and clearly breach European data protection and rights laws. Claiming to be the most comprehensive map so far of Britain's "database state", the report says that 11 of the 46 biggest schemes, including the national DNA database and the Contactpoint index of all children in England, should be given a "red light" and immediately scrapped or redesigned.
On this week'sTech Weeklypodcast,Aleks Krotoskiis in San Francisco looking ahead toGDC09.  As a little taster for what lies in store in seven days' time, we hear fromBoyd Multerer, general manager for Microsoft's XNA group about DIY game development, and what Xbox 360 owners can look forward to in the next few years.Also in the show, BBC technology correspondentRory Cellan-Jonesgives us his take on the changes in the tech scene in the decade he's been covering it.And finally,Glenn Shoesmithfrombookingbug.comjumps into the lift with his Elevator Pitch.Tune in every Tuesday for Tech Weekly, only at guardian.co.uk.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Full of innovative ideas and console firsts, Stormrise is dogged by the problem that plagues most console-based RTSs: unwieldy control systems. "Whip Select" enables you to manoeuvre from unit to unit with the flick of the right stick, but speed doesn't equal ease of use. Within Stormrise's post-apocalyptic setting, units and icons are hard to distinguish, often resulting in incorrect selection. Plus frequent camera switching results in disorientation.As an RTS designed to appeal to console players it fails miserably. Do not expect the affability of Halo Wars. Dedicated genre fans may persevere, eventually mastering the controls and enjoying the game's strategic focus, but the majority will think life is too short. These frustrating controls overshadow features that would otherwise impress – 3D locations allow you to take advantage of rooftop and underground positioning – line of sight is essential for strategic gameplay. Also, the drop-in, drop-out multiplayer function means departing players no longer lead to games ending suddenly: resources are distributed between existing players and the match continues.There are some good ideas hidden in Stormrise, but a poor control system renders them impossible to enjoy. Only the stubborn are likely to find rewards.
Cryostasis is a fascinating but flawed FPS set on the wreck of a Russian ice-breaker. Your job is to discover what killed the crew, revealed through stunning interactive flashbacks reminiscent of Fear.Zombies lurch towards you at every turn, to be fended off with crude weapons while huddling over lightbulbs to replenish your energy. As a story it's riveting; as a game less so – the claustrophobic settings leave little room for exploration and every mistake replays the same cut-scenes until you memorise the solution. A bigger budget could have made this something to remember; as it stands it's more of a point &amp; click adventure with occasional fights.
Here's an odd one: a third/first-person shoot-em-up which parodies countless first-person shooters – notably Duke Nukem, Halo and Wolfenstein 3D – along with all sorts of other games, such as Final Fantasy and World of Warcraft.In Eat Lead, you take on the washed-up persona of Matt Hazard, a fictional video­game character from the 1980s who lost the plot in the 1990s. What ensues is pretty conventional shooter fare, albeit with some decent boss-battles (themselves invariably parodies), and fixed-gun sequences, all spiced with some good power-ups. Once you've adjusted the overly stiff aiming system, Eat Lead is fun to play, although hardly innovative, and it looks good.But its strong point is its storyline, which is unexpected, as it parodies the clichéd nature of the average game's storyline. Distinctly post-modern stuff, and we're still not convinced whether that really works in the games milieu. Eat Lead will make you laugh if you're a dedicated gamer (and particularly a lover of first-person shooters). But if you aren't, you'll be hard-pressed to see what the point of it is.
Today isAda Lovelace Day. This is a truly magnificent enterprise, organised by Suw Charman-Anderson, in which more than 1,000 people have signed up to write a blog post about a woman in technology whom they admire.Suw was inspired to found Ada Lovelace Day after hearing female friends in technology say that they felt disempowered and invisible.Ada Lovelace herself is widely recognised asthe world's first computer programmer; born in 1815, her friendship with Charles Babbage and her understanding of his difference engine and analytical engine have given her a lasting legacy. But, as Suw rightly points out, one historical role model isn't enough. It's important for girls and young women to see that there are a lot of women making careers in technology.And in fact, inspirational women in technology are everywhere. From games designersElonka DuninandJane Jensento Turing award-winnersBarbara LiskovandFrances Allento influential CTOsMary Lou JepsenandPadmasree Warrior, women have been making high-level careers in science and technology for a long time now.My feeling is, though, that upping the profile of these role models is only half the battle. While real women have been racking up technological accomplishments, the portrayal of women's scientific prowess in fiction still lags behind. And fiction can play a crucial role in teaching young women what life choices are acceptable.I vividly remember a storyline in the Australian soap opera Neighbours from my teenage years. "Plain Jane Superbrain" (played by Annie Jones) had a crush on hunky Mike (played by Guy Pearce, later to star in Memento and LA Confidential). But he didn't notice her – what was she to do? The answer, of course, was a make­over and … to flunk a maths test. Once Mike came top in maths, with Jane following demurely in second place, the path was clear for them to fall into each other's arms. The story's ridiculous, of course, but as a teenager I remember having earnest discussions with other girls about it: was it really true? Did men not like clever girls? Ought we to try to appear less clever?Now this was 20 years ago, but things haven't changed as much as I'd like. I love Doctor Who passionately, but the dynamic of it remains that Billie Piper, Freema Agyeman or Catherine Tate wander around after a man who knows a lot about science, needing to have things explained to them. Heroes may have Hayden Panetierre's gutsy cheerleader character, but all the science is done by men: Mohinder and Chandra Suresh. And the central premise of the heinous US sitcom The Big Bang Theory is that geeky boys know about science whereas pretty girls know about clothing and manicures. Hilarious.It's time for the creators of fictional scientists to catch up to the modern world. As Ada Lovelace Day shows, there are a lot of women out there doing incredible work in science and technology; it's time fiction reflected that.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Forgot the Wii and the Xbox 360, the PC gaming market is the most valuable gaming format on the market says the, er,PC Gaming Alliance. The PCGA – comprised of various hardware and software companies like Acer and Capcom – has produced anannual reportwhich suggests the PC gaming market was worth $11 billion dollars in 2008. Anyone who has been into a games store recently, and seen the small amount of new PC games for sale, won't be surprised that the key factor is the move away from retail.The biggest story in PC games is the expansion beyond retail," said Randy Stude, president of PCGA. "PC games have successfully pioneered online subscription and distribution models that have resulted in a global boom that shows no signs of slowing. Despite the advances of the likes of Xbox LIVE and the PlayStation® Network, the online platform that remains the most accessible and robust worldwide is the PC.And then, of course, there are the MMOs. As the report says:Other significant revenue generators include several Asian MMOGs making over $100 million in annual revenue after five plus years on the market; World of Warcraft producing over $1 billion in annual revenue; and the Lich King expansion to World of Warcraft outsold its predecessor. In 2008, two major subscription MMOGs (Age of Conan and Warhammer Online) sold over 1 million units at retail.All impressive stuff then and clearly the PC gaming market is changing and adapting. But the gradual lack of PC release for some of the bigger franchises around – especially sports games – is a worrying trend for PC gaming. Yes, the likes ofEmpire: Total Warprove there is still a market for big name offline PC games but for how much longer? Is piracy or cost of hardware the issue? Or do gamers simply prefer playing sports and some big brand action games on their consoles?
MP3 files have dominated the digital music market for the past decade, and Thomson has finally announced an upgraded version, MP3HD, which offers "the ultimate audio quality experience". According to thepress release:MP3HD files are MP3-compliant files that include additional side information, which, together with the MP3 portion of the file, can be decoded by an MP3HD-capable decoder. Standard MP3 players can simply play the MP3 portion of the file.Thomson has a website athttp://www.all4mp3.com/where users can download a free MP3HD command line encoder and a Winamp plug-in. The encoder is available for Windows and Linux, and the Winamp plug-in for Windows.A spokeswoman for Thomson toldPCMag.comthat an MP3HD file is a standard MP3 file with "additional information … stored in the id3 tag (where other info on the track like artist name, song name, etc. is also stored)".It sounds like a kludge, but it does provide backward compatibility.It's not entirely clear why Thomson is tackling this market, since we already have FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) and several other systems. However, it must also be admitted that not even FLAC has achieved much penetration in a market where sound quality appears to be less important than file size. And lossless files are a lot bigger than lossy systems such as MP3, AAC and WMA.There is also no news yet on the royalty rates for supporting MP3HD, but it's proprietary and therefore not expected to be free, like open source FLAC.There are, of course, portable MP3 players that can handle FLAC, including Samsung and iRiver players, but support is by no means universal. Thomson might be able to establish MP3HD by getting support in a large number of devices, but it doesn't make any sense to load them with, say, 16-20MB files when 3-4MB files play well enough.At the moment, FLAC is a good choice because you can play the files on a hi-fi system at home and convert them to whichever format you like for portable use. And since FLAC files are lossless, you don't have to worry about re-ripping your CDs.The advantage of switching to MP3HD is that you avoid having to do a conversion, but you pay a high price in wasted storage space. How long that will matter is the big question.
There certainly was one thing the three heavy-hitters on the 'Risks and Rewards of New Territories' panel at the 2009GDCagreed on: localisation is more than just translation. Linden Lab, Sega and Microsoft each offered the strategies they have employed in leaping over the world's biggest blockades to successfully expand their reach and their markets.Linden Lab, the makers of Second Life, have chosen to crowdsource their localisation, embracing the power of their super-fans to translate hundreds of pages in text content into over 70 languages. With the majority of their revenue stream coming from outside the USA, their efforts to rally the troops have saved upwards of $600,000 in man hours, and - although they support offices in the UK and other regions - have saved them costs in setting up local teams.On the other hand,SegaandMicrosoft, companies that focus on the commercial packaged product market, promote using localisation teams on the ground in the regions they're working to sell into. Their efforts go deeply into every part of the game, including amendments to the story, the graphics,  gameplay balancing, achievements, online presence and geopolitical content. Tom Edwards, Principal Consultant and Founder ofEnglobe Inc., recommends that localisation should start from the beginning of game development to save time and effort later on, with key decisions made at the earliest stages of game concept, backstory and plot, character and environment design. Engaging local development teams boosts the product to the market; the sense that a game is homegrown gives it a better chance outside the original development market.The Eastern European countries are considered the lowest hanging fruits by the companies on the panel in the next 3-5 years; other regions like China, India and South America are tougher to crack culturally and economically, but offer great potential for game developers interested in expanding their consumer targets. China in particular represents the most promise but presents the greatest challenge: development kits are illegal in the country, and although there is a strong gamer base, understanding the content that will appeal is a matter of developing the right business focus and the right product adaptation.Microsoft, who reworked the first version of their best-seller Halo for the Asia/Pacific market down to the story, the characters and the gameplay, were also keen to explore the Middle East, but were wary of adapting their content to the degree that would make it acceptable to that region's cultural norms.The bullish Christmas 2008 sales have provided a buffer for publishers and developers who wish to expand overseas and into different demographics. Investment into new territories is certainly expected to follow a more careful and more considered path in the short term, but the commercial benefits are potentially enormous for businesses who harness local talent to avoid the pitfalls and gaffes of localisation.
GDCkicks off today and there are so many many many events and sessions on the schedule, it seems impossible to choose. As I'm already in the USA, I'm going to be heading out West for the conference, and here's what I'll be checking out.If there's anything on theschedulethat I've not got covered that you want to hear about and that I'm capable of understanding (for example, the programming track passed me by for I know my limits and don't pretend to code), do let me know here, or onTwitterand I'll be sure to report back back.Monday 23rd &amp; Tuesday 24th March (Summit days)Independent Games &amp; Sales: Stats 101So sure, everyone wants to make a living from independent games. But how much money can you actually make out of PC web, casual, and downloadable indie titles, iPhone games, XBLA, WiiWare, and PlayStation Network titles, to name but a few? What's the royalty and revenue split, how well have some of the highest-profile IGF award winners done, and how well might the average indie do? IGF Chairman and Gamasutra/Game Developer magazine publisher Simon Carless collates from his sources to examine the cold, hard financial realities of sustaining yourself by making an indie title in today's game market.Risks and Rewards of New TerritoriesSeveral recent studies have clearly shown that a steady and strong growth pattern for the global game industry is going to continue beyond the traditional markets, particularly North America. While some perceive that developing and/or localizing game content for new languages, markets and territories might be a risky proposition, the reality is that extending the geographic and linguistic reach of a game title can yield great short- and long-term rewards for those who are willing to make the commitment and investment. This group of distinguished panelists will examine the advantages of opening new territories and the challenges associated with localizing game content for new markets.Learning to Make Your Own Reality: How to Develop Games that Re-invent Life As We Know ItWhat new kinds of games will we play in the future, and what key knowledge and skills will game developers need to invent them? Futurist and game designer Jane McGonigal argues that over the next decade, games will become a powerful interface for managing our real work, organizing society, and optimizing our real lives. Increasingly, she predicts, game developers will be charged with the task of making people happier, smarter, friendlier, greener, and healthier -- and hundreds of millions of new gamers will be playing together at home, at school, at work, and everywhere in between. The result? Game design and development expertise will become a sought-after talent in virtually every industry and field, from Fortune 500 companies to top government agencies. Indeed, the future is brighter for game developers than ever before. But making games that aim to improve our quality of life and to re-invent society as we know it will require a new set of design skills and content expertise beyond what we traditionally teach in game programs. In this keynote, you'll find out the top five design competencies (such as 'technology foresight' and the ability to generate and measure 'participation bandwidth') and the five most important subject areas (such as positive psychology and mass collaboration) for this new class of reality-changing game developers.The Indie BusinessmanHear from three highly successful indie game developers on their own unique indie-focused business models, and why they aren't just selling $19.95 downloads. Hear how Hampus Soderstrom (IGF nominee TORIBASH) earns money by selling in-game decals and motion trails, how Jamie Cheng (IGF winner EETS, the Nexon-published SUGAR RUSH) is pursuing free-to-play online games, and how Daniel James (PUZZLE PIRATES, BANG HOWDY!, WHIRLED) manages multiple major microtransaction-based games while staying independent.The Creation of a Kids' Virtual World - Real DataRIDEMAKERZ and The Electric Sheep Company provide the most detailed presentation on how a kids' virtual world is created that has yet been given in public. This will describe the process, achievements, setbacks, and surprises that went into the design and production of the virtual world created in a collaboration by these two companies, from concept to this week's full public launch. Most notably, the presentation will include full disclosure of metrics from the virtual world's beta period, including the number of beta users, how they were attracted, response rates on marketing efforts, how many dropped off at each step of engagement, average use time and number of logins per user, and many other aggregate and detailed results rarely provided today.Wednesday 25th MarchDiscovering New Development OpportunitiesThe development of both Nintendo DS and Wii was based on the idea that the video game consumer base could be broadened if the definition of a video game - and ways to access games - were viewed differently. The fact that these platforms have been accepted so enthusiastically around the world shows that there is opportunity for developers to stretch the boundaries of what was previously viewed as possible in terms of realizing a creative vision.In his keynote address, Nintendo global president Satoru Iwata will talk about Nintendo's role in creating better tools and bringing opportunities for developers to introduce their innovative ideas to a marketplace that is increasingly willing and eager to embrace new game design possibilities.Media Molecule: 'Winging It' - Ups, Downs, Mistakes, Successes in the Making of LITTLEBIGPLANETMark Healey and Alex Evans will discuss the processes behind the making of a game designed to bring creativity to the masses. MediaMolecule was founded around the concept of 'creative gaming', and LittleBigPlanet (LBP) is their first take on this very broad idea. They'll discuss the choices, as well as routes they rejected, in the effort to make game creation fun.The talk will also include some examples of the surprising ways that small creative building blocks - whether delivered as DLC, or user created - can be combined to create a wide variety of games. It's these building-block extensions that will hopefully keep the future of LBP as fresh as its past.The Game Design Challenge: My First TimeWelcome back for another year and another Game Design Challenge, where three amazing game design greats create original concepts around a very unusual game design problem. Join us as returning champ Steve Meretzky squares off against two new challengers.The design challenge: My First Time: our three contestants will be pitching a concept that brings together two unexplored themes for games: sex and autobiography. Enough with sci-fi, fantasy, and the usual pulp genres - it's time for games to tackle heavier subject matter that artists in other media have been wrestling with for centuries.br&gt; At the session, each panelist presents a unique solution to this game design enigma. And the audience plays an important role as well - by voting in the winner of the Game Design Challenge 2009. Expect a free-wheeling session of brave new game design ideas, along with unpredictable debate and dialog.Thursday 26th MarchAll About NOBY NOBY BOYTakahashi will talk extensively about his new game NOBY NOBY BOY.Composer Challenge GDC 2009https://www.cmpevents.com/GD09/a.asp?option=C&amp;V=11&amp;SessID=8502Panel moderator Lennie Moore presents the GDC 2009 Composer Challenge, where last year's champion, Billy Martin, takes on three new challengers of experienced and emerging videogame composers to see who can create the most interesting music under a difficult design challenge.This year, the assignment will be to design a 60-second, 2-layered cue made entirely out of human voices for a post-apocalyptic game entitled VOX HUMANA.Composers can only use the human voice. This includes samples of human voices, choirs, solo voices, or they can use live voices in their recording. They cannot use any other samples, synths, or acoustic instruments; only voices. They CAN manipulate this material any way they see fit to create their compositions.Have You Got Perfect Pitch?Do your presentations fall flat, or lack a certain jazz? What does it take to look sharp and hit the right note in a publisher meeting?This panel aims to give solid practical advice to developers on the hunt for a game deal. How do you get a meeting with The Powers That Be in a publishing company? Then how do you impress the hell out of them if you get that golden opportunity to give them your, hopefully, Perfect Pitch? Four grizzled A&amp;R veterans with decades of industry experience will tell you how it really is on the front line and give you their top do's and don'ts for the developer hoping to impress.Friday 27th MarchPlay in the Age of Social SoftwareSocial networks are a powerful context within which to create new kinds of games and new forms of play. In this session Mark Pincus, CEO of Zynga and Frank Lantz, Creative Director of Area/Code, share their experience and insights regarding the creation of social games. As the mainstream game industry struggles to deal with massive budgets, colossal teams, and inflated content pipelines, social games remind us of the extraordinary power of human interaction to create deep challenge, surprising drama, and compulsive behavior.With the right design principles and implementation techniques, social games can provide a rich palette of alternative play experiences that are both creatively innovative and economically lucrative.Lionhead Experiments RevealedThis talk reveals a range of ideas which are bubbling under the surface at Lionhead Studios which may or may not make it into full games. With visual and playable examples Peter Molyneux will give a full explanation on how these experiments evolved. It will reveal which ones succeeded and which ones failed. These experiments will depict some cutting edge technology from several different disciplines. Peter's talk will also look at the context in which some of these experiments might be incorporated into new projects which are currently underway at Lionhead Studios.
Wondering how close BT's higher-speed broadband trials will be to your house? Now you can see them on a mashup.Thanks to the wonders ofMapalist, you can click through from here to a zoomable map of the locations forBT's "fibre to the cabinet" experiments starting next year. Though with ADSL2+ already promising to give us speeds of "up to" (never "at least") 24 Mbps, are the extra megabits per second being promised - with speeds promised of 40 to 60 Mbps - going to be attractive? We're still interested to hear.
The internet is a great source of national and international news, but it's not as good at handling the local stuff. If you want to know what's happening where you live, then your local paper - and its website - will probably provide better coverage. That's somethingTopixwould like to change. When it was launched by Rich Skrenta inJanuary 2004, the idea was to take a global approach to providing local news.Go to Topix, type in your zip code or postcode, and you get something like a local newspaper, based on stories collected from tens of thousands of news feeds and blogs. But while it works pretty well for zip codes, I've not had much luck with postcodes.One of the problems is that very little news is geo-tagged, and journalists rarely provide precise geographical information in stories. For example, a story about a local politician probably won't include the full address, zip code or postcode of where it happened. Most locals already know where their civic buildings, churches, hospitals and bars are – and if they don't, they may not care.Of course, if every locality had a unique name, this wouldn't be a problem (and maybe we wouldn't need post codes). But they don't. For example, there are two places called Croydon in the UK, and another two in the US. Many more places are called either London or New London. Topix has therefore developed some intelligent software to look for the names of "streets, jails, hospitals, parks, rivers, and so on" to help place stories as accurately as possible.In 2005, Topix sold a 75% stake to three major newspaper businesses: Gannett, Knight Ridder, and Tribune. Together, these operated more than 140 local newspapers, as well as some large dailies (USA Today, Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune) and numerous TV stations. Part of the appeal was that Topix would take their stories to a wider audience.Then, in April 2007, Topix reinvented itself as "a new platform for citizen journalism," entering the fashionable Web 2.0 world of "user-generated content". It was admitting that, even with 50,000 sources, it still didn't have enough local news. It was therefore inviting readers to edit their local pages, add stories they found themselves, or write them. RoboBlogger software does the job when there are no humans around."We spent three years building up the audience," Skrenta toldCNet. "Now we can give people a microphone."It's hard to know if this strategy has been successful. All Topix pages look the same, so it's hard to tell what's been done by unpaid user-editors rather than RoboBlogger. Topix doesn't promote citizen journalism in the same way as, for example, Korea'sOhMyNews.Overall, Topix has been a success. It attracts more than 4 million unique visitors per month – mostly from the US – and more than 100,000 comments per day. And if the US newspaper industry dies, it might represent the future of journalism, at least in part.
BT is to install "super-fast" broadband systems able to provide internet connections running at up to 60 megabits per second – nearly eight times faster than the current maximum on phone lines – at 29 exchanges in Belfast, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Greater Manchester.List of BT telephone exchanges that will take part in “fibre to the cabinet” (FTTC) trialsCHELMSFORDEssexEast of EnglandST. ALBANSHertfordshireEast of EnglandWATFORDHertfordshireEast of EnglandHEMEL HEMPSTEADHertfordshireEast of EnglandLEAGRAVEBedfordshireEast of EnglandLUTONBedfordshireEast of EnglandCANONBURYLondonLondonCHINGFORDLondonLondonEDMONTONLondonLondonENFIELDLondonLondonHIGHAMS PARKLondonLondonTOTTENHAMLondonLondonTHAMESMEADLondonLondonWOOLWICHLondonLondonBURYGreater ManchesterNorth WestDIDSBURYGreater ManchesterNorth WestFAILSWORTHGreater ManchesterNorth WestHEATON MOORGreater ManchesterNorth WestOLDHAMGreater ManchesterNorth WestRUSHOLMEGreater ManchesterNorth WestBELFAST BALMORALBelfastNorthern IrelandDEANEdinburghScotlandGLASGOW HALFWAYGlasgowScotlandGLASGOW WESTERNGlasgowScotlandCARDIFFCardiffWalesTAFFS WELLRhondda Cynon TafWalesHALIFAXWest YorkshireYorkshire and HumberPUDSEYWest YorkshireYorkshire and HumberCALDER VALLEYWest YorkshireYorkshire and Humbersource: BTThe installations by BT's Openreach division, which looks after the telephone network, will go live early next year – but it will be up to telephone and internet service providers such as BT's own Retail division to come up with services using the high-speed connections and persuade customers to pay for them.There will be trials of the system this summer in Muswell Hill (London) and Whitchurch (Wales) to test the technology and ensure it is ready. By 2012, the system should cover 10 million premises – or 40% of UK homes and businesses. BT hopes to announce the next set of exchanges in the autumn.The announcement comes in parallel with asimilar speed upgrade called ADSL2+ which BT is implementingon all its exchanges, which in theory should push maximum connection speeds of up to 24Mbps – thoughin most cases much less– on the existing copper lines.Two of the experimental areas, Calder Valley near Halifax and Taffs Well near Cardiff, are not urban, and BT says it will be "looking to learn lessons from deploying fibre in such environments". Rural and suburban installations typically involve longer distances and tougher weather conditions than urban ones, making upkeep of the network more expensive.The "fibre to the cabinet" (FTTC) technology takes hair-thin optical fibre from the exchanges to the same street as the connected homes, though the connection to the home itself still uses standard copper lines. Normally, internet connections are maintained by encoding the data and transmitting it in a high-frequency signal. Higher frequencies can carry more data, but lose power rapidly over distance. Because the distance from the "cabinet", where the new fibre-optic system terminates, to the home is so much shorter – measurable in metres rather than kilometres – than the usual connection from the home to the exchange, a higher-frequency signal can be used to carry more data.The amounts that BT Openreach can charge to ISPs and telephone companies that want to use the new fibre systems remains unclear, though the telecoms regulator Ofcom has cleared the idea in principle. Steve Robertson, in charge of BT Openreach, said: "The regulatory picture is complex and whilst Ofcom has given us a very welcome green light, we will require a few more over the coming months. We remain confident though that Ofcom recognises the need for an environment that encourages investment.""The key will be to see how quickly BT expands coverage &amp; whether it uses community to decide," said Ian Fogg, a telecoms analyst at Forrester Research. He noted that the maximum speed will "depend on telephone line quality and distance from the cabinet, and ADSL2+ interference".
Thanks to the Wii and the DS the point and click adventure genre - think Monkey Island - is back in vogue.  The interface of both Nintendo consoles combined with the new expanded gaming audience - which value cerebral challenge as much as reflex tests - means the time is ripe to revisit some of the of classics of the genre and bring them to this new audience. That's exactly what Ubisoft have done withBroken Sword: Directors Cutfor the Wii and the DS. I spoke withCharles Cecil, creator of the Broken Sword series and asked him why adventure games were back and whetherBeneath a Steel Skywas next up....Broken Sword: Directors Cut – what changes have you made to the original game?The main addition is the inclusion of several hours of new story / gameplay interweaved into the original narrative. The original games started from the perspective of the main protagonist, George Stobbart, an American tourist who happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. He witnesses an assassin, dressed as a clown, planting a bomb and is lucky to survive the ensuing explosion. Shortly afterwards he meets Nico Collard, a Parisian photojournalist, who indicates that she has been investigating the killer for quite some time. Together they investigate a series of murders and are drawn into a terrifying conspiracy. The new game starts a day before the original and is told from Nico's perspective – she is invited to interview a famous Parisian statesman who is then brutally murdered.The additional content goes into elements of the backstory that were just hinted at in the original. My approach was that anything from the original cannot change – which obviously raises the question of why the new elements of the story, as experienced by Nico, was not revealed to George first time around. So the new thread is about dark secrets. Nico initially discovers the nasty secret about the statesman, but is then devastated to discover her own – a secret that she cannot reveal to George. When the game was given to testers who hadn't played the original, they were unable to tell what was original and what was new – so hopefully people will find that the joins between original and new are seamless.We have also added facial animations, drawn by comic book artist Dave Gibbons, that depict the changing expressions of characters as they talk.A hint system has been incorporated – please see answer below for description.A diary system has been added to record events as they unfold. As well as being a useful record, they also help provide solutions to some of the new puzzles.We have added first person views for dramatic scenes, context appropriate mini-games, higher resolution backgrounds on Wii – plus loads of other small features. Together these add up to a huge enhancement over the original. I very much hope that this new version will appeal both to the existing fans and to those who have not played Broken Sword or adventures before.How do you cater to the predominantly casual/less experienced Wii and DS audience while still retaining the tricky puzzles that point and click games are known for?Many traditional hardcore adventure gamers enjoy obscure puzzles which keep them stumped until they make huge logic leaps. For others this equates to a frustrating gameplay experience. My solution to balancing this contradictory requirement has been to incorporate a context sensitive hint system that attempts to determine when the player is stuck and then flash a question mark to indicate that a hint is available. Initially the hints are obscure but if the player still fails to progress then new, more obvious hints are offered. Hardcore gamers can turn this off if they feel that it spoils the game experience. The feedback that we received from the casual testers was that this feature worked really well, allowing the game to be played as a hardcore adventure or more an interactive narrative experience.How important is it not to upset fans of the original game with your changes to the Directors Cut? Or are you assuming that most of the audience for the new games will not have played the original?My main aim was to ensure that game would appeal to the fans of the original. For this reason, I have left the original content unchanged except where higher quality assets exist. All elements of the new content have been designed to interweave seamlessly with the original game.Of course I hope that the game will also appeal to a new audience. Anyone who enjoys the new generation of adventures like Professor Layton, should really like this Broken Sword because it is every bit as accessible in terms of the interface, and I would hope that people will find the story much more engaging – certainly more mature. I also hope that the game will draw in the so-called 'casual games' audience, the people who are playing hidden shape or gem matching games but realise that the medium can offer so much more.Why do you think the point and click genre fell so far from the mid 90s height?The genre was very popular through to the mid 90s because it offers such a pure form of interactive narrative with the story and gameplay inextricably interlinked rather than, as with almost all other genres, simply having story progression as a reward for completing a section of gameplay. However from the mid 90s, games increasingly moved towards 3D – the PlayStation generation - with more visceral gameplay and more complex controls. This increasingly alienated people who wanted a more cerebral gameplay experience and these people simply stopped playing games. As demand dropped, it no longer became financially viable for companies such as Lucasart or indeed Revolution to produce them. Now, however, we are going full cycle and adventures are proving to be an ideal genre for a new audience on a new range of platforms.Have the Wii and the DS ushered in a new golden age of point and click adventure games?The tactile control systems of the Wii and DS have resulted in games that offer simpler, less visceral gameplay experiences – they are just fun! The original audience is returning, and a new audience is being drawn in. And the adventure, as was the case last time around, is the perfect game genre for this audience. The proof will come from sales, but everything is pointing to a resurgence of the adventure genre, suggesting that we are now at the critical point at which creating and publishing ambitious adventure games will make financial sense again – which is incredibly exciting.How important is writing/script to point and click games? Or is it all about puzzle mechanics?An adventure game requires the narrative and the puzzles to be written in parallel since they interlink so extensively, each driving the other. Ultimately the puzzle mechanism must come first, since people won't get to experience the narrative if they don't like the interface. But the narrative must then drive the player to want to continue. Clearly the narrative and the mechanics have a totally symbiotic relationship.Recently we have been approached by a major film studio to license Broken Sword as a movie, and I have been re-writing the game to work as a film script. While I have written many film-to-game adaptations, I have never done this in reverse. What has become clear is that while a film requires the protagonist, or hero, to be motivated by emotional conflict, in a game it is the player who needs to be motivated. Quite different requirements which require different approaches.What about Wii versions of some of your other games, such as Beneath a Steel Sky?This Broken Sword: Director's Cut game is incredibly important – because it will dictate the level of our ambition in relation to adventures going forward. It has been a great pleasure to reengaging with Dave Gibbons and we have restarted discussions about working together on a new project – possibly a new Beneath a Steel Sky, possibly something original. In the meantime new platforms, including Wii and DS, offer opportunities to reinvent some of our original titles. It is a very exciting time.Has the success of ScummVM helped or hindered plans for future remakes? For example Steel Sky is available for free.Without a doubt,ScummVMhas helped us enormously. Both Lure of the Temptress and Beneath a Steel Sky were written for MS-DOS and so couldn't be played when Windows operating systems stopped supporting the antiquated DOS format. ScummVM converted the games to their interpreter and allowed people to play the games again on multiple platforms. We chose to make the games available for free – my feeling being that since the games were only available because of ScummVM technology, it would be disingenuous to then charge for them. The effect of making them available for free has been that literally millions of people have played them in the past few years – and the brands are really widely known. As such the opportunity for future remakes is greatly enhanced. I owe the ScummVM team a debt of gratitude – or several rounds of beers.
Chatterbox Monday
UKDPEhas posted a 10-minute video to YouTube, which shows how RM (formerly Research Machines) is developinga "proof of concept" educational gamefor the Microsoft Surface touch-table PC. Much of the jargon and most of the product names will be unfamiliar to people who are not Microsoft developers. However, if you want to get a better idea of how the Surface works, there's plenty to see.The video also shows the kind of performance you can get from Windows Vista Business SP1 with a Core 2 Duo processor and 2GB of memory. If I'd been designing the Surface, I'd have wanted a really fast, bullet-proof, real-time embedded operating system. But Microsoft wanted the machine to run Windows x86 software, and to enable developers to use their standard programming tools. Vista Business isn't an RTOS, but it does the job.A couple of years ago, I suspected that the main market for the Surface probably began and ended with Las Vegas casinos. Having tried it (below), I can see the potential for thousands of applications, including arcade classics such as Galaxians. But at the £8,500 price, maybe only casinos can afford to buy enough of them.
Volkswagen Scirocco&pound;19,104Miles per gallon:55.4CO2 per km:138 GRAMSGood for:Blue moodsBad for:Red alertsThe car pictured here is Volkswagen's latest take on its iconic sport coupe, the Scirocco. The fact that it's blue - "Rising Blue Metallic with Anthracite 'Vienna' leather upholstery" to be precise - means two things. One, it joins the ranks of the most popular colour choice for cars in the UK - more than 7m blue cars are currently registered in Britain. And two, according to imotormag, an online motoring magazine, it will be 15 per cent less likely to break down than that most cursed of car colours, grey. In fact, the only car colour found to be more reliable than blue is red. But how can a car's colour affect whether it is more or less likely to break down? Various theories are put forward by imotormag, ranging from the psychological profile of drivers who opt for red, to the more prosaic idea that grey cars are usually destined for the rental/fleet market. Either way, next time you shake your head dismissively when some poor sap describes his car as "a nice red one" remember that they clearly know more than you ...Whatever colour it comes in, the Scirocco is a highly emotive marque among car fanciers. The original two-door, four-seat pulling machine first pounded our streets way back in 1974. And for anyone who came of age in that heady decade, it was a byword for speed. I can still picture the yellow two-tone model a friend bought in Munich and drove over to England. (Yellow, the least popular colour for cars, also fares poorly in the reliability stakes). But boyhood memory is an unreliable witness. I Googled an image of that lusted-after 1974 model and couldn't believe how boxy, ungainly and awkward it looked. What were we all so excited about? Still, 35 years is a long time in a boy's life, and the new Scirocco has as little in common with that car as we do with short trousers and tuck boxes.The new 'Roc gives VW the chance to prove it has a fun side after all. It's built for driving and is centred - to the detriment of your fellow passengers - on the driver. At the wheel you sit, legs and arms outstretched, in a position which echoes the car's flowing design - you feel low, direct and involved. But those in the back get little more than a view of your dandruff and a slot window so narrow it'd struggle to be re-employed as a letterbox. Who cares? This is a car for the people up front.From the outside, there's a sense of the Golf about it, a slightly squashed one. The Scirocco is 10cm lower and looks much wider due to the full-width grille. But both cars share the same chassis and engine. However, the Scirocco gives the impression of greater speed. The driver can also choose from three adaptive chassis-control settings: "comfort" for motorways, "sport" for speed and "normal" for, well, normal. The ACC adjusts the throttle map for better response, the steering for a sharper feel and, most importantly, the damping of the suspension for better control.So, if you're tempted, and you've every reason to want to become one of the 9,000 drivers who'll take delivery of a Scirocco this year, just be sure to get it in lipstick red.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The DV Labs blog has run aPwn2Own Wrap Upabout its hacking competition, which saw three browsers hacked and one unexploitable hole in Chrome. More than that, it raises the question why all the mobile devices emerged unscathed -- and fails to answer it. It looks as though they weren't seriously attacked. However, mobile phones may do worse next year.Possibly the most interesting part of the event at CanSecWest in Vancouver, Canada, was the appearance of "the mysterious Nils," who now has the honour of having found the first security vulnerability in IE8. It won't be the last.Another development was that two Pwn2Own winners, Dino Dai Zovi and Charlie Miller, said they were beefing up their Metasploit tool "to make Mac OS X a first-class target". According toIDG News:Although there are still many more exploits available for Windows software than for Macs, the new payload code means there is now "more or less the same functionality if you want to target a Mac box or a Windows box," Miller said.The IDG story reports:Miller and Dai Zovi say their work is designed to bring attention to serious security problems in the Mac platform, which has largely avoided the wide-scale attacks that have plagued Windows for years. Dai Zovi said he considers the Mac safe, but not secure. "There's a difference between safety and security," he said. "It's like leaving your door unlocked. ... Leaving your door unlocked is always insecure, but it may or may not be safe."(I think "largely avoided" means "completely avoided".)Insofar as Pwn2Own might have some small effect on the market, Google Chrome was the winner and Apple's Safari the loser. Whatever their other merits might be, the event suggested Safari was the most insecure browser while Chrome was the most secure (bearing in mind that some were not tested, including Opera).Most Windows users are probably happy to have one or two browsers, and by a long way, those are Internet Explorer and Firefox. There's diminishing appeal to having three, four or five browsers on a singe PC, but Chrome is now the obvious third choice, on security grounds, while Safari is the one to avoid.Apple chief executive Steve Jobs implied that Safari was intended to wipe out Firefox, which has made some headway on Mac OS X. It will be interesting to see if it can fend off Chrome.
Twilight News BlogDeleted scenes, pap shots and news of the Twilight saga from books to movies.The LabyrinthCommentary on Guillermo Del Toro films with reports from the set of The Hobbit.Movie Poster AddictThe size of Seth Rogen's head on a poster is directly related to box office sales.Movie DeathsYouTube links to the greatest and worst death scenes in movie history.The Documentary BlogSinging the praises of The Shark Is Still Working and other cinema docs.Love Asian FilmA bluffer's guide to the latest Asian releases.Cult TrailersCult trailers from the fantastic vintage Dario Argento to the fantastically awful Zombie vs Ninja.
This hypermedia project tells the story of a real Australian murder case that has baffled experts for decades. In the early hours of New Year's Day, 1963, on a lonely stretch of riverbank in Sydney, the bodies of Margaret Chandler and Gib Bogle were discovered. Who killed them and how has remained a mystery, but their connections with the cold war (the pair were both scientists said to be working on a nuclear death ray) and newspaper reports of bizarre sex cults have added to the intrigue. The facts unfold stylishly - like Cluedo meets the Mad Men opening titles - along an interactive timeline with music.
With a hero styled after Bruce Campbell in The Evil Dead and mechanics that involve loping around chunky cartoon arenas torching, shooting, cricket batting and dynamiting legions of zombies back to the graves in which they belong, Burn Zombie Burn really sets out its stall early. Triggering continuous waves of undead, your choices are limited to killing or setting fire to your rotting foe, with the latter increasing your score multiplier and causing them to drop different power ups when they finally meet their doom on the end of your gun, bat or smouldering bundle of TNT. With increasingly hectic and fast-moving breeds of zombie assailing you from all sides, your only choice is to herd them while frantically firing back and trawling the screen for new weapons. While not quite the equal of arena shooting benchmark Geometry Wars, this supplies snack-sized doses of ludicrous comedy destruction.ng• PlayStation Network download, Doublesix
After a highly successful outing on Sony's PSP, Grand Theft Auto heads for the DS and in spirit at least, this is the same fully 3D Liberty City experienced on a bigger screen in GTAIV, with everything from traffic to buildings to escaping the police elegantly simplified for handheld use. Telling the story of foppish Triad offspring Huang Lee's attempt to deliver his murdered father's ceremonial sword to Uncle Kenny in America, the series' trademark black humour oozes from every pore even if the dialogue isn't quite as confident as its big brothers. Receive email from characters, whistle into the DS microphone to hail a cab and make the customary vehicle and weapons-based mayhem on the streets of the world's favourite simulated city. Chinatown Wars is an incredible achievement and testament to the extraordinarily uncompromising vision of Rockstar's developers. More importantly it's also exceptionally entertaining.• Rockstar, &pound;29.99
The 10most diabolical fish on earthThe internetprefers ketchup to mustardDamned paparazziget everywhereHow tomake every song a Daft Punk songThe skatewitches don't take no crap from no oneDon Draper's gone baldNothing emasculatesgangsta rap quite like Thomas The Tank EngineAlways rememberto lock your vehicle while in the Middle EastHiccups aretriggered by uncontrolled impulses of the phrenic nerve. And lager
Having taken on special forces missions in Rainbow Six and the splendid Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter series, and real-time strategy in EndWar, in HAWX, Ubisoft's "Tom Clancy's" franchise has a go at aerial combat. Starting in 2014 and spanning subsequent decades, HAWX has you travelling the world and bombing it with guided and freefalling ordnance, in the employ of the shadowy Artemis Global Security. Fortunately, in this game insurgents not only have guns but their own navies and airforces, making encounters in its simplified air combat model a bit more interesting. While not significantly different from the convoy protecting/bogey eliminating missions and general feel of the very slightly superior Ace Combat series, the small difference is that when you switch off flight assistance, the camera zooms out to show both you and your target, a mechanism that works unexpectedly well. Fun in a flimsy, lightweight sort of way, though flight simulation enthusiasts would do well to give this a wide berth.• Ubisoft, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
From its debut 10 years ago, the Smart Fortwo has looked like a prototype for a future that is about to arrive but never does. Envisaged as a sort of 2CV for the 21st century, the Smart concept originated with Swatch, the watch company. It formed an alliance with Mercedes but when the project failed to live up to expectations, and ran up large financial losses, the Swiss timekeepers called time.Subsequently, Mercedes worked on creating greater fuel economy for the Smart Fortwo, the standard two-seater, and produced a hybrid version. Yet perhaps the car's major contribution to transport culture has been the slightly irritating habit of parking nose outwards - even though it is not quite short enough to fit within a standard resident's bay.Though obviously a major development in space economy, it wasn't quite enough to compensate for the fact that you were driving around in what is effectively a mobile SpongeBob SquarePants outfit. Not that there's anything wrong in looking weird, but it helps if it's for a worthwhile purpose. Now Smart hopes it has found that purpose, in other words that the future has finally arrived. For the new Smart Fortwo Ed - currently available only on lease to corporate "partners" - is completely electric.As with the G-Wiz, it's charged from the mains - ie, you juice it up overnight and drive during the day. There are two problems with this. First, an extension lead running from your house is a tempting target for vandals. The other is range. This is not a car for long journeys, or indeed medium-sized ones, especially if you're using the radio, lights, heating and wipers. On a full charge, Smart says, it should do 70 miles. I tried it on full tilt and the power quickly began to drain. Had I gone much farther, I'd have come to a halt like a bumper car that's lost its connection. Only in this case, there are no teddy boys to jump on the back and restart the thing.The look of the car is the same as earlier petrol versions. The interior still seems as if it was assembled from an office clearance in 1993. The steering is a touch heavy, though this is reassuring because you sense if it were any more nimble, the car might tip over at speed. And it boasts  a top speed of 60mph, a whole 10mph faster than the G-Wiz. Getting there takes perseverance, but it is oddly exhilarating. Not since I was a teenager and I drove down Muswell Hill in a milk float have I got such a buzz from an electric vehicle.But that's not the point. This is a city car, fit only for short trips. That's fine, but in terms of the future - it's not available until 2012 - it already feels a little dated.Smart Fortwo EdPrice£375/month for lease to companiesTop speed60mphAcceleration0-30mph in 6.5 secondssAverage consumptionZero fossil fuel, but costs equivalent of 300mpgCO2 emissionsZeroEco rating10/10At the wheelSheldon PlanktonBound forElectricIn a wordPlucky
"Are you a wasabi pea addict?" asks an article on this site for Japanese food junkies. "Can't stop eating them? Can't stop thinking about them? Me too!" Sushi - and its associated snack products - is a growing obsession and one, it seems, that extends way beyond the realms of just eating it. Here are reviews and practical how-to-make-it guides, but much weirdness too, including YouTube links of people dressed as giant sushi, bento box art, knitted California rolls and a disturbing picture of a mouse sitting at a table filled with miniature raw fish treats. The celebrity section reports on the latest chopstick-wielding stars including Eddie Izzard, who claims to be a "black belt in sashimi".
For 24 hours, Google's new Street View brought a vision of British cities to the web that included such memorable sights as a man throwing up between his knees outside a London bar and youths with traffic cones on their heads in Edinburgh.But while the chance to take a 360-degree tour of every street in 25 UK cities continued to bring most offices to a standstill yesterday, some of the more invasive moments caught on camera saw Google hit with a wave of privacy complaints.The company said yesterday that it had removed scores of photographs from the site, including an image in London of someone coming out of a sex shop in Soho, the forlorn man being sick on a pavement, and another man being arrested by police.Although Google would not reveal the exact number of images it had removed, a spokeswoman said the number was less than expected after its busiest day ever, when traffic on the site jumped 41%. She said tools allowed users to report pictures they were not happy with, although users would have to fill out an online form."When we launched yesterday we explained how importantly we take privacy and we explained how easy it is to remove pictures."We have received a few removal requests in the last 24 hours but it is less than expected," the spokeswoman said."The tools are there for users to remove pictures they are not happy with, that is the point of having the icon at the bottom of each image. We are pleased that the tools we developed are working well."She added: "We have had lots of people asking when we will be going to their street."Although Google has also developed technology to blur the faces of some people caught on film, it apparently suffered a malfunction yesterday when some blurs appeared in the wrong places.Then there were the moments of over-compensation: a poster for How to Lose Friends &amp; Alienate People had the faces blurred; and the famous mural of the IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands at the corner of Falls Road and Sevastopol Street in Belfast, went the same way - although it was returned to its natural form on Friday."We do have some false positives," said the Google UK spokesperson. "We blurred a statue and the faces of the team painted outside Manchester United's stadium, I think. But people can report it as a concern if they want to and we will unblur the picture."The company said it had consulted the Information Commissioner's Office and Scotland Yard about privacy concerns before launching the technology, and would remove any images that had inappropriate content.Ed Parsons, a geospatial technologist for Google, said: "If people do not want their homes featured, we will take them down, or cut them out of the image. We have a dedicated team whose job is to look at these pictures if there are any concerns"The images you see on Street View are the same images you would see if you were to walk or drive down the road yourself. It gives you a much better sense of what it really feels like to be in a city."Street View was launched in the US two years ago and has since been introduced in other countries including the Netherlands and Japan.It isn't the first time Google's mapping technology has caused concern. Its introduction of Google Earth, which used satellite images to zoom in on places around the globe, caused concern that clearly visible military installations could pose a threat to national security.
Ryan Naraine sat down with Mac hacker Charlie Miller (below) at CanSecWest, and has blogged their fascinating conversation inQuestions for Pwn2Own hacker Charlie Miller. Turns out he already knew this year's Safari vulnerability before last year's Pwn2Own contest but didn't need to use it. However, he didn't report it to Apple. He says:Vulnerabilities have a market value so it makes no sense to work hard to find a bug, write an exploit and then give it away.  Apple pays people to do the same job so we know there's value to this work.No more free bugs.However, the problem with Apple security holes is that they are not worth much. While he claims he could get more than $5,000 for the one he used, he was happy to use it for the prize, the Mac, and the publicity. The IE8 vulnerability that Nils used was worth at least 10x more, Miller says.I was shocked when I saw someone sign up to go after IE 8. You can get paid a lot more than $5,000 for one of those bugs.  I've talked to a lot of smart, knowledgeable people and no one knows exactly how he did it. He could easily get $50,000 for that vulnerability.  I'd say $50,000 is a low-end price point.For the amount of time he spent to do what he did on IE and Firefox, he could have found and exploited five or 10 Safari bugs.  With the way they're paying $5,000 for every verifiable bug, he could have spent that same time and resources and make $25,000 or $30,000 easily just by going after Safari on Mac.Chrome survived because it takes too much effort to attack it for it to be worth the money on offer. First you have to hack Chrome, but then you have to hack Chrome's sandbox: "Now you need two bugs and two exploits," Miller says. "That raises the bar."It's all economics. It's only hard or easy compared to what someone would pay.  If Pwn2Own offered $1 million per bug for Chrome, there would be a line of people here looking to bankrupt them.Conversely, the Mac is easy to hack not just because it's relatively easy to find security holes in Safari but because they are so easy to exploit. Miller says:The things that Windows do to make it harder (for an exploit to work), Macs don't do.  Hacking into Macs is so much easier. You don't have to jump through hoops and deal with all the anti-exploit mitigations you'd find in Windows.It's more about the operating system than the (target) program.  Firefox on Mac is pretty easy too.  The underlying OS doesn't have anti-exploit stuff built into it.Entertaining stuff, but Naraine should have asked at least two more questions. Those are:* If a Mac exploit really is worth $5,000 to a criminal buyer, what would he use it for?* Where's the real-world evidence that anyone has made $5,000 plus profits by exploiting a Mac security hole?I can't see any.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Marc:The typewriter. It was a great piece of technology for me the Selectric electric typewriter was my favourite. Up until then I had manual typewriters and I had written a couple of books as a sports writer. Then the Selectric came in and it was faster, and it also had a built-in white-out for when you made a mistake. Honestly, I can remember that was huge.Greg:The onboard navigational system – the automobile GPS. The idea that there is someone in my car readily getting me from point A to point B is pretty terrific. I'm hooked on it. My wife gets frustrated cos even if I'm going two blocks down the street I like to put it on and punch in the address. I like to know where I'm going.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Greg:To get to the bottom of the street, I think – the gas station, or something like that. I use it for everything. It would be great for this town – London is built for the GPS, by the way. I live in LA, which is pretty simple to drive and get around, but this – this is a GPS town right here.Marc:Funnily enough, I do use it [an electric typewriter] because I send personal notes and I've gotten so my handwriting doesn't work very well. So what I've done now is that I bought an old typewriter specifically for this and I use it to type personal notes when I'm thanking people for things. And I always get questions back like, "Did you really type this on a typewriter?"What additional features would you add if you could?Marc:The only thing I'd change is probably make it easier to find somebody who can fix it. It's amazing how they don't even exist. I know Tom Hanks and [Steven] Spielberg collect them – the only reason I know this is because the guy I bought mine from told me. He said Tom Hanks has like 120 manual typewriters.Greg:I have zero [typewriters] in my collection. And instead of adding a feature [to the GPS] I'd remove a feature – I'd like to remove the woman's voice who, when I miss a turn, insists I do a U-turn as soon as possible. She's irritating, and drives me crazy. If I could just silence the voice in my car, that would be progress on that technology.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Greg:Nooo! Maybe. Probably a GPS will be in our ear somehow, implanted – and then her voice would really be … yeah, maybe that's not such a great idea.Marc:It's amazing how fast things become obsolete now. You try to explain to your children that you used to have to get up to change the channel on a television set. I remember when answering machines came in, and they're all basically built into the systems now. I showed my five-year-old a [record] album and asked her, "Do you know what this is?" And she said "no", and I just about fainted. But of course she doesn't know what it is.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Marc:For me, I'm not very good at it. I'm much better about practical things, like I can do rewiring if a lamp breaks, but for some reason I've never got all the internet stuff down as well as I should. So when it breaks, or my computer goes down, or my email is not working, I usually end up needing help.Greg:It's kind of like what we were saying before about the obsolete thing – how quickly it's constantly changing, so that you can master something and have a pretty good handle on it, but that knowledge will last you such a short period of time because there's something just around the corner racing at you at you that you'd better know as well. The learning curve is never ending.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Marc:Honestly, what I believe is to not rely on it quite so much. Despite the fact that we have available so much information to us, and you can stay in touch with people so much, it consumes you to the point where it stops you from thinking. It doesn't mean you're actually making progress, just because you're answering emails to people. Try to just be more judicious in the use, not have it dictate your life that you have to have it with you constantly, and you have to be in touch all the time.Greg:Read the directions.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Greg:I'm a nerdite, which is a combination of somone who masters technology and is frightened by it all at once.Marc:I'm definitely a luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Marc:I would say a watch. My wife did give me a very nice watch, of German design, which is probably the most expensive piece of technology that I have.Greg:I got an Apple iMac this year – a big old giant thing. I can't see out my window any more at my desk, but there it sits.Mac or PC, and why?Greg:Mac. But I do still have, in a box on the floor – I refuse to throw it out – my PC.  I'm terrified that the day is coming where I can't get a  handle on the Mac, so I'll have the PC waiting there in the box, looking at me every day, like: "Bring me back. I'll be better this time – no more prompts, no more warning signals. Let me back onto the desk." But I haven't so far, the Mac's done a good job.Marc:I have a PC. At my office, I outfitted everybody with PCs when they came out, and so I just stayed with it. I think the Mac looks cooler, and I probably should switch over, but I use it basically for emails and gathering information, I don't use it for anything complicated – just a regular old PC.•Flash of Geniusis out now on DVD
For the man emerging from a Soho sex shop and another being sick on the pavement outside an east London pub,Google's Street Viewproved a snapshot of modern life perhaps best not preserved. They are among a series of images that have been removed from the new mapping application, Google confirmed today, after complaints about invasion of privacy.Street View,launched in the UKyesterday, allows users to access 360-degree views of roads and homes in 25 cities. It is the culmination of a year-long project that saw a fleet of specially modified cars covering 22,369 miles of roads and snapping away at their surroundings.Google claims 99.9% of faces and number plates are blurred by its automated technology, but many people, perhaps taking a cigarette break outside their office, can still be identified if they are in the background.Today the company could not confirm exactly how many complaints it had received, but moved to honour its pledge to deal promptly with offending images, removing or blacking them out. "When we launched, we explained how importantly we take privacy and we explained how easy it is to remove pictures," a Google spokeswoman said. "We have received a few removals in the last 24 hours but it is less than expected."Users can log inappropriate content or privacy concerns by clicking on a link at the bottom of each scene. The spokeswoman said the search giant had also received compliments on the service and inquiries from people asking when their street would be included.Ed Parsons, Google's geospatial technologist, said the information commissioner and police were consulted about Street View. "Privacy is really important to us. We recognise that there have been concerns about that and we think we have addressed those concerns. We have spoken to Scotland Yard and, from a crime point of view, they are happy with it, there are no issues there," he said.A spokeswoman for the information commissioner's office said it was satisfied that adequate standards were in place to ensure people's privacy. "Although it is possible that, in certain limited circumstances, an image may allow the identification of an individual, it is clear that Google is keen to capture images of streets and not individuals," she said.Street View images are taken from public roads, captured by a number of cars which have been driving around the UK since last summer. The cars are continuing to photograph streets, which will enable Google to extend the service to cover more cities.The technology, launched in the US in 2007, is also available in the Netherlands, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, France, Spain and Italy.
The question on everyone's mind around lunchtime yesterday was: can I see my house from here? And after that, can I see the house where I grew up? The launch of Google's Street View – which adds a photographic layer, with 360-degree panoramas, to its Google Maps service – led to a dramatic leap in use of the site. According to the web metrics company Hitwise, Google Maps UK had its busiest-ever day on Thursday, with visits to Google Maps UK up by 41% – its busiest day ever.But now that's done, the tougher questions begin. Starting with: how many classic album covers can you recreate? What's the Story Morning Glory by Oasis?Check. Pink Floyd's Animals?Check(minus giant pink flying pig, we regret). We'vefound Wally. Notedtwo rather drunk peopleon Curtain Road in London (though they've now been removed from the system itself). There's a piece ofinteresting parkingand, apparently, ahalf-buried motorcyclist. All human life is here, including some, ahem, professional women who might interest the police – though nobody, yet, has been spotted breaking into anyone's house.There are of coursecelebrities(even with their faces blurred, you can still spot some – and of course they'rekeen to talk about it)In the usual crowdsourced way, all the interesting sights have rapidly gained their own Twitter feed (onhttp://twitter.com/gsightseeing), which is growing apace. There's no doubt that people are becoming obsessed with it – including some privacy campaigners and the Daily Mail, who have complained respectively that Street View is an invasion of privacy onto "private residential streets" and that it's a burglars' charter. Neither quite holds water: the Street View car only travelled on public roads, taking pictures there (with the approval of the information commissioner), and taking pictures in a public place isa right that we ought to defend; and the Metropolitan Police have said they see no appreciable risk from the service.There's a lot of fun to be had in Street View's slightly obsessive-compulsive approach to privacy, which involves blurring faces wherever they are found (using the same algorithm to spot them that it employs in its free Picasa photo-organisation software): a poster for the film How to Lose Friends &amp; Alienate People had its faces, yes, blurred – but the famous mural of the IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands at the corner of Falls Road and Sevastapol Street in Belfast, which many had said wasblurred, wasreturned to its natural form on Friday. "We do have some false positives," said a Google UK spokesperson. "We blurred a statue, and the faces of the team painted outside Manchester United's stadium, I think. But people can report it as a concern if they want to and we will unblur the picture."Conversely, if you want to go and virtually stand outside Tony Blair's London house in mute protest at his political decisions, then you can: it is still there on the system as of Friday. Plenty of publications have beenhauled upin front of the Press Complaints Commission forless. If you needed a vision of how much more powerful Google has become than the media, it is there – though a Google spokesperson said that anyone who wants to have images of their home removed can apply to the company and it will comply. Scores of people already have, meaning that it is a system in flux: streets or places that were here yesterday are gone tomorrow.What Street View does give us, instead, is twofold. The first is easily seen: it's a picture of a pre-recession halycon land, where you could still – if you were clever – get a 100% mortgage, where most banks weren't owned by the government, and there was a national retailer called Woolworths with shops all over the place. They might as well have called it Google Nostalgia. Look, it's summer! Look, the restaurants were busy! Look, that shop that's closed down now has someone going into it! Look, I can plan my trip/scope out the neighbourhood of that new flat/see if there are – or used to be – a pizza place nearby!But what's overlooked, and has gone completely unremarked in all the frothy searches for "funny photos", is that this is also a masterstroke that tightens Google's near-complete monopoly on how we look for things. The executives at Microsoft and Yahoo, its would-be competitors in the linked fields of web searching and maps, must be grinding their teeth to dust. Microsoft has had 3D maps of cities sinceMay 2007; even Amazon had done something similar. But they have all stumbled. Microsoft, aiming as ever to preserve its own monopoly, required you to download and install its own custom-written software to get its "Virtual Earth" view in the browser; Google, by contrast, relies on Adobe's Flash technology, which isalready installed in some form on 99% of browsers. Google wins by exploiting someone else's monopoly; Microsoft fails by trying to exploit its own. And Yahoo is a distant third: the company is struggling, having made a loss of $278m (£192m) on revenues of $1.8bn in itsmost recent financial quarter. Worse, its new chief executive Carol Bartz has called into question the whole rationale of Yahoo's own maps operation: sheprefers Google's.The privacy concerns are essentially unfounded. Google Street View is simply the best way to travel through 25 of Britain's cities – and it's a certainty that more will be added and that the ultimate aim of the company is to have the whole of the country covered. But while we gain through that, we're also losing something very subtle: any sense of choice about where we go for other forms of searching. Google Street View is a blessing – but then, we used to think that privately-owned banks were an unalloyed good too.
It's a lovely sunny day, but you'll find nothing of any comfort out there. Instead, stay right in front of your computer, open a can of supermarket own brand energy drink and a six pack of sausage rolls and scamper with us down memory lane... all the way to last week on Chatterbox.NEW: Chatterbox photo challengeLong-time chatterboxes may remember that I used to illustrate the 'Best of' posts with a hilarious photo of the Chatterbox topless bar, which you'll find just over the road from the Guardian offices on Farringdon. However, the Guardian has now moved and I've lost the photo, so that's that.From now on, I'd like to invite chatterbox readers to submit their own photos. They must be videogame-related and they must be clean. I'm thinking game billboards in interesting places (or just on bus stops, it matters not), people playing games, buildings that look like buildings in games, people dressed as game characters at promotional events... I'm sure you get the idea. Send them to us at Gamesblog + at + gmail + com, stick 'Chatterbox Snap' in your subject header and I'll select one every week to lead the 'Best of' round-up. Bear in mind that the photo will be cropped and reduced to 460x276 pixels, so no panoramic vistas.This may be a disaster but seeing as though you provide all the commentsandwrite the 'Best of' posts, it's only fair that you submit the photography too.Anyway, back to the business at hand. And this time, it's Imperfect Rex ferreting through the Chatterbox archives, and - what's that? - I think he's found some pants. Or is that just the Annie Lennox cover of Shining Light? All will become clear inside...Part one: Killzone 2 chatPS3 ownership seems to have increased on the Chatterbox recently. There's been an increase in the number of posts regarding Sony's machine, influenced perhaps by the arrival of the system's must-buy title, Killzone 2.The multiplayer element is obviously a huge part of the game's appeal and regular Chatterboxers have formed their own clan – all bow before NaNageddon!The inaugural match against a clan of interweb strangers took place on Thursday night. The chat was flying all week in the build up – squads, responsibility, lines of fire, actions on, strategy, intelligence-gathering.Thursday night arrived and not since the battle of Mboto Gorge has there been such a decisive victory.For those who missed Friday's box, you can see a replay of the actionhere.Sheer numbers (16 against 1) ensured success. Not every witness was impressed though. 'Just watched the battle replay and absolutely pi**ed myself – how the hell did you manage 24 team kills?!' demandedMakar27.At least there is a rematch scheduled though. For 7.15am on Monday morning...(having read all last week's boxes, I have a suspicion who accepted this - Rex)Part two: boxers, briefs or thong?Smellavisionposed a question that all of us have pondered at some point - though usually not on the public comments section of a national newspaper website:"I'm thinking of switching from boxer shorts to briefs. What are the pros and cons?"Only the anonymous nature of the internet could have made such a question askable. Only the wisdom of the Chatterbox could have answered.Dizzyisanegg:"Cons – you'd be wearing briefs".DMT2:"Anyone wear brown Y-fronts with a cream trim?"alfienoakes:"I've been wearing boxers since the age of about 12 when I got the p**s ripped out of me at school for wearing paisley y-fronts"(They should have been on the inside - Rex)Part three: TV AppearancesChubster2010started this idea off on Tuesday as he was planning to go to a live recording of the Stephen K Amos show. A few of our regular posters have been at the showbiz end of the camera:SuperSmashin, "went to watch TV Burp being filmed a few years back. Free tickets and a couple of free drinks vouchers. Ended up being part of the audience dressed as Jimmy Saville and got to keep my wig and cigar."Alfienoakescan only talk about this now after all these years: "Was on a regional news program when I was about 17 being interviewed about the state of live music in the area and I looked and sounded such a cock that I vowed never to go anywhere near a TV camera again in my life."CrispyCrumbtries for a win: "I was in a BBC costume drama when I was 12, an extra in David Copperfield"Uncle3entakes it though: "My brother and I went on Wacaday. Must have been all of 10 years old. However I have to bask in his reflected glory – he got stuck in, I was too shy and stood around looking uncomfortable in the corner not wanting to play ball."Part four: crimes against musicAnnie Lennox has got her hooks into a few regular posters' brains with her terrible cover of Ash's 'Shining Light'. Which ledJuanBlancoto pose a great friday question – nominations for soul-destroying cover versions.Art1eFufkin:"Atomic Kitten murdering Blondie's 'The Tide is High'. And yes, I know the Blondie version was itself a cover, but Atomic Kitten were clearly covering the cover version."Cunningstunt:"Sugababes and Girls Aloud version of 'Walk this Way'".Umboros23:"Jonny Cash's 'Hurt'".(surely joking – Rex)Owlyrosshad a few to get off his chest: "Avril Lavigne doing Metallica's 'Fuel', All Saints doing 'Under the Bridge' and Alien Ant Farm doing 'Smooth Criminal'".Sorbicol:"Sixpence none the richer's cover of The La's 'There She Goes'."(I remember hearing that played on Radio 1 by Mark Radcliffe. His words were, "I always thought no-one else could cover that song well. And I was right" – Rex).Makar27took the prize on this subject though: "I was in Exeter Cathedral Green with a friend once when a busker started playing 'Every breath you take' by The Police. After listening to it for a minute, my mate turned to me and said ''It's not bad, but I prefer the original by Puff Daddy'. I was upset."Part five: Lidl offers of the weekA request for a shop that sells ostrich eggs(!) ledmollocateto direct the box's attention to Lidl. Aided byTonyHayersandCunningstunt, he pointed out some of the great offers in store this week*:Pony blankets, Bavarian Christmas sausages, toad steaks, tinned goats, 2012 calendars, dog fighting muzzles, imitation tequila worms, floral lavatory seats, German cabbage dishes, low-fat donkey cheese.*Limited stocks, one per customer, some of these may actually be real.Quotes of the week"Cycled into work and it was hard work today. Realised once I'd cycled 10 miles that my back tyre was flat!"Davefalse not doing 'stupid bloody' cyclists reputations any good."Marley &amp; Me – went to watch this last night. Anyone read the book? Not everyone's cup of tea obviously but I'm not ashamed to admit I was bawling like a banshee at the end. Along with 90% of the cinema. Not a great film but brought back memories of the book. Damn heart strings being plucked all over the place. I now want a dog."Every week doing Best of, there is a post that stands out, makes no sense and leaves me a little stunned. Well done SuperSmashin."Bloke at work climbed Kilamanjaro a couple of years back – said it was a piece of p***. Apparently it's just like a path up a bit of a hill with loads of tourists knocking about. He said as long as you take your time and don't rush, your granny could do it."alfienoakes proving that if Ronan Keating and Chris Moyles can climb a mountain, anyone can."Hi guys. Just a quick post to make Mr Hayers jealous. Tons of powder and booze so far. Complete whiteout conditions yesterday, 10 meter visibility. Things were better today though and looking good for the rest of the week.Currently sat enjoying a beer and sheltering from the snow."Craggyisland tries to get himself temporarily added to the libel / hate list.Any other businessBirthdays:Just one this week - MasterAir turned 26 on Tuesday.New posters:Three new poster to the Chatterbox this week. Please feel free to come back, RobLindsay, 51Monsays, spatenfloor.Libel List or who we've been having a go at this week:Annie Lennox, Comic Relief celebrities, Jo Whiley, Michaela Strachan, George Galloway, Harvey the ipod loving A&amp;R man, Tesco Car Insurance, Horne &amp; Corden, Powerpoint, Bono and Bob Geldoff.Sweetheart list:Alexander Skarsgard and Julie Myerson.Link of the weekA Generation Kill glossaryGames:Killzone 2, Age of Empires, Fallout3, COD4, DoW2, Braid, World of Goo, Watchmen, Streets of Rage, Columns, Street Fighter 4, Bioshock, PES, MGS4, Pixeljunk Monsters, Burnout Paradise, Dead Space, Fifa09, Left4Dead, Resident Evil5, Rainbow 6, Jeanne D'Arc, Patapon 2, 50 Cent: Blood in the Sand, Prince of Persia, Mirror's Edge, SOCOM, GTA: Chinatown Wars, Zack &amp; Wiki, Rollercoaster Tycoon 3, COD:Waw, Chrono Trigger, Legends of Wrestlemania (really cameroon95?), Civ Rev, Puzzle Kingdom, Mad World, Gears2, Team Fortress, Halo3, GTA4, Peggle.Movies:Watchmen, The Blues Brothers, Kingdom of Heaven, Quantum of Solace, all 5x Harry Potter movies (and you couldn't make time to watch Apocalypse Now, illocon?), Crank, Transporter 3, Gran Torino, In Bruges, Death Sentence, Slumdog Millionaire, Deathproof, Let the right one in, Marley &amp; Me, Ghost Town, High School Musical 3.TV:Skins, Generation Kill, The Wire, Mad Men, 30 Rock, Flight of the Conchords, Golden Balls, the Stephen K Amos show, Heston Blumenthal, Horne &amp; Corden show, Red Riding.
