Things are better than they used to be but there are still far too many games releases crammed into Q4. From now until Christmas we'll be seeing big titles like Little Big Planet, FIFA/PES, Fallout 3, Fable 2, Gears of War 2 (yawn), Lich King, Resistance 2, Call of Duty 5, Guitar Hero World Tour and Far Cry 2. Never mind finding the money to play all of those, what about the time? And I've missed out a couple of what look like potential must-plays from that list – Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider: Underworld.I had a hands-on with the rather impressive Prince of Persia today - more thoughts in a separate blog - while Tomb Raider: Underworld is looking looking similarly interesting. Steve Boxerhas had a playand sounds impressed.It's Tomb Raider with its strengths emphasised and the annoying aspects removed or neutralised.From what I've seen it looks great too. Personally I always thought the standing-in-a-temple-gawping-at-the-view element of Tomb Raider works better than the often clunky action stuff. So Underworld sounds hugely promising.Plaforming style games may be slightly out of fashion these days - sadly - but could Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider: Underworld herald a revival of the genre?
You might have seen a recent headline about Sony's announcement of its new "Open Market" digital rights management consortium, with the strapline "Let 1000 retailers bloom."The idea is to kick the pins out from underneath Apple's DRM scheme ("let a single retailer bloom") by forging an alliance of use-control companies who agree to share DRM-crippled works between their devices. Right now, your Blu-Ray videos are tied to Blu-Ray players, but if Sony has its way, you'll be able to move them to other restrictive platforms, provided the manufacturers of those platforms are part of Sony's consortium.If you're a DRM junkie, this will sound awfully familiar: it's functionally indistinguishable from a failed consortium called Coral, though Coral required your devices to contact its servers more often than Open Market will.Big deal.Coral failed for several reasons, but most importantly it failed because successful DRM companies don't join DRM consortia. Once a song, movie, game or book is crippled with DRM, it's illegal to make a player that can run it, unless you have the DRM company's permission. That means that if Sony-BMG Music created a player that could play back its own DRM songs from the iTunes store, they'd be violating Apple's copyrights – even though it holds the copyrights in the music itself.So if Sony wants to wean its listeners off iPods and onto Walkmans, it has to convince anyone who has bought iTunes DRM music to abandon those tracks and buy them again from a Sony DRM store or some other retailer with compatible DRM (or no DRM at all).This is a cat-bird seat for Apple. It gets incredible, Wal*Mart-grade control over its suppliers, right down to pricing and placement. Every time it sells another DRM song or video or audiobook (Apple offers higher-priced DRM-free music, but all its audiobooks and videos are still encumbered with DRM), it strengthens this control, because every DRM-locked file it sells adds to the cost of moving away from Apple's devices to a competitor's.Coral and Open Market are like a treaty negotiation where only one side has bothered to sign up. It's like getting all the kids in your class to "agree" that they're getting top marks on their exams – and then denouncing the teacher for his failure to recognise the landmark accord.But let's say Open Market or something like it succeeds. Be afraid: these things are a one-way ticket to losing the rights to your media.Here's how DRM is supposed to work. Say you want to watch a movie but you don't care to own all the rights to it. You find a DRM vendor who's willing to sell you a subset of the rights at a discount so that, say, "I can watch this movie in Europe, but not in the rest of the world" (think of a Region 2 DVD). Or "I can watch this movie for seven days, and only in the UK" (BBC iPlayer) or "I can watch this movie while it's playing over the air, but my PVR isn't allowed to record it" (TiVo with CGMS/A).Every one of these systems has a slightly different, mismatched vocabulary for expressing which restrictions accompany your media.When you move media from one device to another using a scheme like Coral or Open Market, they have to negotiate what restrictions you'll suffer on the new device. There's two ways of handling this: the devices can "round up" to a more liberal version of the restrictions (a movie going from BBC iPlayer to the DVD-based CSS would go from "Watch in the UK for 7 days only" to "Watch anywhere in Europe forever"), or they can "round down" (the iPlayer movie becomes non-playable at all on the CSS system).Coral handled this by rounding down, so that with each transfer of your media to a new device you lost a little something in the deal, until the permissions you held to the media had been whittled away to zero so that you couldn't use them at all.Will Open Market round up? Hardly. Rounding up provides a trivial way to removeallrestrictions from media: just move it to a device whose two modes are "No restrictions" and "No permissions." The rounding up transaction will strip all restrictions off the file.One of the things that makes digital media great is that there's no generation loss: there's perfect fidelity from one copy to the next. That's why I can still run the Logo programs I created in elementary school in 1979 on a computer manufactured in 2008. That's why I can play the MP3s I ripped from my CD collection in 1999 on a digital car stereo that ships today.Open Market is a product the market has no need for: a system for making digital copies rot, a system for making media less useful every time they are moved to a more powerful, more capable player.We weren't taken in by Coral and we won't be taken in by Open Market. I'll bet my MP3s on it.
A few weeks ago I wrote a quick post about theKorg DS-10Synthesizer for DS, a miniaturised version of the famed Korg MS-10 synth, packed into a handheld console. It's due out in Europe on October 10 and I mentioned really wanting to get hold of a copy, as I once edited Korg's in-house magazine.Well, a couple of days later, what should pop through my letterbox? A copy of Korg DS-10 – Nintendo's PR office is really on its game. I can confirm after mucking about with it for a week, that this is a truly fascinating, if dauntingly comprehensive, piece of software. What you get is two analogue synths and a four-track drum machine to experiment with, all accessible through a simple touchscreen interface. The set-up takes the form of a flow chart, beginning with keyboard option, so you can tap out a basic tune, and ending with an FX panel so you can add trippy feedback and wet/dry effects to your noise. Along the way there's an edit screen to tweak elements like peak, delay and sustain and a 'synth patch' where virtual cables can be patched across from different ports to modify the synth tone. No, I'm not sure what I'm talking about, but it's fun messing about with it.Best of all is the KAOSS Pad which lets you drag the stylus around the screen to warp and twist the sounds, sort of like a Rolf Harris Stylaphone re-imagined by Orbital. The drum machine is hugely adaptable too, providing a wealth of percussion options as well as pan and volume controls, which I have merely scratched the surface of.The great thing is, even if you have no idea what you're doing, you can trick some pretty amazing sounds out of it, by simply editing your demo in real-time, twisting various knobs and randomly patching cables as your short, mangled and repetitive techno monster gurgles and whines in the background. Once you're more familiar with how things actually work (and having instructions in English will give you a distinct advantage over me) you can start laying down and recording proper songs, using the 16-step sequencer for lush multilayered orchestrations.Those who can't afford a full-size Korg synth, or don't have a PC to try out one of the many synth sims available, will get a real feel for music construction on this thing. And when you're ready, there's an eight-player Wi-Fi jamming mode. Believe me, I'm not ready. But give me time.(Oh and watch the trailerhereto see someone who clearlydoesknow what he's doing...)
Have you got plans for October 30 to November 1? Cancel them, you're coming to Nottingham. Yep, it's the third annualGameCityfestival and the organisers have already confirmed several intriguing events, including an opening keynote speech from Media Molecule, the chaps behind LittleBigPlanet, and a series of 'making of' sessions with Lego Batman creators, TT Games. There are also lots of hi-jinks planned for Halloween…But, of course, the event youreallycannot afford to miss is the second ever Gamesblog quiz night! It's taken place on the Saturday evening – in the excellent Mogal-e-Azam curry house. I'll be hosting, along with special guest stars. The Brighton pub quiz was great fun, and the GameCity night will feature a similar combination of trivia, music and Play-doh. You need to book your tickets via the Gamcity website.I asked organiser Iain Simons what else he could recommend to GamesBlog readers. He told me:"Other than the Guardian Games Blog Curry Quiz - I can confirm that the Saturday night 'Save The Videogame' party is going to be pretty special, featuring live sets fromPress Play on Tapeand Powerplay. Also, we've been working hard to reduce our carbon footprint this year and are excited to announce that a number of high-profile attendees will be joining us via videolink from their natural habitat. 'From the desk of...' will be starting at 4pm on Thursday, when a noted North American will be joining us in their pajamas.""Also - theJonathan CoultonHalloween set on friday should be stunning, and those with the stamina will be able to stay on and witness 'dead by dawn', a speedrun playthrough of the entire Resident Evil saga."Also coinciding with the event is the launch of the UK's first official National Videogame Archive. Managed and researched by Nottingham Trent University's Centre for Contemporary Play, the archive will be held at theNational Media Museumin Bradford. From the press release:"In addition to a treasure trove of consoles and cartridges, the archive will collect and gather a broad range of items from across the industry. It will encompass the wider cultural phenomenon of videogames by documenting advertising campaigns, magazine reviews, artwork and the communities that sustain them - the overall aim being to collect, celebrate and preserve this vital cultural form for future generations."So, if you were asked to select one piece of videogame ephemera to place in the  museum, what would it be?
Sony Ericsson has made a pre-emptive attack on bitter rival Nokia with a deal that will herald the first Walkman phone to give users access to unlimited music and allow them to keep hundreds of their favourite tracks without any copyright protection.The news that the world's fifth largest mobile phone maker has teamed up with mobile music specialist Omnifone for its PlayNow Plus service comes ahead of the launch by market leader Nokia of its first full touchscreen phone on October 2.Nokia's phone – nicknamed The Tube but believed to be the 5800 XpressMedia phone – is expected to be unveiled alongside pricing for the Finnish mobile phone maker's own unlimited music service, called Comes With Music.Speculation is rife that Vodafone has signed up for the touchscreen phone after pictures of a device bearing the company's logo appeared on the internet.Such a move would be bad news for Omnifone because Vodafone is one of the customers of its MusicStation subscription-based music service, which gives people access to a massive library of music provided they keep paying a regular subscription.However,Omnifone has signed a deal with Sony Ericsson that will put its new unlimited music service into the company's Walkman phones.The deal means that anyone buying a Walkman phone with PlayNow Plus preinstalled will have immediate access to a huge library of music.PlayNow Plus includes tracks from all four major music labels, with Sony Ericsson hoping eventually to offer about five million tracks. That is more than twice the number that Nokia will have for Comes With Music when it launches later this year but still three million fewer than are available on iTunes. Like Nokia's Comes With Music, tracks downloaded can only be played on special Walkman phones or a computer.But unlike Nokia's service, the tracks than can be retained at the end of the contract are free of Digital Rights Management (DRM) software and can be played on any device. While Nokia Comes With Music allows people to keep all the tracks they have downloaded – rather than just their favourites – they can only ever be played on the original Nokia phone or the computer to which they were downloaded.PlayNow Plus is available in several forms. Consumers paying a weekly or monthly subscription will be able to download all the music they want and keep listening to it provided they pay their subscription. At the end of the subscription period they will be able to keep a set number – understood to be 300 – of their favourite tracks for free. These tracks will be DRM-free meaning they can be played on any device.The service will be open to pay-as-you-go customers and for these users the number of tracks they can retain will depend on how "loyal" they have been: in other words how many times they have paid to use PlayNow Plus.Other mobile phone operators, meanwhile, may want to charge customers to buy a PlayNow Plus handset, and as part of the purchase price they will offer free unlimited access to music for a set period, after which they will be able to keep their favourite tracks.PlayNow Plus will be rolled out first by Sweden's Telenor on a special edition W902 Walkman phone. Several UK operators are understood to be looking at offering the service.
It's been a little more than a year since we moved the Guardian's Technology pages from ourold design, and a few weeks since we ported over the blogs as well.I thought you might be interested in a few of the tips and tricks that our system now contains which could help you enjoy the Guardian even more than I know you do already. So, for the rest of the week, I'm going to throw out a few posts on.First off, we'll start with some general bits and bobs you might not have noticed around the site.All today's stories:Want to see everything we've published on the site today?Read all today's storiesand you can see every news article, opinion piece or blog post that's passed through the technology pages since midnight. You can also navigate backwards to see previous day's stories - and grab an RSS feed that catches the lot as well.All technology subjects:We cover a broad range of topics, but if you want to find out exactly what they are, then take a look atour A-Z of technology subjects. It covers everything from Adobe to YouTube... but if there's something you think we should have but don't, then just leave a comment or email me (details on thecontact page).Most viewed:The observant among you have probably noticed a widget we introduced on our front page featuring a constantly-updated list of our five most viewed stories. There's a longer list - well, 10 headlines - at theMost Viewed storiespage. It's good for spotting not only what people are interested in, but also weird occurrences - like therecent resurrection of an old blog postabout a Hello Kitty laptop.There's also a page containing links to ourMost clipped stories- those that readers have bookmarked using ourclippingsfeature (more on that later in the week).Tomorrow: RSS feeds.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Yahoo's year of living dangerously isn't done yet, it seems. After spurning the muscular advances of Microsoft in favour of a rebound relationship with Google - one that it could regretsooner rather than later- the company's already looking for its next romantic entanglement.According to the Financial Times, it's now ready to make goo-goo eyes at AOL. Good lord. If these companies were people, they'd be featured on Jerry Springer. As it is, perhaps Yahoo should just visit a therapist: it'd be cheaper.
Anyone picking up a G1 when it comes to the UK in November will immediately compare it with the iPhone. Firstly, the G1 looks more like a phone - it has the traditional red and green call buttons, plus helpful back and "home" buttons if you make a mistake. It also has a track ball like a Blackberry which can be used as a mouse for anyone who finds touchscreens too confusing.The biggest difference, however, is the full qwerty keypad that appears when the screen is slid to one side. The buttons look tiny but are remarkably responsive and generate fewer mistakes than the iPhone's virtual keypad. But the G1 is heavier and bulkier than the Apple device and, frankly, just not as physically attractive.The technology is at least as good if not in some cases better - the G1 is certainly faster at downloading from the internet and its camera is better - but it lacks the wow factor of the Apple device. The G1's touchscreen is as responsive as the iPhone's and the G1 has some clever innovations such as press and hold, to drag icons and photos around the device and a useful magnifying glass that can be dragged across web pages to raise the size of individual portions of the screen. But the ability to enlarge pages by just pressing two fingers on the screen and moving them apart as you can on an iPhone is, for want of a better word, cooler.Users can make calls, send emails and texts, chat on instant messenger, surf the web, use contacts and calendars. It has a music player which will take MP3 files as well as tracks from iTunes. When it launches in the UK the phone will boast a removable 2GB memory card, which should be able to store several hundred songs.The real difference between the two devices, however, is likely to come from the openness of Google's operating system, Android, which allows tech-heads to design "widgets" for the phone. There is a button on the G1 that takes the user to an application marketplace where they can download anything, from a virtual compass to a barcode reader that uses the phone's camera to read barcodes and then connects to the internet to find the cheapest price for them.As the name shows, the G1 is the first phone that uses Android and it is a very good effort. But for the time being the iPhone still seems to have the advantage.
Three years ago, Graham Clements – the European managing director of the UK subsidiary of the Japanese packaging multinational Ishida – decided to get rid of his BlackBerry and passed it on to his IT department for recycling. At the start of this month, that BlackBerry was one of the top items on the agenda at the first board meeting that Clements had called since his return from holiday - because it, and the data on it, had come back to haunt him.Instead of being recycled, the BlackBerry, like millions of other mobile devices every year, had been passed on to a company to be sold. On Clements's device were business plans, details of customer relationships, information on the structure of the company, details of his bank accounts and details about his children.And Clements isn't alone. It's almost impossible for the average person to wipe a mobile phone clean: unlike a PC, which has an open architecture, mobile phones are closed books in terms of where data resides. "It has taken us over a year to get talks going with Nokia that now allows us to wipe their phones," says Jon Godfrey, director of Sims Lifecycle Services, which recycles mobiles. "We have to go through a different process with each manufacturer. To wipe it, you have to be able to access all the memory – and manufacturers don't want you to do that for all sorts of commercial reasons."Gone missingYet every six months 63,000 phones and around 6,000 PDAs are left in cabs in London alone. At Heathrow airport, 10 phones are handed in every day; one in four has no security and can be turned on by staff. Furthermore, the security of the data on those devices is the responsibility of the person who put it on the phone. It is not illegal to read it; it is up to you to protect it.The case of Clements is not unique. That BlackBerry was among several that were recovered from mobile phone recycling companies as part of a study into data loss on mobile devices by BT, Glamorgan University, Australia's Edith Cowan University and Sim Lifecycle Services. It was intended to demonstrate just how much data a mobile device can collect about you. For as Clements discovered, we very quickly create intensely personal relationships with these devices.Just how personal those relationships can be was shown by one BlackBerry recovered in Australia. It revealed that its owner, a businessman, lived in an upmarket part of Sydney. It also contained the details of his various businesses, including bids and contracts under negotiations, uncomplimentary comments about employees, an extensive list of contacts and a complete log of phone calls and diary commitments. It even held extensive and lurid exchanges between the man and a woman he was conducting a clandestine affair with.With government departments losing laptops and discs teeming with information seemingly every week, it is easy to forget how much data is held on our PDAs and phones. The problem is that very few of us take any care to secure them against loss or theft.Over the next few years, the phone industry hopes to tempt us with new devices that will be able to hold huge amounts of information, while the financial services industry aims to turn mobiles into payment devices that incorporate credit cards. Nearly all of them are designed so they can be linked to a computer to exchange and back up data or music. When they do, virtually by default, they will exchange information from your address book and your diary.Is that safe? No. Two years ago CESG, the technical wing of the UK government's eavesdropping organisation GCHQ, which is responsible for advising the government on technology vulnerabilities, was privately briefing that mobile phones cannot be wiped. Now, according to CESG, some measures can be taken, though its spokesman was not prepared to share precisely what those measures are. CESG says: "The government needs assurance that information has been properly erased in all forms of electronic device. Guidance is provided to departments on the most appropriate ways of achieving this. The advice provided to government departments is classified and we are not able, or prepared, to provide detail."However, as Clements points out, this is exactly the sort of information that is needed. He says: "So what are people meant to do with things when they have finished with them?"Storing up troubleAccording to Godfrey at Sims Lifecycle Services, a discarded, unwiped phone or PDA is "a perfect tool for social engineering, and it's only going to get worse" as the storage capacity of mobile devices increases.He says: "The point of this work is really to bring that across to people the risks that mobile phones present to their personal data." Of the devices in the survey, 7% had enough personal data on them for the individual concerned to have their identity stolen, and 7% would have allowed a corporate fraud to have taken place. Another 2% still had Sim cards in them, while 27% of the BlackBerrys in the survey had company data and 16% carried personal information.Of the 161 devices in the survey, many were first-generation GSM phones, and only 82 could be made to work. But as Dr Andy Jones, head of information security research at BT's research centre, points out, that alone is significant. "The life expectancy of a mobile device is only slightly longer than that of a butterfly," he says. "People only hold on to their own phones for around 12 months; corporate devices go for 24 months."But when they are finished with, the devices are not generally considered to have any intrinsic value to the organisation. When they reach the end of their effective life, they do not appear to be given any consideration with regard to the data that they may still contain."Risky businessSays Professor Andrew Blyth of Glamorgan University's computer forensics department: "There are no tools out there at the moment that let you destroy the data on mobile phones, so I think that people need to take the appropriate measures to protect their personal data."Dr Craig Valli, of Edith Cowan's school of computer and information science, says that many of the BlackBerry devices he analysed represented a significant risk. "Loss of these devices could have resulted in a number of secrets and sensitive information being revealed, the end result of which could have been significant criminal activity." In fact, BlackBerrys do have a remote erase routine, but it is not standard across the industry.Most of us leave old phones in drawers or cupboards at home until they are given to charities, which pass them on to recycling companies that pay them for the devices.And then we forget about them, until - as in Clements's case - they turn up three years later. But he was lucky. Most of the phones from recycling companies are destined for Africa and Asia - areas that are rapidly gaining a reputation for ID theft. Do you know where your last mobile phone is now? And whether it was wiped clean before you got rid of it?What's your number?63,000Number of mobile phones left in London taxis every six months12Average time in months that consumers use a phone before getting a new one
No doubt YouTube will soon have stacks of real-life videos where geeks show off the capabilities of their new Android phones. In the meantime, Google has just posted a couple of clips includingFull Web Experience: Web Browser on Android-Powered Phones, above, and the bike-themedGoogle Mobile Products on Android.This may be the birth of a new open source platform, but it certainly looks more like the birth of a Google platform, heavily integrated with Google products. In theory, you may not be locked in, but in reality, you may find it hard not to be.
Google is taking on the might of Apple and the world's largest mobile phone maker Nokia in a three-way battle for the Christmas market with its first handset, the G1.Launched in the US yesterday and coming to the UK with T-Mobile in November, the G1 is larger than the iPhone but has a touchscreen which flips out to reveal a full keypad. Its launch comes after a prepay version of the iPhone - aimed at the festive market - and just days before Nokia unveils its first touchscreen phone.While the iPhone has the looks and the new Nokia phone is expected to come with access to unlimited music tracks for a year, the G1 has Google's Android operating system inside it. Android is open for anyone to use, which the search engine giant hopes will lead to the creation of hundreds of applications - or widgets - which G1 owners will be able to download from a dedicated online marketplace.Google's hope is that making it easy for consumers to use their mobile phone to get on to the internet - whether through the phone's browser or through one of the downloaded applications - will lead them to use it to look for information, products and locations. Carrying out more internet searches will generate more revenue.Google co-founder Larry Page, who got to the G1 launch in New York with fellow founder, Sergey Brin, on rollerblades, said: "You always have your phone on you but you do not always have your laptop with you, it is quite difficult to carry it all the time, especially if you are roller-blading ... being able to do a search with all the flexibility that you are used to having on a laptop is really, really worthwhile and we are really excited about it."The mobile phone is likely to be the next battleground for web companies. A quarter of a century after the introduction of the personal computer there are about a billion around the world. That many mobile phones are sold every year."We do clearly think that the mobile internet is the dominant force in our industry going forward," said Christopher Schlaffer, from Google's exclusive network partner for the G1, T-Mobile. "The G1 is a milestone in bringing the open mobile internet to the mass market."While Americans will have to pay $179 (&pound;97) for a handset, it is expected to be free in the UK for anyone willing to sign up to a &pound;40-a-month contract. To get the basic 8GB version of the iPhone free from O2 customers must sign up to a &pound;45-a-month contract. The pay-as-you-go version of the phone costs &pound;349.99.The G1 handset will be "locked" to the T-Mobile network but hackers are likely to start prising open the phone when it goes on sale in the US on October 22. The iPhone was also locked when it was launched by AT&amp;T in the US and O2 in the UK but the internet is stuffed with advice on how to prise it from the grip of a particular network and put a different sim card into it.T-Mobile is subsidising the cost of the handset to make it cheaper for its customers, in the hope that it will get that cash back over the length of the customer's contract. Google is also rumoured to have helped subsidise the cost of the phone.
Apparently stung by the fact thatdevelopers have been complaining about its decision to reject programsput forward for the iPhone App Store, Apple has taken its latest and most daring step forward.No, I don't mean publishing a list of rules under which applications are accepted or rejected. Are youinsane?No, instead it has taken the path that is the obvious outgrowth of controlling what's going to go into your store. The latest rejection, according tothis postat a forum set up to discuss - and try to figure out, reverse-engineering black box-style, quite what the rules are for acceptance and rejection - comes with the unfriendly instruction thatTHE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS MESSAGE IS UNDER NON-DISCLOSUREStill, you can see what they managed to glean atthis page, which runs to four apparent criteria. To which perhaps one can add another: participating in a forum trying to work out rejection criteria?On the day when Google has got a lot of people very interested byunveiling the first phones running Android, which won't have any rejection criteria at all (that we've heard of..), this surely isn't the smartest time for Apple to be aiming at its feet.
Tuesday's better late than never edition of Chatterbox.
Fuel and food prices rocketing, mortgage and rent costs rising, banks imploding, but still the game goes on. Yes,researchers have confirmed, yet again, that gaming is fairly immune to economic downturn. The report argues that in the same way movies did in the economically depressed 1930s, games offer people an escape from hard times. Slightly patronising then but you can see their point. So why has gaming taken over from movies as the main form of escapsim? David Riley of report author NPD Group sees it simply as a matter of value:The difference, obviously, between a movie and a video game is the amount of time that you get.Clearly the growth in social gaming – think Singstar, Wii and DS – has also played a part. After all, splashing out 30 or 40 quid on a game is much easier to justify if the whole family can play. And then there is the trade-in value too. Compared to the price of taking a family to the cinema a game starts looking like pretty good value.  Of course you need to factor in the cost of the console itself but the point is still valid. Or is it? Are you planning to cut your game consumption as times get tougher? Or are games the last thing you'd give up?
Lusting after videogame characters is possibly the most undignified pastime known to humankind, but that hasn't stopped millions making an exception for Lara Croft. The delectable kick-ass heroine is poised to return to our consoles in her latest starring vehicle,Tomb Raider: Underworld, set to arrive in the UK on November 21 (November 18 in the US).When it launches, it will undoubtedly be the most important release in publisher Eidos's entire existence.The company (a subsidiary of SCi) is in such dire straits, early this year it binned no fewer than 14 games it had in development.So does Lara still have her magic touch in the 21st century, and can she single-handedlyextricate Eidos from the mire? Time to find out with some hands-on experience of a pre-release build of the game.Tomb Raider: Underworld is the first iteration of the series that has been specifically designed for next-generation consoles, so the first thing you notice is that it looks stunning. The storyline is established by an intriguing cut-scene in which Croft Manor is set on fire, and then you're straight into what is essentially a tutorial mini-level. In it, you must extract Lara from her flaming home.This confirms that the basic controls are pretty much the same as ever, although her recently acquired grapple – which plays a more prominent part than in previous games – has been improved. It will still only hook onto strategically placed brass rings, but you can now attach it before running and jumping, and Lara can use it to abseil. Once you've escaped from Croft Manor, the game proper begins: in a flash Lara is in an impressive gin palace on the Mediterranean coast that, handily, comes stocked with an aqualung: don that, and you can jump into an underwater level, without having to worry about Lara drowning.Proper, involved underwater puzzle-solving ensues, involving one of the game's recurring themes – searching for objects (often along the lines of carved sticks or keystones) that can be slotted into holes to operate environmental puzzles. The puzzles very much take centre stage in Tomb Raider: Underworld, to such an extent that developer Crystal Dynamics has completely abandoned boss-battles, which always tended to err on the side of tediousness in previous releases.Eidos and Crystal Dynamics would, of course, have to take leave of their senses before messing with Tomb Raider's gameplay: the franchise has sold more than 30m units. And sure enough, Tomb Raider: Underworld will feel reassuringly familiar to anyone who has played a Tomb Raider of yore. The focus, clearly, has been on subtle improvement of a successful formula.The time-slowing Focus mode that appeared in Tomb Raider: Anniversary is back, but it has been subtly tweaked: you can launch whenever Lara's adrenaline meter is full. The game cheats slightly by automatically filling it at certain points, such as when negotiating the fiercest traps (we encountered a room filled with whirling blades and so forth that would be virtually impossible to negotiate in anything other than slo-mo).The other big gameplay tweak is more about honing the level design: the bad old days of having to find the one precise path have gone, and throughout the game you will always have several different ways of getting to where you want to be. Intriguingly, there's a sonar-style 3D map on tap, too.Lara herself feels more forgiving than previously – which will please those who suffered their way through Tomb Raider 2, in which you would often perish if your positioning was a single pixel out of kilter. She looks and moves better than ever: Tomb Raider: Underworld is the first game in which Lara's movements have been dictated by motion capture rather than hand animation (Crystal Dynamics used a gymnast-cum-stuntwoman called Heidi Moneymaker).The attention to the detail of Lara's movements is impressive: she often stumbles on landing and her ponytail swings when she runs, for example. Plus, she can free-climb those surfaces studded with hand-holds, as well as, for the first time, pull herself up to stand on even the narrowest of ledges. As ever, much of the game's joy derives from controlling a character who moves so delightfully. If only we could sign her up for the London 2012 gymnastics team ...The plot – which takes in exotic locations such as Thailand, Mexico and the Arctic, as well as several underworld locations – centres on statues and artefacts of the god Thor, which keep cropping up a long way from Scandinavia. 21st century mores do impinge. For example, you can now choose to shoot animals with a tranquilliser gun rather than a lethal weapon, though if you can't kill endangered species in a videogame, where can you?Overall, Tomb Raider: Underworld is deeply impressive: it's Tomb Raider with its strengths emphasised and the annoying aspects removed or neutralised.The franchise appears to have weathered the storm generated by the sheer awfulness of 2003's Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness,  the making of which saw original developer Core Design self-destruct in spectacular fashion. Indeed, the fact that the last Tomb Raider game, Anniversary, was merely a solidly executed remake of the original now makes sense – Crystal Dynamics was using it as a sort of dress rehearsal for Tomb Raider: Underworld.Lara isn't dead yet.
On this week's Tech Weekly, join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur as they wallow in financial peaks and troughs, exploring New York City with 21 of the brightest British start-ups in search of new connections and new avenues of support. They deconstruct Google's new mobile phone and Charles lets rip on Lotus Notes – his least-favourite collaboration tool – with IBM's Ed Brill.
Finally: the Android-runningG1 phoneis let loose. It's set to be the first commercial application of Google's Android phone operating system - the one built by Andy Rubin and friends (makers of the Danger Sidekick, popular in the US and anonymous in Britain).Richard Wray, our telecoms editor, is in New York for the launch - where Larry Page and Sergey Brin turned upon rollerskates(no joke) - and he should have some more information from on the ground soon. In the meantime, however, the rest of us are poring over the coverage from thegadgetblogsand commentators to try and get a feel for things.What to say? The pictures suggest it looks pretty much like any HTC smartphone of recent years, with a large screen, smattering of buttons on the front and a slide-out Qwerty keypad. For American consumers, at least, it's being heavily subsidised - and still costs $179. Plenty of people have told me to dampen down expectations since, after all, it's only the first version (I hope that doesn't mean it'llstill be in beta in four years).Charles Arthur adds:if you want a quick comparison chart of the two, then have a look atTechnologier's page, which is as good a first-pass weighing up as you'll see until we do it. The quick reaction: G1 has better phone, choice of keyboard (touch/key), is cheaper, weighs more, comes optionally in brown (yuk), and has perhaps a significantly shorter standby (though these things are always fibs to some extent.)But here may be the killer difference: the G1 hascut and paste. Oh noes!Update:Joe Wilcox, inGod phone meets the devil, says that "The phone offers single sign-on to Google's plethora of online services, including Calendar, Contacts, Gmail, Google Talk, Maps Street View and YouTube. Suddenly, the hodgepodge plethora of Google applications and services have a single point of connection and synchronization. If this mechanism works, and well, the G1 and other Android-based phones will be powerful data and telephony devices out of the box."And he adds: "As I've blogged before, sync is the killer application for the connected world. Last year I warned: "If Google gets synchronization right before Microsoft, it's game over." Ditto to Apple. Google's sync magic requires no PC." Apple, feel warned.
A press release lands in our inbox: "Is Hoaxcall.com the Latest Form of Cyber-bullying?", it asks, pushing frantically at the big red controversy button implanted in every journalist's brain. Except this isn't a campaign against the website, but an ad for the website itself: it's just trolling by the site's creator, Marc Waesche, to try and generate some heat. Cynical? Of course, which is why we're pointing it out and not linking to it. Let's just hope there isn't a blogger or hackactuallylazy enough to follow this up.
A popular US comedy website launched by Will Ferrell that hosts skits by big-name contributors and sketches by aspiring comedians will unveil a UK version today backed by Little Britain stars Matt Lucas and David Walliams.Funny or Die, launched last year by Ferrell and his Anchorman co-star Adam McKay in conjunction with writer Chris Henchy and Superbad producer Judd Apatow, will launchin the UKwith exclusive sketches from the Little Britain duo, in conjunction with Hat Trick, the independent producer behind Have I Got News For You and Father Ted.Every video posted on to the site is rated by users, allowing the production team to identify new talent and established comedians to experiment with new material.The most popular clip onthe US siteto date has been a controversial sketch featuring Ferrell as a down on his luck tenant and McKay's two-year-old daughter Pearl as a foul-mouthed, alcoholic rent collector. It has been viewed almost 60m times.The site has also carved out a niche as a home for well-known names keen to prove that they don't take themselves too seriously, with recent appearances from Desperate Housewives star Eva Longoria, boxer Oscar de la Hoya and Paris Hilton.Hat Trick's chief executive, Jimmy Mulville, said he hoped the site would help uncover "a new wave of British comedy talent".
Once in a while, I post about art that either resembles videogame design or actively use videogame imagery or concepts - here's an example of the latter.SwanQuake: Houseis the latest iteration of an ever-evolving installation, started in 2004 by artist collective,Igloo. It's a sort of immersive sensory experience, based around 3D videogame graphics, following a character dancing through a series of urban locations. You sort of have to see it to understand.I really like the piece because it 'explores' what it's like to be within a game world, but without compromising on traditional 'painterly' techniques and objectives. It is something really unusual and clever.Anyway, you can see it at theV22 Galleryin East London from 21 September to 03 November.
Microsoft has excitedly announced that it has now shifted six million Xbox 360 units across Europe. "We're now the best-value next-gen console on the market with an entry-level ERP of £129.99, and consumers have clearly responded to that offering," trumpeted Chris Lewis, Vice President of Interactive Entertainment Business EMEA. Of course, Wii hit the six mil markback in January, while PS3 was on at least five million back in May, but let's not dwell on that.There are lots of references in the press release to the New Xbox Experience, Microsoft's 're-boot' of the console, including a new look for Xbox Live, updated social networking features and a bunch of new casual games including Lips and Scene It: You're in the Movies. There's an interesting claim in the last paragraph:It's the first time in history that a mass market consumer electronics device has been reinvented through software.Well, that's one way of looking at a re-design. But will the friendly new look, which - shall we say - borrows a few ideas from Wii, capture the imagination of casual users? Microsoft is clearly hoping that with its sub £130 price point, and a whole new Live experience, 360 will be perceived as an entirely new machine by the non-hardcore masses. Will it work?Microsoft is possibly correct in its assertion that no-one has previously attempted to re-launch a consumer electronics platform from the inside out. But is there a reason for that?
You're never more than a few beers away from some music fan who can tell you it was better in the good old days, and that all modern technology does is hurt musicianship. Next time they're boring your socks off, point them to this recent piece from the New Yorker aboutthe use of laptops in live music. Turns out even experimental rockers like Battles, or artists like Girl Talk who compile albums entirely of samples, like to do it live after all.
Microsoft has announced anothershare buyback scheme, which will involve spending "up to $40 billion" on its own shares by September 30, 2013.Basically, it's just replacing the last $40bn buyback with another: it's business as usual. Microsoft says:Microsoft has returned over $115 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends over the last five years.Not that it seems to have done its stock price any good. But as everyone knows, a share price is a discounted sum of expected future profits, and investors have mentally transferred large quantities of expected future Microsoft profits to expected future Google profits.Of course, Microsoft may also feel that having the odd $40 billion in spare cash is just offering too much temptation to rapaciousrent-seekinggovernments….
We seem to be moving away from physical to digital distribution, but none the less, SanDisk -- a leading manufacturer of Flash memory cards -- has got some music industry takers for a new physical format: the MicroSD card. This can be preloaded with music and slotted into many MP3 players -- though not feature deficient Apple iPods -- and mobile phones.As an experiment, one gigabyteSlotMusic cardswill go on sale next month at a range of US stores including Wal-Mart and Best Buy. According toThe Wall Street Journal:The initial batch of releases is to comprise 29 albums, from all four of the big recorded music companies: EMI Group Ltd., Warner Music Group Corp. Vivendi SA's Universal Music Group and Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture of Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG. The releases are mostly by current pop artists including Rihanna, Ne-Yo, Robin Thicke, New Kids on the Block, Weezer, Usher, Chris Brown, Akon and Leona Lewis. In a nod to older buyers, Elvis Presley is also represented.The music will be in good-quality 320kbps MP3 format and will not be copy protected (ie no DRM).SlotMusic "disks" are expected to cost about the same as new audio CDs -- about $15. Presumably you'll be able to re-use the MicroSDs in your camera or whatever if you copy the music to your PC (via a USB dongle, supplied).SanDisk says:Musicians will find slotMusic cards offer a compelling new way to express themselves to their fans. With 1GB1 (gigabyte) of capacity, slotMusic cards can hold songs, as well as liner notes, album art, videos, and other creative content that an artist may choose. Consumers can also add their own content to a slotMusic card, creating a personal plug-and-play media library.According toAP, Daniel Schreiber, who heads the audio-video business unit at SanDisk, argues that: "Particularly in this kind of economic climate, the idea of being able to use an electronic device you already own to enjoy music rather than going out and buying a dedicated player is pretty compelling."The new format probably won't have much appeal to PC owners, though almost any computer with a USB port will be able to play them. However, I suspect the real target is the hundreds of millions of people with music phones, and in-car sound systems who don't want to mess about with Internet downloads. And sales of ringtones etc suggests some people are willing to spend money for convenience. The question is, will there be enough of them?What do you think? It's not an idea that has worked before….
Over the past 10 days, many of those deeply involved in the world's financial meltdown have been hitting one site:The Wall Street Journal. Although it aspires to be America's national paper, it is at its most compelling during crises, when it's more like a local paper for New York's financial district. If you want "the word on the Street", there is nothing like being there.Whether the crisis hit The Wall Street Journal at the best or the worst of times for the paper is another matter. Last Tuesday, when traffic was surging to an all-time high of 2m visitors, the site was relaunched with a massive redesign. Whatever the technical challenge, it survived.I loved the old plain text site, which reflected the old plain text newspaper. Being contrarian by nature, I loved the Journal for running long complex stories instead of following the tabloid fashion for dumbing stuff down into 50-word chunks. I loved it for illustrating articles with small, pseudo-engraved mugshots (called hedcuts) instead of photographs. I loved it for using the same front page layout for 50 years.But times are changing. The paper launched a weekend edition in 2005, discovering "lifestyles" and glossy photography, and a year ago Dow Jones, the parent company, was taken over by Rupert Murdoch. The new website is also glossier, has photos and videos on the front page, and includes aluxury magazine. There's even a Mobile Reader service, albeit only for the BlackBerry.And now we also have Journal Community, in beta test form. Like Facebook, it lets you create a profile page based on your real identity ("The quality of conversations can deteriorate when real identities are not provided.") As a logged-in subscriber, you can make connections, join or start discussion groups, ask or answer questions, and comment on stories. You can also personalise your front page, and select from lots of news and market alerts and newsletters, all delivered via email.One objection is that the Journal is only open to those who pay: currently $119 a year. But getting on for a million of us do, and as elite clubs go, this is cheap. However, the Journal is sensitive to being left out of "the conversation in the blogosphere", and now makes lots of general stories available free. It also has technology columns and other tech stories at a separate, openly accessible site,D: All Things Digital.WSJ.com's other "family members" include Market Watch and Barron's, which are stock market oriented, and Virtual Stock Exchange, a game. There are also global sites such as WSJ Asia and WSJ Europe, plus versions in different languages.WSJ.com is clearly trying to attract a more general, more casual, non-paying readership – people like you. It certainly looks nicer, but it also looks more like any other newspaper site. The problem is that it feels a lot slower, which is bad for the professional, information-seeking readership – people like me. Anybody who thinks we're paying $119 a year for pretty pictures has lost the plot.
Monday's Chatterbox. First post!
I knew Wii was *the* mainstream mass market games console but have things gone too far? I saw the above – and if the image isn't working it's basically a poster advertising a Wii Sports night at a pub – the other night. Cue joke about a pint and a Wii. I had planned to blog something about how the Wii is the new pool/darts/fruit machine but this was the first time I've seen any games console, let alone the Wii, in a pub. What next? Halo 3 deathmatch replacing quiz night? Let's hope not eh?Of course, this isn't the first time consoles have been taken out of their natural habitat.  In the mid-90s Playstation was often planted in clubs by a Sony desperate to make gaming "cool". But it's still quite rare to find consoles used as entertainment in public venues.Anyway it's Monday and I'm interested to know. SNES at football ground? Gamecube in a library? What is the most unexpected place you've seen a games console?
So I was on holiday in Cornwall last week while my interview with Peter Moore was being picked up by news sources around the world - and creating something of a stir. I knew it was good stuff and I'm glad so many people enjoyed it.One thing. I didn't tell EA or Peter that I was planning to run the transcript in its entirety on this site - I'm sure you can guess the reasons. EA have reacted very favourably and with considerable understanding. However, Peter has asked if I run a final word from him, which I think - under the circumstances - is entirely fair.So here's Peter, closing off on an extremely interesting and candid interview..."I am so fortunate to have been part of this industry at a time of technological advances that have changed the way we all play games. I am especially fortunate to have spent 4½ exhilarating years at Microsoft, working with some of the most passionate, smartest people I have ever had the honour and privilege of working with. I guess you have to work there to truly appreciate what a unique and special company Bill and Steve have built, and I think gamers need to fully appreciate the positive impact that the Xbox consoles, and in particular Xbox Live, have had on our industry. I worked with a team of people so special and so near and dear to my heart, that not a day goes by where I don't miss them in some way. Same with our studios – the flair and creativity of Rare, the sheer brilliance and focus of Bungie, the game-changing team at Lionhead, and all of the other brilliantly-talented teams that helped drive hardware sales with great software."Microsoft changed the world of enterprise and communications with Windows, and when all is done and dusted, I know the same will be said of the world of entertainment because of Xbox. The company is too focused, the people too smart, to achieve anything less, and I feel incredibly proud to be a tiny part of that legacy."And as I've said on numerous occasions, as hard as it was for me to leave a place so near and dear to me, EA SPORTS was the one and only job that could have ever pulled me away from Redmond.  To my delight, I've found a place, in EA, that also has made an indelible impact on this industry and a brand, in EA SPORTS, that has had extraordinary success, an incredible impact and that has such a bright future that sometimes I feel like the luckiest guy alive.  But we're not perfect.  We've got our sleeves rolled up with a lot of work ahead to meet the vision I have for us to fundamentally change the way people from around the world engage in sports and sports entertainment."
Yes, it's Monday - and so I'll understand if you're overwhelmed by feelings of hatred and antipathy to all of humanity. But wait! Here's something to give you a warm, fuzzy feeling: it'sOneWebDay- where geeks can get together and do something good for the universe. According to the wiki there are events inLondonandOxford, while here in San Francisco they'reinstalling wireless routers. Let the fuzziness begin.
So there's these two policemen in a room. And Bob Marley, he's there as well. "Let me get this straight," says the non-moustachioed cop: "Your defence is that you shot the sheriff ... but you did not shoot the deputy?" "Jah," says Bob Marley. And then the cop who does have a moustache says ...Actually it's probably worth leaving it there. "Why Bob Marley should not have acted as his own defence attorney" is only a 30-second sketch, so to quote any further from it might ruin the punchline. If I haven't already. Sorry.But the punchlines are never really the thing with Seth MacFarlane. Its imagining a situation and taking it to it's logical conclusion. What would happen when Mario finally rescued Princess Daisy at the end of a Super Mario level? Would she really fall for the charms of a small, pot-bellied plumber with no dress sense and a tragic 'tache? Or would she decline his declarations of love and then have to deal with the bitter fallout?The humour in MacFarlane's Cartoon Cavalcade, which launched on his YouTube channel earlier this month, will be familiar to anyone who watches his Family Guy. These tiny sketches are almost exactly the same as those moments when the Griffin family or friends mention a familiar word or pop culture phenomenon and Family Guy goes into a fantasy sequence with very little to do with the rest of the episode. So they're like those bits, just cut loose from the rest of the show; which some would argue is the best place for them.And with more than 3m views in the first two days since the launch, it does appear that leaving them floating around the internet suits these sketches rather well - they are a success because they're perfectly suited to the medium, but also because they're web-only. People flock to these mini-animations because they feel like a special freebie, a bonus from a familiar source. Put up a standard Family Guy episode and you wouldn't get quite the same take-up.The length of the sketches is also key. YouTube is made for projects such as this - well, this and videos of cats doing amusing things. The problem? Things are more difficult to sponsor in snippets on the web - although there's a whacking great advert for Burger King taking up the first 15 or 20 seconds of each Cartoon Cavalcade sketch. They have, however, been very clever: animated in the style of the rest of the cartoon, and with a changing gag each time - Simpsons-style - so that people will be watching these ads rather than just skipping through them in search of the main event.Getting people to actually watch adverts, even on a web series, is becoming more of an inventive game. Last week and this in the US, an entire web series called Blank Slate was also exclusively broadcast during the advert breaks of a classic Law and Order rerun on television. Every time your brain paused in watching the main show, there was a whole new story of three or four minutes to try to follow before the one you were actually intending to watch came back.While watching a web series online is one thing - it was a decent crime and sci-fi tale of memory replacement and such with some big names (well, Eric Stoltz, big for about three months in the early 90s) - watching an "exclusive" television airing, while trying to cope with two plots at the same time, proved impossible. A multitask too far.Given that the series ran in the ad break, it was also pretty confusing. Is it a web series or an advert? One thing cannot function as both. Especially not when you start wondering why all the high-powered agents are driving boring family estate cars. Then you realise that's the thing you should be impressed by (and buy). And then you stop caring completely.
Google will make its long-awaited debut in the mobile phone handset market tomorrow when it launches in New York, with its first network partner T-Mobile, the first device that runs its Android operating system.Called the G1, the new phone is made by Taiwan's HTC and presents a direct challenge to Apple's iPhone and the dominance of the world's largest mobile phone maker, Nokia.The new handset - which is likely to be characterised as the first G-phone - has a touchscreen like the iPhone but includes a slide-out Qwerty keypad. The phone has previously been referred to as the HTC Dream and the "Kila", the project name given by T-Mobile and a reference to the network's hope that it will prove an effective weapon against the iPhone.The phone is expected to go on sale in the US next month with hopes that it will be available in the UK by Christmas - depending on demand in the North American market. It is expected to cost about $199 (&pound;108), which would put it on a par with the basic 8GB version of the iPhone sold by AT&amp;T.The arrival of the G1 is the latest salvo in a fight to control the software that will power the next generation of mobile phones, which can access the internet. More devices from other manufacturers will follow next year.When Google announced its plans for Android last year they came alongside the unveiling of the Open Handset Alliance, a consortium of mobile phone makers and networks whose stated purpose is to "accelerate innovation in mobile and offer consumers a richer, less expensive, and better mobile experience".As part of this plan, they made Android a so-called "open platform", which means no one is charged to use it either in a device or as a basis for writing applications. As a result, anyone can write programmes that will run on an Android phone - from maps and calendars to word-processing software and games.A similar developer community has already sprung up around the iPhone, whose software is controlled by Apple although anyone can write applications that will run on it. Users of the phone and the iPod Touch have downloaded the 3,000 applications available from the iTunes store more than 100m times since it opened on July 8 this year.But iPhone applications are only available through the iTunes store, meaning that Apple controls what is available to users.  Applications for the G1 can be downloaded from anywhere, although there is talk that Google, HTC and T-Mobile will set up some sort of applications repository .Nokia hit back at both Android and the iPhone in June by buying out the British mobile phone software company Symbian and announcing it would make its operating system - which powers about 60% of the global "smartphone" market - free.The hope for Google is that ultimately Android will help more mobile customers get online through their mobile phone.For many people in the developing world, the only way they are likely to get on the web, for the foreseeable future, is through a mobile device.A quarter of a century on from the arrival of the personal computer there are roughly 1bn in use worldwide but that many mobile phones are sold every year. And growth in mobile usage is increasingly in the developing world, where fixed-line infrastructure is often patchy at best.Being the first to market will be a source of pride for HTC, the Taiwanese company known mainly as a maker of handsets that run on Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system.LG and Samsung will unveil their first Google-powered mobile phones next year.
The big question at Stack Overflow is:What's your favorite "programmer" cartoon?The answers provide an amusing compilation, albeit one that rarely goes further thanDilbertandxkcd, so you've probably seen most of them before….Stack Overflow is "a collaboratively edited question and answer site for programmers," and users can vote answers -- or, in this case, cartoons -- up or down.I didn't notice anything fromJoy of Tech. Did I just miss it? Are there any other major funnies missing?
Zhou'sBluewebsite has published a bundle of Windows 7 Milestone 3 Build 6780 screen shots, with a video to come. The appearance is what you'd expect at this stage: it looks like Vista. If Microsoft does decide to freshen it up a bit, that will probably come at the beta 2 stage. However, while Vista's user interface has a few inconsistencies and could, in some places, do with a polish, it works well as it is.My little illustration shows XP's WordPad word processor against the Windows 7 version. It's much like comparing Outlook Express with Windows Live Mail or IE6/7 with IE8.The interesting question will be how well Windows 7 integrates withWindows Liveservices, which are currently moving toWave 3. (Building in Mesh would be cool, but the dead hand of the US Justice Department just might fall over that.)Microsoft is probably upset about the leaks so far ahead of release, but thousands of copies of Windows 7 will be in circulation fairly soon anyway. You can't keep a secret from tens of thousands of software houses, many thousands of PC manufacturers, and the hundreds of thousands of consultants etc whose businesses ultimately depend on it.These people need a head start. After all, it seems to take the average software house four or more years to create a compatible version, and printer and graphics card makers need at least a couple of years to write a driver -- or three years to write a decent driver*. (Cynical? Moi?)* Which is why Windows 7 will keep driver and software compatibilty with Vista, of course.
Harley-Davidson Softail Cross BonesFrom &pound;12,875Engine: 1,584ccGood for: Old bullsBad for: Young bucksLooking at the Cross Bones, I couldn't help but think about the line inThe Wild One. 'What're you rebelling against, Johnny?''Whaddya got?' replied a snarling Brando.Forward to 2008, and ask the same question. 'What're you rebelling against, Rupert?''Oh, you know, my bonus has been slashed, the roof on the Dordogne farmhouse needs replacing, and the Polish nanny is costing a fortune in phone bills.'Doesn't quite work, does it? But today, the brand that came to represent American counter-culture, the chosen steed of the bad-ass outsider, is more likely to be found under the ample bad-asses of hedge-fund managers getting their kicks on Route 25(M). Which wouldn't necessarily be a problem if Harley-Davidson weren't trying to seduce a younger generation of rider.The Cross Bones, launched this year as part of Harley's retro Dark Customs range, 'represents an attitude', according to Paul James of H-D. 'It's about stripping away the chrome and embellishments that don't define a younger generation of riders and exposing the bike in a way that screams "make your own statement".'Can you achieve that with a moody replica of a Fifties custom bike? Well, only a fool would deny that it is utterly, jaw-droppingly gorgeous. The mudguards are cut away to the minimum, there's a single, retro-style tractor seat (rebels go solo, naturally) and black forks with chrome springs that look like they belong on a railway carriage. Then there's the half-moon footboards, black bucket headlamp and ape-hangar bars that'll have you, after a long ride, walking around like the Mummy. The 200mm rear tyre would be at home on the drag track, and the glossy black rims and laced steel spokes create a sinister air.Fire her up and the 1,584cc engine growls into life in unmistakably Harley fashion, shudders like a bull mastiff after a swim. Clunk the heel-toe shifter down, twist the throttle and the thunderous torque - we're talking 85lb at 3,100rpm - kicks in, and you're off, hanging desperately to the handlebars and trying not to fall off the seat backwards. For a beast weighing in at a massive 334kg, it certainly shifts. And howls. You're very low - it's the lowest-slung bike in its class - and the first time you take a bend and scrape the footboards you realise this calls for a different style of riding.As it's a Harley, the engine is air-cooled, which works great on the motorway, but not so clever in town traffic, where it feels like you're sitting astride a chunk of the sun. And when the rain starts to ping the cathedral-scale organ pipes, you'll leave a vapour trail in your wake like a crop-sprayer.Would I buy one? Well, if I had &pound;13k to spare, in a heartbeat. It is a rolling work of art, decidedly impractical yet staggeringly beautiful - perfect for the Sunday morning rideout, less convincing for tearing up small mid-western towns. But, then again, I'm in my forties, love beautiful bikes and am way past caring what 'statement' I may or may not be making. In short, a perfect H-D fit.
One of the features of the new new Tech blog design is that you can see a list of the Most Viewed posts, if you click the tab on the right. And at the moment, the Most Viewed is the one calledHello Kitty notebook PC gets bling from Swarovski crystals, which I posted on Thursday June 7, 2007.What I don't know iswhy.Is it the reference to Damien Hirst in the intro? Is it Google's top hit for some obscure sexual perversion? Or has everybody just discovered a passion for Hello Kitty, or Swarovski crystals, or both?Maybe people are looking just to see what other people are looking at. This is, after all, how things actually become popular on the web. Given an extra beat of some butterfly's wings, would we all be looking at theSony Vaio TZ191Ninstead?
Today I lunched in one of my favourite cafes, a place where, after eating, you go up to the counter to pay. There's a tin mug there, for tips, and as usual I threw some change into it. And, as usual, I threw the change in a little harder - and more noisily - than is absolutely necessary, so that everyone, especially the people who work there, knew I was leaving a tip. This was clearly not about doing good. It was about being seen to do good, and about wanting to be liked. It's sad, I know, and means I am deeply shallow, self-centred, insecure and all the rest of it.Sadder still is that I am not alone; there are many people as unimpressive as I am. Which is why I think it was a mistake for the people at Fiat not to put the word "eco" anywhere on this new Bravo Eco.This car's breath is so fresh that it does 60mpg and road tax is only &pound;35 a year. And yet from the outside there are no clues to its (OK, relatively) green credentials. People like to be seen to be doing good. Look at the smug bastards who drive Priuses (Prii?) - because that's what they want you to do. Do you really think these people offset their carbon emissions when they buy flights online, when no one can see them doing so? Of course they don't. We want others to know when we do our bit. Not only should this car have a visible eco badge, it should also have daisies painted down its sides.In spite of its (relatively) sweet breath, and its lack of thirst, this is not a little city runabout. It's a proper-sized family hatchback, and it feels like one. I took it to Cornwall with everything I needed for my summer holiday - barbecue, surfboard, beach paraphernalia, girlfriend etc - and there was plenty of room for it all. Lewis Hamilton probably wouldn't get excited about it, but we hummed along the motorway quite happily. On smaller roads it was even fun to drive. In fact, lack of eco badge thing aside, I have only good things to say about this car: it's comfortable, it looks quite chic, it doesn't take too much diesel to get it to Cornwall, the stereo even sounds nice, it does everything.Oh, there is one other small moan: it doesn't work as an equine guillotine. On the way back we stopped on Dartmoor to admire the view and were immediately set upon by a pack of savage wild horses. One got its head into the driver's - my - window, and curled back its lips to show us its evil yellow teeth, clearly indicating it intended to kill me. Quick as a flash, I pressed the "window up" button, and waited for the severed head to land on my lap. But on reaching the horse's pulsing jugular, the window immediately began to descend, leaving the animal totally unscathed but angrier still. It must be a safety thing, to prevent Fiat owners' offspring from severing their own heads; how ironic then that it was so nearly the cause of my death. Luckily, like the horse, I kept my head and quickly came up with Plan B: to get the hell out of there. So I floored it, the animal was forced to retract its ugly long face, and though the acceleration of the Eco cannot be described as blistering, I'm happy to say it can just about outrun a pack of Dartmoor death ponies. To the people at Fiat, I apologise for the horse slobber on the driver's window. It could have been worse. It could have been The Godfather.Fiat Bravo EcoPrice:From £10,995Top speed116mphAcceleration0-62 in 11.3 secondsConsumption60mpgCO² emissions119g/kmEco rating8/10At the wheelZac Goldsmith
I bought some DVD-RWs, but my Windows Vista PC didn't work with them very well. My laptop manual recommends certain brands, but can a drive really be so sensitive?Your problem could be something as simple as a dodgy batch of discs - hardly unknown - but it's likely that the DVD format is at the heart of the issue. The computer industry is stuffed with plenty of different formats and competing factions - and the DVD is among the worst of them: not much use for confused punters like us.Rewritable DVDs come in two main flavours, DVD+RW and DVD-RW. Technically (stay with me), the difference is that the first writes information to several layers of the disc, while the second writes only one layer and so has a slightly smaller capacity. In the tribal technology industry some software makers pick favourites, and Microsoft explicitly supports DVD+RW, which is probably causing at least some of your problems. Try switching and seeing if it makes any difference.However, assuming you're using the right format, your machine should be able to use any brand of DVD - anything else is just the sort of objectionable marketing spiel between partner companies that makes a confusing situation even more so.&#183;email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
This MP3 blog's area of expertise is the Disney soundtrack and, in particular, covers, interpretations and variations "on the tunes we love". Some are faithful to the original - such as a Barbra Streisand medley of her favourite cartoon songs and Psapp's lovely lo-fi version of The Aristocats' Everybody Wants To Be A Cat - but others are more extreme. Who knew there was a happy hardcore version of Chim Chim Cher-ee as well as a whole album of Eurobeat Disney? Other curiosities include dance remixes of the music they play at Disneyworld's Enchanted Tiki Room and jazzy, surreal renditions of Winnie The Pooh from Japanese obsessive Yasuharu Konishi.
In relationships, arguments are usually decided when one side backs down rather than agrees they're wrong, leading to years of seething resentment bubbling barely under the surface. Like many other things in life, the internet now provides a solution for time-poor couples. This ingenious site allows both parties to anonymously put forward their sides of a disagreement, niggle or spat, and we the people vote on who's right and who's wrong. The comments provide another excuse to poke our noses in and offer sage advice, such as that to a woman whose partner doesn't regularly flush the toilet: "If it's brown, flush it down. If it's yellow, leave it mellow."
PlayTV PS3/PSPPlayTV turns your PlayStation 3 into a personal video recorder: what the industry calls Sky+ boxes and the dear, departed TiVo. That means you can set it to record stuff from Freeview, which it does even when you're watching something else on TV, playing a game or using the Blu-Ray player. The electronic programme guide works beautifully and recordings look solid, even if they currently appear to suffer the occasional glitch. It's not all good news, though. The box itself is cheap and plasticky and the joypad controls make it desperately and frustratingly easy to skip back to the beginning of a show accidentally, although generally speaking they work pretty well. Undoubtedly, its killer application is the ability to watch live TV or anything from your hard drive using your PSP wherever you are, whether that's in another room, on holiday, in a cafe or, in fact, anywhere that you can access a wi-fi network. Suddenly the  whole world is your sofa.&#183;PlayTV, &pound;70Sid Meier's Civilisation Revolution, Nintendo DSCompared with its illustrious forebears, Civilisation Revolution is a much smaller, less complex and more accessible game. Purists will, of course, already be reaching for the "worst episode ever" button on their over-clocked case-modded PCs, but for the rest of us, this is the Civ that you can finish in a single day, thereby preventing it from affecting your work/relationships/revision quite as severely as it used to. Keeping the same format - namely to build a civilisation from prehistoric roots through to a range of victories from economic to scientific, notably for the latter launching an exploratory mission to Alpha Centauri - Revolution's chief differences are its massively simplified resource management and reluctance to let you get on and do scientific research without getting into fights with other players. Despite its screen size and overall lack of prettiness, the DS version actually manages to have a slightly clearer interface than the console remixes and tends towards even shorter completion times.&#183;2K Games, &pound;35
Every Coke has a Pepsi, every Visa a MasterCard. Who do you support in the Boat Race and why? Don't you dare tell me you couldn't give a fig either way: it's Oxford or Cambridge, at some point one must develop a preference, for whatever reason. It's Harvard or Yale, Harpic or Domestos, AA or RAC, PC or Mac. Binary tribalism: Gilbert and Sullivan wrote a song about it.In the world of serious SLR photography, the choice has always been between Nikon or Canon. The single lens reflex (SLR) camera is best defined as being the sort of camera where what you see is what you shoot. As the initials tell you, it is a single lensed entity, a lens that can be changed with a twist of its bayonet. A clever mirror ensures the viewfinder's image is more or less congruent to that of the lens. The SLR is the choice of photojournalists, paparazzi, sports photographers - anyone who needs fast, accurate shooting. The camera goes up to the eye and will be manufactured (with apologies to Pentax, Olympus, Leica and Minolta) by Nikon or Canon. A huge range of Nikkor F-mount lenses for the Nikon and EOS EF lenses for the Canon have built up over the years; they are forwardly and backwardly compatible with new DSLR and old SLR bodies, but not across the brands. An EOS won't fit a Nikon body nor a Nikkor a Canon. There are issues with older Canons and with some Nikon auto focus lenses, but generally speaking, this broad description is correct. A profitable war zone where two major powers continue to joust.One of the most active battlefields within this world is that of the entry level DSLR. Many people with ordinary compact digitals decide, after a while, that they are ready for the Real Thing. Serious professional kit is wildly expensive, but there is the mid-priced range for the prosumer (yes, isn't that a lovely word?), and finally there is the "My First SLR" category, hotly contested because once a toe is dipped into either the Nikkor or EOS pool, it is unlikely the customer will change: too much will have been invested in the lenses.Canon has had its reliable 400D and 450D and Nikon their excellent D40 and D60 models available as entry level DSLRs for some time, but I have been spending the past week in the company of Canon's new 1000D (aka the Rebel XS or Kiss F), which I will come straight out and say I adore. It does everything you could hope to welcome a newcomer to the field of SLR photography.New DSLRs are exceptionally annoying: the outlay is far from insignificant and it is galling when, six months after you've taken the plunge, a new one comes along. I won't claim that Canon will never improve on the 1000D, but I can recommend the plunge being taken here and now. For about &pound;400 you get one hell of a lovely camera. It is astoundingly light (some people will dislike that; I happen to love it), manageable and friendly. With four-stop image stabilisation, a 10.2 MP sensor, a customisable menu, an integrated anti-dust self-cleaning system, a large enough LCD display (albeit slightly smaller than other models), excellent Pro software, the Digic III processor used in higher-end models, SD and SDHC (but not Compact Flash) memory card compatibility and just about all the features you would expect on a prosumer model (no spot metering though, which some users will miss), it is superb value for money. It reacts quickly in Jpeg mode and, most importantly, takes fantastically high quality, low noise photographs using a gigantic permutation of manual and automatic settings. A true pro would wish for faster responses when shooting RAW, but for the rest of us, this is The One. All the convenience and ease of a compact is there, but underneath lies the potential of a real grown-up SLR. If you do buy one, give yourself time slowly to learn about real photography. Be warned: as in music and painting, no gadget can replace talent. For what it's worth, I have Mr Magoo's eye for a shot.Initials of the weekDSLRDigital single lens reflex.SDHCSecure digital high capacity memory cards.RAWAn uncompressed, unprocessed image file. These are much larger, but allow complete control over the image.&middot;stephenfry.com/blog
Golden JoysticksThe 26th Golden Joystick Awards ceremony takes place in London at the end of this month. Unlike the Baftas, which are judged behind closed doors by industry professionals, the Joysticks are voted for by members of the public, a barometer that's truly keeping it real. The recently announced shortlists supplied few surprises, with Activision's all-conquering Call Of Duty 4 receiving nine nominations. Next in line for the mass love were Halo 3, Grand Theft Auto 4 and Guitar Hero III with four, five and seven nominations respectively. Without any of the shortlists featuring Rick Astley or any rank outsiders, it's unlikely to generate the usual flashmob web-voting hilarity, but there's still time to make your voice heard before winners are announced on Sep 31.&#183;Vote atgoldenjoystick.com
What notto wear if you get arrestedtinyurl.com/6hgj7lMichael Moore's new movie is free onlineSlackerUprising.comFacial hairadds elegance to a statuestatueswithsideburns.blogspot.comHow tobreak wind on TVtinyurl.com/6r7hjlNot eventhe writer knows how long Bill Murray was stuck in Groundhog Daytinyurl.com/2sfgfvThe Biblehas excellent special fx throughouttinyurl.com/6jp5unNow youcan add more cowbell to any songmorecowbell.djWhat theydid in the 1980s before Botoxtinyurl.com/6n2aynGremlins 2has been remixed by a fantinyurl.com/5qzfv2
What's your favourite piece of technology?My favourite of the past few years has been thesehand blendersthat take the place of food processors – these "magic wands". What a brilliant invention, you can whisk food in the pot you cooked it in. I've got the Braun Turbo – 400 watts of power! If you cook at all, it's the greatest invention of the last 50 years.How has it improved your life?It saves on the washing up – you can do everything in the pot with it. It can save you time and you can do a lot more different recipes with it, there are endless possibilities.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I made a soup about 10 days ago – a roasted garlic and almond soup. And it's great because it purees it to a lovely consistency.What additional features would you add if you could?You know the way you can stick it onto a small mixing bowl to do breadcrumbs and things like that? I think they need to give us a bigger bowl.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Absolutely not, I think it's here to stay.What one tip would you give to non hand-blender users?Just get one, you'll be amazed at how good it is.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I would have to say I'd be on the luddite side of that.Mac or PC?Mac. I don't really prefer it, it's the one that I was told to get, so I did what I was told.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I suppose it's my car – aMercedes SL 500, which was stupidly, stupidly expensive.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?I think it's probably an album rather than a single song:Bob Dylan's Time Out of Mind.Will robots rule the world?Jeez, I hope not. I'd be in big trouble if they did, because nobody does what I tell them to do.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I suppose something that can help you avoid airports – something like the beaming technology fromStar Trek. We travel so much, it's like: "Oh god, just to be there would be amazing."Colm Meaneycurrently stars inThree And Out, which is now available on DVD
Alaska governor Sarah Palin's private Yahoo mailbox was penetrated on Tuesday, and the hacker has explained how easy it was on the4chanmessage board, and duly preserved by Kim Zetter atWired Blogs. It turns out it was much simpler than guessing her password. The hacker simply reset the password, after guessing the security questions using Google to find the information required. He writes:after the password recovery was reenabled, it took seriously 45 mins on wikipedia and google to find the info, Birthday? 15 seconds on wikipedia, zip code? well she had always been from wasilla, and it only has 2 zip codes (thanks online postal service!)the second was somewhat harder, the question was "where did you meet your spouse?" did some research, and apparently she had eloped with mister palin after college  …I found out later though more research that they met at high school, so I did variations of that, high, high school, eventually hit on "Wasilla high" I promptly changed the password to popcorn and took a cold shower…The lesson is not to use any guessable or publicly available information in your security settings -- especially if you are famous. Pick something obscure, or lie. It doesn't have to be true: you just have to be able to remember it.
Bath's mostprolificWeb 2.0publicitymachine, Carsonified, is on the cusp of its transition from being a boring old web applications company to a sexy, self-consciously trendy web events outfit, afterfinally selling off its original app, DropSend. The deal should come as a relief to stuntmeister-in-chief Ryan Carson - after all, it was a meretwo years agothat he firststarted hawking the poor blighter around.
Cisco isacquiringthe "presence and messaging software" company Jabber (better known to most people from instant messaging interfaces) for an undisclosed sum. The buyout means that Cisco, best known for providing the plumbing for large swathes of the internet, will be able "to embed presence and messaging services 'in the network' and provide rich aggregation capabilities to users through both on-premise and on-demand solutions."It's an interesting acquisition, though Cisco has beenintegrating Jabber into its systems for some time already.The thing aboutJabberis that it is an open IM system: anyone can use it, anyone can create an account on it.XMPP, teh Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol, is clearly going to be important here.But if Cisco is interested in getting more people messaging each other (on the basis that that means more people using networks, ergo using its products), then might the next target be Twitter?James GovernorofRedMonk, which calls itself "the open source industry analyst company", thinks the deal is "big big big", and that Twitter could be next. Quite why.. he hasn't yet shared in detail. But it's certainly interesting for a giant networking company to acquire an open source messaging client.
