You created the first market analysis software for Microsoft...Yes, that system was developed in 1993 for Steve Ballmer and they still use it to this day. In fact, they feature a lot of its components in Excel. I also worked for Alan Sugar in the mid-80s. I always say the two years I worked for him brutally trained me for the IT industry.Any changes in the IT industry since then?It was about 1983 that I first joined it and the PC was really just being born. The one thing you did notice then was the industry was very arrogant. They never captured any data about what they sold. The internet has allowed an electronic relationship with the end user. That's eating away a lot of that old arrogance.What's the idea behind the E-cademy?Teaching people e-business. We started in February 98 and now have 65 corporate clients. If you look in internet dog years I've been on the net for six years, making me a 42 year internet veteran! That's a lot of service. I often tell people that I've effectively been studying for 15,000 hours, so I think that now gives me enough experience to be a teacher.Do you think there's a new desire to regulate the internet?I do see increased regulation such as the Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill and the e-commerce bill and others. People are perceiving the network to be purely an economic phenomenon, but it's also a social and political one.In Sweden they're considering making broadband free to every home so the network becomes a public service. If the net does become a public service, paid for out of our taxes - which I do support - then we are going to have a lot of regulation.Is the PC a transient platform?We've heard the "PC is over" for 10 years now and still they continue to sell in bucketloads! It's a bit like the idea that video is killing cinema. The moment that you put any kind of software and processor inside a device -whether it's a mobile phone, a toaster or a microwave - then it is a PC!Any favourite places on the net?I have a passion for very high quality hotels in unique places. There's a website calledSmall Luxury Hotelsthat I really like. A favourite search engine isAll The Webwhich can do an exact phrase match and respond in less than half a second. It's also indexed more sites thanAltaVista. I also have a passion forDLJ Directbecause I do all my stocks and shares there.Do you see the portal becoming increasingly important?Yes. I believe that Yahoo could be the next Microsoft. It could grow into the most valuable company in the world: I can see it on every device. They have 120m subscribers to their service and they're basically providing whatever that number ask for. They could be the monster of this decade.The E-cademy can be found at:www.theecademy.com
Someone sent me the Love Bug this morning, disguised as Re: Jokes. "Take that, you rat's dropping," I sneered as I deleted it and emptied my 'deleted' file. With the ease of practice, I selected the McAfee AntiVirus site from Favourites and let them scan my files, which were clean, clean, clean. If McAfee's had detected the virus, the software would have removed it quickly and safely from my hard disk.This calm expertise isn't natural to me or the result of professional training, but the hard won wisdom of a been there, done that survivor. Six weeks ago, I opened an attachment from a friend labelled Cool Progs, but found it empty. A few minutes later, messages began to flood in from the BBC, the Guardian and other sources. Most were a variation on "You have sent us a virus and we're sending it back to you!"I panicked. I froze. My brain slipped into neutral and I could only watch, horrified as the virus sent out a second relay of infected messages which would appear to be sent by me. Arrgg! The Virus was Pretty Park, a Trojan.In a moment of relative sanity, my last for weeks, I phoned a colleague. "What should I do?", I shrieked. "My virus software is just sitting there, ignoring it all." I hadn't updated it for for two months."Go to the McAfee site and download a patch. It'll be fine," he said, soothingly. If I'd done that, it would have been, but in a flash of altruism and stupidity, I chose to phone everyone in my address book, warning them not to open the infected attachment.Anguished responses of "How could you do this to me?" did nothing to calm me down and the subsequent explanations wasted further time during which the virus burrowed into my system's files. I went to McAfee's,   clicked blindly on the first link and began downloading a completely incorrect anti-virus program. I restarted my computer to find that the virus had won and taken control... I couldn't even switch the thing off.The first of many helpline advisers told me to unplug my computer, then restart and begin partitioning and wiping the hard disk before rebooting. Between inexperience, conflicting advice, my own mistakes, nerves and lack of sleep, it was a week before I could return to cyberspace. I'd backed up some of my files on floppy disk but lost a lot of data due to negligence and laziness.When I got back online, I found my Yahoo mail account still functioning and stored files intact. My pleasure vanished when I opened an   innocuous piece of E-mail that turned out to be a letter informing me that I now had "the Aids Virus" which would cripple my computer and destroy my files unless I sent it to 60 people. My hands were shaking as I deleted it and emptied the trash.I'd installed McAfee's Shield, which I now update weekly or more often during a virus alert, then ran the online Scan. Nothing. The "Aids Virus" was a cruel hoax, one of many that float through cyberspace.Since then, I've learned to take further precautions. I won't open any attachments, unless I'm expecting their arrival or have confirmed their legitimacy with the sender. Whenever possible, I ask others to send information as plain text. I'm also buying a Zip drive which will   back up all of my data automatically.According to Dr Mike Joy, senior lecturer in computer science at Warwick University, you cannot contract a virus through opening a plain text email. But HTML email can automatically open mini attachments; therefore it could work as a virus.He advises worried users to switch off the Windows scripting Host, to back up all files, to regularly update virus software and not to open attachments unless you're certain of their origin.He also warns about the possibility of viruses that can physically damage computers. "They're very rare but it's theoretically possible to create a virus that corrupts the BIOS, the basic program directing the reboot process so it won't function   or causing the computer to overheat."Some insurance policies and warranties, including mine, don't cover this contingency, so check the small print in yours. In life and computers my gameplan now is: prepare for the worst, hope for the best.&#149;  Suzi Pritchard's website for writers can be found at:http://communities.msn.co.uk/ThePleasureDomeahomeforwriters
Handspring's historyIn 1992, Jeff Hawkins was developing applications for a new generation of pen-operated computers. But early systems were so poor he decided to develop something better, and with Donna Dubinsky and Ed Colligan, set up Palm in 1994. Palm was taken over by US Robotics in September 1995, and shipped its first machines in April 1996. But US Robotics was itself bought by 3Com in June 1997 and the Palm Pilot was renamed the 3Com Palm. The trio decided to leave for "an independent environment", licensed the Palm operating system from 3Com, and co-founded Handspring in July 1998.Palm's dominant market share of the palmtop computer market could be wiped out in a year or two, and the company's original founders could be just the people to do it. The core group responsible for the Palm Pilot left to start up a rival called Handspring, and last week, they continued their assault with the European launch of their rival machine, the Visor."The product's done incredibly well in the States," says Ed Colligan, Handspring co-founder and marketing man. "We've been in retail for about three weeks now, and we seem to be taking about 50% of the sales at the locations we're in. It's nothing short of amazing."However, this is not necessarily bad news for Palm, because Handspring is using the PalmOS operating system and paying a royalty on each machine it sells. Palm is trying to avoid the mistakes made by companies such as Apple, which kept its Macintosh operating system proprietary, restricted competition, charged high prices, and only narrowly avoided being driven out of business. By licensing its software, Palm is giving consumers more choice and, it hopes, stimulating the growth of a larger market with room for all.Donna Dubinksy, Handspring's co-founder and chief executive, admits that "it's hard to find examples of companies   that license their technologies and then compete with their licensees: when I was at Palm, I had a strategy of licensing complementary products." However, it may turn out to be a product-based business rather than a platform business like the PC industry, which Microsoft is trying to replicate with its Windows CE/Pocket PC palmtop strategy.Colligan certainly thinks so. "It's not going to be a winner-take-all game," he says. "There's not going to be one device that everyone loves, or one operating system. It will be more like the cellphone business, where people will care more about form and function and ease of use. But from our perspective, boy, there's a lot of running room before we start fighting over single market share points."Handspring has targeted one of the Palm machine's main weaknesses: it's poor expandability. As well as the Palm's personal organiser software - addressbook, to-do list, clock, calendar, calculator - the Visor includes a Springboard expansion slot. This will let users plug a wide range of useful modules into the back.So far, Springboard has generated impressive support: more than a dozen modules were demonstrated at the London launch. These included Xircom's Springport 56K modem, the Eyemodule digital camera, Innogear's MiniJam MP3 music player, Navicom's HandyGPS navigator, and Tel@markt's   combined GSM/GPS adaptor which adds mobile phone functions. (Unlike the Palm, the Visor has a built in microphone, though unlike rival palmtops running Microsoft's Pocket PC software, it doesn't have a built-in speaker.)Earlier I criticised Handspring for launching a proprietary system instead of using an existing standard such as the CompactFlash slot used in Windows CE/Pocket PC palmtops. Indeed, Widget (01438-815444) is already sellingTRG's Palm-compatible machinewith a built-in CompactFlash slot. But Colligan says the CF slot wasn't capable of handling all the modules Handspring wanted. And while Springboard is proprietary, it is open to developers."We've put all the information on the internet where anybody can download it, and we're open to licensing it," says Colligan, "We've approached Palm and said 'Hey, do you want to license it?' "The Springboard system certainly makes the modules easy to use: there's no software to install, no drivers to download, and some modules also have their own batteries   on board. From what I've seen so far, they do seem to offer "plug and play" functionality.The drawback is that users who want more than one type of modfule will end up playing Springboard shuffle, and sometimes will be unable to do all the things they want to do at once. (CompactFlash slots have the same problem.) This will no doubt stimulate the production of modules such as Innogear's Six Pak Combo, which puts a modem, cellular phone port, voice recorder and memory upgrade into a single Springboard package.It will also stimulate the design of new types of handheld device that provide more than one function. Dubinsky says: "We have a tremendous pipeline full of lots and lots of products. It's really the beginning of this business." Obviously she won't say what the next products are or when they will be launched, but wireless internet connections are going to play a part. As Colligan says: "All these devices are going to be wireless at some stage."For now, Handspring is competing in the same market as Palm with electronic organisers that are much more expandable, and more colourful, while still being cheap and easy to use.But in the long run, it's also going to have to fight off many new entrants, including Sony and Nintendo as well as the mobile phone giants Nokia, Ericsson and Motorola. It's certainly not going to be dull.
EA rebrandsElectronic Arts, the biggest independent games company, plans to rebrand its products into three categories: EA Games, EA Sports and EA.com. This "harmonisation" is expected to reduce the emphasis on the numerous developers EA has taken over, including Maxis, Westwood Studios, Bullfrog Productions, DreamWorks and Kesmai.
EA is now shipping about 1.5m games a month, and in the last quarter it published 10 titles each for the PC and Sony PlayStation, plus one for the Nintendo 64. Also, the company is developing more than 20 titles for the Sony PlayStation 2.
In its annual financial results, declared last week, EA's turnover grew by 16% to $1.4 billion, while profits increased by 13% to $129.5 million.Nintendo under attackThe European Commission has started to investigate an alleged price fixing system operated by seven distributors of Nintendo games, including John Menzies in the UK. Menzies owns the Nintendo distributor, THE Games. 
"The Commission believes that the companies concerned participated in a 
cartel-like arrangement with the aim of partitioning the European single market,'' the agency said in a statement.It thinks the price of Nintendo games was kept artificially high by restricting the parallel trade in "grey imports" from alternative sources. The companies 
have two months to reply to the allegations.
Companies found guilty of breaking anti-trust guidelines may be fined up to 10% of their annual revenues.Base thoughtsSPOnG, the Super Players Online Gamesbase, would like to become to games what theInternet Movie Databaseis to films. Since the IMDb is one of the world's best websites, that would be useful, thoughGameFAQsmight be a better place to start.SPOnGneeds a major revamp.Pulling rankMplayer.com has come up with an idea that could 
provide the world's greatest video game players with the recognition they deserve: a global ranking system like the one used in chess. But no-one is going to take your word for your high scores. The system requires software developers to include Mplayer's code in their games. Details are atwww.globalrankings.com.Action stationsConnectix is now shipping its Sony PlayStation emulator, Virtual Game Station 1.4, for Windows PCs and Apple Macintoshes in the UK for about £35. Users with earlier versions can get a free upgrade from the website at www.virtualgamestation.com 
A multi-language European version will follow.
Inspect a gadgetFans of the BBC's Tomorrow's World can gorge themselves on all sorts of geek events in June and July when the show stages its Tomorrow's World Live Event at Earl's Court, London. For those who can't wait, the show's website (www.twle.co.uk) has details on some of the features of the show, which will include exhibits of 007's gadgets, more than 150 inventors showing their wares, a gadget shop, and an area called Planet Internet to inform us on web facts and features.The most intriguing part of Planet Internet, and the show overall, could well turn out to be a live version of online virtual community Cycosmos. Apparently, 2,500 square metres of the Planet Internet area will be devoted to this "urban setting, where reality and virtuality converge," and will feature giant plasma screens, digital projections and real-time avatars. You can choose an avatar and shop, chat, and live online.   Go for a test run atwww.cycosmos.comSounds goodFeaturing plenty of unsigned bands, German MP3   behemoth BeSonic.com (www.besonic.com) has just opened a UK office to go after British bands and music. The site has more than 13,000 legal MP3s of everything from ambient to classical   and promises "a number of UK-specific technology enhancements and content" in coming months. For now, bands can get a web page and upload songs.Tall talesOne of the more amusing genres of website - especially on a boring day at work - is the automatic generator of, well, you name it: company mission statements, Irish curses, tech jargon, and so on. Now you can also generate an urban myth - those strange tales that get told at pubs and parties and always happened to a friend of a friend.Spin a few myths of your own with the "incredibly complicated and technologically advanced" PUMA (plausible urban myth articulator) athttp://toybox.asap.net/legendEuro netnewsGiven the US dominance of the internet business, finding European net-oriented news can be frustrating. Tornado-Insider, the Netherlands-based European internet business magazine, sends out a weekly newsletter on   leading stories: sign up atwww.tornado-insider.com.   The Industry Standard also offers a useful "European Intelligencer" weekly newsletter: subscribe atwww.standardservices.com/Newsletters/nsubscribe.aspSpook a spookWatching the detectives: Spook is a new online art   project from Dublin internet artist Conor McGarrigle, which puts the watchers under surveillance. Last year McGarrigle noticed an unusual pattern of hits from military servers on his Stunned ArtZine art site. Using his own "Spook-Bot", he did a trace on one, gate1.mcbbutler.usmc.mil, to see where else the server had been.The spooks seem a lively, multi-faceted bunch, visiting sites on topics such as Russian mail order brides, guerrilla activists and romance, as well as that old favourite, infowar. Such data forms the basis of Spook (www.stunned.org/spook/), where visitors can nominate their favourite military servers to be tracked by the Spook-Bot and added to the site.The work has been   chosen for exhibition at the Siggraph 2000 graphics   animation conference in   New Orleans in July.Faster VistaAltaVista has launched a   new search engine atwww.raging.comwhich promises to deliver results 20% faster. Apparently, the engine is aimed at heavy-duty, mostly male websurfers who visit several sites each day. That spurred wags at one news site to quip that the engine's key feature seemed to be an ability to search out cyberporn even more effectively. Surely not. Maybe the guys are just looking for good chocolate dessert recipe sites.Main eventsHaven't decided where to go on your summer holiday? You could searchwww.whatsonwhere.comfor ideas. The site lists more than 10,000 events in 60 countries and can be searched for events by date, time, country, city, venue or interest category. The site classifies events by categories such as food and beverage, film, sport, parties, politics, clubs, health and theatre.New and notedAardman Animation's new Angry Kid episodes will be available regularly for   download at searchwww.atomfilms.com, while celebrity "e-jayz" are promised atwww.stormlive.com, a new streaming radio station on Freeserve. Pet lovers,www.petmad.com, offers free advice on pet issues to UK animal owners. You can also source products and services from small businesses in Britain usingwww.askbob.co.uk
Musical noteAlan Rusbridger is right to point out that there's more to music on the web than techno tunes and unsigned bands (Grand Designs Online, May 4), but he fails to mention one development in online music - interactivity.Interactive music is the first great musical innovation of the internet age, a genre that not only changes the way in which music is sold and distributed, but also radically alters how we perceive, compose, perform and experience sound online.Ranging from the means to manipulate recordings on the web to serious experimental works by avant garde composers, the genre already has a massive cult following, and is poised to cross over into the mainstream.Interactive music's appeal is potentially vast - just think how many teenage aspiring DJs (raised on PlayStations and mix CDs) would jump at the chance of using interactive music technology to create their own dance remixes, instead of having to trawl through racks of insipid boy band "product".At the other end of the scale, similar technology is giving serious artists and musicians the opportunity to experiment with genuinely new and exciting forms of composition such as generative music, which is driven by mathematical algorithms.For anybody who wants to find out more about the subject, a conference on interactive music is taking place at the University of Westminster on May 26. iM2K will feature seminars and performances by interactive musicians and composers, plus a showcase of the latest technologies. Call 020 8357 7395 for details.Colin Kirkpatrickcolin.kirkpatrick@lumiereadapt.co.ukVirus fearsA throwaway line in the BBC's coverage of last week's outbreak of the love bug email virus which mentioned that "users of Apple Mac and other   operating systems were not affected" might give food for thought.This virus was apparently specific to PCs running Microsoft Windows. While this may be a good argument against the "Windows or nothing" approach often taken by people - and firms - who should know better, a thought comes to mind. What will happen when someone pens a virus that attacks the Linux-based devices now being launched, or WAP browsers or Psions?Is there any protection available for the growing "non-standard" brigade of net appliances?Chris Emerychrisdemery@chrisdemery.fsnet.co.ukIdeal modelDouglas Rushkoff's interesting article on modelling (Online, May 4) contained some inaccuracies which detract from his thesis.It would be more accurate to refer to a typewriter and a word-processing program as models of an ideal document processor. Both have subsets of the features that one might want. Models can be physical as well as programmatic.Word processing (and HTML) are both programming activities. Typing "a" in a Word document (for example) is an instruction to insert (usually) character #97 of the current font in the compiled document at the current point and move on by the character width. HTML is a language with which to give formatting instructions. Both languages may be restrictive compared with what Douglas regards as "real" programming languages, but languages they are.Bob Margolisbob@margolis.freewire.co.ukMass forceCan it be that there are two laws of physics? The article Snowballs of the Gods (Science, May 4) states that "the law of physics makes a bigger hailstone fall faster".Newton's Second Law has it that there is a bigger gravitational force on a bigger mass, yes, but a bigger mass needs more force to get it moving, so a bigger mass and a smaller mass end up with the same acceleration.This was famously demonstrated by Galileo dropping objects of different mass from the Leaning Tower of Pisa. More recently, the whole   world watched it in a television shot from the moon when a golf ball and a feather were used.It could even happen that the bigger mass falls more slowly than the smaller one when one brings air resistance into it and the "terminal velocity" effect - this is a characteristic of the body's shape. Two parachutes of identical mass, one packed into a tight bundle and the other allowed to assume its full and proper shape will fall at vastly different speeds!Naturally when it comes to impact damage, assuming the two objects did reach the same velocity, that's where the difference shows.George H Westgarthghwestgarth@cwcom.netPhone furyI think Ken Sawyer (Feedback, May 4) is remarkably restrained in his comments on the Lineone/Quip free call access. Since the end of March when I registered, Quip has reduced me to the state of fury and frustration with my computer I thought I'd outgrown some time ago.Apart from the fact he mentions, that one can't easily connect at all in the evenings or at weekends, I've been unable to make ordinary phone calls using the Quip gadget, which are part of the deal. The worst of it is the bland instruction to e-mail them with problems, when part of the problem is that you can't send e-mails. They say they will have improved access from May 15 but it'll have to be pretty good to make up for the waste of time and energy Quip has cost me so far.Liz Moloneyliz.moloney@lineone.netCam conI missed the original piece about Caroline Online, being out of the country at the time, but last November we set up honicam.com, the site of a camgirl called Honey in New Jersey. The homepage features an attractive blond who promises all sorts of excitement. Alas, when you click to see more, the book jacket for my novel Nine Mil (in which Honey and honicam.com are featured) pops up, with a link to Amazon. I thought it was a neat idea, the Bookseller thought it was an inappropriate piece of marketing. Made me laugh, anyway.Rob Ryan101510.756@compuserve.com
Halifaxplans to assault the clearing banks' dominance of the market for current accounts by attracting 500,000 customers a year for the next four years to If, its new Intelligent Finance telephone and internet bank.The second former building society in as many days to pledge to win customers from the four big clearing banks, which have an 80% stranglehold on current accounts, Halifax insisted that the proposition it unveiled yesterday heralded a revolution in banking.Abbey National, another big former building society, earlier this week said it too wanted to boost the number customers using current accounts. Today, though, Lloyds TSB, one of the "big four", is expected to unveil its internet proposition, entitled ebank, as well as details of its internet bank in Europe. James Crosby, the chief executive of Halifax, said If was part of the bank's aim of becoming the "consumers' champion".Unveiled to the tunes of Fatboy Slim, to which If has secured the rights for &#163;500,000, If could save the typical consumer &#163;60 to &#163;70 a month, he said. Mr Crosby said banks made profits from borrowing money from customers in the form of current accounts and lending it back to the same individual through loans. If intended to avoid that.Referring to Don Cruickshank's critical inquiry into banking competition, Mr Crosby said: "Cruickshank confirmed what we knew about UK banking".He said If would allow Halifax, which also has its own-branded internet bank, to compete with the clearing banks in current accounts and credit cards. Halifax intends to roll the service out to small businesses, its first foray into the market. It is also looking   for partnerships in Europe.If consists of five products - current accounts, personal loans, credit cards, mortgages and savings - and will be connected together to allow customers to allow the rates of interest paid or charged on each of the products to counteract one another.In some very few circumstances this would mean some customers enjoyed 0% mortgage rates, said Jim Spowart, chief executive of If, who also set up Standard Life bank.Unlike other "start-up" banks, Mr Crosby said, If would be profitable in three years, produce a return on capital of 15% and have 500,000 customers in a year, and 2m by the end of 2004.Mark Thomas, banking analyst at Fox Pitt Kelton said: "This type of product is not new although some of the technical delivery will be state of the art."
One2One, the mobile phone operator, is to sue the government over the handling of payments for the third generation mobile phone licences which have recently been auctioned.It will serve a writ on Stephen Byers, the embattled trade and industry secretary, in an attempt to get a judicial review of the payment process.German-owned One2One has to hand over the &#163;4bn for its licence today but two other licence winners - Vodafone AirTouch and Orange - have been given up to 180 days in which to pay.This is because the two operators cannot receive their licences until they have become separately owned companies.Shortly before the auction for the five licences started, Vodafone acquired Mannesmann, the German company which owned Orange.To get clearance for the Mannesmann deal from the European competition authorities, Vodafone agreed to sell Orange. But this could not be done by the time the auction for the new licences started.Under the rules, no group was allowed to bid for more than one licence. But an exemption was made, allowing both Vodafone and Orange to bid separately.One2One, which is now owned by Deutsche Telekom, believes that Vodafone and Orange will earn about &#163;360m in interest by delaying their &#163;10bn payment.It wants compensation for the arrangement which, it claims, gives the other two companies an unfair financial advantage.The government will collect a staggering &#163;22bn for the four licences - but the DTI has turned down One2One's suggestion that its &#163;4bn payment be held in an escrow account until Vodafone and Orange pay up.During this time, One2One said, it should be paid the interest on the payment.Robin Saphra, One2One's public policy director, said: "We have tried hard to reach agreement with the government over the discrepancy in payment terms between ourselves and Vodafone and Orange."We are disappointed that we have had to make the decision to take legal steps, in the interest of both our customers and shareholders, to ensure a fair and level playing field amongst UMTS licence winners."When it comes into operation in 2002, the third generation universal mobile telecommunication system will offer mobile phone owners many more features including high-speed internet access and video pictures.British Telecom, one of the other successful bidders, is also unhappy about the payment arrangements.
UP- Price (p)	ChangeAtlantic Telecom699.0	+35.0Cedar Group860.0	+87.5Freeserve437.5	+23.0Pace Micro Tech945.0	+200.0Scotia Holdings121.5	+8.0DOWN-	Price (p)	ChangeBritish Biotech24.75	-2.5London Bridge650.0	-55.0NSB Retail Sys235.0	-17.5Vocalis Group257.5	-25.0365 Corporation123.5	-9.5
Silicon Fen, the area around Cambridge that is home to some of Britain's fastest growing hi-tech firms, is poised to have its first stock market- listed "intelligent building".EuroTelecom, a recently floated supplier of broadband infrastructure to futuristic buildings that house internet incubators and software development houses, is close to buying 49% of QTon, a company which part-owns a state of the art &#163;10m business support centre in Cambridge.    EuroTelecom is also thought   to be close to finalising a supply contract with serviced-offices group Regus worth around &#163;50m over three years.QTon is owned by 27-year-old entrepreneur Amanda Staveley and is developing the &#163;10m QTon Forum on the Cambridge Science Park in conjunction with Trinity College.The building - due to be complete in August - aims to provide fledgling hi-tech businesses with telecoms links, networking, video conferencing and meeting facilities under one roof.The Cambridge area has thrown up several world class   hi-tech firms in recent years, including the multi-billion pound duo of Arm Holdings and Autonomy Corporation.Ms Staveley hopes the next generation of technology stars will use her purpose-built facilities rather than convert their own office space.EuroTelecom, advised by broker Beeson Gregory, is understood to be paying about &#163;2m for the 49% QTon stake.EuroTelecom raised &#163;17.25m from its recent flotation to fund joint ventures, acquisitions and provide working capital for new projects. Its shares closed last night at 150p.
When I review cars made by Korean companies that only the automotive anoraks have heard of I always seem to reach two depressing conclusions. The first is that although the cars are cheap they're not nearly as good as their big-brand competition. And the second is that despite the low list prices they depreciate horribly fast - which actually makes them bad long-term value.But this really could be the car that breaks the mould. The Clarus is a big family car that starts at a fiver under &#163;11,000. Even in these post competition commission days that's still dirt cheap, because even the entry level 1.8 SX comes with air-con, central locking and power assistance for the bits that need it. However the &#163;12,495 2.0 GSX is the one to have, because the larger 2-litre engine also comes with ABS brakes and alloy wheels.I'm not going to claim that this is the best looking family car you'll ever see, nor that the interior is the smartest, but I did a 500-mile day-trip in the Clarus and I climbed out of it smiling. If I'd attempted the same journey in a Vauxhall Vectra I would have had to be winched out, because the seats so uncomfortable.The Clarus drawbacks aren't too   terrifying. The first minus mark goes to the fuel consumption, because the 2.0 litre manual can only manage 27.4mpg overall. And that's simply not good enough if you're a high-mileage driver. The second area of weakness is that the safety equipment isn't great. There are endless warning tones to inform you if you've forgotten to do up your flies or whatever, but you'll only find one airbag. And these days that's 3 short of the full set.These downsides are indicative of the fact that this isn't what you'd call a cutting-edge car - although that doesn't mean that it isn't well- engineered and it is supported by a 3 year/60,000 mile manufacturer's warranty plus roadside assistance.So that just leaves one question - will your shiny new Clarus plummet in value the second the Kia dealer waves you off the premises? To find the answer I asked CAP   Monitor, whose job it is to estimate the likely future value of today's new cars. And at first sight their estimate of the &#163;12,495 Clarus 2.0 GSX's value after three years and 30,000 miles looks much worse than average for the class - because CAP think the Clarus will be worth just &#163;4,400.However, the Clarus is far cheaper than big-brand cars in its size category, and for &#163;12,500 you're usually only in Vauxhall Astra territory. Now the Astra is a very good car, and CAP confirm that a &#163;12,495 example will indeed be worth &#163;800 more than the Kia when you come to sell. But if you really need the Clarus's extra space then I bet you'd willingly pay an extra &#163;20 a month or so to keep the kids from disembowelling each other on those long journeys. I know I would.
What do you drive?A Boston green BMW318i and a Rover 214si in slate grey. The BM is my favourite but I'm worried about its image. I expect everyone to sneer and throw white gloss over it.Why did you buy it?It was a treat. One year I earned a lot of money so I decided to get a nice comfortable car.What was your first car?A Vauxhall Nova, which I named Holly after Holsten Pills who were the sponsors of Tottenham, my team. Me and my "yellow peril' went everywhere together. I used to talk to it constantly.What did it say about you?Well... it was small and insignificant!What kind of driver are you?I don't like other drivers. I'm very careful. Fast but safe except when I go out of control and crash.Any bad habits?Other people would say so - especially my husband - but I think I'm courteous.Any driving test tales?I failed three times before passing. My instructor failed me on the third test because I was gripping the wheel too intently. He told me I wasn't in control of the car. But I reckon I did more wrong when I passed than on the tests I failed.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points etc?I've had two crashes. The most recent was a few weeks ago coming off a roundabout in the rain. The   car went out of control and hit a stationary vehicle - which shocked the man in it who was busy reading his paper. Thankfully we were all OK.What do you use your car for?Motorway bashing and shopping, but I am trying to use the bus and Tube a lot more.Have you experienced roadrage?I see maniacs on the road all the time. I saw one idiot weaving in and out of the traffic leaving inches between each car. I almost called the police but he escaped.What sort of state is your car in?Perfect because it's just back from being repaired. Inside I try to keep it tidy as I'm constantly offering lifts to people.What's in the boot/glove compartment?Old Mars bars (I'm a chocoholic), a spare case for the radio, sunglasses and an ice scraper with a glove.Have you ever had sex in a carNo - but romantic encounters most definitely.What music do you listen to on the road?During the daytime pop from Capital radio. At night Radio 2 and Magic for romantic music. I prefer to drive alone as my husband hates music in the car. I'm   really into 70s soul right now.What would be your dream car?A Peugeot 406 coupe. Everyone groans when I say that but I like functional small cars.Who would be your dream passenger?The person who was about to tell me I'd got to No 1 in the charts or sign me to a huge deal.The Eurovision Song Contest is on Saturday (BBC1, 8pm).
"It's designed for customers who prefer going fast but don't like paying for a lot of irrelevant extras," claimed Motor Trend magazine, of Plymouth's 1968 Roadrunner. "It's the simplest, most brazenly pure, non-compromising budget supercar in history." It's as good a description of a muscle car as any: souped-up, stripped-down, lightweight, two-door American street racers, affordable yet high performance, with monster 8-cylinder engines that had a thermal efficiency to make other drivers see red.Muscle cars, which lasted from the mid-60s to the early 70s, were designed to fulfil every adolescent boy's fantasy of speed, danger and rebellion, and filmmakers soon caught on to the craze. Starsky and Hutch knew that baddies didn't stand a chance of outrunning their magnificent 1971 Ford Torino; a 1970 Dodge Challenger races through the Nevada desert in Vanishing Point and perhaps most fittingly of all given the typical muscle car fan, hick heroes Bo and Luke   could never be the Dukes of Hazzard without their General Lee, a 1971 Dodge Charger Daytona guaranteed to make Boss Hogg sweat like a pig.The muscle car phenomenon began proper when Mopar, the parts wing of the giant Chrysler corporation, started a performance war in 1966 with the introduction of the legendary 426 cubic-inch Hemi - a race-only engine that was adapted for street use and put into cars like Dodge Chargers and Plymouth Satellites. Soon all of the major companies were producing "budget supercars". These cars were sold on machismo and speed. "It snarls, it quivers, it leaps prairies at a single bound," claimed a 1970 advertisement for the Dodge Challenger; in 1969 pictures of a Plymouth Road Runner appeared above the line: "Goes to show that nothing shrinks time and distance like cubic inches and a good induction system." The Belvedere GTX ad went one step further and claimed the car was "strictly for the 'move over honey, and let the man drive' set".The golden age of muscle cars was at the end of the 60s. Chrysler led the   way, and in 1968 introduced the two most revered muscle cars of them all: the Plymouth Road Runner and the Dodge Super Bee. Plymouth realised that the youth market muscle cars were originally aimed at was being alienated by raised prices caused by an increasing number of "must-have" extras, so the Road Runner was a bare-bones car priced at just under $3,000. Most importantly, its 383ci big-block V-8 engine meant that it could run a quarter-mile in 13 seconds. "You know those cartoons about a rapid bird with a 'beep-beep' voice and a penchant for squashing coyotes?" asked the Roadrunner's advertising copy. "Well, Plymouth's built a car with the same name. And personality. It's horn goes 'beep-beep'. And the beat goes on." Plymouth, formerly seen as staid, now had a rebellious, youthful image.The Super Bee was even more macho, and the epitome of no-frills performance. Dodge didn't bother including hub caps or hood hinges, but they did add mean-looking hood scoops to keep the 440 Magnum V-8 engine cool, with large red letters pro claiming "Six Pack" on either side of them. Cartoons of a snarling bee decorated the hood, doors and bonnet.The bubble had to burst sooner or later. Manufacturers went from the reasonably ridiculous to the completely ridiculous, with engines getting bigger and the cars getting faster. But demand for such enormous engines was now on the wane, however, and greater awareness of the dangers of illegal drag racing, combined with stringent pollution laws, effectively killed off the muscle car phenomenon by the end of 1971. Manufacturers responded by attempting to sell similar cars to a more sophisticated market: the pricey 1971 Charger R/T was aimed at the racy businessman who appreciated extras like an automatic   sun roof and a dictation machine, but the fast times were over.Of course, a lot of muscle cars ended up on scrap-heaps or at the bottom of cliffs, but so many were produced that there are still a lot around, and to buy one now costs about the same as the average five-year old family saloon - from &#163;2,000 to &#163;8,000. Although classics like the Roadrunner and the Super Bee are rare and very expensive, equally stylish models like the Plymouth Satellite, the AMC Hornet and the Chevy Chevelle are available in the UK through magazines like Classic American and through dealers like American Car Imports. These don't make very good family cars - although huge, half of the space is taken up by the engine, and seating space is limited due to aerodynamic concerns - and they aren't the most economical cars to run. The most powerful ones, such as Dodge Challengers and Ford Torinos, do as little as nine miles to the gallon, but most will do around 15 to 20. As American pollution control is much tighter than in Europe, American cars will sail through roadside emission tests, and all cars made in 1971 or after take unleaded petrol. And because they were designed to make the owner think they were driving a real racing car, most have double seat belts, head rests, and airbags.The golden rule with buying any old car is to look for rust. "The cars are easily repairable and the parts to most of the cars are still made," says Josh Collins, proud owner of a 1971 Plymouth Satellite. "But if the engine has rusted you can forget it. You should also look for a car with the original factory fittings - muscle cars are very popular with mechanics   because they're so stripped down, so a lot of engines get taken out and replaced." Because parts come from the US, a realistic amount needed to keep a muscle car on the road for a year is about &#163;1,000. Another consideration is size: muscle cars look enormous compared to standard European cars, and domestic garages have to be on the large side to accommodate one.Muscle cars may not have the sophistication of the more famous, smaller American "pony" cars like Corvettes and Mustangs, but they have power, simplicity and in their own way, a lot of style. Snootier elements of the classic car fraternity enjoy referring to muscle car enthusiasts as people with "Camaro cut" hairstyles (mullets), but what do they know? There are few who grew up in the 70s who didn't dream of taking a spin with Bo, Luke and Daisy Duke in that General Lee of theirs, at least to the end of the road and back.Classic American Magazine, 01925 625 182; American Car Imports, 020-8889 4545
The founders of Boo.com will this week be given a dramatic ultimatum by their financial backers: cut your involvement with the company and accept sweeping management changes, or have the plug pulled on further funding.The move comes as the ailing online fashion retailer seeks a &#163;20 million cash injection. The attempt to raise further funding highlights how quickly the company has been haemorrhaging cash after raising nearly &#163;100m of financing last year.City sources say JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs, two of the company's high-profile backers who participated in the first round of financing, have ruled out making any further investments. Both banks refused to comment on their involvement with Boo.The sources say the remaining backers - which include the investment arms of luxury goods giant LVMH and the Benetton empire - are prepared to stump up more money, but only if the company's Swedish founders, chief operating officer Ernst Malmsten and chief marketing officer Kajsa Leander, relax their grip on the business.'You can expect some management changes to be announced in the next few days,' a source said last night.It is thought that Boo's backers are pushing for the duo to follow the example of their co-founder Patrik Hedelin, who resigned as the company's executive chairman in February 'to spend more time with his family' in Sweden.Worries about Boo's future have been circulating for several months.In a bid to expand its market share, Boo earlier this year slashed prices. However, efforts to revive the company's flagging fortunes have been unsuccessful, despite the fact it has spent nearly &#163;15m on advertising in the past few months. Recently Boo laid off 70 staff as part of its restructuring programme.Boo's backers may look to sell the company to a trade buyer. Analysts have suggested interested parties could include Marks &amp; Spencer and Kingfisher.
Six years ago, someone (identity unknown) opened an Internet account with Prodigy, a US Internet services provider, in the name of 'Alexander Lunney'. Having registered, this person then posted vulgar messages on bulletin boards and sent a threatening e-mail message to another individual. The recipient was not amused and summoned the cops.The fuzz promptly descended upon one Alexander Lunney, who at that time was a 15-year-old Bronxville high school student. Shortly after that, young Lunney received a letter from Prodigy's lawyers, informing him that the company had decided to terminate his account 'due to the transmission of obscene, abusive, threatening and sexually explicit material'.The only problem was that the lad was not, and never had been, a Prodigy customer and it was rapidly established that whoever had opened the account in his name was an impostor. At this point, Lunney sued Prodigy, and matters passed into the hands of m'learned friends.A succession of local and district courts then ruled that the service provider was not legally culpable for either the objectionable e-mail or the bulletin board message.'Prodigy was not a publisher of the e-mail transmitted through its system by a third party,' was the unanimous judgment of the New York Court of Appeals. 'We are unwilling to deny Prodigy the common-law qualified privilege accorded to telephone and telegraph companies.'The judgment said that Prodigy could not be treated as publisher of the electronic bulletin board message and concluded that 'the public would not be well served by compelling an Internet service provider to examine and screen millions of e-mail communications, on pain of liability for defamation'.The Lunney case eventually reached the US Supreme Court. On Monday last, the court upheld the ruling of the lower courts.So the position is that, under US law, Internet service providers cannot be held legally liable for material that is published by third parties through their servers.Given the nature of the Internet, and the key role played in it by ISPs, that is an eminently sensible state of affairs.Now spool forward a few years, and cross the Atlantic to a small island off the shores of continental Europe. The rulers of this quaint kingdom know about as much about the Internet as the average trouser press, but this doesn't stop them being most awfully keen on it.Their leader continually gushes about 'the Net' and they even declare on their gleaming new website (called e-commerce@its.best.uk, if you please) their goal of 'developing the UK as the best place in the world for e-commerce by 2002'.A resident of this ancient land, one Laurence Godfrey, complained to an ISP called Demon Internet that some messages posted about him on Internet discussion groups carried by Demon (and thousands of other ISPs worldwide) were defamatory.Demon declined to remove the offending newsgroups from its circulation system, and Mr Godfrey sued for libel. In the end, Demon decided not to fight the case and settled out of court, paying Mr Godfrey substantial damages and costs.As a result, the legal position in the UK is that ISPs are legally responsible for the stuff that passes through their servers.Are the country's Internet-savvy rulers wringing their hands over this and planning to revise the law of libel to protect ISPs from actions for defamation?Are they hell. Au contraire: they are gleefully proposing (through the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill currently being railroaded through Parliament) to impose on them the enormous costs of the large-scale surveillance of private e-mail that the Bill requires ISPs to facilitate.So here's your starter for 10. Which country - the US or the UK - is more e-friendly? Do not write on both sides of the paper at once.John.Naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Jockeys getting in a spinThings look set to turn very ugly in the battle of the artists formerly known as Radio One DJs. In the blue corner we have Peter Powell, ex-squeeze of Anthea Turner, with his dot.com offering. In the other we now have pint-sized spinmeister Bruno Brookes who is, erm, another ex-squeeze of Anthea. Bruno is launching Storm Radio, 'the world's first celebrity-led Internet-only radio station'. Top celebs featuring on the new station include Joe Absolom (Matthew from EastEnders) and Jo Guest (Jo Guest from the world of glamour modelling). And there's a welcome back to Kim Appleby, formerly of pop duo Mel &amp; Kim. Blimey.What's the beef?Mind you, the Brookes-Powell feud is nothing compared with that set to break out in cyberspace between Burger King and McDonalds. BK is launching an online advertising campaign which neatly sidesteps broadcasting restrictions on comparative advertising. Distinctly unchuffed at not being able to reveal that its range of Doubles burgers are 26 per cent beefier than the Big Mac in its TV ads, BK is launching an Internet campaign to show 'the truth' atwww.burgerking.co.uk.That spluttering sound you're hearing? That's the sound of lawyers licking their lips.Lost lettersA big hello toMooov.com, an online service that purports to 'guide the consumer through the mad wonderful world of moving home'. Philip Orwell, boss of this company, which hopes to 'inject a bit of pleasure into the house-buying process', has an interesting CV. Philip 'grew up in Hampstead and was briefly excluded from school in 1976 for reading E.E. Cummings' we are told in a press release. &#91; A pedant writes: I think you'll find that should be e e cummings .&#93; Honestly, these dot.com people. One minute they're changing capitals into little letters; now they're going the other way. The barbarians are truly at the gate.Ether alcoholOnline wine retailerrouge-blanc.comreports that the average price of an Internet purchase in the UK is &#163;30, compared with &#163;50 in France and Germany. Apparently, wine and spirits accounts for eight per cent of web purchases in the UK, compared with nine per cent in France and 12 per cent in Germany.
Professor Henry J. Beker often stresses how much he loves life. Given that the company he founded and chairs, Baltimore Technologies, is worth around &#163;3 billion, which means his personal stake in the business is worth more than &#163;30 million, this is not altogether surprising.But you suspect the real reason the former president of the Institute of Mathematics oozes enthusiasm is that he is afforded a unique opportunity. The former academic now has the chance to put his manifold ideas into practice: the ultimate empirical test of his hypotheses.'It's just real good to be alive,' Beker says. 'There's a lot of fun to be had. It's exciting because there's a lot of opportunity around. I feel privileged to be in the IT industry at this time.'In addition to Baltimore, which provides online security solutions to businesses - a market with huge growth potential - Beker has recently accepted the chairmanships of two other fledgling Internet companies. In both cases he has pumped in his own money. Several other investments lie ahead.And, on top of his ever-expanding portfolio of companies, Beker, 48, is to launch the e-Learning Foundation, a a charity that aims to give every pupil in the UK access to a portable computer at school. Beker's back-of-the-envelope calculations suggest the project will cost a minimum of &#163;8 billion.Beker's career path has been an unusual one. One day he was happily ensconced in academia; the next, Sir Ernest Harrison,former chairman of Racal Electronics, plucked him from the ivory towers and set the mathematician on the path to becoming an entrepreneur.Beker's interest in maths emerged at Kilburn Grammar School in London. He later won the University of London prize for best student, which convinced him to go on to do a PhD in mathematics. His first post was as a research assistant in Swansea.'It was meant to be a two-year post, but after a year I was headhunted by Racal. They were getting more and more into military and security systems. They decided they needed a mathematician, but didn't know how to find one. So they employed a professor from Bath University to look for one.'Beker didn't know what to think of the offer at first. 'I'd never really thought about moving into industry. I was absolutely focused on academia, churning out research papers. As far as I was concerned, this was art.'But Racal dangled a large carrot and Beker quitted the groves of academe. Colleagues suggested he was selling out. 'To an extent I was, but it was such a great opportunity - to build a maths department in industry - that I couldn't refuse.'There was one small problem. Beker was a mathematician working with electronic engineers. He didn't understand what his colleagues were going on about. He found the solution by studying for an engineering degree at night school.Beker rose through the Racal ranks, ending up as managing director of security firm Chubb, but by 1988 he wanted to do something himself. 'I believed there was going to be a huge opportunity created by people doing business electronically. They would need security. This was in pre-Internet days, but the signs were there.'Beker called his company Zergo and initially the omens looked good. Several big banks signed up for the company's services and an injection of cash from a venture capital firm allowed Zergo to buy up a smaller rival.And then came the recession. 'It was all about survival. We were working incredibly hard to stay alive.'Then the Internet emerged as the good times returned and Zergo was faced with a massive dilemma. Should it tear up its business plan and take a bet on becoming an Internet player?A subsequent acquisition made Zergo the biggest security player in Europe and Asia, but the US market still had to be cracked. A small Irish company called Baltimore had started to carve out a name for itself in the US. The acquisition was completed at the start of last year, only a few months after Zergo floated on the London Stock Exchange and the new company kept the Baltimore name. A Nasdaq listing followed last November.Earlier this year, Baltimore Technologies entered the FTSE 100, startling many observers, who had never heard of it and saw the rise of new-economy companies, many with highly inflated values, is a sign of market mania. But Beker argues that Baltimore is now one of the best companies of its type in the world, a claim the City enthusiastically endorsed until March of this year. Between January 1999 and January 2000, Baltimore's share price soared from just under 500p to more than 13,200p, a move that valued the company at close to &#163;6 billion.The recent slump in the value of technology stocks has cut Baltimore's value in half, although the share price has started to rise again. Beker is now looking to turn two other companies into businesses the size of Baltimore. ProtX is a company that does away with the need for credit card details in online transactions. OverNet Data designs wireless e-commerce services. Too many pies perhaps?'The good and bad of me, if you like, is that I do have a tremendous amount of energy. I enjoy being involved with things.'Indeed his most recent project, the details of which have yet to be fully revealed and are still being fleshed out, represents a colossal undertaking: the e-Learning Foundation, which Beker is to spearhead.'In its broadest sense its aim is to promote and support technology and education. Within the next five years, I would like to see every pupil in the UK with a portable computer of their own, such that they can take from lesson to lesson so that IT becomes just like maths and English, a fundamental enabler. I believe that could put the UK at the forefront of the world.'Microsoft has given the project some seed capital, but winning the Government around will prove crucial to the project's success. The two sides are in discussions.'The discussions have been positive, but the Government does have some very justifiable reservations. It needs to ensure there will be equity of access, and it needs to ensure that any funds they put in will be used in the right way.'Beker says the project will cost something like &#163;8 billion, a sum he acknowledges 'is non-trivial, to put it mildly'. His financing solution is either one of the most enlightened pieces of thinking to have emerged from the dot.com sector, or one of the most na&iuml;ve, depending on how cynical your view of human nature is.'I want to see all the new IT companies that are being founded donating a small part of their equity to the e-Learning Foundation. I would claim it's in their interest to do so, because it would make their companies more successful in the future. The equity may not be a lot today, but somewhere there'll be the next generation of Microsofts and Baltimores.'The established players would be asked to pay into a fund which would work in conjunction with local subsidiaries. Beker says that several companies have already signed up to offer the Foundation equity stakes.It is a herculean undertaking, but Beker is convinced he can help make it happen.'No project of this size is going to be without issues and problems. But if you spend all your time thinking of those you're not going to do anything.'Not a concept widely endorsed in academia.
Nathan Myrhvold, the chief technology officer ofMicrosoft,
 has decided to spend more time digging for dinosaurs rather than return to the software company.Mr Myrhvold said yesterday that he would not be returning to Microsoft once his year-long sabbatical comes to an end in July. His departure, although widely expected, comes as the company is finding it increasingly hard to retain staff in the wake of its legal difficulties and increased competition from internet start-ups.Bob Young, the chief executive of Red Hat, a rival company that promotes Linux, the main competitor to Windows, said yesterday that, for the first time, a "huge number of junior Microsofties" were leaving the firm.Mr Young indicated that such defections were having a more immediate effect on the company than the long-running anti-monopoly battle with the US government. "It was one of the things that used to intimidate me in the early   days. All the best guys, who didn't really like Microsoft, went to work for them anyway because it was full of interesting people and they were guaranteed to make lots of money."Microsoft moved to stem the defections last week when it issued more share options. Shares in Microsoft have fallen more than 40% since January.Mr Myrhvold, who joined Microsoft in 1986, has made a fortune at the company. He is expected to continue to act as a close adviser to Bill Gates, the co-founder and chief software architect of Microsoft.Next week, Microsoft is expected to ask for further hearings to discuss the justice department's demands that the company be broken into two.
Lastminute.comfounders Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox answered some tough questions at the announcement of their interim results yesterday:Your losses are mounting. When will you break even?BH: Analysts are looking for a reduction in costs next year and profitability towards the back end of 2003. Right now we are investing for growth. We're ahead of our own forecasts for the business and ahead of most of the analysts' forecasts.You claim to have 1.4m subscribers but only 65,387 have bought goods from you. The conversion rate at which you turn subscribers into buyers appears to be stuck at around 5%-6%. Is your growth slowing?BH: We're still growing incredibly quickly. In the last quarter UK conversion rates were less than 5%, now they are 6%. New markets are weighing down the average. It takes time to get the virtuous circle going.Can Lastminute handle the competition that is likely to emerge? Airlines, for instance, could sell their own last minute tickets, and similar websites are already springing up.BH: The competition has been misrepresented. Our business model is easy to replicate and we know of nobody who is well funded and trying to replicate it. We have the advantage of being the first mover, a known brand, 2,450 suppliers, top tier strategic partners, technology and &#163;131m in the bank.Do you feel the negative publicity about your float has damaged your brand?BH: No; our brand grows stronger by the day and total transaction value since the float has continued to grow. On Wednesday 9,000 new subscribers signed up. We are the UK's second best known e-commerce site and national brand awareness has doubled in the last quarter to 46%.Some analysts privately suggest that they would like to see more experienced business operators appointed to senior levels to see the company through its next stage of growth.MLF: We're constantly reviewing the business. We're humble enough not to think we can build this firm on our own and have appointed a string of experienced people to senior positions.E-commerce has been hit by the sell-off in tech stocks and sentiment in the US has turned against online retailers after suggestions that many may run out of money. How has that affected you?BH: Many companies have been spending too much and missing their targets. It is disappointing for European e-commerce firms if they are not allowed to invest for growth. US firms like Priceline and Amazon have done exactly that, and are now turning into profitable companies. European firms must be allowed to spend for growth otherwise US firms will end up dominating over here. But the downturn is good news for companies like ours, which are well developed, and analysts believe that we have enough money in the bank to see us through to break even. In a tougher climate the cash we have will be worth more, making our marketing, sales and staff budgets go further.How badly has the fall in your share price hit your ability to use your shares as acquisition currency?BH: We can still use our shares as currency. This not just a Lastminute issue, it is a sector issue. We do not have any acquisition news to talk about at the moment but would be likely to look at companies in other geographies or firms with fantastic technology worth buying into."The lock-in period preventing you from selling your Lastminute shares comes to an end some six months after the flotation. What is your long-term commitment to the business?BH: We are incredibly confident about the long term future of the company - and are also committed to staying with it in the long term.
Lastminute.com, the online travel supplier, has announced it lost £17 million pounds in the last six months.The bulk of the pre-tax losses - £11 million - were made during the second quarter, during which time the business also doubled its spending on advertising to £4.8 million.The results were the first announced by the internet start-up, which floated on the stock exchange in March at 380 pence per share, only to see its value tumble in what many saw as the first sign of the "dot-com bubble" bursting. Last night, lastminute's shares closed at 237 pence, but rose by 10 pence following this morning's results.The company sold a total of £11.4 million worth of goods and services during the period, from which it earned £1.25 million  in commission.  Although the majority of the company's business is still in travel - mostly discounted airline tickets - lastminute said that travel only accounted for 55% of its sales.The company insisted the results were positive, pointing out during the same period last year, it had sales of only £300,000.  It also claimed to have increased its number of suppliers to 2,466, and its registered users to 1.4 million.  However, only 68,000 people - less than 5% of registered users - actually bought anything using the site.Lastminute's founders, Martha Lane Fox and Brent Hoberman, today said that the company's future was bright, despite the losses.  Mr Hoberman, the company's chief executive, said lastminute's high profile among consumers would help it see off competition from a range of similar businesses, and eventually make a profit.Ms Lane Fox also denied that the fall in share price had not meant the company was in trouble.  Rather, she said, the company's stock had fallen as part of a market-wide fall affecting new technology companies.Lastminute also announced today it was launching Britain's first restaurant booking service  available through internet-enabled mobile phones.   "We will continue to concentrate on the provision of last minute solutions over the Internet via a variety of platforms - personal computers, mobile, interactive digital television and personal digital assistants," the company said in a statement.
In 1994, Wired magazine ran a cover that showed a couple of famous American ad men of the time, plus the US ad icon,     the Pillsbury Doughboy, blindfolded and up against a wall. They were about to be finished off, firing squad style, by a     series of TV remote controls. The accompanying blurb asked whether advertising was "finally dead?"It went on to     ponder whether the age of online interactivity would mean the end for traditional advertising.      Fast-forward six years. Now you can't escape from traditional advertising taken out by companies whose business is     the internet - either pure internet companies or so-called clicks and mortar operations.The dot.coms fill up the commercial breaks on TV and radio. Buses and taxis inevitably feature a pitch for some new net     company on their sides. Your daily newspaper is packed with dot.com ads. If you live in London and go to work on the     tube, you'll see a few more. And if you buy sandwiches and coffee, your paper bags and cups may also feature     "ambient" spots put there by the latest hot new net start-up looking to build brand awareness on a budget.Perhaps the dot.com ads stand out because they weren't around a few years ago. And if you live inLondon, you see a lot     more than you would in the rest of the country. "There are a few high spending dot.coms who are running regional as     well as national TV and radio campaigns," says Caroline Sceats of net research firmFletcher Research. "However, there isn't anything like the level of spending on outdoor advertising as you see in     London."That said, figures back up the general impression of a dot.com ad overload. According to Fletcher Research, spending     on ads by companies involved in the net has been growing at an exponential rate, increasing four-fold over the past two     years. Figures released by AC Nielsen show that in 1998 dot.com companies were spending £41.5m on traditional     advertising in the UK. In 1999, that figure more than trebled, with around £140m being spent in total."The advertising industry does see it as a godsend because they were all worried about the impact of the web and     thought they were going to lose out," says Patrick Burgoyne, editor of the advertising trade magazine, Creative Review.     "In fact, dot.coms have been the most significant source of new business for advertising in years."Six years is a long time on the net - an age if you believe the techno-gurus. But even so, there has obviously been a     drastic turnaround since that Wired cover. Clearly, the net has woken up to commercial realities and abandoned the     anti-ad attitudes it nurtured in the early 90s. More to the point, companies which work on the net have realised two     things: first, that to survive they need to build brand identities consumers trust, and second, that traditional advertising     is great for brand building.Two or three years ago, dot.coms might have adver tised first on the net. Now, there's a growing scepticism about     banner ads on web pages. They're seen as good for tactical campaigns: good, that is, for telling people who are already     online about a particular promotion. But they are not so good for building brand awareness, and they are hopeless for     reaching out to the mainstream.      And that's what the dot.coms want to do. They want to establish themselves as the major players in their chosen areas     as quickly as possible, so they gain first mover advantage and squeeze out potential competition.To use the e-commerce jargon, there's a virtual land grab going on, and when it comes to staking a claim, traditional     advertising (everything from TV and radio to print and outdoor posters) is seen as crucial. It's out there, in the real world,     drilling home a tangible brand image to ordinary people who may not yet be online. Crucially, it gives the impression that     you are a serious, reliable company like Coke, Ford, Virgin and all the other big names. It seems reassuring to     consumers who are still slightly dubious about the net.      That's why big dot.coms and clicks and mortar companies are prepared to spend as much as possible on advertising.The biggest players (Freeserve, Egg and AOL) now spend £10-15m a year on advertising, enough to put them just     outside the top 50 companies as far as UK ad budgets are concerned. According to Gordon Macmillan, internet editor at     Campaign, everyone else is trying to keep up. "Typically, you're now seeing annual advertising budgets for a fair sized     dot.com of around £5-10m."      M uch of that money is going on high-profile TV campaigns. Among the more memorable dot.com ads of the last year     were the spots produced by Red Handed for the online career agency monster.co.uk. Simon Parker, UK marketing     director for Monster, says the company went for TV ads because it "wanted to be first out there to reach people who     were getting to grips with the net".The ads deliberately aimed for a universal appeal. "In the early days of establishing a brand, you're trying to be as     inclusive as you can. We want to be that kind of brand. We're trying to appeal to people from all walks of life across the     country - you have to be universal. As you grow and find out more about your customers, then you can become more     targeted."      Dot.coms using TV advertising is an admission, says Creative Review's Patrick Burgoyne, that "TV still reaches far     wider audiences than the web, and will for some time to come". However, he argues that it would be sensible for more     specialist sites to think carefully before splashing out on commercials. "With cable and satellite channels, you've got     access to a more specialist audience. With general ITV slots, that isn't the case. It doesn't make as much sense spending     a lot of money just to hit a very diverse audience, only a very small proportion of which are going to be interested in what     you've got to say."Indeed, some of the best known dot.coms have yet to advertise on television - lastminute.com, for example (though it     could be argued that, given the amount of press it has received, it doesn't need to advertise). Instead, the company has     produced a poster campaign, built around the slogan "do something lastminute.com". It was also one of a number of     dot.coms to try ambient advertising. Lastminute.com put its ad messages on sandwich bags in the capital. Lunchtime is     a prime time for internet use, when office workers get to do their own thing on the net. So the thinking was that it would     help if the company's ad was on their desk with them, wrapped around their lunch.Other well-known net brands have also eschewed TV in favour of other forms of traditional advertising, in particular     outdoor posters.eToysconcentrated on press ads and outdoor sites, says UK marketing manager     James Bidwell. "We had an eToys ad on one in six London buses, which meant that people saw us on the high street. If     you're a pure play internet brand, you don't have a shop front, so this was a way of us getting in front of shoppers, when     they may not be having such a wonderful experience, in the rain, with lots of queues."      Both Bidwell and Parker say their campaigns were very effective. Indeed, research from Fletcher Research indicates that     big spenders such as Freeserve and Egg have achieved high levels of consumer awareness through traditional     advertising.Ad industry insiders are more critical. According to Campaign's Gordon Macmillan: "A lot of current campaigns miss the     mark."      Last year, dot.com ads were eye-catching because they were new. Now it's getting harder to stand out. Indeed,     sometimes, these ads seem to blur into one big commercial for the net in general. It's hard to remember specific sites. To     counter that, UK dot.coms may have to imitate their US counterparts.In America, it's not unknown for start-ups to spend half their initial financing on TV ad campaigns. In January, dot.coms     queued up to pay $2.2m for 30 seconds of airtime during the Super Bowl. They were following the example of job     agency hotjobs.com, which received huge publicity from an ad during the Super Bowl in 1999. The only problem for     hotjobs.com was that their ads generated too much traffic - some would-be users had to wait five days to access the site     and post their CVs.Many UK dot coms are beginning to devote a similarly large proportion of their revenue to advertising, to the potential     detriment of their sites and the experience they offer. It's crucial to find a balance, says Fletcher's Caroline Sceats.     "Dot.coms have to support the ad spending they need to make to grow, even if it's bankrupting them - because they     have to attract customers. Their valuations are based on the number of customers they can get and their future value. To     have any place in this market, they need to demonstrate they can get customers. Once they get that, they then have to     put money into customer service and customer attention, to keep those customers."According to Sceats, dot.coms will continue to have to spend highly on traditional advertising for the foreseeable future.     As the UK net population increases (Fletcher predicts that 40% of the UK adult population will be online by 2004), so     dot.coms will devote more of their ad budgets to online commercials. But the company also predicts that by then, the     top 5% of dot.coms will need to spend at least £10m on advertising aimed at building and maintaining their brands. A     sizeable share of that will still go on traditional advertising."Traditional advertising by the dot.coms won't go away," concludes Campaign's Gordon Macmillan. "These big     companies are going to continue to need to build and develop their brands. Advertising is how you do that. If they don't     do it, someone will sneak up behind them and take their space."The good, the bad and the hackneyedTop of the dotsMonster.co.ukA series of glum kids talking about their dead-end future jobs. Very arresting, though a little depressing.Smile.co.ukContrasted the grey awfulness of traditional banking with the happy world of point and click transactions, helped by the     chorus: "Smile, smile, smile."      *Excite.co.ukMen behaving strangely - breaking their car windows after overloading the boot, knocking down a glass of wine with a     CD holder - alongside the slogan: "If he can, you can."Commercial breakdownBoo.comGeeky guys attempting sporting activities and making fools of themselves. A well-made ad that failed to explain what     boo.com does or even that it was a net company.Letsbuyit.comComputer animated ants bring home the idea of aggregate buying. The idea explained the site well, but the execution     was slated for being tacky and low-budget.AOLThe Oxo family for the new millennium ponder the costs of using the net and receives help from digital assistant Connie.     Universally disliked in the ad world, though this may have much to do with creative snobbery.Ad nauseum&#149;    Making fun of geeks to make you feel superior. (Excite and Boo.com)&#149;  I'd like to teach the world to click - visions of people from all round the world, usually children, delivering the same     upbeat message about the net (Cisco Systems).&#149; Computer imagery: ads that rather unimaginatively show icons, cursors and trash cans (net bank First E), or those     which mimic the point and click visuals of the net (Lloyds TSB).      &#149; Using the net to liberate the wacky inner you (Yahoo), or to escape from boring routine (IC 24).Coming soon&#149; Short sharp shock ads designed to confuse and get you to check out the site to find out what's going on - used by     outpost.com in the US; imitated by totalserve.com over here.&#149; Celebrities - new auction site Fired Up has an ad which features Bruce Willis, and LineOne is putting together a     commercial featuring Malcolm McDowell. In the US, everyone from Whoopi Goldberg and Sophia Loren to Lee Majors     has fronted dot.com ads.
Strictly second divisionPlayer Manager 2000PC &#163;29.99	 Anco/3DO **Anco claims its footy sim is "the manager's management game" and has quotes on the back from Gordon Strachan, Bobby Robson, Graham Taylor and others saying what a great title it is. Of course, you can take these with a pinch of salt. Anco's website    provides details of how the managers responded when they were shown the game, but apparently none had played a football management sim before, although more than one has had his name and picture used to endorse one.So Martin O'Neill's "fantastic, absolutely brilliant" doesn't tell you much, except that he's a very nice man. "I played three seasons of this game, running Championship Manager 99/00 in parallel, and Player Manager 2000 is better" would be much more impressive. But if he'd said that, I'd wonder about his sanity.Player Manager 2000 does   have an amusing selling point. As well as managing a football team in the traditional way, you can also be entered as a player. Finally you can trot on to the pitch in a Manchester United or Arsenal shirt (or whatever) and see your name on the team-sheet alongside the current squad. Unfortunately you're rubbish and will probably kick off a losing streak. Thanks, Anco, but I only want to play if I can max out my stats.As for the regular players, I expect many of them would query the stats Anco has provided. Player ratings in footy sims are always arguable, but in some cases, these are   bizarre. This is odd because it's not as though Anco was new to this game: Player Manager first appeared on the Commodore Amiga and Atari ST back in 1989.Player Manager 2000 isn't a bad game, and has received some acclaim in the console market where expectations are lower. It also seems to work pretty well as anet-based multiplayer game. But for PC players already imbued with the Championship Manager way of doing things, it's just one of a pack having trouble keeping up.  (JS)This game goes a little too farThe Longest JourneyPC &#163;29.99 Funcom/Empire	***When they called this The Longest Journey, they weren't kidding. This point-and-click adventure, in the tradition of Sam &amp; Max and the image of Tomb Raider, offers some of the most fiendish puzzles ever seen.To obtain a clamp, for example, you have to read a noticeboard, take a note to your landlady, get your ring, use the ring to connect a broken cable, align four conduits, switch off a valve, turn a wheel and then, finally, remove the clamp. And that's   one of the more intuitive conundrums.Your in-game avatar for all this brainbending is one April Ryan, a bright, sassy babe with freckles and hair that flops when she runs, who completes the prologue in her scanties.As well as the travails that go with being an anatomically astonishing 18-year-old, April has to deal with the discovery that she is a Shifter: someone capable of moving between Earth and the parallel, magical realm of Arcadia. The barrier between the two worlds is dissolving, and only April can rectify the situation.This is an easy concept to swallow if you've seen any sci-fi at all (and especially if you've played Infogrames' Outcast). April, being an art student, needs every last detail of the scenario explained; and this is where The Longest Journey really lives up to its name. Because in the time it   takes to thrash out the plot, with all the conversational niceties, dramatic pauses, rhetorical flourishes and clarifications, you could watch Dances with Wolves, write an in-depth critique of it, then hunt down, capture and torture Kevin Costner.Scriptwriter Ragnar T&#248;rnquist, who also produced and designed the game, clearly had no one to rein in his excesses. Which is a shame, since much of The Longest Journey is imaginative, charming, challenging and, occasionally, fun.The publishers are at pains to point out that "games should not be aggravating". To this end, they say, they have designed the game such that April cannot die. What they've forgotten is that gamers can- and a few of the older ones may do so before they reach the end of this talkathon.  (AB)Heaven is a hot helicopterCommanche HokumPC &#163;29.99 Empire Interactive ***The veteran British publisher Empire Interactive has released its first games of the millenium and, as expected, one of them involves airborne battle.Commanche Hokum is a fully accurate helicopter combat simulator with so much to learn that flight manual lovers will be in seventh heaven.There are missions aplenty but the main thrills here are due to the use of choppers rather than, say, combat jets.As this game is a blade-based simulation, it means that you can't fly too high and the battlefield, complete with nicely animated troops and vehicles, remains in full view. This makes a pleasant change from the "see dot, release missile" antics so prevalent in modern air combat sims.With the action borrowing lots of wargame elements and a decent computer AI (artificial intelligence) aiding battle realism, the only real problems are a vertical learning curve and supposed mini battles that actually last for hours.  (GH)
Computers are modeling systems. Good ones. So good, in fact, that it's easy to forget the worlds they create are not worlds at all, but models.When a computer models a typewriter, we call it a word processor. It can model a spreadsheet, a checkbook, a weather system or a city's electrical grid. If the computer simulates the model accurately enough, then we hook it up to the pulleys, printers, and devices of our real world. That's when the model of a typewriter crosses over into the world of things, and actually types a page. But the word processor itself - the program with which we interact - is still just a simulation.When I was a school kid, we were taught how to build models on them. We learned computer languages with names like Basic and Pascal, which allowed us to create whatever models we wanted. I remember spending weeks trying to model a three-car elevator bank.As a result of this kind of thinking, many of us came to   recognise the difference between a model and reality. We understood that the models we create, in many cases, lack the complexity of the real world. From an MP3 music file to a population calculator, models can never quite capture the granularity of reality. (This principle accounts for why so many computer programmers became libertarians. It was not simply because they had grown rich and greedy in Silicon Valley, but because they came to realise that the models we use to organise our world - like government, legal systems, and regulations - usually lack the complexity of the things they are meant to represent.)Today, most people no longer understand that computers model. Children are not taught how to make models on their terminals, but rather how to use the existing models. They don't learn programming - they learn word processing and web-page layout. (I am sorry to inform parents that HTML is not programming, but a mark-up language. It's equivalent to the kinds of commands you'd type into   an old word processing program.) Instead of discovering how to write software for themselves, they are simply learning how to use the stuff already on the shelves.This may not be such a terrible shame in itself. Many of us drive a car without understanding how the engine works, or how to build one ourselves. But knowledge of new media technologies is different in several respects.The more we understand about the way in which a medium is produced, the more we can distinguish its representations from reality. Take reading. Almost anyone who can read can also write. As a result, we understand that just because something is written down, doesn't mean it's true. Likewise, once we become familiar with video camcorders and tape editing as home-movie producers instead of just television viewers, we also come to question the veracity of some of the stories being piped into the TV set.By understanding our computers and networks as a set of fixed models rather than a modeling environment, we effectively cease the evolution of the medium. We can no longer see that decisions have been made about how the technology is being used. It's like buying a VCR and never finding out that you can put in another tape, or even   record with it. Or buying a book without ever getting a pencil - or even knowing that a pencil exists.Today, most Western college students would rather learn how to make web pages or write business plans than learn actual coding. It's hard to blame them. The model we've decided to build on our computers and networks is that of a market. That's right - the world wide web is a model of a market. It has hooks to the real economy, but it is a model. As such, it will require more and more resources - namely, money - to maintain the illusion of its effectiveness. And because we no longer have the ability to change the models we built, we are forced to accept it as real.It's not as if there's some conspiracy of programmers keeping our hands off the control knobs. One of the side-effects of a profit-driven model of technology is that software becomes proprietary. The less we know about the file formats of a program like Microsoft Outlook, for example, the more irreversible is   our decision to use the program for storing email and appointments, and the more easily we can be cajoled into senseless upgrade cycles.In fact, the code for most Windows programs has grown so complicated and opaque that no human being understands the entirety of any single program. Now that fewer college computing science students graduate with even a working knowledge of programming languages like C++, we stand little chance of ever figuring them out. Unless an open operating system like Linux finds a way to subvert our addiction to the market model of software production, we will grow evermore distant from the source of our code.Ironically, the West is now depending on members of other societies to maintain our models for us. An increasing number of our programmers come from places like Bangalore, where engineers are still taught unfashionable cyber-bricklaying skills like coding. They, alone, will be capable of distinguishing between the real and arbitrary, and will likely direct the evolution of our models for years to come.Meanwhile, those of us blindly invested in the maps our computers have drawn, will increasingly depend on the kindness of strangers. Let's hope they're nicer to us than we were to them back when we were the world's cartographers.
Phone talkOne of the handiest mobile phone features is heading for the home phone. Philips is adding its voice recognition system to one of its new range of DECT models - the Zenia Voice. For the phone to dial a number all the user has to do is bark a name (that has already been stored) into its mouthpiece. The phone also features a digital answering machine and, unlike other DECT phones, calls can be made and received via both the handset and the base unit. It goes on sale in early summer for &#163;200.Philips has also unveiled a quartet of new mobile phones. Targeted at business users is its Wap (Wireless application protocol) version of its super-slim   Xenium phone. The new upmarket model employs voice recognition technology that enables the user to dial and navigate through the phone's menu system by speaking.Also available is a lower specified version of the Xenium, the Xenium DB, and two phones targeted at the youth market: the Ozeo, which comes in a range of metallic colours, and the Savvy Vogue.Record thisWant to be the first on your block with a DVD recorder? If you can't wait until the end of the year for the official UK launch then check outwww.ionark.com. This British-based website is offering the Pioneer DVR-1000 for a penny short of &#163;2,000.Ionark is hoping to make a name for itself selling ultra-desirable Japanese/American gadgets bought directly from the manufacturer and approved for the UK market. Its current best seller is the &#163;300 Apex AD-600A, a DVD player that not only plays British and American discs, but can also bypass the Macrovision copyright protection system, enabling the user to record copies of their DVDs on to VHS.Also on sale is Sony's PlayStation 2 (&#163;500) and the tiny Hyper-Hyde MP3 player - see below.  (AN)Think thinnerIBM has simplified its line-up of ThinkPad notebook PCs by launching two new ranges designated A (for All-in-one machines) and T (for Travel). Both are thinner, lighter and more powerful than earlier models and have other benefits such as common port replicators and docking stations for use in the office. All the new machines also have an Ultraport slot in the lid to take a small camera. But you probably won't be able to buy a new A20 or T20. IBM says it has no plans to offer the machines to retailers: they are for sale to corporate clients.Music to goIt may be taking the idea of "male jewelry" a step too far, but the Hyper-Hyde MP3 music player/voice recorder is so small it could be worn as a necklace. However, a dual memory card slot means it can store up to four hours of music in 128 megabytes of memory, though only 32 megs are supplied as standard. The &#163;140 Hyper-Hyde also has a built in microphone, and is said to run for more than 10 hours on one AAA battery. For further details, phone 0870 241 2461 or seewww.ionark.com.But next week, Antenna, a British company, plans to launch another item of "audio jewelry", the X-plorerT, which it claims "the smallest, lightest, most sophisticated and powerful MP3 player in the world". Antenna provides audio programmes for museums, galleries and other tourist attractions, and the X-plorerT will be used to provide visitors to the Whitney Museum of Art in New York and the new Gilbert Collection in Somerset House, London, with audio commentaries.Strong sellerLittle eMachines, which sells $500 PCs, has stormed past ageing giants Apple and IBM to become the fifth largest US supplier, as measured by the number of computers sold in the year's first quarter.  It shipped more than 500,000 PCs (83% more than t last year), according to market research by International Data Corporation.The two-year old company received a huge amount of free publicity when Apple sued it for making a machine that looked somewhat like an iMac.  Hewlett-Packard, in third place behind Dell and Compaq, also did well, increasing its US shipments by 67% to 1.4m units. HP and eMachines benefited after IBM's loss-making PC company and Packard Bell withdrew from the tough US retail PC market.Voice onlineVoizmail has launched a website that works as an answerphone. Anyone with a suitable web browser and a microphone can leave a five-minute message atwww.voizmail.comfor someone else to listen to, via their computer's loudspeakers, up to 30 times. People are sent email messages to let them know they have voicemail to collect, but not huge audio files that might clog up their mailboxes. The email contains only a link to the website, a much less intrusive way of working.Even people who hate talking to answerphones can still use the Voizmail system, because it offers a number of pre-recorded messages - an idea that could stimulate the use and abuse in the future.  (JS)Wap a reliefAt last a Wap site that's convenient. Some inventive folks at Nykris digital design have announced an application for much-hyped wireless application protocol handsets which might even be useful - a guide to London loos.Subscribers who are caught short in London can dial in to the website    atwww.nykris.com/wap, where they will find a guide to city-centre loos, complete with little maps, like the one pictured below, to help you get there pronto.  The site even offers tips on blagging entry to other loos, should things become urgent."Confidence is everything," the site says. "If you look as though you have a right to use the toilet, people will not stop you."BroadbandBritish Telecom has finally unveiled details of its broadband internet services, which are to be rolled out from this summer.The new services, using the ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) technology, will make browsing the internet around 10 times faster for domestic users who are currently using the best available modems.In its first phase, ADSL from BT will run at 512Kbps "downstream" - towards the user, with data going back up the line at a slower 256Kbps. That means that it will be too slow, at least initially, to offer TV-quality video on demand, although smaller windows of lower quality streaming video should be possible at those speeds.The second and third phases of rollout, due in August and December this year, will see higher speeds - up to 2Mbps - and a range of specialised e-commerce applications becoming available.  The pricing surprised some observers as it came in below BT's own estimates from last year.Consumers will pay &#163;39.99, including Vat, each month, plus a one-off   installation fee of &#163;150. However, BT says that if you order before June 30 it will waive that fee.  The launch of the long-awaited service did not go without a hitch.Hundreds of users registered their interest on BT's website last week, only to be told by BT in an email that a security breach meant their personal information had been downloaded by an unknown number of "unauthorised persons".The security was breached when an area of the BT Openworld website which held a file containing all the personal details entered by users was left open to the public.A BT spokesman said that the security breach had been caused by "human error", and that those identified as having downloaded the personal information had been contacted and asked to delete the data.Iridium hopeThere may be hope for Iridium yet. In March, the bankrupt phone network's constellation of 66 satellites was slated to be plunged, four by four, towards the earth in a carefully planned fiery end for the debt-ridden company.But this week Chris Galvin, chairman of Motorola, which was Iridium's biggest backer, was reported as saying that he hoped a new operator might emerge for the network, which collapsed with debts of $4.4bn. He did not, however, give any details of a rescue deal, which would have to be approved by the New York bankruptcy court.Any new buyer would face a tough task to make the network profitable. Fierce competition from land-based mobile networks sprung up in the 10 years it took Iridium to move from drawing board to reality.The firm charged high tariffs, and its clunky handsets looked old-fashioned as soon as they were launched. Users were also fiercely critical of the service's call quality.  (NM)
Has the bubble burst for some internet companies?There is a general consensus that a lot of the internet companies which aren't making profits and are not likely to in the next five years were over-valued. But I don't think that the bubble has burst as the global stock markets are now picking up again.How do companies best adapt to the new e-commerce environment?It's a case of different approaches for different types of company. It's really down to how much the senior management understands and gets behind it. Also, how much they realise the impact on their business.How do you envisage the net evolving?I think it was Tim Berners-Lee who said: "If we know what the future is, then we aren't looking far enough ahead." But I do think we are going to see a move away from the PC being seen as  the internet access device towards mobile internet devices.So do you see technologies such as Wap (wireless application protocol) superseding the PC?Yes, and this is what usually conservative analysts are saying too. The future is web-based with access anywhere, at any time, from any device. My idea of fun is not being tied into anything.What would you say are the main pros and cons of streaming technology?The main advantage is that you get global reach, but the disadvantage is that the more popular you are, the more it costs! A lot of the technology is still very nascent, as is the software used to analyse who is listening and where from. It is really the global community aspect that is most encouraging. At Virgin radio there is an international access number and we get people calling in from Texas to take part in the breakfast show!Do you see any change in regulation and/or taxation of the net?A lot of the laws applied to the internet were written before the web existed. So, yes, sensible legislation will probably take place. It's a question of appropriate regulation - If I have servers in five different countries based offshore, say, who am I responsible to? There will be a taxation issue when the technology is in place that allows individuals to transfer cash directly between each other.Any changes you'd like to see?I would like to see it become as easy to publish on the net as it is to read. Unless you are a web designer, it can be difficult to get your content on to the web.Any favourite websites?For business I useWebNoize, which is the best online resource for global music.Lost and Found Soundis like an online shrine to broadcasting moments.TV Creamis brilliant - where else could you get Fingerbobs and Rhubarb &amp; Custard! I also really likeLaunch Cast; it allows you to create your own radio station.
OK, so Bill Gates might have lost billions of dollars in shares and may face the prospect of seeing his beloved Empire torn in two. But on May 13 he's sure to have plenty to smile about. For like Abba, Buck's Fizz and Katrina and the Waves, Gates is set to become a Eurovision winner.It could be Congratulations time for Mr Microsoft as MSN's internet sites try to smash the record for the number of viewers for a live video webcast with their coverage of the Eurovision song contest.MSN already holds top spot courtesy of Sir Paul McCartney's Return to the Cavern gig in December 1999, which pulled in three million net-heads. Next Saturday's event is likely to attract even more viewers. Not only are all 18 European MSN sites offering the contest in local languages but viewers from the US, Canada and Australia will also be able to watch the contest via MSN's Windows Media Channel sites.The company is also getting into to the spirit of things by offering polls on worst haircut, silliest costume and most disastrous dance routine. Net   viewers will be asked to vote for their favourite tunes and at the end of the evening the websites will announce the web winner. There will be different camera angles for viewers to choose, and interviews with some performers back stage. Completing the coverage is a chat room where Eurovision anoraks can discuss the big issues like the similarities between the Spice Girls and the German entry.It all sounds a bit of hoot, but, as Microsoft's consumer marketing manager Sharon Baylay explains, the company is taking it very, very seriously."Eurovision is a big night for us as we are hoping to pull in lots of people who have never tried an internet experience like this before."Over the past few months, MSN has screened a variety of music shows (last week Oasis fans were offered the chance to see their favourite band live) and has big plans for the future. One reason why MSN is so keen on webcasts is that they give the internet sites a very high profile, yet the site owners invariably pay little or no money for the rights."It's a mutually beneficial arrangement," says MSN's   special events producer Niall MacAnna. "A band like Oasis is offering us great programming, because they know we have the kind of worldwide reach they can't really get elsewhere."Great things have been predicted for the video webcast, but it's still in its infancy. Many people's experience of webcasts are of blocky images that often freeze. MacAnna acknowledges that some PC owners have equipment that won't allow them to get too much of a view, but has an ace up his sleeve. From now on   MSN's webcasts will not only be offered at the standard rate of 56Kbps, but also in a "broadband" option of 300Kbps so the fortunate few get to see top quality images. Once broadband is established, MSN believes video webcasts could become very big business indeed.But despite a lot of talk of football highlights becoming available over the net, at present you'll look in vain for any live sporting action via the web. There will be no action from next month's Euro 2000 football competi tion and it's unlikely that you'll see much of the Olympics via the internet.Uefa has no plans to offer Champions League football via the internet and it's uncertain whether the 2002 World Cup from Japan/Korea will be available via the web.However, it's clear that the owners of rights to TV sports events are wising up to the net's potential. Both Uefa and Fifa are working out how they are going to distribute internet rights for big events and they are in discussions with everyone from large broadcasters like the BBC to internet sites and mobile phone networks.And a feature of the next round of bidding for the rights to screen FA Premiership matches in the UK will be internet rights.On the table is an offer that will enable Premiership clubs from August 2001 to show extended match highlights via their websites 48 hours after the game has been played. It's an opportunity that's not lost on Manchester United's marketing manager Peter Draper. "Manchester United has fans all over the globe. The internet will   enable some fans who rarely see the team on the TV to watch games."The club is also aware of the possibilities offered by third generation mobile phones. A subscriber to one of the networks may be offered a package which will include the option of emailed footage of their team's goals just after they have been scored, or brief highlights when the match is over.Although Draper admits that there isn't a great deal to say about the subject at the moment, he stresses that United's recent &#163;30m deal with Vodafone is "far more than a simply a sponsorship deal. It's a mutually beneficial partnership with acompany that will enable us to explore all kinds of new possibilities".For this week, though, the eyes and ears of the internet community will be on Eurovision. One can only wonder what Bill Gates will make of the song contest. Perhaps he already has a favourite Eurovision tune.One thing is for sure, given his recent problems it's not going to be Lulu's 1969 winner Boom Bang A Bang.The Eurovision sites&#149; The live webcast:www.msn.co.uk&#149;   The anorak's website boasts a full history of the contest plus quizzes, where are they now? features and images:www.geocities.com/televisioncity/1812&#149;   Real Audio samples of your Eurovision favourites plus previews of entrants:www.listento.escradio&#149; Everything you ever wanted to know about A Song For Europe:www.members.xoom.com/ukcalling/Gbschome/gbschome.htm&#149;  Specialises in tracking down Eurovision records. Nicole's A little Peace is a click away:www.pp.clinet.fi/~popangel.&#149;   The great Eurovision drinking site. Follow the instructions and when you've finished even the Croatian entry will sound like a classic:www.cowgate.demon.co.uk/mit/drinking/eurovision/html&#149;  Place your bets on Norway scoring "nul points":www.bluesq.com
Red Alert 2Westwood Studios has just given the US games magazines a demo of Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 2. This takes up the story a few years after the original left off, with the Soviets invading America. The game's new units go some   way beyond the usual tanks and planes. The allies have dolphins that can shake enemy units to pieces with their "sonic attack", while the russkies can deploy mind-controlled giant squid capable of dragging allied ships to the bottom of the ocean.Fighting now takes place in "real" places such as downtown Washington, where Soviet tanks attack a fortified White House. (Units can now occupy and defend buildings.) Other battles can be fought in Chicago, New York City, the Florida Keys and Pearl Harbor.Gamers who bought Red Alert: Tiberian Sun, mistakenly thinking it was supposed to be a sequel, have until November at the earliest to   decide if they should forgive Westwood and shell out for the real thing.GeForce2At least three graphics card manufacturers will launch boards using the new Nvidia GeForce 2 graphics chip to enhance PC gaming. Early runners are Creative Labs with the 3D Blaster Annihilator 2, France's Guillemot with the Hercules 3D Prophet II GTS, and Germany's ELSA with the Gladiac. Incidentally, the new chip is the GeForce2 GTS (for GigaTexel Shading), not the GPS (for GigaPixel Shading) as pre-announced here last week. "Texels" are "textured pixels", apparently.Meanwhile, 3dfx, which once dominated the market with Voodoo cards, plans to fight back with FSAA or Full Scene Anti-Aliasing. This will offer better-looking graphics even with games not written to make use of it.Will Pok&eacute;mon catch on?The British games business has yet to feel the full impact of the Pok&eacute;mon craze, if the US charts are a guide. Pok&eacute;mon titles provided four of the top 10 console games in the US in the year's first quarter, according to independent research from PC Data.The two best-sellers were   Pok&eacute;mon Stadium, released in March for the Nintendo 64, followed by Pok&eacute;mon Yellow: Pikachu Edition for the Game Boy. Neither title was released in time to make the UK's top 10 in the first quarter, on ChartTrack figures (see below).Pok&eacute;mon Red and Pok&eacute;mon Blue were in the top 10 lists in both the US and the UK. Other console best sellers in the US included WWF Smackdown, Gran Turismo 2, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater and Syphon Filter 2, all for the PlayStation, and Crazy Taxi on the Dreamcast.In the US, the success of the Pok&eacute;mon series made the Game Boy the quarter's leading games console format with 34.1% of a market worth $1.2 bn, PC Data reports. The Sony PlayStation was pushed into second place with only 28.4% of the market. The Nintendo 64 (18.7%) squeaked in just ahead of the Sega Dreamcast (17.5%).
BT tells you where to goBT Cellnet, British Telecom's mobile phone arm, is joining with MapQuest to offer a route finding service that will be delivered in five languages to Wap (Wireless application protocol) phones. The services will be offered to users ofGenie, BT's wireless portal, which has previously been useful for sending text messages to mobile phones. The service should work with any Wap phone, and MapQuest is already offering directions to wireless users (well, Nokia 7100 and Palm VII handheld owners) in the US fromwww.mapquest.com/wireless.Also on the mobile phone front, E-loan is offering a mobile internet mortgage service.  Seehttp://wap.eloan.com/uk.Pet projectNeoPets is a brilliant new site that avoids the mess involved in keeping pets, and may tempt kids away from the Pokemon craze. It lets children of all ages keep fantasy pets online. They can also shop, go on quests, play very trivial games, trade virtual cards, create web pages, chat, write email and generally have an interesting time at no cost (the economy runs on NeoPoints) except, of course, for the horrendous online time. The big problem withwww.neopets.comis that it's already far too popular, so the servers keep falling over and all the goodies go within seconds.Music liveRiffage, the music site at is webcasting the New Orleans Jazz &amp; Heritage Festival until May 7. After that, it's planning to webcast the BBC's 24-hour Music Live concert (May 29-30) for the US market fromhttp://live.riffage.com. BBC Music Live is the UK's National Celebration of Music for the Year 2000 and includes more than 5,000 performances. Seewww.bbc.co.uk/musiclivefor details, though the site seems strangely silent about webcasting.Pocket movieAtomFilms, the web's best known video streaming site, has started offering movies that can be watched on Microsoft PocketPC (Windows CE 3) handheld devices such as the HP Jornada. The list of titles is buried deep insidewww.atomfilms.com: pick Watch  and Spotlight, then scroll all the way down to the bottom to More Spotlights and click on Atom To Go. To play the movies, you'll need to download ActiveSky's free Media Playerwww.activesky.com/products.html.  ActiveSky plans to support Windows CE, Palm and Epoc (Psion) handhelds as well.Microsoft is encouraging people to write PocketPC/CE programs by giving away its software development system, Windows CE eMbedded Visual Tools 3.0, which includes Visual Basic and Visual C++. Seewww.microsoft.com/pocketpc/developer.asp.Quickfire punsDr Quaquarius, a disgraced plastic surgeon, invites you to Bubbleworld to read his bloody but amusing story (already part published in Em Anthology). You can read it online, but it's quicker to download it. Release the safety catch of your Browning atwww.thebubbleworld.com.Magic ideaThought Online is looking for people to start sporting community sites to form part of the Magicaliawww.magicalia.comnetwork. So far it has Fishingmagic, Boatmagic, Golfmagic and Bikemagic running, and Surfmagic on the way. Magicalia is "building on the passion that genuine enthusiasts have for their chosen sport or activity and letting them use the web to enhance the enjoyment of that sport".Don't forgetThis month you should be able to watch the web's first live elephant birth, thanks to the zoo in Zurich, Switzerlandwww.zoo.ch. There's a webcam trained on an Asian elephant, Ceyla-Himali. The zoo hopes to set up a system for you to be notified of the impending birth by email or by an SMS text message to your mobile phone. That way, trunk calls are avoided.New and notedThe BBC's Taransay castaways  are online athttp://www.bbc.co.uk/entertainment/castaway2000, along with clips not broadcasted.The DomainNameBuyersGuide.commay not have the snappiest name on the net but it has started to build a guide to domain name suppliers, with star ratings and cautionary warnings. Another site with a less than snappy title may eventually help you find a job:www.jobs4publicsector.com.Six of the bestToday in historyLibrary of Congresshttp://memory.loc.gov/ammem/today/today.htmToday, or anydaywww.scopesys.com/today/Definitely todaywww.historychannel.com/tdihMostly trivialwww.uselessknowledge.com/history.shtmlReally rottenwww.rotten.com/todayDozens of today siteswww.geocities.com/SunsetStrip/4656/ 06lnk001.htm
Angry grrlsMany people have read with dismay Anne Hyland's article about the Webgrrls (Online, April 27). For those at the meeting - for which there are transcripts - it all went rather differently.Everyone reading the article will question a female writer who takes up a whole column to talk about a stray, rude man (there were actually two men at the meeting), using emotive language - "hijacked by an intelligent and eager young man", and incorrect English - "their male-exclusive networking meeting"!The article gave Webgrrls some good coverage, but Hyland used jumped-up drama, leaving Webgrrls baffled at the description of themselves as women who "glare" and "become silent" in the presence of men. There's nothing like a good angle, but this is going too far, and proves that Webgrrls should retain its "female-exclusive" stance.Lynn Robsonlynn@frognation.comYour article Meet The Digital Divas contained many inaccuracies and, I feel, portrayed Webgrrls in a negative light. Far too much emphasis was placed on the behaviour of   our ignorant interloper, to the detriment of the actual aims and objectives of our organisation. If you would like to include some more factual information in a future article, any of the committee members would be happy to oblige.Catherine Popecaterinep@iii.co.ukFaking itI have to take issue with two items in last week's Online (April 27). First, Nik Kraakenes letter about Online Caroline not being the first to make use of a "fake" web cam. He's quite right, and he accuses Freeserve of being behind with the game, but what he fails to understand is that on the internet - as in many areas of real life - being first is not what matters. Being first to draw something to the public's attention and getting all the publicity is more important.Sure, it's nice to be first, but it's even better to be second and get all the publicity, web hits and possible funding from the publicity.Second, the article on Webgrrls was very interesting but if I, or any other male, set up a group with a name like "weblokes" (or something equally silly) and said "no chicks please", we would be accused of being discriminatory. But when women do it, it's fair enough. Looks like sexual discrimination in cyberspace to me.Craig McGillcraig@its-a-secret.demon.co.ukSecret's outElectronic voting and true online ballots offer far more opportunity for fraud (Click the vote, April 27). With traditional polling stations in relatively few locations, a proportion of the electorate can be asked outside the premises how they voted in independent counts, thereby providing a chance of identifying widely differing, autonomous and official figures. No such opportunity exists with predominantly home voting.But far more alarming is businesses taking charge of ballot counting. Their owners are in it for personal gain, and therefore can never be relied upon to remain politically neutral.For example, what if the little-known Socialist Party of Great Britain had a real   chance of winning a general election? Their genuine socialism objective could mean ballot-counting company bosses losing very privileged lifestyles. The temptation to magic in and away digital data, with little prospect of discovery, could be considerable.The then government may quietly encourage this due to there being "a threat to national security", or some other such justification, necessitating ballot tampering "for the sake of the nation".To counter this, concerned electors with no objection could have their names, addresses and chosen candidates published on a website. If direct political material from other parties isn't wanted, a simple "No communication" marker could be included.Secret digital ballots facilitate secret abuses of power.Max Hessmax@truesocialism.freeserve.co.ukInteresting as it was, Patrick Barnham's article ignored the wider contexts beyond the virtual polling booth.  More convenient ways of voting may have some short-term effect on turn-out, but technological exclusion and political indifference are far more pressing issues.And if e-voting is to have any lasting impact, it has to be emphasised as a mere activity within a culture of e-participation and, indeed, "politeracy".Perhaps then, we can begin to champion the democratic virtues of the virtual world.Ian ParkerSocial Market Foundationiparker@smf.co.ukNo answerI presume Online is aware that the much advertised Lineone/Quip free call access is almost a non-answering service in the evenings, school holidays and at weekends. The internet service provider appears to have insufficient capacity to respond to attempted dialling. Thirty attempts is my record so far!No problem with settings as morning response has been quick and in line with Lineone's previous excellent service.Ken Sawyerkennethsawyer@lineone.net
It would not be right to say that I bought a grand piano off the internet. But without the internet it's fair to say that I woudn't now have a gleaming new seven foot concert grand in the middle of my sitting room.It began with my piano teacher, Michael Shak, saying he'd just had an hour playing the best piano he'd ever come across in his life. Not a Steinway, not a Bosendorfer, but a Fazioli. No, he'd never heard of it either. Hand-made. Italian. Gorgeous.At home I tried Fazioli out on Google, which took me towww.telenia.it/fazioli, a pretty impressive hand-made Italian website devoted to the aforesaid gorgeous instruments. The appetite duly whetted, I wandered off towww.pianomart.com/grand.htm, a site devoted to the sale of second hand pianos. There I found a man in Crouch End with a Fazioli for sale.He turned out to be a proper pianist, Mark Swartzentruber, who is playing at the Wigmore Hall, London, next Sunday, May 7. Not on his Fazioli, since by the time I had made it across to Crouch End he had sold his piano to Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford. But not before I had half an hour on it and, like my teacher, had fallen in love.Mark knew a dealer... the dealer had a website... one thing led to another... and pretty soon I had a large overdraft and piano to match. One more illustration of how surfing can seriously damage your wallet.It is also so fatally easy. No traipsing around on tubes, buses and taxis in search of this CD or that piece of sheet music. The frustrations are   momentary. If website x does not have the particular recording or edition you're after, website y is but one easy and expensive click away.Thus,CD Nowwas the place to go for Nozze Istriane, an obscure opera by A Smareglia for which a colleague had forlornly searched for most of his life. But it drew a blank when asked for the first volume of Angela Hewitt's Well-tempered Clavier.Amazonmanaged that, but not Smareglia.Then there's sheet music.Sheetmusicplusclaims to have 304,849 titles in stock compared with 50,000 in the largest wholesalers and 10,000 in your average major city music shop. I searched for versions of the Brahms clarinet sonatas and was offered them in editions by Peters, Henle, Dover, Boosey, Schauer, Ricordi and Warner Bros, which is not a bad choice.It was also the only site to succeed with a modestly known French composer of jazz piano studies, Charles-Henry. That was another &#163;60 out of the wallet. The site is American-based, but if you're prepared to pay another a few dollars for air mail, delivery can be speeded up to two to four days.I've yet to find any British outlet that can rival this site for sheer range of stock. Some people swear by a site calledwww.net4music.com, but so far    it has defeated every attempt to buy anything off it. There is also a more modest choice of music (and some free sheet music) atwww.sheetmusic1.com. This has within it a useful sub-address for composers :www.sheetmusic1.com/Grand.Staff.NOBARLINES.pdfIt is nothing but plain manuscript paper.The web is, of course, an adventure playground for anoraks of all sorts - musical as well as techie. Whatever your instrument, you will be able to commune with people all over the world whose sole obsession is the piccolo or Oboe D'Amore.I dabble in the clarinet. It is possible to dabble on the net, but not for long. Soon you find yourself drawn deeper and deeper into other peoples' obsessions.www.sneezy.org/clarinetis a very good general clarinet site, which at a single click will take you to similar sites around the world: the Peruvian and Japanese clarinet societies, to name but two. Another comprehensive site full of links is atwww.clarinet.org/Links.Soon you are down rabbit warrens checking the serial numbers of your instruments to discover the year of manufacture or looking for tips on repair and maintenance.www.woodwind-shop.com/clarinetcare.html. Only by the greatest strength of character did I resist purchasing a battery-operated portable woodwind leak detector for $89.60.Listening to music on the internet is clearly going to be a huge industry, but I feel slightly defeated by it at the moment. A good starting    point is Radio Three's websitewww.bbc.co.uk/radio3/index.shtml, where you can listen to much of the station's daily output.The site also links tohttp://classicalwebcast.com, which is a compendium of classical music sites around the world. So if Radio Three is playing some dull Albeniz you can tune into Croatia, Holland, Canada, Australia or Pittsburgh to see if there's something more interesting.If you're looking for a specific piece of music, there seems to be endless sites devoted to electronically-synthesised versions of a wide repertoire. There is an enormous stock of music atwww.prs.net/midi.html- though there may be a limited audience for, say, Beethoven   op 110 played by a computer.Still, it is a wonderful education resource for music students. By logging in atwww.gmn.com/classicalyou can allegedly hear John Lill playing op 110, which is more to my taste. But so far I have failed to download anything from this site.Dabbling at the net can be as frustrating as dabbling at the clarinet.More frustrations: Father Christmas bought me a CD-writer to see if there was any - strictly legal - way of capturing any of this ocean of classical music to listen to in the car later. The plan was also to   transfer a lot of vinyl recordings to CD. I unsuccessfully wrestled with it for a month before discovering that it wasn't compatible with Macs. The replacement model has also defeated me. So I am also the wrong person to be writing about the miracle of MP3.The rest of the Radio Three site is a trifle rudimentary, given the archival possibilities. You can check the three-year backlist of Building A Library and there are the modest beginnings of an educational site. But perhaps the most useful thing on the site is its comprehensive list of links atwww.bbc.co.uk/webguide/arts-culture/classical_music.shtml.This will, for instance, take you to The Mozart Project atwww.frontiernet.net/~sboerner/mozart/index.htmlor the best instrument jokes atwww.mit.edu/~jcb/jokesor the cornucopia of the classical music webring atwww.webring.org/cgi-bin/webring?ring=classicalring&amp;id=1&amp;list.The web will change everything about the music industry, just as it will change most industries. The record industry may be breathing a sigh of relief at this week's   copyright ruling over MP3, but more and more artists may strike out on their own anyway.Mark Swartzentruber - my Fazioli webmate - turned out to be something of a net pioneer himself. Formerly contracted to Sony Records, he now has his own label and website,www.solorecords.com, from which he sells his own recordings.This gives him the freedom - not always possible in Sony's stable - to record whatever repertoire he likes. The cost of cutting and manufacturing a disc is, he says, negligible. He can afford to hire the best producers and studios and market and sell his own recordings.There is some very exciting   Scarlatti and fluent Schubert playing to be scooped up via his site. If this sort of initiative leads to a broader range of soloists breaking through with a more eclectic range of music than the conventional recording industry can manage, that can only be good.Eventually Angela Hewitt (a noted Fazioli-fancier) and Mitsuko Uchida will be able to hold masterclasses - or even personal lessons - over the web.I should start practising.Alan.Rusbridger@Guardian.co.uk&#149;  Mark Swartzentruber plays Scarlatti and Beethoven at the Wigmore Hall on Sunday, May 7 at 7 pm.
Do you turn up at Heathrow knowing which seat you want, or not even knowing which airline you're on? Having done the latter - which makes life tricky when you're picking the tickets up at the airport - I'm trying to get better organised. And the internet is obviously the way to do it.Everyone knows you can book plane tickets online - a feature introduced byTravelWebway back in 1995. Some people know you can find seating plans and seat numbers for different airlines. You can also find out how to get to the airport and back, what the weather is like at your destination, the exchange rate, visa requirements and many other useful things. And instead of sticking with the comfort factors of chains such as Sheraton and Holiday Inn, you can even book a local hotel.While booking plane tickets is one of the web's most heavily-touted features, I've never done it. The software on most sites I've tried has been so appalling it's hard to believe the programmers have ever booked a seat in their lives, and only a few sites such asDial-a-Flightseem to search from all London airports at once. But even if these sites worked properly, you couldn't rely on them: running the same search on   different sites often produces completely different flights.That doesn't mean I never search for business flights onExpedia,Travelocityand other brain-damaged dog-slow websites, particularly for long-haul trips. It just means I search to get an idea of what options might be available before phoning a travel agent or budget airline.Once the flight is booked, it can be useful to check seating arrangements and airport details. For seating plans, I usually follow the links fromAbout's business travel site. For airport details, I go toAirwise, which has its own descriptions of how to get to and from some of the world's larger airports. .When it comes to booking hotels, renting cars and other arrangements, companies and individuals have their own preferences. Even though it ignores my favourite, the Radisson chain, the best starting point for British travellers is the Financial Times's FT.com travel page atwww.ft.com/travel/. This has links to hotel chains, airlines, travel companies and so on. Of course, it would be even better if it looked likeHotsheetinstead of using drop-down lists, but while the programmers have made the page less    accessible, they haven't rendered it useless.The Tripis also good, but it's American.When booking in foreign currencies, it's handy to have a quick converter open in another browser window. I tend to useOanda's Classic 164 Currency Converter) or theUniversal Currency Converterorwww.cali.co.uk/NB/cc/.Travellers with time to spare can also research their destination. The US government provides thequickest hit for a background briefing, though the British government hassomething similar.WorldSkipprovides wonderful collections of links. There's also a quick way to check for national holidays overseas: the Easy Does IT (Internet &amp; Translation) site,www.national-holidays.comToday's business traveller will almost certainly need some form of internet or email access, and for the past five years, I've used America Online. AOL's Globalnet gets you online from almost anywhere faster than you can figure out how the shower works - if you've remembered to look up the local phone number in advancehttp://intlaccess.web.aol.com.However, "global roaming" is now feasible with a stan  dard internet account, thanks to theGRIC Alliance NetworkandiPass, which boasts "5,000 POPs in 150 countries".It may be useful to know the whereabouts of the nearest cybercafe, too. You can look that up inCybercafes.comor theCybercafe Search Engine.With millions of "road warriors" traversing the globe - travel is a $500bn business in the US alone - it's no surprise that there are hundreds of websites catering to our needs. Most are awful, and/or have a strong American bias. But the About network's business travel centre, run by Bruce Goldberg and Sarah Cusick, is worth the trip tohttp://businesstravel.about.com, while Roadnewshttp://roadnews.comcan be handy for those travelling with notebook PCs.Finally, it's well worth preparing for problems with notebook PCs and handheld computers that can break or be lost or stolen. I email all my travel plans to a web-based email service at Yahoo ( mail.yahoo.com ) so that I'll still be able to get at them. You can also put your contacts book and schedule online at Yahoo or another site such asAnyday.com.Indeed, thanks toXDriveand similar services, you can also upload copies of any special software you might need, plus a back-up of your handheld computer.Five years ago, many business travellers believed they would be OK as long as they didn't lose their American Express or Visa card and their FiloFax. Today they only have to hang on to their plastic and a couple of website addresses.
Peter Wilkinson, the man widely credited with the creation of Freeserve, may be about to make another dot.com fortune after his latest venture, Sports Internet, confirmed it had received a takeover approach that could value his stake at about &#163;120m.A statement from the company confirmed it was in discussions with a mystery party that "may or may not lead to an offer being made for the company".Analysts were last night betting that BSkyB, which is determined to build a market- leading portfolio of sports, news and entertainment websites, was behind the approach, despite reports that cable television rival NTL has also expressed an interest. Both companies refused to comment.Freeserve, which already has an option over a small equity stake in Sports Internet, has been mooted as another possible bidder.Shares in Sports Internet, which operates the Planetfootball.com websites, OPTA sports statistics and an off-shore betting company, closed 80p higher at 712.5p, valuing the group at &#163;242m. The shares peaked at 887.5p earlier this year.Sports Internet only joined the alternative investment market in March 1999 and last   May handed over shares worth &#163;24m plus &#163;650,000 in cash to Mr Wilkinson to take control of Leeds-based Planetfootball.He now holds 44% of the company that designs, builds and maintains a portfolio of websites for Premier League clubs including Aston Villa, Leeds United, Newcastle United and West Ham.If the deal goes through it will complete a remarkable two years for Mr Wilkinson. Even before the value of his   Sports Internet shares increased by &#163;100m, he was counting a newly made multi-million pound fortune.In August 1998 he received &#163;25m when Planet Online, a company he had founded just three years earlier, was sold to Energis, the telecoms group, for &#163;75m.He then engineered Dixons' hugely successful Freeserve internet access service which the retailer set up with Energis. Mr Wilkinson has a lucrative royalty deal linked to traffic generated by Freeserve's 1.8m plus users.Mr Wilkinson, who lives near Harrogate with his wife and four children, has two other businesses - a computer distributor, Storm, which he used to jointly own with Yorkshire property tycoon Paul Sykes, and VData, an offsite data storage organisation.He guards his privacy closely, rarely talks to journalists and dislikes leaving his native county. He describes himself as "a typical Yorkshireman - a Scotsman without the generosity".The potential sale of Sports Internet will come as little surprise to Mr Wilkinson's friends to whom he has talked colloquially about "boshing this thing out quickly".Sports Internet was set up by former Leeds United chief executive Chris Akers. His stake is valued at &#163;14m. Last night he refused to comment.
Chris Gent, the chairman of Vodafone AirTouch, yesterday stamped his authority on the newly merged Mannesman operation when he installed international director Julian Horn-Smith as its head and appointed several leading German businessman to its board.Mr Horn-Smith replaces Mannesmann chief executive Klaus Esser, who steps down from the company at its shareholder meeting on June 5.Mr Esser, who is expected to pocket at least &#163;20.5m on his departure, will take up the non-executive deputy chairman role at Vodafone.Vodafone also announced it had appointed Henning Schulte-Noelle, chairman of German insurance company Allianz, to its board as non-executive director together with J&uuml;rgen Schrempp, chairman of car maker Daimler Chrysler.Joseph Ackermann head of investment banking at Deutsche Bank, joins the board in the same position.At the time of &euro;170bn (&#163;99bn) merger, Vodafone announced it would give several of the non-executive directors from Mannesmann's supervisory board representation at Vodafone.Analysts had been expecting Mr Horn-Smith's appointment to the top Mannesmann position given his successful track record in forging Vodafone's global strategy. He has been responsible for the company's arms in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
The number of people in Britain using the internet has grown by almost a fifth in the past 12 months and people are spending more time online than ever before, according to figures released yesterday.Britain's internet population increased from 7.8m in October to 9.2m in March, web tracking group MMXI Europe said. The average time spent online increased from 257 to 276 minutes a month, though that number could expect to rise sharply when the unmetered access deals now being offered start to feature in the figures.The research also details the most popular websites in Britain, led by Yahoo.com which had 3.15m unique visitors in March, followed by MSN.com with 3.05m and Freeserve with 2.96m visits.BBC.co.uk is ranked eighth with 1.69m unique users during the month.Yahoo is the second most popular site in Europe's other two largest markets, France and Germany, where two locally-produced portals are the most visited. In France Wanadoo has the highest number of unique visitors and in Germany the chart is topped by T-Online which had 5.94m visitors in March.Despite the growth in new internet users, the ratio of men to women online in Britain has remained disproportionate. Men continue to make up the majority of web users with 52.4% of the internet population made up of adult males, 34.8% adult women and 12.8% children under the age of 14.The figures also dispel the myth that the internet is purely for people under the age of 35. While the largest user group is between 25-34 at around 24%, some 21% are aged 35-44 and "silver surfers" over the age of 55 account for more than 10%.
Telefonica, the Spanish telecoms company, yesterday confirmed it was in talks with Dutch rivalKPN Telekomabout a possible &euro;160bn (&#163;90bn) merger.Analysts said a deal could spur further consolidation among Europe's longer established national telephone companies as they try to keep up with newly merged US firms such asMCI WorldComandSprintand mobile phone firms such asVodafone.Analysts said a mobile telecoms tie-up would boost the two carriers' ability to buy competitors and gain costly third generation mobile licences. Telefonica pulled out of the race for one of the UK's third generation licences, saying it would pursue cheaper options.KPN Mobile has about 8.5m customers and is active in central and eastern Europe while Telefonica says it has 20m wireless clients in Europe, Latin America and North Africa.The Dutch group's shares   rose nearly 10% yesterday. Spain's stock market was closed for the May Day holiday."An alliance or merger would be good added value for both companies whose activities and ideas are similar," said Henk van de Meent, an analyst at NIB Capital. "It could be quite a powerhouse, especially when other parties are involved as well."A spokesman for Telefonica said: "The company has been holding conversations with KPN on several matters, including the possibility of inte gration of all or part of their businesses."However, no definitive agreement has been reached and there is no certainty that the mentioned conversations will give positive results."KPN said earlier it would delay the initial public offering of KPN Mobile, Europe's seventh largest mobile operator, because of talks with a possible new partner.The two are reported to be considering creating a company 60% owned by Telefonica and 40% by KPN.
Kevin Sheerin is the driver of Ken Livingstone's campaign busWhat sort of bus is it?It's an open-top Metro bus from the mid 60s, an ex LT bus. It didn't use to be open top, but one of the drivers took it under a low bridge in Battersea - sliced the top off. He was supposed to turn left, did an illegal right instead and ignored all the low bridge signs. No one was hurt. He was a new driver but the police had to prosecute and he lost his job.That's never happened to you?No. I have to watch out for things like that - bridges, lamp-posts. It almost happened in Redbridge when we came across Steven Norris in his car (we were out looking for his bus but only found him in his car, going into the leisure centre). There was a 14ft bridge and we just made it under. I had to have someone on the roof to give me the all-clear.That would have been embarrassing - crashing right in front of Norris.Yeah, that would have gone done down really well.What do you know about the other candidates' vehicles?The Greens have got a bus I think. I heard it got pulled up for smoke emission - I don't know if that's true. Norris's bus got pulled over - but just for a routine check.How green is your bus?Very. We use this green fuel. It doesn't spew out black fumes like some do. Nothing comes out at all.Is there anything else special about your bus?All the seats upstairs have been taken out and it has a generator and speakers.Who's on the bus?There's a crew of about 15-20 volunteers. They just stand upstairs waving, and singing along with the music.Where does Ken go?He stands upstairs at the front with a hand held mic. There's a camera crew up there too so we have to take it very easily - no sudden braking if I can help it.Isn't it off-putting, driving with all that racket going on?I do sometimes have to tell them to turn it down. There are two speakers right above my head and when it echoes back off the sides of buildings it can be too much. Normally it doesn't bother me. You get used to it after four weeks.What sort of reaction do you get from the bus?We get a lot of waving and cheering. And the odd finger as well. There's also been at least a couple of moonies. One time when Ken was upstairs, this bloke came out of a betting shop on the Walworth Road to see what all the noise was about. And he just pulled his trousers down. He was quite friendly really. I think Ken was quite surprised - it was the first time it's happened to him on a campaign.Will you vote for Ken?Oh yes definitely. But I would have done anyway. I was there when he brought in "Fare's Fair" in the 80s and that was a good scheme.Why is Ken always late?He's not. We're always spot on time. To the minute. Yesterday we were a little bit late because we got held up round Liverpool Street, but normally we're spot on time.
On my first date with my husband Dan, he picked me up from my parent's house (no, I wasn't 16 and never been kissed, but a 29-year-old with a child and a failed marriage) in a plump, shiny, turquoise Rover Coupe 69 with a Webasto sunroof. The heavy doors swung open and I sunk into the generous blond leather seats. The engine throbbed as he had to lean over and help me put on the old- fashioned seatbelt whose design I had never seen before. By the time he dropped me home that night I was smitten by the big, generous man and his big fat car.A couple of weeks after that, my sister looked after my son and we went away together on a walking holiday in the Brecon Beacons - except that we didn't do any walking. Instead we sat in the comfortable interior of the Rover and looked at the hills and the rain and talked, ate sweets that we had bought from the service stations along the M4 (in a classic car you have to stop and fill up frequently) and er, consummated our relationship. It was the best weekend away I had ever had.That was seven years ago. We got married, bought a house and had another child. We have a sensible family car that we use for everyday purposes. The Rover is still used for important motoring experiences - for trips away or to make an entrance at a wedding or a party. 0ur children love it and when we all went on holiday to Italy there was none of the usual claustrophobia, car-sickness or "How long until we get there?" nagging. They are proud of the admiring stares the Rover gets as it hums majestically along the road and it makes going on long trips an expensive but pleasurable experience.A couple of weeks ago Dan suddenly announced that he was going to put it up for sale. My son burst into tears and my husband explained that the car needed some work on it that he didn't have the time or money to carry out and that it made him feel guilty that we don't use it enough. He wanted to sell it to someone who would give it all the attention it deserved. A single man, perhaps, like he had been 10 years before when he bought it off his next door neighbour.I have never been able to bring myself to nag Dan about the Rover. While my sister insisted that her partner got rid of his old 70s gangster Jaguar because it seemed a luxury and could never be a practical family car, I knew that the Rover was part of the deal when we got together. He has always told me that it is worth a fortune and that we could sell it if we needed money. I nodded, thinking he was part of the Eddie Grundy school of finance, but basically ignored him because I knew that it was an asset that could never be realised. There is just too much personal history and emotion attached to his beautiful old banger.If he has to sell it I worry about the effect on his psyche. I can't help wondering if part of his personality will go along with the sale of the car, if his largess and spontaneity will just shrivel up and disappear. The Rover is like his signature. His friends say things like "Saw you were in Kentish Town today" because they know it is him in that curvy blue car.I may associate the Rover with our courtship but he has other important memories that were before my time. In Marseilles some gangsters started shooting from a speeding car at the garage owner who was selling Dan a new tyre and they both found refuge on the cosily carpeted floor of the Rover. A river bursts its banks in Dorset and the strength of the engine stopped him being swept away by the water and he simply drove through the deluge. These are the times the Rover saved his life but the most important memory of good times in the Rover is when Dan drove his late father through France.He had never allowed Dan to drive him before - in fact he had never really allowed anyone to drive him before and Dan felt that it was not only a sign that he regarded Dan as a man at last but that he trusted and admired the reliability and comfort of the Rover. I suppose Dan must have driven other women in it too but I can't bear to think about anyone else testing just how far the passenger seat can tip backwards, thank you very much.Car owners are perfectly capable of having strong emotions about cars that do not have the obvious appeal of a classic like Dan's Rover, which has the ability to inspire feelings of nostalgia even from those born long after it was made. Adam Richards, 25, owns a Peugeot 309 that most people would have great difficulty mustering up any sentimental attachment for."I know that she looks totally ordinary but this used to be my family car. My parents gave me it a couple of years ago. It has probably hindered rather then helped my love life and yet I have such good memories of going on family trips with my parents and my sister. It would seem immensely disloyal to my parents who saved up to buy it and kept it going in such good condition to ever sell it. It would mean nothing to someone else but for me it has come to symbolise the later part of my childhood."Gemma and David Ackerman feel that they will never be able to sell the BMW 5 series that they bought in the late 80s even though they don't feel it reflects the kind of people they are now. "We both worked in the financial sector when we met but now I am a teacher and David retrained as a doctor. We don't really like anything about the car except the fact that my waters broke all over the back seats when I was in labour with my first son Joseph. Because of that the car must belong to us and we belong to the car. It has transcended its function as a motor vehicle and because of this one little incident has become a deeply personal object."So is it ever worth selling a car whose price can hardly reflect its emotional value? "Yes," says Dan, who is selling the Rover for &#163;1,200, "but only if you love the car enough to let it go. It is a car that makes things happen and owning it has been a real adventure. So much has happened in that car. Anyone who buys it will not only be buying a beautiful machine but a piece of motoring history. The closure of Longbridge makes it even more poignant. If I feel that the buyer understands all this then the pain of seeing it drive away for good will be made much easier." Is there anyone out there?
If Honda's cunning market dream comes true, any man who buys a Logo will find a Benny Hill-style queue of women chasing his exhaust. Not since the 80s has Honda offered something smaller than the Civic for UK drivers. As a result, the Japanese maker believes it's been neglecting the girls. (Ironic then that out of around 40 journalists assembled to test it, I counted zero women.)The Logo is more stalking horse than prime candidate. Groomed to test European taste, it's a close rework of the same Logo that's been running around Japan for a few years. Its job is to smooth the road ahead for the successor, a Swindon-built mini scheduled for 2002.In its league, the Logo comes up against the Polo, Clio and Peugeot 206. It has some good points: visibility is fine - the seating position, perhaps with women in mind, is pronounced. The car has nice, deep windows and the cabin is well lit. The engine (aluminium, 1.3) could provide more power and has no fizz after 60mph, but it feels like a quality job and is reasonably smooth (I'd like to see a rev counter, but that's a bloke thing).But it's painfully bland. There are options that add an extra ripple of plastic to the front spoiler and rear roofline, but any attempt to beef up the Logo is like adding a red stripe to your wheelbarrow. It's so dull, it's invisible. Then you start to notice other styling goosebumps: the window frame on my driver's door was welded to the body with what looked like pie crust; the gearstick is like a liquorice pipe-cleaner and, from the pavement, you can gawp through the rear wheel arch and see the skinny exhaust.This is wonderful news for Honda: when the Logo replacement arrives, it can't fail to be less drab. For now though, the price (&#163;9,495) tends to put the premium rivals into perspective. What would you rather spend: &#163;13,500 on a space-age Audi A2, or just less than &#163;10,000 on a not-so-super mini?Next to the Logo, Honda also has something far more palatable in the launch cupboard: a five-door version of the small HR-V offroader. Until now, you could get only a three-doored HR-V, but the car's sold so well to young drivers in search of quirkiness that Honda wanted to keep pace - in case they all settle down and breed.For kicking sand, the HR-V was a great set of wheels, but its short undercarriage made it Mr Fidget on the motorway. By adding 10 centimetes to the length, you're not only able to have two more doors, you also get a machine that sits as it should in high-speed traffic. Now with more mature road manners, the car still has the same volume of bag space, including clever cargo hooks and underfloor storage sections. For added zip, there's now a 124bhp 1.6 engine, instead of the 103bhp.Honda admits the HR-V is "not designed as a serious offroader". As with the bigger CR-V, the drive engages all four tyres only when it is needed - most of the time, you're in front-wheel drive mode.While no major news event, the stretched HR-V is a worthy improvement. The car also has a certain urbane charm that the owners of Suzuki's Vitara, Daihatsu's Terios and other hairdressery can only dream about. Unlike the Logo, it shows the middle ground doesn't have to be dead flat.Logo HR-V 5 doorTop speed94mph		106mph0-62mph14.5 secs		11.3 secsEngine1343cc 		1590ccOn the stereoSteps		Beach BoysForUm . . . 		Cheeky looksAgainstWell . . . 		Lacks true 4x4 cred
The US justice department has come under heavy fire for its attempts to break up Microsoft, the world's largest software company.Wall Street delivers its verdict on the latest developmentswhen trading resumes today but at the weekend Microsoft won strong support from middle America.Charlie Munger, vice-chairman of Berkshire Hathaway and the right hand man of Warren Buffett - the world's most successful investor -  prompted rounds of applause from 15,000 shareholders at the company's annual meeting in Omaha when he attacked the government's landmark anti-trust lawsuit.The US justice department and 17 states called for Microsoft to be broken in two in order to end its abuse of a monopoly position.Mr Munger, said: "&#91;America&#93; finally gets a huge leadership in a new field, software, that's needed all over the earth, and somebody drawing a salary from the US government gets the bright idea to dramatically   weaken the one place where we are winning big."Shares in Microsoft have fallen more than 40 per cent since it was found to have acted illegally last month.Mr Munger said Microsoft, in which Berkshire has a tiny stake, was a perfect example of capitalist success."It is hard for me to see how Microsoft is sinful because it tried to improve its products every time and make next year's business position stronger. If that's a sin, every subsidiary of Berkshire is a sinner, I hope."Mr Buffett, a long-term friend and mentor to Microsoft's Bill Gates, said: "I think we have something that is working very well and it probably doesn't make a lot of sense to tinker with too much."Such comments at "America's capitalist Woodstock" may underline the lack of political support for the case outside Washington. George Bush, the Republican presidential hopeful, has warned the judge against damaging the US economy but has stopped short of directly criticising the justice department.The government's call for a break-upand restrictions on how Microsoft does business, were more onerous than some other options available.Vivek Varma, a Microsoft lawyer, said that the company could ask for a new "mini-trial" to present further evidence to Judge Thomas Penfield as he decides on a remedy.The justice department has argued that a break-up is the only way of preventing Microsoft from abusing its stranglehold on the world's computer market. It believes that   Microsoft is too contemptuous of the courts to comply with legal restrictions on its conduct, presenting evidence that Microsoft continued its unlawful anti-competitive conduct after the launch of the case.The court case did not stop Mr Gates from appearing in a video at Berkshire's annual meeting. In the video Mr Buffett appeared on a game show called "Who wants to be a gillionaire" in which he phoned Mr Gates asking for an investment tip.Mr Gates resisted the temptation to push Microsoft.
Last week, rumours were flying around the stock market and the web about a proposed £4bn takeover of Emap by the web navigation giant Yahoo!, which pushed Emap's share prices up by more than a third.Both parties refused to comment on the uber-bid but privately dismissed the rumours as "unfounded". End of story - potentially the biggest convergence story since the announcement of the AOL/Time Warner merger in January.It would not have been the first time Yahoo! had flirted with conventional media (it has been linked with Dorling Kindersley, the educational publishers, and Murdoch's News Corp among others), but it is no coincidence that the rumour followed in the wake of the Nasdaq catastrophe, which saw the market for hi-tech stocks lose a quarter of its value in five days. It made perfect sense that Yahoo! would want to consolidate its position by buying into a publishing powerhouse, especially when shares were cheap.The great wobble in the new economy has been a wake-up call for big internet brands such as Yahoo!, Excite and Freeserve. In the US, internet companies across the spectrum, from AOL to Salon.com and ebay.com, have started getting into bed with old media or diverging into traditional media forms. One by one, the webbies are coming back onto dry land.Rebecca Ulph, new media analyst at Fletcher Research, sees two possible reasons for the flow back into old media. "It's certainly a way new media companies can convert share prices into real value, and with exclusive content they can improve their offering and differentiate themselves from the others. There is a certain amount of honesty attached to old media brands compared to new media, which can appear to be fly-by-night and unsubstantiated."The announcement last week by Hollinger, the group behind the Telegraph, that it was open to the idea of a merger with a major internet company was well timed. It was surely influenced by the crash. "The last five weeks have been a resounding wake-up call to a lot of people," says Daniel Colson, vice-chairman of Hollinger. "The AOL/Time Warner deal was the benchmark really. People realised that while the internet is here to stay, there is still a need to identify businesses that have fundamental revenue streams."Yahoo! refuses to comment on any rumours relating to the Telegraph or Emap - or indeed on any of its future plans. The world's number one portal with 35m visitors a month has always maintained that it is keen to develop its own content rather than merge with a media company. Its European rival Excite, on the other hand, is cautious of trying to become a mass media brand in its own right."To develop content in-house is a huge effort," says Ronnie Planalp, senior director of business development at Excite. "Do people associate Yahoo! with a sports magazine or lifestyle magazine? No. But the pre-eminent brands of Time Warner, for example, are worth something. The message to glean from the Yahoo!/Emap rumour is that new media companies need content to go down their pipes." Excite currently has around 70m users. The dilemma it faces now is the same one that publishers have had for years: how to keep them?ISPs face a deeper identity crisis still. With unmetered or unlimited free access to the internet just around the corner, the wires or pipes which provide the service will become increasingly invisible. Many are already feeling the pressure to come offline."ISPs and portals are facing a huge dilemma," says Matt Peacock, head of corporate communications for AOL Europe, which incorporates Compuserve, AOL UK and Netscape Online. "They are having to start asking 'what are we here for?' The smart players realise that the days of providing raw internet access are going - access is becoming irrelevant. Consumers are increasingly concerned with look and feel, the content and the features on their sites. The next growth phase is when all the providers start thinking, 'how are we going to keep all our subscribers?'"This, he confirms, was the "key driver" for the merger with Time Warner. It was a logical progression for AOL. The investment in 450 individual content providers has also paid off. According to Mediamatrix, AOL users stay an average of 30 minutes per visit on the site, while for other ISPs the average is 3.2 minutes - enough time to pick up email and leave.In the past week, Freeserve, the UK's biggest internet portal and service provider, has also been linked with Emap (the Times reported that Emap rebuffed Freeserve's offer) and the publishers of Loot in content/acquisition deals. A spokesperson for Freeserve said they would not comment on the speculation in the press.But Freeserve has been aware of the shift towards content for a while and created an in-house editorial team with a staff of 150 and new offices in Clerkenwell, central London.Identity crises aside, the flow back into traditional meat 'n' two veg media is in many ways a natural process of evolution for many internet brands which are now mature enough to compete in the non-virtual world.In America, cult websites such asSalon.com(3.4m unique users) andThe Onion.com(500,000 visitors a week) have been syndicating their content to TV and print for some time. The Onion has a newspaper with a readership of 400,000; Salon has several book deals pending and its columnists are reproduced in newspapers. Its latest deal with Endeavour, a Hollywood talent agency, and a deal with Bravo, a subsidiary of Cablevision, will leverage Salon's content onto mainstream TV. Andrew Ross, the executive VP, claims, "We never really left old media. &#91;Moving into TV&#93; is a natural for us. The content is primary, the platform is secondary."The recent US launch of sexy literary website Nerve.com's own glossy magazine created waves in the business press because of the way it was self-consciously "reverse-engineered" by the chief executive, Rufus Griscom.Griscom told Sunday Business that it had used the internet "for finding readers and getting subscriptions" for the 50,000 print-run glossy."What people are realising is there is no such thing as a company that cannot benefit from the efficiencies offered by the internet," he said.What the Time Warner/AOL taught us is that the old/new media convergence works just as well both ways. Only a year ago, it seemed new media needed old media like a fish needs a bicycle - now both are becoming increasingly amphibious.
Dim start for a bright sparkRoll up, folks, and win a huge cash prize for your bonza Internet idea. Channel 4 has teamed up with a consortium of business investors and Internet incubators and will award &#163;1 million to the bright spark who comes up with the best business plan for an online firm. Thewww.emillionaireshow.comwill be broadcast in July. Aspiring dot.com millionaires must register their entries at the site, where they will then   be 'scrutinised by top business analysts provided by Andersen Consulting'. Unfortunate choice this. Andersen's reputation for being a bastion of IT expertise is open to debate, as its recent troubles with both the Stock Exchange and NIR2 computer systems show all too embarrassingly.Final entry?As if Lastminute did not have enough to worry about, with its interim results coming out this Thursday. Some upstart called, rather unsurprisingly,www.laststop.co.ukhas just launched claiming to be 'the UK's largest retailer of late availability bargain holidays'. How long before we see one Neil    Curnow, the company's MD, splashed across the fashion pages and everywhere else in a way eerily reminiscent of the approach adopted by his opposite number at Lastminute? No, don't bother writing in.Shed a tearStill, if things look bad in the business-to-consumer end of the Internet market, at least those business-to-business companies look capable of producing some super soaraway valuations to pump some air into the ever decreasing dot.com bubble. Erm, apparently not.Even some of the shining lights in this arena, those firms which strive to create transparent market places, the apotheosis of the Internet ideal, are doomed. Research firm AMR says 90 per cent of all independent business-to-business exchanges will go bust. And lo, there came the sound of sobbing day traders.
For a while it was a very successful company. It was the new, new thing and everyone wanted a slice of the action, despite the fact that details of what it did and where it operated were more than a little hazy.The company was called Zeigletics, and it was responsible for the development of innovative technology linking sewage disposal systems in Chad. But the company, and the stock exchange its shares were listed on, did not exist. The entire thing was an invention, the brainchild of the two brothers who founded the Motley Fool, the irreverent financial advice firm which started as a newsletter and is evolving into a cross-media empire with global pretensions.'We started the hoax on 1 April 1994 and we suggested people should be buying these shares because they were going up. More and more people began paying attention. We were getting e-mail from brokers saying "my client wants me to look into this and I can't find the Halifax-Canadian exchange",' recalls Tom Gardner, co-founder of the Motley Fool.The move was designed to warn investors about the risks of investing too heavily in penny shares. Back in the mid-Nineties, as the Motley Fool started to transfer its advice to the Internet, moving away from being a pure tip sheet, Tom and brother David became frustrated by investors' appetite for small stocks which often feature in 'pump and dump' scams. That is the sort of scheme where companies' shares are hyped online causing a quick surge in their value only for this to dissipate as those who talked up the firm sell their stake and make a killing.'A lot of people just wanted to trade penny shares online. We kept trying to talk about the Gap or General Electric and they were saying "look at the shares I've bought.   They've gone up six times in value, but the Gap's only gone up 20 per cent". We couldn't get a conversation going,' Gardner says.The prank created its own dynamic as followers of the Fool started to participate in the illusion. 'In typical Foolish spirit people began joining in saying "I've already made $6,000",' he added. The point was to show that people were trading very thinly traded stocks.The stunt created a blaze of publicity, despite the fact that the Fool newsletter had only 360 subscribers and had a staff of two. 'We never had a business plan. We began doing this without any expectation that we would be striking it rich,' Gardner says of   the early attempts to found the newsletter.'We sent out 2,000 copies of the newsletter to anyone we had an address for - including those we had drawn from my cousin's wedding invitations. At the end of the first month we had 36 subscribers who were paying $48 a year. We were told later that this was a 1.8 per cent response rate, which is pretty good for direct mailing. However it was mailed to a lot of people who we knew and who were blood relatives of ours.'The  Wall Street Journal  picked up the Zeigletics story and soon America Online was knocking on the Gardner brothers' door looking to run the Fool's service on its network. The timing of the alliance between the Fool and   what was to become America's biggest Internet service provider was another lucky break for the Gardner brothers. More were to follow.Back in the mid-Nineties, AOL had no content and only 300,000 subscribers. 'They had nothing to put on their main screen and our Fool button was up there and so everyone had to click it. We had an overflow of people and there was just me and and Dave working 12 hours a day.'The pair decided to dump the newsletter and concentrate on developing the Fool's online presence. In a sense the Motley Fool (the name comes from an idiot savant character in Shakespeare's  As You Like It who highlights the absurdities of others) was   an Internet company before the Internet, building interactive communities by encouraging investors to write in and swap information.'We wanted our readers to be our contributors because we didn't feel we were good enough or smart enough to do all of the writing. That's really been the spirit of the Internet site because so much of the knowledge is contributed by the users,' Gardner explained.That spirit was not without problems at first. 'Our live chat rooms contained the regulars who had been with us from the start - money managers, analysts from Wall Street - but then, when we got the mainscreen promotion with AOL, we would find the chat rooms would be full   of 13-year-olds who just wanted to talk about Pearl Jam. It was total chaos.'One person was saying "what do you think about wireless communications, is that a good industry to invest in?" and the next post was "I love the Spice Girls". It was a truly Motley collection.'The exposure brought further lucrative spin-offs.  The New Yorker wrote an article featuring the Motley Fool which prompted a raft of book deals. An investment column was syndicated to more than 120 newspapers. Soon the brothers had their own radio show broadcast across more than 150 stations. Some of the guests reflected the Fool's more eccentric side.'We get legitimate guests on the show now. We've had the chief executive officers of Yahoo! and Starbucks on. In the past we've had people like Kenny Baker, he's a dwarf. He was the guy who was inside R2D2 in Star Wars. He had no idea who we were.'The success meant the brothers were able to hire some staff and move into plush headquarters in Virginia. Today the Fool employs more than 300 people and has operations in the US, the UK and Germany. Japan will follow soon.One day the business will float, a move which will bring new challenges for the company whose US site attracts two million clicks a month. 'There is a natural fascination with what we do when the market does well and that can ebb when the market doesn't do well.'Such serious expansion plans are potentially at odds with the Fool's playful image as the pricker of pompous City egos, the more touchy-feely side of capitalism.Tom Gardner, however, argues that the original ethos of the Fool continues. 'Anytime an organisation grows as quickly as we're growing, determining how to develop   your culture takes a lot of work. But the spirit has been maintained. We love the mix of intellectual curiosity and base popular culture.'Gardner suggests that such a mix is the only way of    encouraging more people to get serious about their finances. 'The humour is the sugar around the medicine. We wouldn't get people interested in treatment if we gave them just the hard numbers.'    Or, as Shakespeare's character would have it: 'Give me leave to speak my mind, and I will through and through cleanse the foul body of the infected world, If they will patiently receive my medi cine.' For now the Fool is king. His real test, however, comes when he is answerable to shareholders. Investors, as the Fool knows, don't always have a sense of humour.www.fool.co.uk
George Soros, the international financier who "broke the pound", yesterday admitted he had been beaten by billions of dollars of losses through misguided investments in technology companies.The 69-year-old Hungarian-born multimillionaire said "we are bringing an epoch to an end" as he announced a radical restructuring of his huge hedge fund operation and the departure of his two closest lieutenants.In a letter to his clients, he said his high-profile Quantum Fund, which since the end of December has fallen in value from $10.4bn (&#163;6.7bn) to $8bn, would be converted   "into a lower risk or lower reward operation".He annnounced the unexpected retirement of Stanley Druckenmiller, the chief investment officer who guided the fund to its $10bn bet against the Bank of England in 1992 and who was regarded as his successor, and Nick Roditi, the Zimbabwean London-based manager.The two executives had run the two best-known Soros funds, Quantum and Quota, which analysts said yesterday would suffer client defections as a result of their departure.Mr Druckenmiller, who previously had the power to move markets around the world, admitted he had been caught out by falls in the Nasdaq technology index in the US. "I   screwed up. I should have got out in February," he said.The size of the bets placed by the funds had given Mr Soros legendary status and allowed his pronouncements to make or break markets.Like other hedge funds, the managers often borrowed to place their large bets - which exaggerated their profits but also exacerbated their losses.Last night Mr Soros acknowledged that the markets had changed, becoming "extremely unstable", and that traditional valuation methods no longer applied."In taking this step my objective is to establish an organisation that can efficiently administer my funds and those of other shareholders, even beyond my lifetime," he said -   adding he wanted a "more reliable stream of income for my charitable activities".He continued: "We've come to realise that a large hedge fund like Quantum is no longer the best way to manage money. Quantum Fund is far too big, and its activities too closely watched by the market to be able to operate successfully in the market."The former Soros fund manager described the announcement as the biggest news to hit the hedge fund industry in more than a decade."Here is a man &#91;Soros&#93; who probably has one of the best records of investing in capital markets and has taken some of the biggest bets effectively withdrawing from the hedge fund arena," he said. The Soros   funds have been hit hard by bets on internet and telecommunications stocks that have failed to pay off. In one month they are understood to have lost as much as $5bn. Their highly leveraged positions on the Nasdaq Composite index misfired when the benchmark for technology stocks fell by a third last month.Nicola Meaden, director of Tass, a hedge fund research group, said: "Without these two established fund managers investors will be very nervous."Mr Soros said shareholders would be given the choice of remaining in Quota Fund, moving to the portion managed by that adviser or taking cash if they withdraw their funds.Ironically the Soros funds had performed relatively well   over the past year as the group belatedly bought into the hi-tech shares market.The Quantum Fund, which will be renamed the Quantum Endowment Fund, was up by about 2% in the first quarter of this year while the Quota fund was up about 12%, according to Tass. Mr Soros said the name change would allow the history of the Quantum Fund, which has provided shareholders with an annual return of more than 30% during its 31-year history, to be preserved as "a monument more lasting than bronze".The shake-up comes a month after tech stock vagaries helped prompt Julian Robertson to close Tiger Management, formerly the world's second largest hedge fund group.
The US government called for Microsoft to be broken up yesterday in a hard-hitting proposal designed to stop the company abusing its stranglehold on the world's computer market.Microsoft will be broken into two separate companies - one to develop the Windows operating system and the other to run all other applications such as Office - under proposals filed to the US district court by the justice department and various states last night.Bill Gates, whose stake in the company he founded 25 years ago had made him until recently the world's richest man by a wide margin, would be forced to choose which company to invest in under the proposals, while other shareholders are likely to receive a share in both. The company accused the government of "indefensible, radical and extreme" proposals yesterday. Mr Gates said: "Microsoft would be greatly damaged by any kind of split."The government's proposals, filed after the New York stock market closed last night, will be considered by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson alongside those of the company before he delivers his own verdict on an appropriate remedy later this year.Earlier this month, he ruled that the Seattle-based company had broken   the law with its anti-competitive behaviour. Any break-up plan, even if agreed by the judge, is likely to be some years off because of the company's plans to appeal. However, yesterday's filing also included several tough restrictions on the company's behaviour as well as a 10-year bar on any future merger of the two separate groups. The restrictions include making Microsoft offer uniform pricing for the leading computer manufacturers as well as barring any attempt to penalise competitors who gave evidence during the trial.Joel Klein, assistant attorney general, said the restrictions "can and should go into effect immediately" and should last until a break-up of the company is complete. Mr Klein, who has led the government's efforts as head of the anti-trust division at the justice department, said a break-up was the   best way to improve competition in the software industry."Under our proposals, neither the heavy hand of ongoing government regulation nor the self-interest of an entrenched monopolist will decide what is in the best interests of consumers. Consumers will be able to decide for themselves in a fair and competitive marketplace, which is the over-riding purpose of America's anti-trust laws."Legal experts and analysts said the plan, if backed by the judge, would be as significant as the break-up of Standard Oil in 1911 or that of AT&amp;T in 1984.Mr Klein used the example of the break-up of AT&amp;T for improving competition in the telecommunications industry in the US. Bill Kovacic, a law professor at George Washington university, said: "This case will define the rules by which dominant firms must play."Microsoft has already been badly damaged by the case. The company's stock market value has fallen by more than 40% since the beginning of the year when it was the world's most highly valued group. Mr Gates has seen his net worth shrink from more than $100bn to about $60bn.Janet Reno, the US attorney general, said: "This is the right remedy at the right time to stimulate competition, promote innovation and give consumers more choice." Until this week, most analysts had expected the government to propose so-called conduct remedies based on Microsoft changing its behaviour rather than a structural remedy.Microsoft yesterday blamed the government's extreme stance for the breakdown of settlement talks before the judge announced his verdict earlier this month.
The US government yesterday called forMicrosoft, the world's largest software company, to be broken up in a proposal likely to have enormous consequences for the future of the industry.The department of justice and most of the 19 US states that brought the landmark legal case against the company agreed that splitting Microsoft into two parts was the only way to prevent further abuses of its monopoly position. One part of the new company would be based on the Windows operating system, the other would incorporate everything else.Legal experts and analysts said the plan, if backed by a US judge, would be as significant   as the break-up of Standard Oil in 1911 or that of AT&amp;T, the US telephone monopoly, in 1984.Bill Kovacic, a law professor at George Washington university, said: "This case will define the rules by which dominant firms must play."Microsoft has been damaged by the case, even though an actual break-up might never happen. The company's stock market value has almost halved this year and Bill Gates, the company's founder, has seen his net worth shrink from over $100bn to about $60bn.Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who has ruled that Microsoft had broken the law, is to hear its case before announcing his decision later this year.
The department of justice and the 19 states that brought the historic legal action against the world's largest software company believe that splitting the company into two will increase competition.Their case, successful to date, has rested on proving the harm done to consumers by Microsoft's abuse of its monopoly position. By forcing Microsoft to separate its Windows operating system from all other applications, the federal government believes that the company will no longer be able to bully manufacturers into taking its new products by threatening to withhold a licence for Windows.The government believes that the two resulting companies, dubbed Baby Bills after Microsoft founder Bill Gates, may even compete against each other.In addition the companies would have an incentive to develop products for rivals. What would stop the manufacturer of Office from producing software to run on the increasingly popular Linux operating system, for instance, if the company had nothing to do with one of Linux's most bitter rivals?Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa who has advised the government, has said: "The role of the remedy in a case like this is not to punish Microsoft but to restore competition."Increased competition itself is proving divisive, with many Wall Street analysts denying that breaking up the company will benefit consumers.Andrew Roskill, industry analyst at UBS Warburg, said: "The irony is that breaking up the company horizontally like this does not really solve any of the problems. There will still be one company with a dominant position in operating systems and one with a dominant position in the desktop publications business. It's ridiculous."Both Windows and Office, the software "shell" for programmes such as Excel and Outlook, are established market leaders.Windows has provided about 40% of Microsoft's annual revenues of $19.7bn. The two Baby Bills are also expected to share Microsoft's $21bn cash hoard, leaving them free to buy rivals unless restricted from doing so by the courts.Legal experts have said that the government moved towards a break-up because it did not believe other so-called conduct remedies would be effective. But Bill Kovacic, a professor of law at George Washington University, said that yesterday's proposals were unlikely to end the government's involvement in the case, even if approved by the judge."A break-up will not be an antiseptic in avoiding subsequent oversight responsibility," he said.Although it will take some time for analysts to work out the ramifications   of any break-up, many were turning to precedent yesterday. Since the 1890 Sherman Act on monopolies 34 companies have been broken up because of abuses.But the two most significant cases were the 1911 break-up of Standard Oil and the 1984 settlement with AT&amp;T which saw the telephone monopoly divided. Microsoft is considered different because there is unlikely to be a settlement and because of the nature of the fast-changing software industry.However, some analysts believe that the fast-changing nature of the industry is exactly what makes the government's view moot.
Scotland's Atlantic Telecom yesterday transformed the size and geographical spread of its customer base by agreeing a &#163;520m all-share takeover of First Telecom, Europe's largest reseller of telecommunications.The deal gives Atlantic access to First Telecom's valuable contracts to roll out broadband services in Europe and ends the latter's plans for a stock market flotation of its own.Analysts speculated that First Telecom decided to call off its float after the recent turbulence in the stock market which has wiped as much as 60% off the value of some telecoms stocks. However, Atlantic chief executive Graham Duncan denied this, insisting the pair had been in talks for several months and would make "an excellent fit".The deal furthers Atlantic's ambition of becoming a leading alternative provider of domestic telecoms and high-speed internet services.At the same time it announced a high-speed net service which will cover all call charges and be faster - but 25% more expensive than the offer BT announced earlier.The enlarged group's customer base will extend from the 700,000 premises Atlantic supplies in four Scottish cities, across the 11,000 business and 290,000 residential customers First Telecom has acquired in Britain, Germany and France.It will also have access to fibres in 16 European cities - including eight in Germany following a swap deal with Metromedia Fiber Network.First Telecom shareholders will own 29.7% of the merged group and the deal is based on Atlantic's closing share price on Wednesday of 765p, valuing it at &#163;1.14bn. Last night they closed down 64p at 701p.
Go online and you can choose your ideal London mayor in fantasy mayoral games or even join a poll on what sex Cherie and Tony Blair's baby should be, and who your favourite member of Steps is. But, in Britain, actual online voting remains a fantasy.Nevertheless, the government's grandiose gestures towards developing "e-government" are being backed by several important experiments next Thursday, which could encourage a move to real online voting.For the first time in Britain, electronic voting and counting will be introduced in several local elections, including Bury and Salford, as part of a series of pilot schemes permitted by the government's new Representation of the People Act. Eighty electronic polling stations will also be installed in all the wards in Stratford on Avon's district council elections, allowing the electorate to vote via a key-pad, with a reassuringly similar layout to a traditional ballot paper.In London's mayoral election, Milton Keynes-based firm DRS Data &amp; Research Services will count the ballot electronically, having successfully established electronic counts in proportional representation elections in Norway and Bosnia.The reason for adopting the electronic system in the mayoral election is purely   pragmatic, says a Department of the Environment spokeswoman. With four different votes and a complex PR system, calculating it manually would have taken days."People are used to having a result the next morning - and they'll have one," she says.If the results are delivered without a hitch by early morning, it will add credibility to the electronic experiment. For, while this electronic tinkering hardly sounds momentous, Britain's electoral etiquette has hardly changed in 100 years.The Electoral Reform Society (ERS) is pleased the government is edging forward slowly. "We welcome the pilots. It is something we've been advocating for years," says Keith Hathaway, chairman of ERS's electronic voting commission.The US got there first. Politicians turned to the net after grappling with the problem of encouraging political participation - in 1996, only 49.08% of the electorate voted in the presidential election, with time constraints the single biggest reason Americans didn't vote.In January, Alaskan Republicans could cast their votes for the presidential primaries online through VoteHere.net. But despite the obvious benefits of internet voting in remote areas, just 35 of the 4,500 voters chose the online option.The reaction has not been   as lukewarm elsewhere. In March, Democratic primary elections held on the internet in Arizona increased turnout by 622%. There were some technical hitches as Election.com's servers crashed, and the Voting Integrity Project unsuccessfully tried to get an injunction against the process on the grounds that it excluded minorities and the poor. But Dogonvillage.com, a grassroots internet community for connecting black people, claims that in areas where its "digital hit squad" targeted black voters, turnout rose by more than 1,000%.The Arizona election was conducted on PCs. Entranet, a small British company, recently demonstrated an online voting system to the British government's IT unit, which works across platforms, with voting via digital interactive TV, Wap (wireless application protocol) phones and PDAs (personal digital assistants).Entranet has designed and built secure online transaction systems for the Co-operative Bank and the Woolwich. Its chief technology officer Dharmesh Mistry claims its pin and user name voting system is "more secure than a ballot card". It also ensures the information flow is one-way, so no big brother can tell who voted for who.The security problems of   online voting are "not insurmountable" says ERS's Alex Folkes. He favours an intranet system of online voting, linking up electronic polling stations on an internal computer network, rather than a genuinely "online" voting system which people can access anywhere. Electronic polling stations linked on an intranet could produce a quick result and would enable booths to be easily moved to more voter-friendly locations, such as supermarkets.But he worries that unsupervised online voting could compromise the democratic principle of a secret ballot. "At the moment only one person is allowed into polling booths except in very special circumstances, safeguarding people from coercion. Online, who knows how many people are telling the person who is actually voting how to vote?"Mistry accepts that online   voting places "a responsibility on the voter to vote secretly", but argues it is the same as a cashpoint. "You wouldn't show people your pin number. You take that responsibility with cash and you should do the same with information."He also claims that online voting could increase access. Voting through the TV could help housebound old people and the disabled vote, while Entranet also demonstrated electronic translation technology that would enhance the participation of people whose first language is not English.Online voting has a wide application, for shareholders and trade unions as well as citizens. The government's step-by-step approach gets the approval of the ERS, as it helps increase internet access for the "information poor".As Foulks says: "I don't think we are going to get a wonderful all-singing all-dancing online election yet, especially as less than one in five currently have internet access."
When Apple decided to supply a copy of a little program called Hypercard on all Macintosh computers back in the 80s, it prepared the way for what would become the web's most distinctive feature, hypertext. It also unknowingly launched a small literary revolution.Hypertext is the bone and muscle of the web, the crucial element that lets people move through cyberspace rather than sit looking at a static image on a screen. Click with a mouse on a bit of hypertext (which can be a letter, a word, or a chunk of text), and you're whisked off to whatever is linked to it. But hypertext existed well before the web, and Hypercard introduced hundreds of thousands of people to the concept.Hypercard enabled people to connect information by association rather than in the more structured sequence of a written document. Users could create "stacks" of virtual notecards (hypercards) on a subject, and create links between cards (hyperlinking them). A reader - or, more appropriately, an explorer - could go literally anywhere, in any direction through the stack.Hypercard gave ordinary computer users the physical embodiment of one of the most startling insights of Vannevar Bush, science advisor to Franklin D Roosevelt, who wrote a prescient essay in 1945 called As We May Think    (archived atwww.isg.sfu.ca/~duchier/misc/vbush). In it, he imagined the Memex, an electromechanical device much like a modern day PC, which could store information and allow it to be recalled in wayward but sensible patterns. The human mind, he argued, works not by creating hierarchies of information but by "association. With one item in its grasp, it snaps instantly to the next. In accordance with some intricate web of trails carried by the cells of the brain."By 1972 computer pioneer Ted Nelson was exploring this concept on computers and had coined the word hypertext. When in the early 90s Tim Berners-Lee mated the visual world of Hypercard and hypertext and the interactive connections of the internet, a powerful new hybrid, the world wide web, was born. But well before the web was conceived, writers had begun experimenting with Hypercard and soon seized upon the artistic possibilities of hypertext. What if one could read in a non-linear way, enabling - or, some would argue, forcing - the reader to create a new reading of a poem or story every time one ventured into it?Soon a program for writing hypertext was on the market, which allowed writers to structure a work by deciding how text would unfold to a reader. To read a hypertext, a reader moves between screens of text called lexias. A lexia can contain one or many links - usually an interactive word   or phrase - to other lexias. Sometimes a certain lexia cannot be revealed until a reader has read other lexias first. Reading becomes a fluid experience - and a highly uncertain, unstable one. With the advent of the web, writers quickly moved to creating works online as well as on disk, and a wide variety of work can be perused from your desktop. Disk-based works tend to have more structural complexity, however.Hypertext proponents say that hypertext enables a writer (and reader) to break free of the rigid, linear format of the print book. They point to Sterne with Tristram Shandy, Woolf with To The Lighthouse, and Joyce with Ulysses, as authors who struggled to do this in print. Hypertext, they argue, pushes literature into places it has been trying to go for decades.Critics say hypertext is a lot of complex and pointless literary nonsense, merely a vehicle for testing out the pet theories of convoluted postmodern theorists like Roland Barthes and Jacques Derrida. But their longstanding complaint that it's annoying to read a work on a computer may have to be abandoned with the availability of new, small reading devices.One of the best places to delve into hypertext is at the site of its leading publisher,Eastgate. Publisher Mark Bernstein is both a devotee, writer and essayist and nurtures a range    of writers, sells hypertext works and critical writings about it, and has extensive links to essays, online hypertext and more. While there, have a look atTwelve Blueby Michael Joyce, who wrote the haunting Afternoon, A Story, considered a hypertext classic.One of the more extravagant online hypertext works is Mark Amerika'sGrammatronwhile a wide range of texts reside atwww.turbulence.org. You can even view James Joyce in hypertext atwww.mpx.com.Non-fiction works abound as well: try the Dictionary of Sensibility,www.engl.virginia.edu/~enec981/dictionary, orSinging In The Rain: a Hypertextual Reading.Poetry has also proved popular as an online hypertext format. Visit theElectronic Poetry Center,Ubuweb,  or Rice, a suite of poems about Vietnam,www.idaspoetics.com.au/rice/riceheading.html.A recent edition of online zine Feed featured an essay on hypertext by writer and critic Robert Coover, with links to previous Feed discussions on the topic,www.feedmag.comdocument/do291_master.html. If by now you are appalled, entranced or outraged by hypertext, jump into the continuing online discussion that follows the essay.
Believe it or not, it is still less than a year since the dot.com explosion in Britain started to cross our radar screens. The main moral so far is that there is only one sure way to make money out of the internet: build the infrastructure that enables others to lose money on it by selling to the consumer.Several important lessons stand out. First, almost none of the brash new start-ups has made any money out of selling to consumers through the internet. True, it's early days yet. But it is beginning to look as though only the fortunate few will ever make any serious money. The failure rate for web start-ups is likely to be at least as high as that for traditional small business ones. That means three quarters of them may not be with us by the end of 2002.Second, nearly all of the start-ups are selling Old Economy goods (from airline tickets to wedding gifts) in a different way rather than selling new goods. Interestingly, because of the way they have forced prices down and introduced innovative ways of selling, they have almost certainly expanded demand for the (Old Economy) goods.Yet, at least until the recent inevitable shake-out, their shares were being traded on the stock market at far higher multiples than Old Economy stocks. But there is no reason at all to judge internet companies by any easier criteria.None of the new companies has yet escaped from the web start-up's paradox: that to make the customers aware that you are selling something cheaper than the shops, you have to spend so much on advertising that it completely erodes the low margins you are getting from undercutting the Old Economy prices.And established companies don't stand still when facing oblivion. They fight back by reducing their prices to much nearer those promoted online. Companies such as car manufacturers find they can play new media to their   advantage by using the web to cut out, or at least cut down, on their own intermediaries (wholesalers and retailers).They have realised two things. First, they have what the dot.com upstarts are prepared to pay so much for - a brand image and distribution system. Second, no one can sell a car (or a book or a bottle of wine) for less than manufacturers can because they can ultimately forgo virtually all the wholesale and retail margins and still make a profit. Just as new technology failed to displace newspapers (because they were forced to adapt or die) so the internet can give a new lease of life to traditional manufacturers if they take the right steps to adjust.We will soon enter the next stage of e-commerce when most existing start-ups will fall by the wayside or be bought by traditional companies (especially now that dot.com share prices have fallen back to earth from outer space).This doesn't mean that there won't be a revolution. It's just that the first movers won't necessarily take the cream. They rarely do.Small wonder that in the US, business-to-consumer start-ups are finding it very difficult to attract money from venture capitalists. Hundreds of US consumer start-ups will soon run out of cash. Analysts say a third will be taken over by bricks-and-mortar rivals, a third will go under and the rest will struggle on without making much money.The second wave of net commerce will bring consolidation and also more "virtual" companies that exist only because of the internet's ability to sell digital products (music, text, video etc).A recent example isflutter.com(Online, April 6) which matches punters in different parts of the country trying to find someone else prepared to bet on the outcome of the next election or a football match or whatever. Since the company will hold both bets in trust until the event has happened, it could find itself sitting on a very healthy cash flow.Music and films are on the way to becoming fully digitised. But don't presume that means the middle person has been cut out. The final lesson of the first year is that the internet doesn't abolish the intermediary - it merely subsitutes a new kind of middle person. And not necessarily cheaper.
