Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday August 3 2006In the article below we mistakenly gave the impression that there are no non-Latin alphabet internet domain names. Icann - the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers - has asked us to point out that non-Latin characters have been permitted for some time except at the top level (as in .com, .net, .uk, and so on) and that they are working on changing that during the course of this year.Also In the article below we gave the impression that the Amazon is the world's longest river. It is argued by some that the Nile is longer but the Amazon carries the greater volume of water to the sea.According to Kaled Fattal, "People say the net works, but it only works for those communities whose native language is Latin-based. The rest of the world is totally isolated." Fattal speaks perfect English but as chairman and chief executive of the Multilingual Internet Names Consortium (MINC), and an Arab, he knows that the majority of the world's population does not.And he knows that this means the internet is a bewildering and often incomprehensible place for the billions of people who live east of Greece.Despite everything you may have heard, the global resource we all know as the internet is not global at all. Since you are reading this article in English you probably won't have noticed, but if your first language was Chinese, Arabic, Hindi or Tamil, you would know very different. At most websites you visit you will be scrabbling to find a link to a translated version in your language, seemingly hidden amid tracts of baffling text. Even getting to a website in the first place requires that you master the western alphabet - have you ever tried to type ".com" in Chinese letters?If you think this situation needn't worry you as an English speaker, think again. At a meeting in the House of Commons this month, a number of prominent MPs and industry experts listed internationalised domain names (IDNs) as one of the internet's most pressing priorities. In June, at a meeting of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) in Marrakech, the "father of the internet" himself, Vint Cerf, highlighted the introduction of IDNs as vital for the future of the net.Why the urgency? Because a number of companies - and even countries - that are frustrated by years of delays have started offering the internet in their own languages by working outside the existing domain name system (DNS).The DNS is the internet's global directory and links particular websites to particular computers, so if you type in, say, "guardian.co.uk", no matter where you are on the internet you always end up at the same website. The problem is that, at the moment, the DNS works only with western languages.The logic of maintaining a single global directory has so far prevented people from building and using a different system that includes their language, but in the past few years there has been such a build-up in demand from millions of new internet users that the previous agreements are starting to unravel and risk causing a split in the internet itself.If that were to happen, the web address you type in could suddenly end up at an entirely different website depending on where in the world you are, or which ISP you use. You may want to buy a book from Amazon.com but find that you end up at a Russian website all about the world's longest river. Email sent to you could end up with someone you don't know in Korea.The internet community received a scare in February when China announced it had created three new top-level domains that were the Chinese equivalents of ".com", ".net" and ".china". If China had decided to break away from the global internet,others would certainly have soon followed. There was a huge wave of relief when the Chinese government explained that it had made the new domains available only within China itself. But the fact that experts didn't doubt that China was capable of and willing to separate from the global internet was a wake-up call in itself.And it's not just China. Israel has set up its own internal system for domains in Hebrew. Korea has done the same in its language - as has Iran, Syria and Japan.But as the world grows smaller, these countries are no longer prepared to stick with their add-on systems, accessible only when they are in their own country. They want to register a domain name that is accessible across the world in the same way that western domains have been from day one.At a May meeting of the International Telecommunication Union in Geneva, however, the western world finally woke up. MINC's Fattal demonstrated a prototype system that worked with the existing internet but also allowed new languages to be added to the global system."We have found a way of connecting these islands [of different-language networks] and also connecting to the global internet," Fattal explains. "With this approach, we can leave the current DNS untouched and safe while helping coordinate between other countries in the namespace. In other words, now there's a choice."In Fattal's presentation, suddenly the internet that we all understand as the global internet today was represented as the "ASCII 'English' internet", which took its place alongside the Arabic internet, Persian internet, Chinese internet, Indian internet, Korean internet and so on.To understand how we have reached the position where there is a real risk of the internet fragmenting, you need only review the term ASCII itself. It stands for American Standard Code for Information Interchange and it is the code devised to enable computers to represent and process all the characters in the English alphabet (a through to z, plus 0 to 9 and the various symbols you get on your keyboard such as % and &amp;).It was first developed in 1967 and written into the internet's foundations by American scientists. It is now so hardwired into the net that the only way to include other characters such as accents on letters, or Chinese or Arabic script, is to use complex combinations of letters that don't exist in English words in order to represent them.Linguists have created long tables to represent all the possible combinations and permutations of different languages. In the case of internet domain names, the address is preceded by "xn--" and then an agreed code. For example "www.r&eacute;max.com" is represented as "www.xn--rmax-bpa.com". Using this method, it suddenly becomes possible to have internet domain names containing foreign characters, and hence foreign language domain names.From the western perspective this approach was sufficient for the rest of the world to use the internet. But the problem is that each of these domains still has to use the existing domain system with ".com" or ".net" - suffixes that are virtually incomprehensible to non Latin- derived language users.The problem was initially overcome by keyboard manufacturers adding buttons with ".com" printed on them that did nothing but add ".com" to the end of what a user had typed. But as the number of new top-level domains has expanded over time, this sticking plaster approach has proved unworkable. People want their own domains in their own language, as was made clear by a recent addition to Japan's own internal domain name system that advertised itself: "At last - the domain name you can spell!"There is only one organisation that can add new top-level domains to the existing global internet, and it is a not-for-profit company based in California and controlled by the US government: Icann.Icann was first approached in the year it was created - 1998 - with the aim of introducing "internationalised domain names" into its system. But it has yet to introduce a single one. Many members of the global internet community have cried foul at the endless delays from a company based in the least linguistically diverse area of the world (the US has speakers of 170 different languages, compared to 364 in Europe and 2,390 in Africa).These accusations have only been strengthened by the fact it is American companies that own and run the existing global domains and so have the most to lose from new foreign-language additions. These companies not only have disproportionate influence over Icann but have also been insisting on being given automatic ownership rights to any foreign versions of their domains - an argument of such corrupt logic that the very fact it is even discussed is a major cause of concern.On top of that, the proud and ancient cultures of Asia, Africa and the Middle East are offended by the very suggestion that they should need to apply to a private US company in order to have their language accepted as legitimate on the internet.As overall coordinator of the domain name system, Icann is caught in a bind in which it is desperate to avoid the political repercussions of approving or not approving languages, whilst at the same time maintaining overall charge of the domain name system to prevent everything falling apart.Icann has successfully delayed the day it has to make such decisions by pointing to the complex technical issues that have to be decided first. However, with non- Latin-language networks becoming increasingly advanced, China making it clear it is prepared to break away from the internet, MINC touting a solution that could bypass its processes altogether and, perhaps most crucially, Microsoft deciding to include IDN10 technology in the new version of Internet Explorer, out later this year, Icann has been left with no choice but to speed up the technical side of internationalised domain names in a bid to keep the net together.Once that technical side is completed, it will take a masterstroke of international political will to keep the internet as we now know it together in one piece.The sore reality is that global internet politics mean nothing to users in Korea, Syria or Egypt. They simply want to be able to use this remarkable medium in their own language, in their own way.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Lifting the veil on internet voicesPolice and intelligence agencies are lobbying hard for means of snooping on internet-based telephony, arguing that they need them to catch criminals, reports Peter Warren.UK fights against tide on data directiveA Europe-wide project to harmonise access to geographical data is at risk due to Britain's support for state-owned agencies.Computer freezing? It might be too hotIt's the middle of a heatwave, but computers across the country are freezing.Divided by a common languageThe internet is a global revolution in communication - as long as you use letters from the western alphabet. Kieren McCarthy on the growing pressure for a net that recognises Asian, Arabic and Hindi characters, too.Newly Asked QuestionsDidn't the collapse of Enron solve California's electricity problems?Apparently not. While some people suspect that the failed energy broker was the real reason for power "brownouts" in California between November 2000 and May 2001 (and it was at least a contributor), the state has once more been suffering a shortage of distribution capacity - and this time the crooked company isn't there to blame.How can I tell if I'll be any good as a programmer?Easily, according to a test devised by Saeed Dehnadi and Richard Bornat at Middlesex University's school of computing.Where does the film end and the game begin?Aleks Krotoski: I had the delight last weekend of watching Johnny Depp swashbuckling through preposterous and perilous adventures in this summer's blockbuster, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest. Oh come on, it was that or Superman Returns; I'd already seen Hard Candy.GamesTitan Quest | Prey | Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2Idealistic pirates at bay over Swedish file sharingThe founders of the bastion of large-scale file sharing have come under attack following reports of large profits from advertising.Intel raises the bar as AMD drops prices in chip battleJack Schofield: PCs are cheap today, and soon they'll be even cheaper, thanks to a price war between the two leading chip suppliers, AMD and Intel.The slimy answer to fertilityAlginate, a new type of algal extract, could also ensure the survival of critically endangered species.Can Microsoft make 'pay as you go' PCs pay off?It has been tried before and it failed, but the big name support may this time give it the required cachet.Let slip the dogs of (broadband) warVictor Keegan: The outbreak of "broadband wars" in the UK - as big hitters such as Carphone Warehouse, Orange and BSkyB compete to offer us cheap or "free" internet access - is bound to boost this vital area of the economy.TechnobilePaul May: Proximity detectors may make daily tasks easier, but if they were really any good they'd be everywhere.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesEnd of Monopoly money | Panda-friendly PC | Tourist Remover | Are you covered? | N for go | Thumb-driven book | Big screen | Subject line of the centuryLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
The unmissable Northwest Florida Daily News has justposted a great little piece on adults who pay teenagers to coach them in gaming. The story begins with 27-year-old New Yorker David Estalote who hands over USD 45 an hour to play Halo 2 alongside semi-professional gamer Tom Taylor, 18, while the latter barks instructions through a headset. Taylor owns a site named Gaming-lessons.com, which puts other adolescent instructors in touch with incompetent oldies. This is my favourite paragraph from the story:"Gaming-lessons.com says its youngest Halo 2 instructor is 8-year-old New Yorker Victor De Leon III, better known by his online gamer name, Lil Poison, who has given several lessons a month since late last year, fitting the classes in after he has done his homework. His father, also named Victor, says his son has used some of the money he earns from lessons (hourly rate: $25) to buy a hamster, named Cortana after a character in the game."I find it comforting to think that in this darkly sinister digital age, where childhood has become a turbo-charged psychological boot-up for a lifetime of consumer technology spending and converged media indoctrination, this child chooses to spend his earnings on a small rodent. How analogue is that?The article goes on to consider another coaching site, grandly titled The E-Sports Entertainment Association, where owner Craig Levine allegedly takes a 15% cut from the earnings of his pool of experts. So, is this empowerment for young gamers finally able to make some cash out of their esoteric skillset, or just a modernised version of the Victorian pick-pocketing gangs immortalised in Oliver Twist? Are artful players the new Artful Dodgers?It's interesting the way in which the pupils interviewed in the piece are so matter-of-fact about the arrangement: "If I wanted to get better at tennis, I would take tennis lessons. I didn't see this as any different," says Suzanne Clanton, 'a psychologist and mother of two in Portland'. And why not? With games machines, PCs, televisions and music slowly merging and cross-pollinating, the old barriers of snobbery and ignorance that kept mature consumers out of gaming are breaking down - being interested in videogames is no longer viewed as a sign of mental deficiency in polite circles.The problem is, adult players often don't have the time to get good at games on their own. This is a real barrier to entry because, as adults, they want to get involved in a structured, competitive way - they don't want to flounder around like idiots for hours on end. Coaching makes sense.I'd like to see this go one stage further, with proper gamer examinations at the end of each course. Imagine being escorted onto a Battlefield server with a stony-faced examiner clutching a clipboard. "Now Miss Stevens, I'd like you to run over the hill and shoot the two Snipers camping on that rooftop. Good. Now get into the tank and parallel park it behind the jeep..."Via Digg
A universal problem across the EUIt was nice to read about a problem that is universal across the European Union (Public data drives public debate, July 27). We reuse legal public sector information (PSI) in Slovenia and face the same challenges. One of the favourite excuses served by various governments is that the taxpayer would pay twice for PSI if reuse was made liberal. The taxpayer would pay once for the PSI with added value that would come from the private sector, and would pay nothing, as now, for the basic PSI offered by public sector information holders. And the fear of private monopolies? It's as if this problem never existed before and they do not know how to deal with it!Alex PetrovicLjubljana, SloveniaThere are a number of questions that could be asked, bearing in mind the experience of the past 10 years:&middot;What services should the government be delivering, end-to-end or in part?&middot;What has the government actually proved itself good and bad at delivering to date?&middot;What's the intersection between the two questions above?&middot;Given that as a result of answering the above questions an obvious focus should emerge, what other non-sensitive information could be made more available to other providers to use?ridiculousbird.wordpress.comPandora's boxOpening Pandora's box may not be a bad thing for Washington (Time to loosen your grip on the net, July 20). With the spectre of fragmentation through national internets looming, listening to its citizens may prove wise.http://rainierpr.blogs.comLine droppingI am by no means at the maximum distance from my exchange - though I am in a small village and the exchange is in the next larger one (Rural users lack aerial view, July 20).Before I signed up I was promised 512kbps, and at one point the line was even rated at 2Mbps. Despite several BT Wholesale visits, checks by my ISP, and internal rewiring and building in the micro-filters, I rarely get more than dial-up speeds. And I don't even get the "always on" service as my router drops the line most times my iBook goes to sleep.Colin CohenBarford St MichaelBring back trolleybusesSo London is getting spanking new hydrogen-powered electric buses to help Ken save the planet (The lighter route to cleaner air, July 27). Splendid! But they will probably still produce more CO2 per passenger mile than did the old electric trolleybuses, scrapped half a century ago, and they used coal-generated electricity. While there are any number of plans for improving urban traffic problems and cutting city-centre pollution by using trams or new hi-tech electric road vehicles, nobody talks about reintroducing trolleybuses. Is this because they are just not sexy enough, or is there some technical problem the public doesn't know about?Richard EllamBristolThe 1% ruleIf not for reading about the 1% rule (Newly asked questions, July 20), I might be a little discouraged. Nobody besides me has created or edited any content in the wiki. Of course, I've only announced it in two places - here in this blog and in one forum to which I belong. It's only about a week old.http://squirreltao.dreamfishery.comRed facesOn Thursday you misidentified the figure on the far right of the picture of Metallica (ISPs face the music over file sharing, July 20). It's not Kirk Hammett, but Jason Newstead.Nelson CookLondon&middot;The guy on the right of the picture is new bassist Robert Trujillo.Mark Hollis[It is indeed Trujillo. The caption came from the agency that supplied the picture - Tech. Ed]
A form of primordial slime combined with tissue engineering could hold the answer to preserving the fertility of women who have cancer - and even help preserve the lineage of rare racehorses and critically endangered mammalian species such as the Siberian tiger and Mexican wolf.The "slime", called alginate, is extracted from algae, and is being used by a team of fertility scientists from Northwestern University in Illinois in the US. "We have shown that alginate supports the development of female eggs for embryonic development," says Teresa Woodruff, the professor of neurobiology and physiology who led the study.Harmful drugsMr Richard Kennedy, consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, and a member of the development team, says that one of the benefits is that it avoids the need to stimulate the ovaries with drugs that may be harmful if the patient has breast cancer.Woodruff and colleagues aimed to develop a way to be able to allow immature eggs still within their follicle (the structures in the ovary where the egg develops) to grow outside the body, with the aim of preserving viable eggs. Culturing whole follicles in this way has previously proved very difficult. But, Woodruff points out, the work also has implications for threatened species: presently, only the male germline can be stored.The team has shown that follicles grown in alginate keep the connections between follicle and egg, leading to eggs that can be fertilised more easily, at least in mice.Significantly, the new technique could let immature human eggs from young women be frozen and stored, as sperm already can be. That would enable women being treated for cancer to keep their eggs in an egg bank, to be used later.Kennedy explains: "For women who require treatment that will jeopardise their fertility, such as chemotherapy, egg freezing has been recommended as a treatment, but to date has been very unsuccessful."Woodruff's team has been researching the field for nearly 20 years. Until now, scientists have put eggs into a plastic-based material as part of an almost two dimensional process. But scientists needed a material that allows the follicle to grow, move and change in shape as the egg grows just as it does in the human body; that is, they needed a substance that allowed them to work in three dimensions.Kennedy says their technique uses a three-dimensional template for the development of the follicle - which makes sense as the follicle is a three-dimensional structure. "Before, follicles have only been grown in vitro on a two-dimensional culture system, and hence have been much less successful. One of the benefits of this technique is that it avoids the need to stimulate the ovaries with drugs, which may be harmful."The researchers also needed to find a material that was not bioactive - that is, has no effect on living tissue. Woodruff says materials such as collagen - often used for breast implants - are not viable because they are bioactive.Keeping cells togetherLonnie Shea, another lead scientist into the research and a professor in the department of chemical engineering at Northwestern University, said: "Alginate is also useful because it keeps cells together and it allows for the follicle to be taken out at the end of the process.""We can also use another substance to degrade the alginate without any apparent harm to the follicle," he added.Other applications could prove promising for boys who have cancer. Although it is possible to preserve sperm, it has not been possible for boys before the onset of puberty. Stem cells could be used in these cases, though this is a long-term goal.The technology could also be used in the long term for nerve regeneration to treat paralysis and perhaps transplantation of certain cells for diabetics treatment.Conservationists and zoologists are hoping this research can be applied in their field sooner, to allow them to preserve the lineage of critically endangered species; especially when the numbers of a species are so low, as in the case of the Mexican wolf and Siberian tiger, that urgent action is necessary to save these animals from extinction.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
WGA or not WGAShould I install the Windows Genuine Advantage update - which has been downloaded? What would be the consequences of not downloading it?Caroline CopnallJack Schofield replies:This is a tricky one, because the update could (perhaps mistakenly) identify your copy of Windows XP as "not genuine", in which case Microsoft will send you "periodic reminders" to get a legal copy. I have installed WGA without problem, but it is optional, and requires you to agree to a "supplemental" EULA (End User License Agreement) which sends Microsoft "your Windows XP product key, hard drive serial number, PC manufacturer, operating system version, Windows XP product ID, PC BIOS information, user locale setting, language version of Windows XP, validation result and whether the installation of this supplement was successful". None of this identifies you personally, and it isn't really an invasion of privacy (seehttp://tinyurl.com/8dsfo), but it feels intrusive.If you are on the net, any website will know some of this information, and can probably find out more. You may have given an online supplier access to all your email, your address book, any text you create in an online word processor, and a record of your web searches - in which case, worrying about your hard drive serial number is probably not productive.The benefits of WGA are small. They include "free updates from Windows Update" - which are already free - plus various downloads and special offers, such as software discounts (http://tinyurl.com/6rq8e). The downloads include the beta versions of Internet Explorer 7 and Windows Defender, Windows Media Player 10, Photo Story 3 for Windows etc. There's nothing you can't live without.I expect Microsoft to tighten the noose on pirate software, so it becomes more difficult to operate a non-validated version of Windows. However, critical security updates will probably always remain free, because unpatched machines taken over for relaying spam and viruses hurt every Windows user, and therefore Microsoft, not just the PC's owner.Spoilt CDs and DVDsWhat will clean sticky finger marks off discs that no longer work after a child has handled them?Stanley RussellJS:A very small amount of mild soap and clean water will generally do the job. However, if it's a case of rescuing a number of non-working discs, it is probably worth buying a circular CD cleaning kit with a spray-on cleaning fluid - Maplin stocks one for &pound;2.99 - or a packet of moist disc wipes. As you'd expect, Mr Clean PC (www.mrpcclean.co.uk) offers a wide range of products.You should use a lint-free or microfibre cloth that won't leave fibres behind: an old well-washed hanky might do at a pinch, but don't use paper tissues, which are both abrasive and disintegrate. Also, make sure you don't grind any bits of grit into the disc surface. But even badly scratched discs can often be rescued using special machines that grind away a little of the surface. This is often a problem with PlayStation 2 discs so your local games shop may have a deal with a company that offers the service.Monitor sales pitchLooking at the dot pitch figures for monitor screens, does a higher figure indicate that the screen appearance is finer and more easily read, or is that a decreasing number?Frank JohnsonJS:The dot pitch of a monitor tells you the distance between pixels in millimetres, so smaller is better. A dot pitch of 0.28 offers more resolution than a dot pitch of 0.31. Alas, it's rarely quite that simple. First, some manufacturers quote "horizontal dot pitch" because this gives a smaller number (0.866 times smaller) than measuring the diagonal. Second, the dots on the screen are created by holes in a mask behind the screen, and some manufacturers quote the "mask pitch" instead - another smaller number. Third, you can't compare numbers between traditional monitors and Sony Trinitron-style models that use a mask with vertical stripes: this should be called a "stripe pitch". Finally, the dot pitch is an indication, but not a guarantee. A well-designed and well-made monitor will probably outperform an inferior model even if the dot pitch says otherwise. Dot pitch isn't a lot of help in choosing a monitor, but if you use it, make sure you are comparing like with like.Backchat&middot;Last week, I suggested Damn Small Linux as a version that would run on a low-power PC. On the Ask Jack blog, sjwells53 says the "easiest small distro to use in a transition from Windows 9x is Puppy Linux. This actually looks like Windows 98 and runs very well as a live CD. It also installs very easily - especially since version 2 appeared recently." Also, I should not have said that Damn Small Linux would run on a "Pentium 486DX". The Pentium was a 586, as its name implies, and the 486DX chip was used before Intel changed its naming strategy. Sadly, the Sextium, Septium and Octium signally failed to appear.
Easily, according to a test devised by Saeed Dehnadi and Richard Bornat at Middlesex University's school of computing. In a draft paper atwww.cs.mdx.ac.uk/research/PhDArea/saeed/they show that it takes only a three-line code example and a multiple-choice test to divide "programming sheep from non-programming goats", adding that it "predicts ability to program with very high accuracy before the subjects have ever seen a program or a programming language".Dehnadi and Bornat say teachers of programming often discover that class marks from exams form a "double hump" - as if there were two separate, overlapping populations with differing abilities."It is as if there are two populations: those who can, and those who cannot, each with its own independent bell curve," they comment. The first group includes 44% of people; the second, 39%. (There was also an 8% "no answer" group; the other 9% seem to have gone missing.)The three-line code question - a simple assignation of two variables in Java, after which the examinee was asked to state which value the variables would have, and why - proved sufficient, when tried on undergraduates before they started their computing courses, to sort out who would do well and who badly in the end-of-year exams, because it showed who would use a consistent mental model to work out how variables received a value, and who used more than one model. (Using multiple mental models is the way to programming madness, and failure.)But Dehnadi and Bornat may have discovered the secret to easing the pressure on computer science recruiters - and lecturers. Presently, reports suggest, between 30% and 60% of every university computer science department's intake fail the first programming course (though we can't find the source of the statistic).Removing the goats early on might help - and identifying programming sheep in all walks of life could steer them to a different career.Coming though as it does just two weeks after the British Computer Society called for more people to become programmers ("Should I think about becoming a programmer?", July 6), this draft paper might call into question the whole concept of just trying to recruit more people to computer programming courses. But the BCS numbers are worrying, showing a 50% drop in applications for computer-related degrees, a 60% drop in software engineering students and a 47% drop in systems engineering students. Let's hope the dropouts are all multiple-model goats.Perhaps the most intriguing point comes near the end: as Dehnadi and Bonat note: "Formal logical proofs, and therefore programs - formal logical proofs that particular computations are possible, expressed in a formal system called a programming language - are utterly meaningless. To write a computer program you have to come to terms with this, to accept that whatever you might want the program to mean, the machine will blindly follow its meaningless rules and come to some meaningless conclusion."True - but at least professional programmers get paid for it.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
End of Monopoly moneyAvoid piling up cash and use Visa-style debit cards instead. The new Electronic Banking version ofMonopoly costs &pound;24.99 - almost twice the usual price.Panda-friendly PCPlayEngine is selling an eco-friendly LCD screen with a bamboo surround. The bamboo is a hard variety, Gramineae monocotyledonous, which pandas don't eat.www.playengine.co.ukTourist RemoverFutureLab's online photo manager includes Tourist Remover, "which removes unwanted moving objects like tourists from photos" - if you have several shots of the subject.www.snapmania.comAre you covered?Feminists Against Censorship has started a blog, and is soliciting contributions for its next book, Come Quietly.http://tinyurl.com/opmxeN for goNokia, in Finland, says it has started shipping the N73 and N93 models in its "Nseries multimedia computer range". It will also open an Nseries studio "for people to upload and showcase their mobile short films".www.nokia.com/nseries/studioThumb-driven bookNext month, Clever-Stuff will start offering a 30-day trial version of the Concise Oxford Dictionary on its USB thumb-drives, to target the back-to-school market.www.clever-stuff.ieBig screenMitsubishi Electric has erected the world's largest high-definition video screen at a Tokyo horse racing track. It measures 11.2 metres (37 feet) high by 66.4 metres long, an area equivalent to three tennis courts. Price: &pound;15 million.Subject line of the centuryPR company BHPR came up with one of the best email subject lines seen here, when announcing a new Nintendo DS version of Taito's classic 1988 game. It read: New New Zealand Story Story.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Britain is threatening to kill at birth a project to simplify access to data crucial to the protection of Europe's land, air and water - unless it is modified to protect the interests of state-owned mapping agencies.Inspire (www.ec-gis.org/inspire/), a European directive, seeks to end the situation in which neighbouring countries cannot make plans to deal with common issues because their national geographical databases do not line up. These differences can be as basic as the height of sea level. For example, notes Dr Max Craglia of the European commission's joint research centre in Ispra, Italy, there is a two-metre difference between Belgium and the Netherlands in the official height of low tide - essential data for flood prevention. The anomalies multiply when many national agencies and tiers of government are involved, as can be the case when protecting stretches of coastline from damage.Inspire, which has been going through the EU's legislative process for two years, seeks to end such anomalies. It will require public bodies to make their "spatial information services" understandable and accessible among tiers of government and across national boundaries.Nearly everyone supports the idea. But making geographical data freely available would destroy the business model of agencies such as Ordnance Survey, which funds activities by making a "profit" on sales of maps and geographical data. The OS warns of the threat in its latest annual report, published on Tuesday.Charging policyThe government said this week it would support OS's right to set charges. Its position, which it claims has the backing of member states in the council of ministers, will lead to a clash with the European commission and parliament when the process of turning Inspire into law reaches its climax this autumn. Failure to agree could kill the whole initiative.Followers of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign will recognise a theme: the inevitable conflicts that arise when public bodies try to earn money from information resources gathered at public expense or with public resources. The campaign argues that such data should be made freely available for other public bodies to exploit and for private industry to turn into information products.The UK is unusually committed to charging users for data rather than funding its dissemination from taxation. One expert places Britain at the extreme end of the spectrum, while its system of crown copyright is unique in Europe.Concern about Inspire has been mounting in OS and its continental counterparts. In February 2005, Duncan Shiell, the OS's strategy director, warned MEPs that Inspire could be interpreted as banning the receipt of cash for cartographic work.Lobbying - through EuroGeographics, which represents mapping agencies - stepped up when the parliament's environment committee proposed amending the previously agreed directive to free up access to data. In June, the parliament voted for a series of amendments. Amendment 18 would prevent mapping agencies blocking access to data on the grounds that access would compromise intellectual property rights. Another said fees charged for accessing data should be limited to the cost of processing the request.Following the vote, the mapping agencies' lobbying escalated. Conservative MEP Geoffrey Van Orden warned of potential serious consequences for UK national security if information about maritime surveys was made freely available.A critic at the other end of the spectrum, Liberal Democrat MP Chris Huhne, said such concerns verged on pottiness. However, he called on the government to protect the business of OS, whose headquarters lie in his constituency.The UK government seems to sympathise with both criticisms. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, which is leading the UK's work on Inspire, said that while it supports the initiative, it has "some concerns". It will want to ensure that UK data trading policy is protected, that "any technical requirements are workable, proportionate and affordable" and that the directive "does not compromise national defence".Conflicting viewsAlthough the European council of ministers broadly supports Britain's position, it is in conflict with both the commission and the parliament. The directive now goes to a "conciliation process", which must be completed by the end of this year.A spokesman for the UK in Brussels said the UK would support Inspire, but only if it agreed with the final text. "Our position is firmly that it is up to member states to decide the level of charging."The implication is that Britain would be prepared to see the directive fall rather than compromise OS's commercial position.Craglia says he is confident that Inspire will happen. However, he detects other factors at work. While one third of Europe's population live in a transborder area, few Britons do. As a result, moves to harmonise data across borders have a low priority to the UK government.Christopher Corbin, a veteran critic of the trading fund model, puts it more bluntly. "It's the island nation mentality."&#183; What is Inspire?Inspire stands for "infrastructure for spatial information in Europe". It is a European directive that will require governments to make geographical data available more easily, in order to underpin common policies to protect the environment. The idea is to ensure that environmental data is collected to the same standards and scales across Europe and is freely available to all. Proposed in 2004 by the EC, the directive sets out five principles:&middot;Spatial data should be collected once, at the level best suited to the task;&middot;Data from different sources should be capable of being shared among many users and applications;&middot;All levels of government should have access;&middot;Data needed for good governance should be available on conditions that do not restrict its extensive use;&middot;It should be easy to discover which spatial data is available and under what conditions.Disagreements centre on the fourth condition. In effect, the European parliament says charging for geographical data restricts extensive use. The third arm of the European legislative process, the council of ministers, disagrees.If the disagreement can be settled by the end of the year, the Inspire directive will become law.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I had the delight last weekend of watching Johnny Depp swashbuckling through preposterous and perilous adventures in this summer's blockbuster, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest. Oh come on, it was that or Superman Returns; I'd already seen Hard Candy.Unfortunately, I realised too late that by taking part in this seemingly innocent Saturday night ritual, I was actually being played as a pawn in a media-wide conspiracy.Pirates, all two-plus hours of it, featured Action! Adventure! Romance! Amazing Effects! I don't think I blinked once between the opening and closing credits. I left the cinema charged up, craving sushi with a Ritalin chaser.Over squid nigiri, my friend and I decided that the film was poppycock, cornerstoned on three action scenes that had been devised by designers in Disney's computer games division. I'll bet a large jar of Valium that the writers were told they had no option but to work in the bit where the guy from Lord of the Rings battles the one from This Life on the escaped water wheel because it would transfer so easily to interactivity. I'm sure they also had to link that scene with the escape-from-the-cannibals section, as the Johnny Depp-on-a-spit sequence had already been programmed into the game's code.This isn't the first time this level of calculated inter-media symbiosis has occurred to me. When I can pry myself away from my consoles to watch the more passive forms of entertainment, I'm increasingly impressed with the effect the computer game industry has had on the storylines, action sequences and visual aesthetics of movies.Perceptive viewers can always tell the bits that were created for computer game adaptations: they are the ones that stick out like a poor plot device. Does the influence of hungry interactive merchandisers foretell the death of narrative cinema? Or, as the BBC Five Live film reviwer Mark Kermode suggests, are films such as Ice Age 2 already a symptom of the downfall from within?I'm curious about what non-gaming film reviewers think of the whole chunks of movie that are included in modern-day cinema because of their confluence with interactivity. Do they bemoan them as much as the discerning gamers who despair over the shoddy blockbuster tie-ins that dominate the games sales charts during the summer months? Are they even aware of them?After chewing over this theory, I felt confused and used: instead of watching a silly Saturday night flick, I had been forced to sit through a very long advertisement for a computer game.Pirates was a good romp, but my eyes have been opened to the machinations of the games-movies confederation.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In numerous advertisements, you are encouraged to buy an internet phone so you can make free calls to friends. Meanwhile, a gaggle of online programs such as Skype boast of the boon of online calls: they're free. But the UK's top law enforcement agencies don't see it the same way.The Guardian has learned that police and security agencies have been lobbying ministers and senior officials, expressing fears about the potential for voice-over-internet-protocol technologies to hide a caller's identity. Their aim? To get VoIP providers to monitor calls and find ways to identify who is calling whom - and even record them.Though enforcement agencies say their main concern is VoIP's inability to deliver a 999 service, sources counter that this is a smokescreen to cover police efforts to monitor calls and identify individuals - an agenda that becomes more credible in the light of submissions made by police to the communications regulator, Ofcom.One document, sent to Ofcom on May 3 by Detective Superintendent Stuart Macleod, outlined the worries of the Data Communications Group - a police and industry liaison body that reports to the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), Revenue and Customs, the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca) "and other law enforcement agencies"."At present, law enforcement agencies have great difficulty in tracing the origin of VoIP calls," wrote DS Macleod. "This poses significant threats to our democratic society and it is for this reason that the DCG believes that it must be mandatory for VoIP service providers to be required to retain adequate records in respect of calls made using this technology."Without these records, VoIP services will become the communication method of choice for criminals and terrorists, secure in the knowledge that their activities are untraceable by law enforcement agencies. If this situation is allowed to emerge because of inadequate regulation, then the DCG believes that ... criticism of government and those responsible for implementing regulatory controls will be huge."Acpo's submissions to Ofcom did not mince words, either, saying that Ofcom's considerations about the impact of VoIP appeared to have overlooked the issue of "how law enforcement and the security services will be able to respond to the demands and expectations of the public and government to trace and identify those who seek to harm our citizens, and who may seek to use VoIP services to propagate their activities by hiding behind a cloak of virtual anonymity".DS Macleod says the DCG has "grave concerns" about the approach to regulating VoIP services and that these have been "largely ignored".Ofcom's response: "Some of the issues raised are to do with privacy, and that is not within our ambit. Any application of the law in relation to peoples' records should be addressed to the Information Commissioner. Ofcom is not able to propose, recommend or make decisions on personal records." The Information Commissioner's office said that because the directive is still with the government - specifically, the Home Office - it had no comment.Since the emergence of the internet, the police and the government have wrestled with a technology that has eluded their best efforts to control it. Internet telephony has continued that trend.Under the exchange-based telephony system, the location of a phone is pinned to a geographical address and a record that a phone call had taken place is stored centrally. But with the internet that is no longer the case.The problem with VoIP, from a law enforcement perspective, is that it does not travel through an exchange. There is no simple way to catch the packets travelling over the internet, or even to link the 12-digit internet "IP addresses" between which a call travels online to any two people. Wireless routers can generate a one-time IP address that can be pinpointed to that wireless router, but - as in the case of a wireless hotspot - that will show only that the call was made from that router.Attractive propositionOne Soca officer told The Guardian: "It's another area where the technology has outstripped the legislation, the traceability and the powers that we have ... You could buy a smart phone or PDA that's wirelessly enabled that comes pre-loaded with &pound;10 of wireless credit on it, download a program like Skype and then start making calls anonymously, and that's got to be attractive to a criminal."New wireless phones, wireless-enabled smart phones and PDAs not only log on to Wi-Fi hotspots but make calls from any unlocked domestic wireless access point, making tracking them a nightmare. If they use a VoIP company they will at least leave a record of the IP addresses between which the call was made.Yet instant messaging systems such as MSN, Skype and Yahoo, which communicate directly between computers, leave no central recording of an IP address - something technology experts say police should recognise as they seek to impose "traceability" on VoIP companies."Some of the concerns over points like emergency calls seem genuine," said Dan Cole, the head of product portfolio for the internet service provider Thus, which offers VoIP services. "One of the benefits of VoIP is greater mobility: with regard to traceability we can search backwards and provide IP address data and find where a call came from, but it will mean storing a massive amount of data and providing access to that information and making it usable."But the big problem, and the one that people will have to face, is the free services like MSN and Skype and the fact that some providers are abroad and outside the UK's legislative framework."It is on this issue that the VoIP industry is crying foul, claiming there is a confusion between a responsible UK VoIP industry, whose services are governed by domestic regulations, and the use of VoIP technology at a global level."It's the very worst of all worlds," said Colin Duffy, the chief executive of Voipfone, which specialises in VoIP services for business. "This is bolting the front door so that your friends can no longer get in just because you happen to have a key and it makes you feel safer, whilst leaving the back door open to the world."The problems do not end there. One issue the police do not appear to have considered, according to a former intelligence officer, is how to make a criminal case using the data they want held by VoIP companies, as they will also have to find the IP information on any machine they seize to prove the machine made the call. The law does not make clear which data the police will need to prove a phone call was made.But not everything is going against the police. By 2010, internet telephony companies in the EC will be required by Directive 2006/24/EC to store details of internet phone calls, though not their content.Location-based serviceBy 2009, BT's 21st century network, developed in consultation with Ofcom and the government communications monitoring agency GCHQ, will be in place and will offer a full location-based service, though only for those using BT's VoIP services.However Matt Beal, BT's director of Core Convergence and Capabilities for the new network, admits there is a need for a more far-reaching solution in the long term."This is a new world and what we are talking about here is the evolution of an environment. We as an industry are working on solutions at the moment."According to experts at BT's Martlesham Heath research labs, the only real solution would be a complete overhaul of the routers that make up the internet backbone, an exercise they estimate will cost &pound;1bn."The network was never designed with identity in mind. When it was set up it was for the free and easy exchange of data."The industry has pledged its cooperation. "In relation to security matters and traceability and emergency access, VoIP has tremendous opportunities to bring more features than are available under the old network. This is the new means of communication across the world and it bring a new promise; a knee-jerk reaction would not be the most sensible approach and might not help the industry, consumers or the police themselves," said Eli Katz, chair of the Internet Telephony Service Providers Association.Whether that will suffice to keep the police happy is unclear. It could be a long, uneasy summer for VoIP providers.&#183; Government v technology: a brief history&middot;The advent of steam-powered road vehicles prompted the 1865 Locomotives on Highways Act, which required a man carrying a red flag to walk 50 metres ahead of a self-propelled road vehicle , and set maximum speed limits of 4mph in the country and 2mph in town.&middot;Early radio sets could be sold only after being government-certified (which saw them used principally by the military). The regulation was dropped due to mass evasion by the public, who bought freely available crystal sets.&middot;An early regulation on radio - quickly dropped - required all broadcasting to cease every 10 minutes to clear the airwaves for government use.&middot;The 1970s' craze for "Citizens Band" radio - despite its use being illegal - led to widespread flouting of the law. It was legalised in 1981.&middot;Encryption has always been treated as a potential weapon; the widespread adoption of the internet set the public on a collision course with the authorities. Since the 1920s the FBI has tried to prevent code-making technology reaching criminals and foreign powers. Authorities in the UK and the US eventually lost after Phil Zimmerman and a friend separately uploaded the source code for the encryption program Pretty Good Privacy to internet newsgroups in 1991.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
PCs are cheap today, and soon they'll be even cheaper, thanks to a price war between the two leading chip suppliers, AMD and Intel. Today's expected launch of Intel's next-generation Core 2 Duo range leaves AMD needing to halve the prices of many processors in order to stay competitive. And on Tuesday it did it, more than halving Athlon 64 prices.As described here before, Intel has been developing three 64-bit chips based on a new microarchitecture developed to replace the old Pentium NetBurst design. They have been code-named Merom (for notebooks), Conroe (for desktops) and Woodcrest (for servers).We have been looking forward to them because the new chips are faster than the Pentium 4, run more coolly and use less power. This should lead to systems that run more quietly, with less need for powerful fans, and to notebooks that are either cooler or thinner and offer better battery life. They also have virtualisation features to help run multiple operating systems at once, and support TPM (Trusted Platform Module) features that can be used to increase security.The wait is almost over. Woodcrest was launched a month ago as the Xeon 5100, with testimonials from Pixar Animation Studios and BMW, and support from more than 150 computer manufacturers. Conroe designs have already been tested by several magazines and start shipping in volume at the end of this month. Merom processors should be shipping by the end of August, according to Alistair Kemp, Intel UK's PR manager.For the past few years, AMD has enjoyed most of the bragging rights in the microchip market, particularly in high-end games machines (think Alienware) and multi-processor servers. AMD also led the way in extending the current 32-bit x86 design to 64-bits, forcing Intel to follow.But that's changing. Now Intel is claiming leadership in performance, price/performance and, particularly, performance per watt of power consumption. Independent tests from PC World magazine in the US and various websites seem to bear this out, and Tom's Hardware Guide concluded that AMD needed to cut prices by around 51% in order to stay competitive (http://tinyurl.com/kwcvm).On Monday, when THG reported receiving an AMD price list with price cuts averaging 47% in "strategically important" areas, it was no longer a surprise.Richard Baker, AMD's channel marketing manager for Europe, sounded surprisingly chipper about all this bad news. He didn't confirm the price cuts in detail but said Tom's Hardware was, "as always, fairly well informed" - and he claimed that, in most respects, Intel was actually responding to architectural changes AMD had already made. "We're more than happy with where we are."What about the significant price cuts Intel is introducing with the Core 2 Duo, which look like hurting AMD? Baker responds with a grin that Intel is cutting its own margins "and their financial results were worse than ours".Intel announced its latest quarterly financial results on July 19, and Wall Street gave it a beating. Intel's sales fell by 13% from $9.2 billion (&pound;4.9 billion) to $8 billion, while profits plunged by 57% from $2 billion to only $885 million, compared with the same quarter last year. Intel says it is shedding 1,000 managers to reduce bureaucracy, and more cuts could follow.This week, AMD has also bought ATI, one of the two leading suppliers of graphics processors, in a deal worth about $5.4 billion, subject to shareholder approval. ATI also makes support chips, so this will enable AMD to compete directly against Intel, which has built a healthy business around integrating graphics on motherboards.In the long term, the ATI acquisition is even more important, because graphics capabilities will be built into the processor itself, just as most memory caches and maths co-processors - once separate chips - are today.But for now, graphics processing is a brutal business: in the 2005 financial year, ATI made only $17 million profit on its $2.2 billion turnover. The company may also suffer when it stops being one of Intel's best buddies and is targeted as the division of a hostile enemy. If ATI staff are not prepared for that, I suspect they are in for a rude awakening.It's far from clear that AMD can do what its chief financial officer, Bob Rivet, suggested during the ATI takeover: break Intel's monopoly. However, in the short term, users can certainly look forward to increased competition in the PC market, bringing faster chips and faster PCs at even lower prices.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The outbreak of "broadband wars" in the UK - as big hitters such as Carphone Warehouse, Orange and BSkyB compete to offer us cheap or "free" internet access - is bound to boost this vital area of the economy. It will even help to fulfil one of the prime minister Tony Blair's long-forgotten promises (to the Labour Party Conference in 2004) to bring broadband technology "to every home in Britain that wants it by 2008". Of course, every house that wants it may still not be able to afford it because some households will still be too poor to buy a computer while others may live in a remote rural area that broadband has not yet reached - but at least the gap is narrowing.All this is great news, but the arrival of cheap broadband is not an unalloyed delight. Many new customers, seduced by low prices, are signing up to 18-month contracts with no idea about the quality of service if something goes wrong. Writing in his blog, Charles Dunstone, the head of Carphone Warehouse, says: "It is interesting to note just how many complaints were made by our competitors rather than customers!" But review sites on the web such as reviewcentre.com have plenty of complaints about non-arrival of the service and lack of backup when things go wrong. One hopes these are just teething problems caused by unexpectedly high demand, but they may also be related to the pressure to shave the cost of support services to ensure that the cut-price product is not loss-making. Prudent buyers should wait to see if the likes of Talk Talk and Sky can establish proper customer service before signing up for 18 months. BT is supposed to have fairly good backup - but this did not prevent me from having to wait almost two weeks before an engineer came to fix my broken connection this month.There is an added danger that price cutting by corporations with deep pockets could drive small providers out of business because they can't cross-subsidise with other, more profitable services such as television or voice calls.The only thing "free" about these latest broadband offers is the providers' freedom to call them free (though TalkTalk received a rap from the regulator last week). Even though the cost of broadband is falling towards commodity levels - and about time, too - the service still costs money, however much it is dressed up as costless in the package.Before the price cutting triggered by Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk pioneering low-cost service, broadband adoption in the UK was increasing by 70,000 customers a week (including those switching from dial-up). At this rate, when Ofcom releases new figures next month there will be around 12 million people with broadband even before the TalkTalk and Sky effect starts to make an impact. Broadband adoption in the UK was held back by BT's ill-advised attempts to prevent competitors from having equal access to its local exchanges and by its curious business plan of offering broadband in outlying areas only if enough people signed up for it. It was a bit like Cadbury's saying you could buy a bar of chocolate only if you could find 39 other customers.The good news is that Britain is fast becoming one of the broadband centres of the world, even though there are worries that some people may not be able to afford prices as low as &pound;8.99 a month.Fewer than 10 years ago, providers were reluctant to commit themselves to the cost of broadband because they couldn't see where the demand would come from. They don't say that now: it is becoming a vital medium to deliver music, television, online games, films and videos. YouTube.com announced last week that 100m videos were being downloaded each day from its servers. Not many people would have thought that possible a decade ago - yet the broadband age is only just beginning.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The Pirate Bay, a site based in Stockholm, is one of the last hubs for large-scale piracy using the peer-to-peer system BitTorrent. It doesn't just encourage piracy, it glories in it, offering a search engine to help users find pirated content, and it is closely associated with a political party that aims to make file sharing legal in Sweden (http://tinyurl.com/ef2rr). But its idealistic image has been dented by the investigations of a Stockholm newspaper, which has discovered that the company is making large sums from advertising.The Pirate Bay's founders, Fredrik Neij and Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, face prison sentences of up to two years if they are found to have profited from copyright violations. If they had run the site as a non-profit operation, precedent suggests they would have been only fined.Svenska Dagbladet, a Stockholm morning paper, claims the site is making tens of thousands of pounds every month from advertising: the firm that handles the site's Swedish business told the Guardian that the largest ads cost 200,000 SEK (about &pound;14,700) and that they had sold four of these, and a great many smaller ads in the last month. The price has risen in the past few weeks after the government's attempts to shut the site brought widespread publicity.Localised advertisementsThe Pirate Bay offers services in 20 languages, two of which are forms of Norwegian. When I was browsing, the ads were all relevant to my location of Cambridge, England, which suggests the ads are localised through different brokers for different locations.The Pirate Bay was briefly closed in May by a police raid, in which all its servers, and those of its mother company, PRQ Internet, were confiscated; users responded generously to an appeal to replace the servers. The appeal did not mention the site's ad revenues.The founders are already being investigated for criminal breach of the laws on copyright. The Pirate Bay's defence appears to be that it does not host the files it makes available: this need not happen because of the way the BitTorrent protocol works. It does not even host the tracker files that keep records of where and how the files are distributed across the net: all it does is maintain a database of trackers, using software written by Svartholm Warg. From the user's point of view, none of this matters: a dedicated Bit Torrent client such as Azureus, or even the Opera browser, will pick up a file from Pirate Bay as if it were an ordinary download, though usually much more slowly.Some BitTorrent sites distribute only legal material. The Pirate Bay is not one of them. I found a file that was not obviously copyrighted, but this took some effort. Everything else was. The files are arranged in areas including films, TV shows, music, games and applications. This tasty menu has produced more than one million users at any one time, who had access, last week, to more than 100,000 files.The site became famous for its mockery of lawyers' letters. As larger and more famous sites, such as the Slovenian Suprnova, were taken down by copyright owners, the Pirate Bay was left as the bastion of illegality. The only comparable large-scale source of copyrighted material is the Russian site Allofmp3.com, but it charges for music and doesn't offer software and video as BitTorrent sites do.The Swedish government has enacted the EU copyright directive, which makes file sharing a criminal offence, while at the same time spreading the means of file sharing by its encouragement of broadband. It is one of the most wired countries, with a high rate of broadband penetration. More than three million people - nearly half the adult population - have broadband at home, according to one recent survey; about one million broadband users share files, mostly of music.On a recent trip, I could get decent, usually free, wireless connections almost everywhere, including at one gold-prospecting camp high above the Arctic circle where even mobiles didn't work.Add to that a very high rate of youth unemployment and a tradition of cheap recorded music, and the result is a large number of people who believe that file sharing is, or ought to be, legal. There is even a political party standing in September's election on a programme of free downloading for personal use and a reform of the copyright laws.Under pressure from their youth organisations, almost all the political parties are suggesting that copyright lawsshould be reformed to make file sharing legal. They see an issue that appeals to first-time voters who don't seem to care about anything else very much. The only party not making these noises is the largest, the Social Democrats, which could be evicted in what is predicted to be a very tight contest.HindranceThe copyright laws seem to have hindered rights owners more than file sharers. On the net is a memorandum from H&aring;kan Roswall, the prosecutor in this case, who argues that Swedish copyright law does not protect American films as it does not recognise the concept of "work for hire", under which the people who work on them are deemed, in American law, to have handed over their copyrights to the studio. Only computer programs are protected in that way under Swedish law.In the absence of explicit assignment, the copyright on an American film is shared - in Sweden - among the director, the cameraman and even the scriptwriter: anyone, in fact, but the producers urging the prosecution of file sharers.The Washington Post reported last month that it had been American pressure on the Minister of Justice, Thomas Bodstr&ouml;m, that led to the raid on the Pirate Bay's servers in late May. Under another quirk of Swedish law, it would have been a crime if he had instructed the police to raid the company: under the constitution, ministers set strategy, not tactics, for civil servants. He has denied doing any such thing.The site was down for only only three days, before reappearing with a new banner showing the pirate ship firing at a banner labelled "Hollywood". Two websites have since appeared that claim to offer insurance against being charged for file sharing: they offer to pay any fines. One, Delaut.se, offers a year's protection for just over &pound;10. The maximum fine for file sharing is about 250,000 SEK (&pound;18,400).Given the slow speed of the Swedish justice system, the founders of the Pirate Bay are unlikely to be charged before the autumn. But their experience has pointed up a deep paradox. Both the broadband wiring of Sweden and its signing up to strict international copyright laws were carried out by governments which believe that the country can only be rescued by market-driven growth. Instead, it has led to the discovery that there is a huge global market in illegal software. And it won't be idealists who supply it.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Titan QuestPC, &pound;34.99, 3 starsTitan Quest, with its isometric, Greek mythology-saturated gameplay, really wants to be Diablo 3. But in their desire to make it so, the developers have stuck so closely to the formula of Blizzard's wrist-pain-inducing hack 'n' slash, that it's barely Diablo 2.5. That is not necessarily a bad thing. It's very solid, if a little unremarkable, the graphics are gorgeous and it almost buzzes the same part of the brain that the aforementioned managed to do so successfully. Where it doesn't hit the mark is in its balancing and level design. Levels go on and on, with no real purpose. There are vast amounts of useless loot drops, yet weapon upgrades are scarce. There's plenty to keep you occupied for hours, but what starts off fun can rapidly become a chore.RPPreyXbox 360, PC, &pound;39.99Human Head/2K Games, 3 starsThis first-person shoot-'em-up suffered from one of the most protracted development periods in videogame history, but was keenly anticipated. Sadly, although it stands out from the first-person shooter crowd, it fails to satisfy. It contains interesting ideas - a native American sub-plot that sees you shooting wraiths with arrows when you die and turning into a ghost to solve puzzles; artificial gravity walkways that let you stroll up walls and along ceilings; gravity buttons that turn walls and ceilings into floors; and much more. But its kitchen-sink approach lacks coherence and often breeds confusion. Even the art direction is patchy - the parts of the spaceship that resemble a giant intestine are thrillingly squelchy, but there are too many dark, shiny metallic areas. And the shooting, despite decent weaponry, borders on the tedious thanks to useless AI.SBLord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2Xbox 360, &pound;39.99Electronic Arts, 3 starsReal-time strategy games (RTS) are usually the preserve of PC owners who have the mouse, keyboard and patience to effectively manipulate the miniature armies at their disposal. But Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2 bucks the trend by releasing on the Xbox 360, complete with high-definition support, achievements and all the console stylings. And it nearly works, too. The graphics, on an HD screen at least, are equal to the detailed PC original, while the strategy action offers a unique console experience. Online is a treat, too, with the lengthy battles offering 360 owners a rare use of brains. Unfortunately, the fiddly controls hinder enjoyment, with the pad often as much a foe as the orc on screen. Also, the game demands an HD screen - units can become indistinct on older TVs. PC owners are better off buying their version, but curious console owners should not be put off. Middle Earth 2 offers welcome variety to the Xbox 360.GH&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apparently not. While some people suspect that the failed energy broker was the real reason for power "brownouts" in California between November 2000 and May 2001 (and it was at least a contributor), the state has once more been suffering a shortage of distribution capacity - and this time the crooked company isn't there to blame.Among the casualties earlier this week was MySpace.com, whose servers in Los Angeles collapsed due to record-breaking temperatures, in turn leading to peak electricity demand overloading the distribution network. MySpace.com was off the air for half a day.California set a new record for energy demand earlier this week, consuming 46,561 megawatts in mid-afternoon on Monday. That left it with 7,000MW of spare capacity - a 15% margin.High temperatures in the state led to high power demands for air conditioning, which overwhelmed ageing plant in the distribution network. Some sections of the transmission network were built in the 1920s and 1930s, and the line-to-home transformers (which reduce voltages) are too small to handle the power demands of modern houses."When these transformers were installed, you had neighbourhoods that weren't air-conditioned, homes without two computers and five television sets," Ron Deaton, the general manager of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, told the Los Angeles Times.California's governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, tried to terminate the excessive use of power by ordering state agencies to turn off unneeded equipment and cut power use by a quarter. But it hasn't been enough. The state-wide heatwave is the most intense since 1998 and has led to a total demand for electricity 40% higher than in the 2001 energy crisis.It's an exceptional summer. Some parts of the state are experiencing temperatures that would be expected, on average, only every century, according to Joseph Desmond, deputy secretary for energy at the California Resources Agency.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft recently announced a "Pay as you go" scheme whereby buyers pay for half the PC, and then a small amount per hour of use. After an agreed period of usage, they would own the PC. It was tested in Brazil and Microsoft intends to run the scheme in several developing countries, including India.But can it work? The idea of "free" - that is, subsidised - PCs is theoretically viable, according to David Bradshaw, an analyst at UK research firm Ovum. "Given the way computer prices are dropping, and that mobile handsets can now be worth up to &pound;200, I don't see why this is not going to happen," he says.He believes such a scheme could take off in the broadband market: while Carphone Warehouse, Orange and Sky offer "free" broadband (with tie-ins), broadband suppliers could try offering "free PCs" with their services, he points out.The idea of giving away PCs is not new, as Croydon photographer David Juster knows. In late 2003 Juster was one of many Britons hoping to receive a free PC from a startup company called Metronomy, which set up a scheme to send a free IBM PC to 200,000 UK customers. In return, users had to use the machines for at least 30 hours a month, and watch three minutes of advertising per hour of usage.Logical stepJuster says he was not wary of the concept. "I used to work in advertising, so it seemed a logical thing to do," says Juster. His only concern was that the PC was for his 12-year-old son. "I knew I would have to monitor the type of advertising."However, instead of a PC, in April 2004 Juster received an email from Jacco van Seventer, Metronomy's customer operations director. Although the scheme had attracted thousands of people, the compnay was concerned that people were applying for the machines simply to sell them on. This was just one of several potential problems with the Metronomy idea. Another was that users unwilling to buy a &pound;500 PC were unlikely to spend the kind of money that would attract the advertising needed to underpin the scheme. In the end, Metronomy sent out a few test PCs in 2004 and went out of business soon after.But Metronomy's demise has not convinced van Seventer, now running an IT disposal business in Manchester, that the approach was flawed. "We had the advertisers on board and we just needed more of an investment. No one took us seriously enough to take it to the next step."Terry Fisher, a former chairman of Huddersfield Town FC and now managing director of travel firm Gold Medal, was one of Metronomy's financial backers. He blames its demise on problems with its computer supplier, IBM. "That relationship was always going to be difficult. But the management and the concept were sound."Although no one in the UK appears to have received a free PC as a result of the Metronomy scheme, similar schemes were tried in the US, where software developer Rob Whelan did receive one.In 1999, when he had just left college and was earning very little money, Whelan signed up with a company called Free-PC.com. The company was offering free PCs, paid for by advertising. "The whole process went pretty much the way I thought it would," says Whelan.Penny pinchers"A lot of penny-pinchers like I was at the time filled out the questionnaire hinting that we might have plenty of disposable income. The PCs arrived in the mail, with their flashing ads and frustratingly small usable screen areas, and we pretty much sat around waiting for the company to go out of business. I know I never bought anything. Sure enough, Free-PC folded and I got my free, low-end PC, without the ads, so I could finally start putting it to use."David Juster's son never did receive his free PC and nor did thousands of other subscribers to the scheme.Perhaps Microsoft will find an effective way to "give away" PC hardware in the manner of mobile handsets or razors. For there's one thing you can be sure of - nobody's going to get a free machine by waiting for Microsoft to go out of business.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's the middle of a heatwave, but computers across the country are freezing. "A customer called to report that his laptop computer kept stalling," recounts Robin Daunter, of the PC manufacturer Evesham. "He'd been using it in bed, on top of the duvet. This blocked the underside air vent, causing the processor to overheat. When that happens, the computer can freeze."Computer processors have a maximum safe internal operating temperature, set by chipmakers. Manufacturers install an arrangement of heatsinks (miniature radiators), cooling fans and air vents to keep temperatures well below a processor's published heat-tolerance level. If the design is faulty, or a vital vent is blocked, the processor can suffer heat damage. Other components are not immune, either.Intel, which makes most of the cental processing units used in desktop and notebook computers, defines "typical office room" temperature as 22C (71.6F). With major manufacturers specifying 35C as their computers' maximum ambient operating temperature, anyone not in an air-conditioned workspace should keep tabs on the temperatures inside their machines. An overheating microchip may halt itself, to prevent damage.The temperature at which "warm" becomes "too warm" isn't fixed. A brand new AMD Turion 64 processor can safely tick over at up to 95C internally; older Intel Pentium III chips are at risk above 60C.Simon Crisp, the chief tester with VNU Labs, explains: "Heat generation and dissipation must be in balance. But trying to work out exactly how much heat a heatsink and fan package can remove from the processor is complex. What's important is that any rise in the ambient temperature can be balanced by the cooling equipment. Some fans have variable speed controls."To be effective, a heatsink and fan must be able to dissipate a processor's maximum heat output (in watts), while preventing it from exceeding the recommended "maximum safe internal operating temperature". To aid this calculation, heatsink and fan packages generally carry a "thermal resistance" rating, expressed as degrees Celsius per watt (or C/W). A package with a rating of 1C/W will itself rise in temperature by 1C for each watt of heat dissipated, thus limiting the processor's temperature rise.So if the ambient temperature is 22C and a 1 C/W heatsink and fan package is attached to a processor giving off 60W, the processor and package will be 60C above the ambient temperature - ie 82C. To calculate if your processor is at risk of overheating, you need to know how many watts it gives off, its maximum safe internal operating temperature, the ambient temperature and the thermal resistance rating of the cooling apparatus.A more pragmatic approach is to check that the processor isn't getting worryingly hot. AMD reckons that "a typical reading from a [processor's temperature sensor] is expected to be around 60-65C or lower".Modern computers are dotted with temperature sensors but the readings are not always easily accessible. Try a free software tool such as SpeedFan (tinyurl.com/d0y1), which provides temperature monitoring from Windows. Apple Mac owners can try Temperature Monitor (http://tinyurl.com/ggnlg).If reports point to over-warm components, then take action. Replacement heatsink and fan packages are available, but fitting can be complex. Laptop users could try a simple heat-dissipating device such as Antec's NoteBook Cooler (&pound;31,http://tinyurl.com/ojl23). For desktop computers, Crisp recommends simple checks and maintenance: "Clean all the fans, including inside the case ... Compacted dust reduces a fan's efficiency."&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Motorway service stations are the leaders when it comes to using proximity detectors. Their toilets are temples to the art. You no longer have to grip a handle to flush because you can just wave regally at the button on the wall. To make the tap run, you gesture at the black window embedded in the monobloc fitting. And to dry your hands - well, the dryer knows you're there, right? It's got second sight. It's firing a beam of phlogiston packets at you, or something.Except, in my case, it often fails to acknowledge my presence. I stand there, dripping. I waggle my fingers under the spout hopefully, while some other poor traveller tries to wake the tap. I try the next dryer on the wall, thinking about the evil geniuses behind the ubiquitous World Dryer company of Berkeley, Illinois. I wonder who modelled for the graphic of the man receiving a hot blast in the face, and whether I've seen him in the TV hospital on Holby City. I know the dragon's in there, but it won't breathe on me.I suppose hand dryer failure isn't a huge crisis. But I maintain that it can be dangerous in certain circumstances - I'm thinking in particular of Membury services on the M4. Stroll into their Marks &amp; Spencer Simply Food with wet hands and you risk serious frostbite. I think they're keeping a glacier in there.I sometimes have to check that I'm showing up properly in mirrors, because proximity detectors all too often make me feel like I don't exist. Glass doors that are supposed to part with that lovely blmmmph sound remain closed to me. Maybe I walk too quickly. Maybe shopkeepers just don't want me in their stores, with my wet hands and air of paranoia.Oddly enough, when the sun goes down I have the reverse effect on the sensors in my neighbourhood. Many people seem to have their security lights on the "shoot first, ask questions later" setting. I can light up the whole street just by putting the recycling box out.If proximity detectors were really any good then they'd be fitted to all cars and you'd be able to park with your eyes shut. You'd have them sewn into your hat and be able to turn the corner smartly when anyone on your non-buddy list dropped into range. The good people at Membury would know I was coming and have my wine gums out on the counter ready for me. And there wouldn't be a Mexican wave-style travelling light show across all our patios every time a fox makes his rounds.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Chris Anderson's bookThe Long Tailhas been a phenomenal success, hitting the top spot on Amazon, so it's hardly surprising that there have also been negative reactions. The Wall Street Journal has just taken a potshot, and has been smart enough to make it one of "today's free features", thus generating a ton of comment around the blogosphere.In the WSJ, Lee Gomes writes thatIt May Be a Long Time Before the Long Tail Is Wagging the Web, and the story provides a link to Anderson's rebuttal:The Backlash, Chapter 1(or Factchecking my ass).Gomes makes one basic point, which is roughly that Anderson has overstated the economic value of the tail. This may well be true. Anderson's response is, roughly, that Gomes has misunderstood the statistics, which also seems to be true. But the plain fact is that there isnodefinitive division between the head and the tail, there's just one long powerlaw curve (above), and you can try to prove whatever you like by making an arbitrary division and moving it around. How many angels on the head of a pin, again?The problem with the argument is that it misses the point. The Long Tail is making an impact because it is a powerful idea that provides us with a new(ish) way of looking at the world. Copernicus did the same thing for many people when he pointed out that the earth went round the sun, not vice versa, though no planetary bodies were physically moved in the process. (Of course, The Long Tail isn't that significant: my point is that it involves a mental rather than a physical shift.)Whether you can make a profit and/or change the world using the long tail idea is another matter. It's very clearly profitable for Google, because its revenues come from a vast long tail of small text ads not from selling big flashy expensive banners to Nike, Coke, BMW and other major league advertisers. It's clearly of some benefit to iTunes because it can sell more than a million songs that a physical record store would never have room to stock -- but the cost of digitising, storing and listing a song is not zero, so its long tail cannot extend to infinity. Amazon and Netflix are also long tail businesses, with an even greater limitation on the length of the tail, and so on. And, of course, there are plenty of businesses that are not long tail at all....Now, clearly, there have been long tail business before -- the Sears Roebuck catalogue is an example -- but it's an idea whose time may have come because of the Internet. If you have low or zero origination costs and low or zero distribution costs then you can offer many more products, and that really does mean -- as Anderson claims -- that the cumulative value of lots of slow-selling items (the tail) can be significant, relative to the value of large numbers of sales of a small number of products (the head).The hits have value -- they always did. But the misses now have a potential value that they didn't have before, because they were too expensive to stock, sell or distribute. Whether that value is 25% or 50% or 125% isn't really worth arguing about, because it's going to different for different products in different industries in different countries at different times, and so on.The long tail isn't Boyle's Law, it's an observation. Its significance is that it helps people understand the value of companies such as Google, Amazon, eBay, Netflix and so on, and blogs and Wikipedia and other net-based developments. And it's important not to lose sight of the concept while quibbling about the details.Update: Nicholas Carr is hosting an excellent reply:Lee Gomes responds to Chris AndersonUpdate 2: There's also a cartoon...
ModelChrysler 300C CRD TouringPrice&pound;27,275Top speed136 mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.6sConsumption34.9mpg (combined)Emissions215g/kmAt the wheelDick CheneyOn the stereoWaylon JenningsEn route forTuscaloosaThey'd rather walkOsama bin LadenLordy, but the Chrysler 300C Touring is one massive estate car. At more than 16ft long and around 6ft wide, its dimensions would shame a Virgin Rail buffet carriage, and the vehicle would seem huge even if its cosmetic styling didn't expressly emphasise that hugeness. There's nothing shy, for example, about that thick, steak-fed front grille - a radiator you could strap a moose to, if ever there was one.It may not have escaped your attention that Chrysler is, originally, an American company. It certainly wouldn't escape your attention that this was the case if a 300C bore down at speed on you as you crossed the road. The 300C couldn't seem more American if it had David Hasselhoff's head for a hood ornament.Of course, these days Chrysler Motors is bundled up with Mercedes and is a European concern, too. Far from having been flown in from Detroit, the 300C is built at Graz in Austria. Still, you'd never know. Pick a detail: the optional "authentic California walnut wood accents"; the foot brake and its dash-mounted release lever; the spongy ride; the particular "bong" noise that the car makes when the door is open and the key is in the ignition; the fact that the scale of the car would make it a handy business tool for anyone contemplating regime change in their neighbourhood - all these things mean that you know where you are with a 300C, which is somewhere north of Hattiesburg on the I-59.Nice job with the tailgate, though. As you stand at the back, the rear door slopes away from you, hingeing well in advance of the back bumper, thereby removing the need for the traditional estate car owners' folk dance, wherein you must take a dainty step back as you release the catch, or end up lumping yourself on the chin with the door's bottom lip.What Chrysler is keen to clarify is that, for all the European partnership with Mercedes and the facility-sharing that follows from it, the 300C Touring is very much its own item, and not something desperately rustled up using old bits of the outgoing Mercedes E-class (itself a ferryboat among estate cars). The 300C is built on an entirely new platform and shares with Mercedes-Benz cars only some of its electrics and an automatic gearbox. (If you were going to share anything with a Mercedes, an automatic gearbox would, surely, be right up there.)You could argue that the confusion was never likely to arise, because Mercedes has never built anything as odd-looking as the 300C Touring. Its rear windows, for instance, could have been cut from some kind of light aircraft, while the huge tyres and fattened wheel rims put one in mind of something more agricultural in purpose.From certain angles the 300C looks like a sports utility vehicle after something fell on it from a great height. And what with the luxury fittings (the twin-zone climate controls, the leather-wrapped steering wheel) and the C300's plain, thudding mass, it also seems to be stalking the line between a white-collar company car and a Blue Mountain pickup truck. You are torn between using it to ferry yourself from meeting to meeting and slinging a rack of rifles in the back and going bear-hunting.Whatever your impressions, you've got to hand Chrysler some credit for bringing a tangible measure of excitement and difference to the estate car sector - a traditionally yawn-inducing area of the market - and especially for doing so these days, when the estate deserves all the support it can get, as an alternative roomy option for people who might otherwise buy an SUV.One can see how the thought processes might work for a certain kind of customer. You have manfully owned up to yourself that have you reached a point in your life where you need an estate. You have thought long and hard about buying a Volvo V70, but, finally, the sheer, unadulterated Swedish sensibleness of the idea has defeated you. At which point, your eyes alight upon the C300 with something approaching gratitude and relief: an estate car you can buy, safe in the knowledge that you are getting a vehicle that fulfils all the dull, practical criteria, but is, at the same time, clearly as mad as a bag of snakes.Still, looking out on the C300 Touring parked (most of it) on my drive, I couldn't help but think back ruefully to all the reasons a tourist used to have for being excited about going to America, but which have been worn away by culture's inexorable march. Multi-channel television, Starbucks, cheap CDs, and now huge cars with stonking great grilles on them - one by one, they all go, you know.
Digital naysayersMetallicahavefinally decidedto bite the bullet and put their music up at iTunes. This won't make much difference to most surfers who refuse to dabble with a bit of classic heavy metal... but it is likely to irritate IT journalists who use Metallica as their favourite poster boys for the luddite end of the music industry. Why, it was onlylast weekthat I used this hoary old standard myself. Dang!
Trouble's a-brewing on the net between Jason Calacanis - the founder of Weblogs, Inc - and the beer-chugging brains behind popular vote-for-the-news websiteDigg.Things started when Calacanis, in his new job heading Netscape.com, decided to switch the site over to a Digg-style effort where users bookmark stories and then vote for the ones they like to get more prominence. This made Digg a bit itchy, by all accounts - particularly when Calacanis said he'd offer$1000 a monthto the best bookmarkers from other sites if they'd work for Netscape.Digg's founders got shirty and Kevin Rose called the Netscape offer"a clever PR stunt"and slagged off Calcanis in the site's video podcast, DiggNation. Calacanis, suddenly assuming the moral high ground,explained his thoughtsand said he was"saddened that Kevin has reduced it to personal attacks".OK, so it's that is only just about threatening to spill out of its teacup. But it does all revolve around the wider questions of the next-generation web - particularly the one thing a lot of people seem to ignore... money. Is it right to pay people?News organisations pay their own content contributors (we're called journalists) but the general principles of Web 2.0 likes things to be a bit more, well, inexpensive. When I spoke to Yahoo's man-with-a-plan Bradley Horowitzlast year(he's the one who has encouraged the purchase of Flickr, Delicious et al) I asked him if in some ways social software wasn't just a clever ruse to make users do all the hard work.Jay Adelson of Digg told MediaShift's Mark Glaser (who has a great summary of the whole story)that he'd never pay users:"The way I would show my appreciation would be to never give them more power, more features than another user has. It might be something like a T-shirt, it might be a rating that they can show other users, but it has to be a level playing field.""This particular tension between Digg and Netscape.com is clearly about rivalry, but does paying contributors break the tenets of Web 2.0?Update:First time round on this post I managed to spell Jason's name wrong every time. Clearly it's time for a lie down.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Google Inc said on Tuesday that the company has begun offering mobile phone users in more than 30 major US cities the capacity to view highway maps with 'live' traffic data," reportsReuters."Highway traffic information is sent to the phone, with road conditions highlighted in three colors: -- red for congested, yellow or orange for slowdowns, and green for smooth sailing."As the story notes: "Rival Yahoo Inc offers live traffic conditions on its computer-based map service, but it does not yet provide a mobile phone version for Yahoo maps."Comment: I can't decide if this is a good idea or an evil one, and I'm not sure whether it has a point. If you are going to check the traffic before setting off, you're better off doing it on a big PC screen. If you want traffic info while on the move, the various satnav systems do a far better job, and they are generally designed to be operated safely while you're driving. Why not use one of those?It seems to me that anyone who wants to look up the traffic conditions using Google maps on the average smartphone is most likely going to have to pull over, run a Web browser and cope with both fiddly controls and a very small screen. This is a dramatically worse option than a satnav system that permanently displays the route and can give voice warnings of traffic conditions. Even worse, there may be people who are so stupid they don't pull over to look uphttp://google.com/gmmon their phone, and end up killing themselves and perhaps somebody else.Update: Ahem, just noticed our news desk has covered the storyhere.
PlayStation is the USA of videogame brands: it has risen to a position of global dominance by being all things to all people, but now there's a growing sense that it should be taken down a peg or two. Currently, games sites around the world are feverishly commissioning lengthy opinion pieces on Sony's imagined fall from grace. And having already exhausted references to PS3's expensive architecture, ambitious price point and late arrival, pundits are looking around for more signs of doom and destruction. Failing that, they're adding apocalyptic spin to harmless non-stories.Recently, for example, there's been a push to show how developers are rebelling against the Sony hegemony by withdrawing PS3 from their multi-platform plans. Yesterday, Ferrago ran a story entitled,"PS3 SmackDown Cancelled", in which THQ revealed that, in fact, the PS3 version had beendelayeduntil 2007.Also appearing yesterday was a story on IGN declaring"Crave Isn't 'All In' on PS3". This could easily be interpreted as a suggestion that Crave is pulling out of PS3 development - as a result, the piece quickly leapt into the Top Ten most read stories on the games news aggregator site, Game Tab. It transpires however, that the article is about a mistake on the website of theEntertainment Software Rating Boardwebsite listing poker sim, World Championship Poker: Featuring Howard Lederer "All In", for PS3 release."A representative speaking on behalf of Crave told us that the developer was covering its bases in case it had decided to port the game to Sony's next-gen console, but as of now, no PS3 version is planned," explains the reporter of his soporific scoop.This is all perfectly natural. Summer is always a slow few months in the games industry and with no live Next Gen battle taking place, internet writers are forced into desperate measures to keep those page impressions ticking over. PS3 is an easy target.The question is, will these nudges at the PlayStation foundations provide the cracks that many are seemingly desperate for? Or is this just bitter fodder for the Sony-hating converted?
"OpenDarwin was originally created with the goal of providing a development environment for building and developing Mac OS X sources as well as developing a standalone Darwin OS derivative. OpenDarwin was meant to be a development community and a proving ground for fixes and features for Mac OS X and Darwin, which could be picked up by Apple for inclusion in the canonical sources. OpenDarwin has failed to achieve its goals in 4 years of operation, and moves further from achieving these goals as time goes on. For this reason, OpenDarwin will be shutting down," saysopendarwin.orgComment: This is sad but hardly surprising. OS X is basically just another proprietary fork of one of the Berkeley BSD versions of Unix --Wikipediacites "Sun's SunOS, Sequent's Dynix, NeXT's NeXTSTEP, DEC's Ultrix and OSF/1 AXP (now Tru64 UNIX)" as examples, and OS X is based on NextStep. I've never understood why anyone would devote their open source efforts to one of these sterile branches, which exist only for a commercial company's gain, rather than supporting FreeBSD, OpenBSD (etc) or even theGPL-protectedGNU/Linux.
Dear Matt,I have recently had a carpal tunnel operation. The physiotherapist thinks the damage to my hand is because I have been putting too much weight on my arms, and that I made it worse by riding a man's bike with drop handlebars whose reach is too long for me.I want to buy a new bike and intend to spend about &pound;500. I have a 10-mile round trip to work through central London - and the road surface is diabolical. What style of bike would you recommend?Tal Machover, via emailYour physio sounds right: you have, in effect, a repetitive strain injury. Five hundred quid is a nice budget for a bike, but what you absolutely must get is good fitting and sizing from the shop you buy it from. Given your length of journey through traffic, your hands need to be near the brakes the whole time, so straight bars would be best. But you want something light and fast, so I'd say you need a road bike with flat bars (with good-quality grips).Final tip: try some Pilates-style core-strength exercises. The more your torso supports itself, the less strain there is on your arms.
I'm about to execute a U-turn. The rule for making such a manoeuvre, of course, is that you look over your shoulder carefully. In this case, however, I suspect no precaution will prevent me from being run over by a juggernaut of angry correspondents.It was a few months ago, sadly, in the wake of a young woman having been knocked off her bike and killed, that I wrote about listening to music while riding. The media had seized on the unhelpful speculation - even as the inquest was adjourned - of a "friend" of the unfortunate woman that listening to her iPod may have been a contributory factor.The dangers of iPod-listening while cycling is a favourite theme of mid-market newspapers, for whom it is so perfect a cautionary tale it might have been penned by Hilaire Belloc ("Dorothy, Who Listened to her iPod whilst Bicycling, and was Squashed by a Motorcar"). It is true that the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents cautiously advises against cycling while "distracted by music", but surely a double standard is being applied: when did we read a story about the menace of music-listening motorists?But to get to my U-turn: I didn't come down against iPod-listening because it's dangerous. The jury is still out on that. The two conclusions I draw from my experience are, first, that you do not lose all your ambient hearing, and second, that you can compensate for any hearing deficit by extra visual checks. Instinct tells me that I am marginally increasing the risk by listening to music, but that it is within my power to adjust for that.I came out against iPod-listening because, I said, it cuts you off from fully being in the world. In retrospect, this argument strikes me as flaky and specious - not least because a lot of my cycling is a solipsistic activity anyway.But the real reason for my U-turn came last week as I arrived at work. I was riding behind a colleague: we both made beautiful hand signals when we turned into a sidestreet, and again as we wheeled into the cul-de-sac behind the office. As we locked our bikes (and I took out my earphones), she asked: "Did you hear that cab driver?" "No, what did he say?" " 'You should have to pay road tax!' " Just because we had slowed him down momentarily - despite our exemplary road manners.If I had heard such stupid abuse, I would almost certainly have got into a fruitless shouting match, with the result that I would have spent the next hour at my desk trying to quell my adrenalised rage. Frankly, it made my day that I'd been listening to Keith Jarrett instead.&#183;On Your Bike! The Complete Guide to Cycling by Matt Seaton is published by Guardian Books, price &pound;16.95. To order, call 0870 836 0749, or visitguardian.co.uk/bookshopand get free p&amp;p.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,I have recently had a carpal tunnel operation. The physiotherapist thinks the damage to my hand is because I have been putting too much weight on my arms, and that I made it worse by riding a man's bike with drop handlebars whose reach is too long for me.I want to buy a new bike and intend to spend about &pound;500. I have a 10-mile round trip to work through central London - and the road surface is diabolical. What style of bike would you recommend?Tal Machover, via emailYour physio sounds right: you have, in effect, a repetitive strain injury. Five hundred quid is a nice budget for a bike, but what you absolutely must get is good fitting and sizing from the shop you buy it from. Given your length of journey through traffic, your hands need to be near the brakes the whole time, so straight bars would be best. But you want something light and fast, so I'd say you need a road bike with flat bars (with good-quality grips).Final tip: try some Pilates-style core-strength exercises. The more your torso supports itself, the less strain there is on your arms.
In yesterday's discussion about games suitable for a Gamesblog online sesh, several readers mentioned Rockstar's Table Tennis sim. Those who have had their interest in the title piqued by this may be interested to know that the publisher is shoving a demo on the Marketplace this afternoon at 1pm.Currently, I'm still favouring Ghost Recon for Xbox 360 and have lots of industry insiders ready to join in. For PC, I think Battlefield 2 is a shoe-in. I'm hoping to get some members from big UK clans to come in and coach us in the art of war - it's going to be like boot camp but without the physical exhaustion and ritual humiliation.
ViaLudology, a game-related exhibition is on tour in the UK this summer. Expect, "Playful interaction and goal-oriented gaming explored through media arts practice." From theofficial website:This collaboration between Q Arts, Derby and HTTP Gallery, London provides a basis for exchange and interaction between audiences, artists, curators and writers through the exhibitions and networked activity.Artists works fall under three main categories: installations, independent video games and online, networked artworks.Among other game-inspired artworks, the interested can witness Mary Flanagan's giant joystick, which has been making the rounds in the blogosphere.It's at theQ Arts - Galleryin Derby from 22 July - 10 September 2006 and at theHTTP Galleryin London from 22 July - 3 September 2006. Yes, two places at once. This is the future.
"Whether you know it or not, you'll probably be eating soya today. It's in 60% of all processed food, from cheese to ice cream, baby formula to biscuits. But should it carry a health warning?Felicity Lawrence investigatesComment: Not a technology story? From this account, soya is so heavily processed it ought to qualify as a manufactured industrial product. Essential readingfor vegetarians in particular....
but it seemed like a good idea at the time."In an interview broadcast on Friday," reportsReuters, Case said:"Yes, I'm sorry I did it," referring to the 2001 merger of Time Warner and AOL.The deal, known as one of the worst corporate mergers in history, destroyed some $200 billion in shareholder value.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Everyday I get dozens of press releases, many of which aren't in any way relevant to me, but at least they have some kind of point. Unlike this masterpiece sent to me by smile, the Internet bank, which has just asked 2000 people what they think is the best videogame of all time - for no discernable reason..."The survey of 2,000 computer buffs shows how early, uncomplicated console games like Space Invaders and Pacman leave the latest high-graphic best sellers such as Grand Theft Auto and Tomb Raider trailing. Space Invaders remains the best game of all time for 8 out of 10 people (80%), while ghost-eating Pacman was the favourite of 1 in 10 (11%)."First of all, it's never made clear exactlywhothey've surveyed - if it's the bank's own customers then referring to them collectively as 'computer buffs' (and later, 'technology boffins') isn't perhaps a great move for public relations.Then there's the scattergun approach to videogame history:" Space Invaders was originally released in 1978 and is ranked as one of the most influential video games ever created. Though simplistic by today's standards, it along with other contemporary games such as Pong and Manic Miner was one of the forerunners of modern video gaming."Contemporaries?! Pong was released in 1973, Manic Maner in 1983 - so these so-called contemporaries span ten years of videogame history. That's the equivalent of bunging Michaelangelo and Monet together as stablemates.I thought this kind of lazy ill-informed coverage of the videogame industry had died out. In fact, after my first cursory read-through, I was convinced it was actually a piece of well-disguised spam and that at the end I would be offered cheap viagra or the chance to help a Somali bank manager shift twenty million dollars worth of unclaimed funds. But no. Depressingly, it appears genuine.Anyway, the whole sorry facade seems to be publicising some kind of smile-sponsored podcast featuring Captial Radio stars Johnny Vaughan and Richard Bacon - neither of whom have obvious links to videogames.Genius.I've pasted the whole thing below, just so you can experience for yourself the joy of seeing Sonic the Hedgehog being refered to as a , 'friendly, furry animal'.FORGET GRAND THEFT AUTO, GIVE ME SPACE INVADERS ANY DAY!The latest state of the art computer games are no match for simplistic old favourite Space Invaders, according to results of a new survey released by smile the Internet Bank, today (20 July).The survey of 2,000 computer buffs shows how early, uncomplicated console games like Space Invaders and Pacman leave the latest high-graphic best sellers such as Grand Theft Auto and Tomb Raider trailing.Space Invaders remains the best game of all time for 8 out of 10 people (80%), while ghost-eating Pacman was the favourite of 1 in 10 (11%).The survey of technology boffins was carried out by the internet bank smile, which has signed up as the first sponsor of GCap Media's Capital Radio podcasts, featuring broadcasts from the Johnny Vaughan breakfast show, Flirty at 9.30 and Richard Bacon.Friendly furry animal Sonic the Hedgehog was voted the favourite of 4%, and Outrun was top gear for a further 2% of computer gaming enthusiasts.Other favourites cited from a past generation of computer games include Donkey Kong (2%) and Super Mario Brothers (1%).Space Invaders was originally released in 1978 and is ranked as one of the most influential video games ever created. Though simplistic by today's standards, it along with other contemporary games such as Pong and Manic Miner was one of the forerunners of modern video gaming.David Newman, Director of Marketing at smile said: "I can remember the first time around when the arrival of rows and rows of blocky animated invaders from space captured the public's imagination along with my own. Retro gaming is enjoying somewhat of a renaissance with classic titles like Pac-Man and Asteroids appearing on mobile phones."There are so many technological advancements and gadgets these days, I personally could not live without my iPod. It enables me to listen to my podcasts whenever and wherever I like."
I was on holiday on Friday so missedthis storyfrom trade mag MCV. In an attempt to stop PS3's from being opportunistically sold for way over RRP on eBay, Sony are planning a 150 deposit scheme. If retail agrees then consumers will be required to stump up the deposit before being able to pre-order the new console. There are also plans to limit pre-order to one per household. Nothing has been confirmed yet but expect news soon.Despite numerous teething problems - underwhelming games, dull design, hefty price tag - the PS3 will be the must-have this Christmas. Stock will be tight and the tabloids will be full of sob stories - the Xbox360 launch fiasco will have nothing on this. So anything that can help get the console in the hands of those who actually want to play with it rather than those looking to make a quick buck has got to be welcomed. Or does it? Anyone have a major problem with this?
As Take Two head off to Geneva, leaving the UK behind andwaggling two fingers at the UK government, word comes via/.that their most famous and rather unfortunate "blip" has beenresolved in the US courts.The publisher of controversial titles like GTA: San Andreas, the (possibly) forthcoming Bully and, er, Table Tennis suffered harsh financial repercussions for their role in 2005's "Hot Coffee" scandal, in which unlockable adult content was "unknowingly" left in a game.They weren't fined for this infringement, but any future "accidents" of this sort will be met with a hefty $11,000 fine.
It's pretty shocking that we've never had an official Gamesblog multiplayer face-off - I've thought about it several times but never got round to the actual organisation part. So, some opening questions:a) Who's up for it? b) What system - Xbox 360 or PC? (The former is preferable to me, although the latter allows more numbers to get involved) c) What games? I'm thinking Battlefield or Ghost Recon for their team elements...I'm looking at getting some highly experienced clan members involved, plus a few other journalists, but it all depends on interest from you lot. So what do you think?
Frustrated at being kept in the dark about the Scottish games industry? Let's face it - we all are. Which no doubt accounts for the launch ofScottishGames.Biza news site dedicated to the Scottish development community and run as a group blog by several industry insiders.The Scottish sector has been through some hard times over the last few years with reasonably big names like Vis and DC Studios going belly up. But like some kind of mythological beast, new companies are always sprouting out to replace their predecessors -Cohort, TAG Games andDenkiamong them. And of course, arguably the most important Scottish developer ever - DMA - lives on in both Rockstar North andReal Time Worlds, the latest venture of DMA founder Dave Jones. Nowadays though, a lot of north of the border studios are staying small and specialising in niche/emerging areas like mobile gaming and interactive TV.Anyway, here's a question for a bright, but news-free Tuesday morning - what has been Scotland's greatest contribution to videogaming? Was it Lemmings? Grand Theft Auto? Fantastic mobile phone puzzler Denki Blocks? (as the Gamesblog's official mobile correspondent I'm duty bound to include that...). Or something else?
A hapless romantic has found his inner-most hopes, dreams and calamitous character misjudgments exposed across the virtual world.If Joseph Dobbie had used the phone and got an answering machine, he would surely merely have left an invitation to coffee at Tate Modern, take it or leave it. Or if he'd had to hunt for pen and paper, the self-preservation gene would probably have kicked in before he poured out his heart to a stranger he'd met only fleetingly, once.Instead Mr Dobbie, a web designer from Berkshire, poured his heart into an email to the woman he'd met at a party. He invited her to coffee at the gallery, but then, as he so aptly put it, decided "to throw caution to the wind".Her smile, he wrote, was "the freshest of my special memories" - despite his apology for being drunk at the party. He was listening to his heart, he said, and it told him that she made "time stand still"."If you are half as intelligent and aware as I believe you to be, I am sure that you will find what I have written, in the very least, sweet."Well, up to a point. She forwarded the email to her sister, with the terse cover note: "I met this man on Saturday." Her sister felt the world should share Mr Dobbie's joy: her circle of friends forwarded it to their circles of friends. Within days he was getting hundreds of emails and calls from the US, Australia and South Africa.Mr Dobbie insists that his life is not ruined and that he has no regrets. "I need somebody who is genuine, romantic and sincere and unafraid to be those things."He has had to change his phone numbers to staunch the torrent of calls - and he still hasn't got a date.
Richard atFuturelabsent me an update of the research they've been working on with publisher Electronic Arts,Teaching With Games. Regular readers may recallearliercoverageof the project, which explores the potential for commercial off-the-shelf games in UK classrooms. This new information focuses on what students want. From therelease:Nearly 90% of those who said they would like to use games at school agreed that it would make lessons more interesting. The perceived benefits of playing computer games were generally positive, regardless of whether or not students were in favour of their use in the classroom. More than two-thirds of respondents thought that games would improve their computer skills and just under half thought that they would help to improve strategic thinking skills such as problem solving. Students also agreed with teachers (who were previously surveyed by Ipsos MORI for Teaching with Games in November 2005) in thinking that games can have negative effects such as reinforcing stereotypical views of people.Previouslyhereand in theTechnology sectionof the paper, gamesblog has discussed the implications of bringing offline agendas and social norms into virtual worlds. While such a suggestion has received some flack from the more vocal members of the peanut gallery, it's interesting that the assessed group of 11-16 year olds from across England and Wales agree with us. Indeed, the stereotypes which exist in games have kept many teachers from introducing them - and thereby their unique learning potentials - in school lessons.
Over 21 million DS sales worldwide, with aneightfold profit growthin the last quarter alone - yes, Nintendo is doing rather well at the moment. The DS is the key, with the recently redesigned handheld selling remarkably well. The focus on older and younger gamers - leaving Sony and Microsoft to battle it out for the majority of the traditional tech male market - certainly seems to be paying off. Nintendo's senior VP of marketing George Harrison states the obvious.We attribute this success to Nintendo's overall strategy of offering something for everyone - from five-year-olds caring for their Nintendogs to 65-year-olds tuning their mental agility with Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day.Microsoft'sZuneis on the horizon but appears to be more music focussed and is unlikely to appeal to the same mainstream gaming audience that has bought into DS. Meanwhile the PSP is still a serious contender, but again, is aimed at a twenty-something male audience. DS seems out on the own in targeting the wider market - for now. Sony are unlikely to let the casual gaming phenomenon bypass the PSP while a couple of slightly underwhelming recent releases - New Super Mario Bros and Big Brain Academy - all go to prove one thing. Nintendo's biggest competitor in the current handheld market is complacency.
So, what did you get up to this weekend?
As you may havediscovered over on Technology Blog, microprocessor manufacturer AMD is set to purchase graphics chipset whiz ATI in a deal worth USD 5.4 billion. The love-in will allow AMD to compete with Intel on more fronts and will also give it access to ATI's other areas of interest including cell phones and HD TVs.What does this mean for gamers? Well, a more powerful AMD will offer a more convincing competitor to the Intel monopoly, perhaps helping to assuage Mark Rein's fears that Intel is killing PC gaming with its under-powered Integrated Graphics chip. Also, as ABC Newspoints out, the new set-up may provide a challenge for ATI's big rival, NVidia, which currently installs graphics chipsetsinto AMD-powered PCs.
Here's another shocking tale of internet gaming addiction to kick off your working week. As usual it's from the Far East -accordingto the Shanghai Daily, Xiao Yu a young war game addict, suffered a detachted retina and subsequent blindness due to 'obsessive Internet playing'. "The sudden loss of his vision ended his computer gaming on the Internet," adds the reporter incontestably.The article then makes the sort of leap in logic that even the most conservative western commentators usually draw short of:"Those juniors "hooked" on the virtual world, especially violent games, tend to live according to the rules of the games. They fight to defeat other players in order to strengthen their own gaming position. They see the loss of lives as common as they gain new lives of their own when they kill each other."There follows a catalogue of gruesome game-related suicides and murders from around China. A Channel Five documentary is surely already in production...
It might be vying for the title of world's most popular website, butMySpacelooks like it is struggling to cope with such demand. Right now the site is displaying a message from co-founder Tom saying "hey everyone! there's been a power outage in our data center. we're in the process of fixing it right now, so sit tight. hopefully we'll be back online within the hour. its 6:40pm PST now. wanna place a bet?". Let's look at those bets - it's now 1pm BST, or 5am PST if my sums are correct. That's almost 12 hours of outage. Squeals of outrage from lovesick teenagers around the globe are building to a horrific crescendo - and likely to be joined by the sound of owner Rupert Murdoch's forehead popping with veins.Sidenote:The source code seems to suggest the holding page is recycled from an old one... annotations say "This happens every friday morning from 3am-5am PST", "This section is currently offline. It will be back shortly.", "Sorry we are conducting routine maintenance for about 3 hours this morning, Thursday, November 11, 2004.", "We're currently conducting routine maintenance. We'll be back in just a couple minutes. Thanks for your patience!" and "Sorry for all the problems lately, people." Sounds like even the sorry page could do with a spring clean.
I've been complaining for some time about thepoor or non-existent integration of Google's rag-bag of productscompared with the generally more consistent offerings, from Yahoo and Microsoft. One of Google's problems is that many of its programs are bought in -- Blogger, Picasa, Google Earth etc -- but Yahoo has bought in loads of products too.According toa story in The New York Times, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president for engineering and research at Google, said in an interview last week: "We are trying to come up with something that is new and different, that makes people say 'Wow'.""There is a tradeoff between integration and speed," Mr Eustace said. "We are living and dying by being an innovative, fast-moving company."So the question then becomes, in the NYT's words: "Do Internet users prefer services that are consistent and predictable, like those offered by Yahoo, or are they more interested in Google's wow factor?"Well, the wow factor seems to be what counts with geeks and bloggers, who often seem to have a total -- and sometimes totally uncritical -- love for the emperor of search. But Google has less traction with ordinary users. The NYT says:the two-year-old Gmail is now the No. 4 e-mail service in the country, with 8.6 million users in June. That is not bad in a market where people do not switch e-mail addresses casually. But over the last year, according to comScore, Yahoo added 11.8 million e-mail users, more than Gmail's entire user base.Both Yahoo and Microsoft have more than 200 million email accounts....Moreover, some of Google's products are languishing. Its Google Talk chat software had only 44,000 users in June, according to comScore. And its Orkut social networking service had 279,000 users in the United States, although it is quite popular in Brazil.The two approaches are converging: Yahoo (and Microsoft) are now intent on launching products faster, while Google will eventually have to put in the work to provide a more integrated product set. (I'm assuming that, eventually, it will no longer be able to buy land with beads.)In the end, many people will have accounts with all three giants: Google, Yahoo and Microsoft. But the critical factor will, in reality, be who does the best job of attracting usage and, more importantly, turning it into cash. This is where Google has been by far the most successful so far, and looks like being most successful in the future.Update: TheGoogle Operating Sytstem blogcomments on the same story, and includes an excellentimage showing market shares in the US, according to ComScore. Bear in mind that the US numbers are not a good guide to global market shares.
The computer game firm Nintendo today announced an eightfold rise in quarterly profits and raised its full-year earnings forecast, in a clear sign that its decision to court the new generation of "grey gamers" was paying off.The Kyoto-based firm said impressive sales of its DS range of handheld game consoles and the popularity of new games aimed at older people with little or no experience of gaming had brought it operating profits of &yen;28.8bn (&#163;133m) in the three months to the end of June, up from &yen;3.75bn in the same quarter last year.Sales rose 85% to &yen;130.9bn for the quarter and net income was up 10.2% at &yen;15.6bn.Nintendo increased its operating profit forecast for the fiscal year through to March 2007 by 14% to &yen;125bn, and estimated that sales over the same period would reach &yen;640bn.The firm is hoping to repeat its success in handheld games with the launch in the final quarter of this year of its Wii home-based console. The machine will be competing against Sony's highly anticipated PlayStation 3, which is due for release in November, and Microsoft's Xbox 360, which has struggled to gain a foothold in Japan since it went on sale last year.The Wii (pronounced "we") is expected to cost no more than $250 (&#163;135) in the US, about half the expected price of the PS3. Nintendo has set a sales target of 6m Wii consoles by March next year.Financial analysts believe Nintendo's competitive pricing and its focus on middle-aged people who are put off by complex games could give it the edge in the $30bn global video game market."I see a good chance that Nintendo will do even better than the revised target," said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment Management."It has been successful in turning non-game playing segments of the population into customers. That's where Sony is falling behind Nintendo. As a pioneer of this strategy, Nintendo could go further."Nintendo managed to attract new gamers in their 40s and 50s with its Brain Training for Adults, a collection of puzzles and quizzes designed to give older gamers a daily mental workout, and Nintendogs, a virtual pet game. It has just released an electronic version of sudoku, the numbers puzzle that has proved a huge hit with British newspaper readers.The maker of Donkey Kong and Pokemon has also managed to retain the loyalty of younger gamers. It has sold 3.82m of its "New Super Mario Bros" game, the latest in its popular Mario Brothers series, and in June the game came top of the US video game charts for the second month in a row.Nintendo said it had sold 4.54m DS consoles in the quarter, up from 1.38m in the same period a year ago. The figure includes sales of the DS Lite, a smaller version of the handheld device with a brighter screen. About 600,000 DS Lites were sold in the US last month, almost double the number of any other console.The firm aims to sell 17m DS machines and 75m software units through to March next year. Sales could soon receive an extra boost as the DS console features as a hi-tech spying gadget in the British action film Stormbreaker, starring Alex Pettyfer and Ewan McGregor.Nintendo shares closed up 1.4% at &yen;20,840 on the Tokyo stock exchange today. The firm announced its earnings after the Japanese stock markets had closed.
As had been predicted, chip makers AMD and ATI are getting it on with a proposed $5.4bn deal that will see one eat the other up. The buyout - if approved - would almost certainly see AMD crack its knuckles in an attempt to take on Intel for the heavyweight crown in the PC industry.The Associated Press says that:The new offerings would broaden AMD's package of products as it takes on Intel, the world's biggest chip maker that has long supplied a wider portfolio. In addition to supplying microprocessors, Intel, the world's biggest chip maker, sells so-called chipsets, which connect a microprocessor to a PC's other core components. It also sells graphics chips, which power images rendered by computer games and internet video.It would mean that AMD could shift processors, graphicsandchipsets - pretty much the whole shebang. But can anyone ever lever Intel out of the No1 spot?
