The Christmas edition of Chatterbox! Enjoy...
Internet phone service Skype is facing criticism over its handling of a software failure that brought down connections for millions of consumers and businesses in the US, Europe and Asia.Skype blamed the problem on the failure of "supernodes", parts of Skype's peer-to-peer network that facilitate calls between users, at about 8.30pm on Wednesday night. When some of those failed, the reminder of the network struggled to cope with traffic that typically handles 25m calls at once.But Skype was slow to respond to the problem, leaving users in the dark without any updates or advice on the company's official blog, with a minimal message on Twitter that said it was investigating the problem.A spokesperson dismissed the suggestion that the problem was due to sabotage. "Skype has no evidence to suggest that this was a malicious attack. We've identified a bug in the Skype software which was the root cause of the downtime."Veteran telecoms blogger Om Malik said the service has become "part of the economic fabric for startups and small businesses around the world", adding that its massive infrastructure should mean it is protected against major outages."The outage comes at a time when Skype is starting to ask larger corporations for their business. If I am a big business, I would be extremely cautious about adopting Skype for business, especially in the light of this current outage," said Malik, adding that Skype is keen to attract more lucrative corporate business.Though Skype was keen to point out that the problem had not affected users of its Skype Connect business product, Malik said the problem demonstrates Skype "is slowly starting to ignore its core and passionate user base who are happy to spend money on its products – consumers and small businesses".A post by Peter Parkes on Skype's blog said Skype was working to create new "mega-supernodes" to get the system up to speed, and by mid-afternoon today claimed it had recovered to handle around 10m million calls – 40% of its typical capacity.Skype has built a vast and loyal user base by offering a free basic product that allows users to call each other from anywhere in the world for free. It claims 124 million monthly users as of June 2010, and half a billion registered users.Its last major outage was in August 2007 when part of a Windows update left some users Skypeless for two days.
Some gamers are just naturally good at killing people. They have the fast responses, the pinpoint hand-eye coordination, the Rainman-like ability to memorise maps and power-up locations. Meanwhile, the rest of us bumble around in the darkness hoping to achieve a kills-to-deaths ratio that doesn't utterly shame our entire ancestral line.NowPlay2Improve, a fresh-faced development studio based in Scotland's games industry capital Dundee, thinks it can help players in the latter camp. Launched recently as a free-to-play browser game,FPS Traineris essentially a coaching aid for would-be virtual assassins. With simplified visuals that separate maps into different strategic zones, the idea is to help players develop the tactical base necessary to start dishing out effective slaughter."FPS Trainer provides you with the necessary knowledge for playing online," says designer Paul "astz!" McGarrity, himself a professional gamer who has triumphed in several major LAN and online events over the past decade. "It cuts out months of laborious practice time in FPS games by teaching the core skills and methods which experienced and professional players use when competing at the highest levels."We do this by introducing the strategies for managing resources, controlling your opponents, positioning yourself, using the terrain or level features and setting up shots to maximize damage – all in a highly visual and intuitive manner. There are many levels of strategy in competitive FPS titles that can take years to even become aware of, FPS Trainer will introduce these at an early stage to take you up the ladder more easily."With its stylised visuals and emphasis on quickly picking up weapons and health packs, the game most closely resembles twitchy arena shooters such as Quake and Unreal Tournament, but the studio, Play2Improve, reckons the strategies it teaches will help with all kinds of FPS title."We don't really see a distinction between an arena-based FPS and more ranged, free-roaming combat – with the exception of vehicles to traverse larger maps," says founder Matt Seeney. "Our premise is that first-person shooters are fundamentally strategic in nature, rather than purely twitch-based; therefore, we are focussing on the mental side of the game; including timing, positioning and appropriate weapon selection. This is what differentiates a good player from a bad one – not just blindly rushing in and shooting, but making sure you are fully prepared and taking a far more measured approach."Set up in 2009 and based within the University of Abertay, Play2Improve has an interesting background. Although several of its staff have traditional games industry experience, Seeney comes from the serious games sector, where simulations are developed to train workers in various professions. With his previous company, TPLD, set up when he was a student at Abertay, he created games for the Scottish schools system and for corporations looking for assessed cooperation exercises – it's probably a natural progression from Apprentice-style team challenges to the dog-frag-dog world of the first-person shooter.One of the key elements of FPS Trainer is the monitoring of player behaviours and the provision of post-game feedback – and apparently this extends to more than just hit percentages. "Basic accuracy stats can be misleading," says McGarrity. "We will be providing information not just on whether you scored a hit or not, but on whether you maximised the damage with each shot. Along with this there will be information about which areas of a level you are most active in, which areas you have neglected and also indicators to show where you should ideally be positioned in key situations, along with your actual location at the time. The stats will also cover things such as item pick ups, including the amount and frequency. They will show how long items have been left unclaimed, which will tie in with the positioning tips."What's really interesting is the way the game sounds like one of the fitness titles currently dominating the Kinect software line-up. As Seeney says: "There are detailed stats for debriefing, with intuitive graphs and visualisations to identify strengths and weaknesses; you can track your performance over time and compare stats with your friends and peers, and everything can be easily shared with friends via Facebook."It's the same approach as Your Shape or EA Sports Active 2, but it's about shooting at people; it represents the appropriation of mainstream coaching techniques for a hardcore gaming genre. I like that.At the moment, the game can only be played on PC and Mac (it runs on Unity so you'll need the correct plug-in), and the next step will be the addition of premium paid-for features. But Play2Improve is also planning to create Xbox Live and PSN versions once they've achieved a benchmark of 100,000 users online. If it does make it too console, I'll be near the front of the queue – though I'll probably be shot in the back of the head by a sniper I failed to spot on my way in.•FPS Trainer is currently in pre-alpha. A beta version is launching in mid-January.
I have embarked on a project to get all my CDs, vinyl and cassettes onto digital storage such that I can play them through my existing hi-fi. The transfer of vinyl and cassettes to digital can be handled by a turntable/cassette player connected to my PC using Audacity software. After that, there appear to be two options: either an all-in-one box like the Brennan JB7 or separate units for storage and playback control. The  former is easy to understand, but the latter is confusing me.Robert HardingThere seem to be more ways to set up a digital music system than there are customers, so it's not surprising that a lot of people are confused. I certainly can't say which is the "best" system, because it depends on how much music you have, how good it has to sound, how much money you want to spend, and your technical skills.Since most music lovers already have an MP3 player of some sort, the simplest solution is to plug that into your hi-fi via a Y cable that has a headphone-style 3.5mm jack plug at one end and two RCA plugs at the other end. You can use the same cable to connect a PC to a hi-fi. Of course, more modern hi-fi systems may well include an "iPod dock" or connector that basically does the same thing in a way that looks nicer. The drawbacks are that you have to load the MP3 player from your computer, and it's unlikely to hold most of your music.TheBrennan JB7is a standalone music system that includes an amplifier, a CD player and a hard drive, so all you need to do is plug in a pair of stereo speakers. The CD player is included so that ripping CDs is automated (you just have to load them), and it has Aux In sockets so you can plug in a turntable to rip your vinyl. You can also use the headphone or line out jacks to connect it to your hi-fi using the Y cable mentioned earlier. Finally, there is a USB port so that you can plug in a FAT32-formatted external hard drive (not NTFS) to back up your music. You can use the EHD or a USB stick to copy files between your PC and the Brennan.There are a couple of drawbacks with the Brennan JP7. The biggest one for me is that it only supports uncompressed WAV files or compressed MP3 files but not FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) files. It's obviously not aimed at audiophiles. Another is the size of the hard drive, which ranges from 160GB (£359) to 500GB (£469). If you rip your CDs at 320kbps (where most people can't distinguish between the compressed version and the original), then each one will take up about 100MB. A 160GB drive will therefore hold about 1,600 CDs. This should be more than enough space to hold the CDs that most people have actually bought, though perhaps not the ones they've  downloaded.Now, if we roll back the years, many people started collecting MP3 music files on their PCs towards the end of the 1990s, and Napster made file-sharing popular when it operated,according to Wikipedia, between June 1999 and July 2001. Many people wondered how to get the files on their PCs to play on their hi-fi's, and in 2000, Sean Adams founded Slim Devices to provide a solution. This was the Squeezebox network music player, and it had a major impact on the geek world.The Squeezebox system has two parts: the open source Squeezebox Server software, which runs on a PC, and the hardware receiver, which plugs into your hi-fi. Originally, the PC and the Squeezebox were connected by an Ethernet cable, but the second and later generations could also connect via Wi-Fi. The Squeezebox could also stream internet radio from your PC and, later, services such as Pandora, Rhapsody and Last.fm. There's aBeginners Guide Overviewthat explains how the system works.One drawback with Squeezebox was that you had to have your PC running all the time, which, strangely, not everybody does. The next step was therefore to run the Squeezebox Server software on NAS (network attached storage) devices. With the NAS attached directly to an internet router, it could feed the Squeezebox and therefore the hi-fi without the PC being involved.NAS-based media servers typically have 1TB to 4TB of hard drive space and are also used for streaming videos and sharing photos, not just for music. In some cases, such as the Windows Home Server versions, they will also automatically back-up multiple PCs and Macs.A relatively simple and fairly affordable way to set up your music network is therefore to buy a Squeezebox Touch (there arealternatives) and run the server software on your PC. If you buy a NAS, make sure the Squeezebox Server software (formerly called SqueezeCenter) is pre-installed.Alternatively, you could get something more like a Brennan by buying aVortexBoxmusic appliance, which will automatically rip your CDs to MP3 and FLAC and also works as a NAS music server. VortexBox works with Squeezebox, Sonos, Roku and other receivers, and also supports DLNA (see below), so it's a very flexible solution. UK prices range from £405 (1TB) to £565 (4TB) but, if you like, you can download the open source VortexBox software and create your own server from an old PC.One of the Squeezebox's rivals is the Sonos Multi-Room Music System, which includes amplifiers, speakers and controllers. Sonos has its own closed architecture, and uses a proprietary SonosNet mesh network instead of Wi-Fi. It costs more than a Squeezebox system, and doesn't have the same sort of community developing add-ons, but it's simpler to set up. It depends how much extra you're willing to pay for the "user experience".Sonos has a useful Digital Music Tutorial(PDF)for absolute beginners.In theory, all of the problems with streaming stuff around the home should be cleared up by a relatively new standard,DLNA, for Digital Living Network Alliance. This is the attempt by more than 245 companies (AT&amp;T, BT, Canon, Cisco, HP, Intel, Microsoft, Nikon, Nokia, Panasonic, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Toshiba etc – almost everybody except Apple) to make all their stuff work together easily. This includes not just PCs (which are the focus of the UPnP Forum) but cameras and mobile phones, Blu-ray players, TV sets, games consoles, hi-fis, home theatre systems, NAS servers and everything else. Windows Media Player 12 now includes a DLNA server, and you can stream from a DLNA NAS to a Sony PlayStation 3, for example. However, these large organisations are somewhat limited in the file formats and/or video resolutions that they support, and DLNA doesn't include FLAC.I'm sure some people have already found that DLNA does what they need, but I think it has a way to go.I'm aware that I've omitted a great many products and systems, including Apple's Airport Express, but theFLAC hardware and softwaresections will give you some idea of the more serious alternatives. When you have a better idea which route you want to take, theAVForums forum on Streamers and Network Musicis a great place to ask about specific products and how they work together.
A striking feature of 2010 has been the way in which action-role-playing games (action-RPG) have enjoyed a major renaissance – efforts such as Mass Effect 2, Fable III and Fallout: New Vegas have dragged what was once seen as a quaint old genre firmly into the 21st century. Venetica is another action-RPG, too, but it sits very much at the traditional end of the spectrum – certainly lacking the polish of its aforementioned peers, and conforming to RPG stereotypes such as an abundance of quests and side-quests and a medieval setting. However, that doesn't make it a bad game.In fact, it proves that initial appearances – some of the graphics, plus the character models and animations, are ropey in the extreme – can be deceptive, as it turns out to be fun to play and surprisingly compelling. You take on the role of Scarlett, a young female interloper in a small village which is attacked by assassins without warning. Scarlett survives, discovers she can fight, and experiences an odd visitation in which, summoned to a netherworld, she discovers she is the daughter of Death, who has stashed an undead-slaying sword called the Moonblade for her; she must find it, go to Venice and locate and destroy the Undead Archon, who plots to bring chaos to the world.While building up her fighting and magic skills, she acquires the ability to find and travel through otherwise invisible portals, useful for discovering hidden rooms and bypassing otherwise insurmountable obstacles. Quests are pleasantly varied, peppered with occasional puzzles and, at the end of each chapter, a monumental boss-battle (which generally ends up in the netherworld). The fighting system is pretty basic, but at least it's responsive and accurate. In classic RPG fashion, you have to choose which faction to join when you reach Venice, and you can take on a variety of jobs. The level design is strikingly good, and the depiction of a mediaeval Venice is redolent with ambience.Given Venetica's generally unassuming air – it has clearly been put together by a smallish team of enthusiasts, rather than having had money thrown at it – and its conformity to the conventions of RPGs, you wouldn't say it's an essential purchase. But fans of RPGs will discover that there's something oddly endearing about it, and it provides a commendably long period of gameplay, which could be just the ticket as winter closes in and we seek indoor entertainment. Worth shopping around for, to see if you can pick it up on the cheap.
The dragon Deathwing has returned and torn apart the old kingdoms of Azeroth. This has given Blizzard the excuse to revisit the lands from the original game and redesign them using all the lessons learned from the two previous expansions.Part of this redesign means that for the first time players can now fly in the old world, making it easier to get around than before.There are two new playable races, the worgen and the goblins. The worgen are the new Alliance race and have the ability to change form between human and wolf. Their starting area has an Olde England feel about it, complete with top hats and dodgy English accents. The goblins are the new recruits to the Horde. They have a number of useful racial abilities including a rocket belt that can be used for jumping or for attacking enemies, and access to an instant banker, which will come in very handy for levelling and grinding. The addition of gold discounts and a buff to combat strength, have led to some accusations of Blizzard favouring the Horde. The starting area seems to be polarising opinion at the moment, some say it's annoying and silly, while others say it's the best ever one.All the other starting zones have been reworked to be more streamlined and engaging. New players will find the step-by-step tutorials helpful in negotiating the previously bewildering learning curve that put many off the original game.The quest hubs now have a more linear feel, and "breadcrumb" quests lead the player very naturally on to the next area. There's none of the trudging for miles to reach a new zone that there used to be.Talent trees have been simplified, with each class gaining a signature spell or ability at level 10 which locks you into a certain tree until later levels. This helps to give each talent tree more of a unique playstyle and helps reduce the choices that a new player has to make.The talent trees certainly seem a lot clearer to me, and the addition of the new glyphing system gives a fair bit of extra tweaking room.The artwork in the new areas for high level players is nothing short of brilliant. From the underwater world of Vash'jir to the vast crystal and rock formations of Deepholm, Blizzard has put a lot of effort into making each area unique and atmospheric. The quests too, are diverse and interesting. There are fewer grinding quests, and more chains which tell stories. Also there is much more use of cutscenes, which add to the "epic" feel of some of the quests. This does, however, highlight one of the major grumbles concerning the jarring of old and new. Because the new areas look so good, some of the older areas that haven't been updated much now look their age. Others have said the same about character races. The work put into the goblin and worgen races leave the older races looking a bit flat and lifeless in comparison.The new five man instances are looking good so far. There's a fairly strict gear level requirement before you can enter the heroic versions, which stops lower level players jumping into them before they're ready. Good thing too, as the new heroics require much more in the way of crowd control than the Wrath of the Lich King ones. There's no turning up and powering through them as quickly as possible.Guilds can now work towards guild achievements which offer perks such as faster levelling and faster mounts all the way up to the much desired mass resurrection.Though I've yet to start raiding, I have no reason to believe that they won't be as successful and enjoyable part of the game as they were in Wrath of the Lich King.Cataclysm has introduced a secondary profession of archaeology, where players have to search the lands of Azeroth for ancient artifacts. Once you arrive at a dig site, you set up your equipment and survey the land for buried fossils and antiquities. Once you have enough of a certain faction's artifacts you can "solve" the puzzle for in game pets, mounts and other rewards.Archaeology adds an interesting twist to the game and if nothing else it's a good excuse for seasoned players to get out and see the old world in all its new glory.There are new rated battlegrounds and season 9 of the arena tournament has just begun. Some are complaining that Tol Barad, the new version of Lich King's Wintergrasp, is unbalanced, but no doubt future patches will fix that.MMO's are difficult to review comprehensively after only a week or so of playing, as there is so much content to get through. So I've only reviewed the parts I have experienced and other players have related to me.The game is looking better than ever, and is much easier to learn. But it still has many levels of complexity when you want to delve deeper. With the new starting zones, races and tutorials, if you've ever been tempted, then there's never been a better time to start World of Warcraft. And if the raiding and pvp turn out to be as good as promised, the future of the most successful MMO is assured for some time to come.• Game reviewed on a PC
This downloadable add-on for Battlefield Bad Company 2 (which requires a copy of the original game) moves DICE's perhaps unfashionable but nevertheless critically acclaimed military first-person shooter into the Vietnam war which, following Call of Duty: Black Ops, seems to be in vogue this year. The results are impressive: Battlefield Bad Company 2: Vietnam eschews the more peripheral elements of the franchise (such as a somewhat half-hearted story mode) in favour of large-scale, generally squad-based, online-only action.For Battlefield enthusiasts (a not inconsiderable bunch), the salient points are thus: Vietnam contains five multiplayer maps, 15 Vietnam-era weapons and six new vehicles. There are also ten new achievements/trophies to win. Put so starkly, that doesn't sound like a massive deal, but luckily, all the elements have been executed with DICE's usual obsessive attention to detail, and everything positively drips with atmospheric detail. All the multiplayer game modes from the full game – Conquest, Rush, Squad Rush and Squad Deathmatch – are included. As are all the character classes – engineer, assault, recon and medic.The maps are fantastic: large, authentic-looking and highly deformable so that, for example, if you choose to wield the new flamethrower, you can set vast swathes of vegetation on fire. The flamethrower, in particular, should prove a great draw – it's devastating at close range (although it pays to sneak up on enemies from behind when you use it). The vehicles include tanks, jeeps and the classic Huey helicopter, plentifully supplied with fixed guns: chopper-dogfights, in typical Battlefield fashion, are more or less guaranteed to take place. There's also a hilarious tuk-tuk-type vehicle, useful for getting to far-flung parts of the map, and a patrol boat, which is vulnerable but swift.The most interesting game modes are Rush and Squad Rush, as they cause the map to grow in size as each session progresses: you start off with the objective of defending or destroying a communications station (depending whether you're American or Vietcong), and then further objectives are introduced depending on what happens. Vietnam works hard to keep proceedings intense, which is impressive given the size of the maps. So the ability to respawn on one of your squad-mates is more important than ever.Battlefield Bad Company 2: Vietnam plays beautifully to the strengths of the franchise: it lets you play how you want (whether that involves flying choppers, sniping, causing mayhem with a flamethrower or fixing tanks for others to drive), nurtures firefights which, if anything, are even more intense than those of the original game and is positively drenched in authentic Vietnam-era ambience (jump in a Huey, for example, and Ride of the Valkyries will blare out). The Battlefield games are very much designed for the cognoscenti, and those in the know will rush to download Vietnam.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360.
Shaun White's is a skateboarding game with a nice twist: it's set in a dystopian future-world. The drab cityscapes you inhabit (which actually look rather like Düsseldorf) are controlled by a sinister cabal known as The Ministry; conformity is all and skateboarding is the ultimate in anti-authoritarian defiance.Shaun White himself is behind bars, so there's only one way to stick it to the neo-fascistic new world order – do tricks and jumps to sully the chilling grey cityscape with anarchic colour and free the minds of the people. Led initially by a guru who is basically Rufus from Bill &amp; Ted, you are required to master a series of rails, tricks and flips as you turn the city into your own private skate park. You are also introduced to "Streets," which are bullet-time gravity-ignoring routes up to higher levels, while rails form undulating roller coaster rides into the sky.As you skate from one section of the city to another, mastering tricks and completing skating-related challenges, suit-wearing squares who shout "cut it out and get with the program" are transformed into positive slogan-shouting skateboarding enthusiasts, which is replacing one form of conformity for another, really. Amusingly, "freeing" the landscape from totalitarian bleakness involves not only making funky colour and graffiti appear but also billboards for real life fast food franchises and high-end sunglass brands.Rolling around making the world free for consumerism to a soundtrack of gently rebellious guitar-rock is a pleasant enough concept. But the game has a few flaws which prevent it from reaching anywhere near bodacious levels of excellence.Firstly, the control system doesn't allow for enough freedom and complexity. Using just a single button and the analogue stick to execute most tricks, random button bashing and stick waggling is often requisite. Forming the ramps in the sky takes a little bit more skill, but not enough to be particularly satisfying. As you move through the game, you are also expected to complete platform-style tasks, such as smashing billboards, and this requires far too much simply marching from A, to B, to C. Ironically, the game doesn't offer much freedom – fighting tyranny was never supposed to be a chore.Furthermore, when you crash you smash into pixels, rather than leaving the landscape satisfyingly smeared with blood, as  in Tony Hawk. While this adds to the Matrix-style atmosphere, half the fun of skating games is putting your character through a whole world of pain. You also don't actually get to play as Shaun White, for the most part, which may be an issue for adoring fans of the Flying Tomato.Overall, this game has a nice central premise let down by execution. For die hard fans – either of skateboarding or Orwellian nightmares – only.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Well, our Guardian Top 20 is almost finished, with only five titles left to announce – and that's happening tomorrow. There's been some interesting debate around our selections, but now it's time to put your money where your anonymous comments are...What have beenyour10 favourite games of the year? Or if you can't manage 10, give us at least five. Like our own list, I want the games you've genuinely played and loved, not the ones you think are most worthy of general critical adulation.Put your lists below, and I'll try and wrangle it all in to some sort of Reader Top 10.
This week's programme is an established tradition for this time of year – the Tech Weekly review.  Not only that, but this is our third anniversary programme, so happy birthday to us.Joining Jemima Kiss in the studio is the Guardian's games correspondent Keith Stuart, and PaidContent's UK Editor Robert Andrews.There's a lot to talk about.  We hear how Google and Apple have both had mixed years – the former with theAndroid OSand it'sproblems with Street View, and the latter with the launch of the iPad and the storm over the iPhone "antennagate" death grip.We also get into highlights from the games industry – in a year that's seen a number of big titles includingCall of DutyandHalosequels, plus a clutch ofnew motion control hardware.There were a number of significant political developments in the tech world in 2010 –Google's dance with Chinaover it's search operation there,the passing of the Digital Economy Bill into an act, support from the coalition for a "Tech City" in London, and thefailure to land tax breaks for the video game industry.We also look at Microsoft's success withWindows Phone 7, andwhat happened to Bebo.Next week we'll be back with our predictions for 2011.Don't forget to ...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
After the "shock" of Super Mario Galaxy 2 appearing outside of our top 10, today's could be the most controversial instalment yet. None of the following games received universal critical acclaim, all are flawed to some degree. But when the reviews team submitted their individual top tens at the start of this rather gruelling compilation process, all five of the following titles figured incredibly strongly. They are interesting games, created with care and individualism. With the possible exception of number eight, you wouldn't mistake any of them for anything else.Enough with the justification, on with the list...10. GoldenEye(Eurocom, Wii)No fan of the N64 original could dare dream that its return would be this good. Certainly, the modern interpretation was never going to make the same impact as Rare's classic, but it takes both the bones of the story and the guts of the missions we all remember (the opening dam sequence, Frigate, Runway) and augments them into a solid, thoroughly enjoyable shooter. This is a remake that understands the unreality of nostalgia; it knows that our perception of the past is irrevocably painted by the present – hence, for example, the seamless replacement of Brosnan with Craig. Consequently, though a little scrappy and worn in places itself, it indulgently salutes our memories of a legend rather than rubbing our noses in the reality of that 1997 relic. Maybe we shouldn't love this game so much, but we adored its predecessor, and the new GoldenEye carries its spirit somewhat intact.9. Bioshock 2(2K Marin, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Here was another follow-up that some of us expected would go badly wrong. Developed by a fresh studio and seeking to build on a rather singular piece of creative brilliance, Bioshock 2 might have been a Jaws 2. Or a Godfather 3. Instead, it's a proper follow-up to the Bioshock vision, set ten years after its predecessor and putting you into the clomping boots of a Big Daddy out to find his Little Sister. Once again, philosophy plays its part in the background story, as competing doctrines slug it out over the husk of Rapture – Objectivist ambition against Stalinist community. Meanwhile, there are spine-tingling enemies, beautifully decrepit surroundings, new weapons and plasmids, shocks and revelations. And all games should reward exploration with astonishsing sights. Often they just don't. This one does.8. Fifa 11(EA Sports, PC, PS3, Xbox 360, Wii)The obsessives at EA Canada made some controversial decisions this year, tweaking the passing model for added directional challenge and "improving" goalkeeper AI to rule out the last vestiges of the old generosity toward 60-yard punts and cheeky lobs. But it also simplified the Career mode, brought in 11 vs 11 online play and accentuated the individual genius of star players – all intriguing additions. It took many of us a while to get used to the changes, but the result is a challenging, enthralling simulation, that dearly wants to replicate the unpredictability and variety of the real sport – and often gets very close. You can play this game everyday (and believe me, some of us probably have) and spot new stuff all the time – that's what Pes used to be like. On that subject, Konami's series is on the up again and a couple of our writers had it on their personal lists. The crown is there to be snatched back; Shingo 'Seabass' Takatsuka and his team are within grabbing distance.7. Enslaved: Odyssey to the West(Ninja Theory, PS3, Xbox 360)It's short, it's comparatively easy and the enemies are repetitive, yet Enslaved somehow contrived to be one of the most compelling action adventure titles of the year – for us, anyway. Taking place on a futuristic Earth plundered by intergalactic slavetraders, the game follows a displaced warrior named Monkey who escapes from a crashing spacecraft and finds himself protecting a young woman – Trip – as she heads back to her tribe. Yes, it's a modernisation of the 16th century Chinese novel Journey to the West, and yes, the interplay between the two characters is the focal point as they shift from mutual distrust to friendship and codependence. It is the development of this relationship, played out via a decent script by Alex Garland and some fine virtual acting by Andy Serkis, that makes the game such a pleasure to spend time with. Not everyone was prepared for an interactive sci-fi rom-com, of course, but there are plenty of games out there for gamers who just want to shoot stuff. With its endless identikit robot baddies, Enslaved is almost a riposte to ritualised virtual slaughter. It says forget the baddies, it's the characters that matter. Not everyone will agree, but how brave to pursue this vision in the era of multi-million dollar development.6. God of War III(SCE Santa Monica, PS3)And so one of the defining 'franchises' of the modern PlayStation era comes to its predictably bloody conclusion. God of War III has no handbrake; it is a hurtling maelstrom of carnage. Kratos is a machine of revenge, slicing deities with his signature chain blades, bludgeoning his way through the pantheon. The visuals are truly spectacular, the sense of scale simply awesome. The combat mechanism is hack-and-slash game design near-perfected, a visceral combo of accessibility, variety and depth. Somehow, there is even a mini sex game – just in case your senses hadn't been brutalised enough. A few of the reviews team argued vociferously that Bayonetta should be here. But despite that game's idiosyncratic genius, not enough of us were truly passionate about Hideki Kamiya's masterpiece. The God of War won.
Thursday's getting excited about Christmas edition of Chatterbox
Photo byjeffmikelson Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWord 2011: Working with the new Find/Replace feature &gt;&gt; Betalogue"Microsoft's failure to use the contrast between foreground selection colour and background selection colour in the context of the new Find/Replace feature really is a major annoyance, because you can never be quite sure what the focus on, especially if you need to switch between several different documents in your work. (When something is selected in a Word document and you switch to another Word document, the selection highlighting disappears altogether. Microsoft apparently refuses to admit the very existence and usefulness of background selection highlighting.)"Fascinating, in-depth analysis of Word 2011 for Mac's find/replace feature (or possibly bug). Mac users are &lt;em&gt;extremely&lt;/em&gt; picky about user interface design.Former Googler Launches Disconnect, Browser Extension That Disables Third Party Data Tracking &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"After 50K active users in two weeks and hitting the top 10 Google Chrome extensions, creator Brian Kennish has left his job at Google to focus on building Disconnect, a browser extension for Chrome and Rockmelt that disables multiple third party data tracking while browsing. In the same vein as Facebook Disconnect, Disconnect prevents major third parties like Digg, Facebook, Google, Twitter and Yahoo from gathering information (cookies) about the pages you go to and the searches you do."Home Internet with Anonymity Built In &gt;&gt; Technology ReviewSmart idea: a router with the Tor anonymising project built in so that your web browsing is anonymous. Except for all the cookies dumped on your machine, of course."Evil" URL shortener initiates DDoS attacks &gt;&gt; ClipRSSSimple enough: you shorten a URL and name a server you want attacked. When people click the link they view the site through an iframe that will keep pinging the target server while the page is open. Nice proof of concept, but you'd a page as popular as Farmville to really take a site down.Chinese: The New Dominant Language of the Internet [Infographic] &gt;&gt; The Next WebNot the greatest infographic. And see if you can find the hole in this argument for the definition of "dominant": "China gained 36 million additional internet users last year meaning there are now over 440 million internet users in the country. English has long been the most widely used language on the internet but with Chinese Internet growth rising at the rate it is, it could be less than five years before Chinese becomes the dominant language on the internet."Bit like French being the dominant language in France?Who is behind the porn-block campaign? &gt;&gt; Liberal ConspiracyWho is Miranda Suit? She's the co-chair of "Safer Media" which "campaigns to make media safe for children". By making everything child-like?Internet Pornography: 23 Nov 2010: House of Commons debates &gt;&gt; TheyWorkForYou.comIn case you were wondering quite where the 'ban this internet porn' thinking that led to Ed Vaizey's call to ISPs emerged from, here's a debate from last month in the Commons. Lots of debate about 'why', none at all about 'how' - nor about collateral damage or previous attempts.Google's reading age tool - comparing tech sites &gt;&gt; virtualeconomicsIntriguing: AllThingsD, the WSJ's blog outpost, comes below sites like AppleInsider. One does begin to wonder how rigorous Google's system is - sites like Techmeme (and Google News) come out very highly in the complexity rankings.ROI blog: Why iPads Make Lousy Christmas Gifts &gt;&gt; WSJ.com10 reasons not to buy an iPad. Of which about five aren't really "reasons" as such, more lifestyle choices. Still, five rational ones are more than most people can muster.Dean Bubley's Disruptive Wireless: Why application-specific policy and charging will (almost) always failA number of counter-thoughts, of which perhaps the most persuasive is: "Probability of key Internet companies turning the tables on the operator and say 'no, you pay *us* or else we're going to block access to your subscribers, suggest they churn, and give free adverts to your competitors'."Given that people will be able to get, say, Youtube or Facebook or Skype on fixed lines, that might work. Given that people are being tied into long-term mobile contracts (18 months, 2 years, more..) it might not.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Skype's internet telephony service went offline around the world due to a failure of many "supernodes" which aggregate its traffic and reroute them to other computers.In aposting on its blogthe company said simply that it had seen the number of users online falling, "which wasn't typical or expected" - and that the problem was due to a number of supernodes going offline due to "a problem affecting some versions of Skype".That means that the routing provided by the supernodes isn't available, putting the service effectively offline to many users. Skype is a peer-to-peer system rather than a standard hub-and-spoke system like that used by conventional phone networks; however the supernodes act as "super peers" which direct and route traffic and provide fallback for each other."Our engineers are creating new 'mega-supernodes' as fast as they can, which should gradually return things to normal. This may take a few hours, and we sincerely apologise for the disruption to your conversations. Some features, like group video calling, may take longer to return to normal," wrote Peter Parkes on the blog.The system is "now gradually returning to normal" but may take several hours before everyone can sign in, the companysaid on Twitter.Further explanations of the bug that downed the supernodes should be forthcoming in the next few days.
Photo byL'Amour Oliviaon Flickr.Some rights reservedThough it was touted as going head-to-head with Apple's iTunes, Sony today did nothing of the sort. It didn't even gotoe-to-toe with Spotify.The launch of its Music Unlimited streaming service in the UK and Ireland has all four major record labels on board – but it's not giving anything away for free. Not a jot. Not even 30 seconds, asSky's recently mothballed serviceoffered penniless passers-by.Sony – with EMI, Universal and Warner breathing down its neck – is launching its cloud-based streaming service, called "Music Unlimited powered by Qriocity" with two subscription plans: "basic" and "premium". Basic subscribers are charged £3.99 a month for a personalised, ad-free radio station, similar to Last.fm, and "unlimited forward skipping" of songs. (So, basically, just like Last.fm, but without the social aspect, and for more money.) Its premium version – at £9.99 a month,matching Spotify's premiumoffers unlimited, ad-free access to more than 6m songs.There's no download option – users' playlists and preferences are based in the cloud – meaning customers can stream songs from their computer to their emporium of shiny Sony hardware (Bravia TVs, PS3s and the like – which already can stream music). You can also sync your new digital catalogue with already-purchased music from iTunes.Initially sold as Sony's "direct challenge" to Apple's dominance with iTunes, executives have been quick to distance Music Unlimited from that theorem. "We realised that if we were playing catch up with the same (iTunes) model, it would be difficult to appeal to users," said Kazuo Hirai, Sony's executive vice president and head of the company's networked products and services division. "But over time, it needs to stand on its own," he added.Ultimately, Unlimited Music is an add-on for its home entertainment range – an attempted one-up on Microsoft and Samsung, which respectively have their own range of internet-connected hardware in the living room.So let's see, Spotify with ads for free, or Sony MUPBQ for £3.99 every month for ever and ever? So difficult. We asked Sony in what way this wasn't an Olympic-quality bobsleigh run directly down towards the chequered flag of failure.Here's what Rob Lewis, executive chairman of Omnifone - which developed the service for Sony - said would buoy it up, with our thoughts. (The capitals are his.)"It is much, much larger than Spotify. Sony's service will be pre-loaded onto HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS of devices every year, and automatically available to SIXTY MILLION existing Sony Network platform users. Only TEN MILLION Spotify accounts or so have been created to date, and less than a million subscribers. There is a huge untapped market out there."No doubt. Problem is, that untapped market is probably already getting music from somewhere. And it's probably not paying £3.99 per month for it. And as to "much larger" than Spotify - well, not until you've got people signed up it's not."It is not just on the PC. Sony's service gives you direct access from your remote control or games controller onto BRAVIA TVs, Blu-ray players, PS3, delivering music into the home, and critically, the living room."Again, we suspect lots of people already have music in their living room if they want it, via CD players, computers, iPods plugged into boomboxes (a huge market), and so on. Also, Microsoft has a music offering in the US and Europe - the Zune service - and this isn't an improvement on it. Plus there are many more Xbox 360s than PS3s installed around the world."Much larger advertising budget. Sony spends $1.5 billion a year on advertising. They spend more on marketing every month than the total amount of money ever raised by Spotify since its inception. The new service will be a central plank of Sony's global advertising campaign. It will be everywhere, hitting the mass market."Know what's cheaper and more effective than advertising? Word of mouth. Spotify grew by word of mouth. So did We7 - they've both spent minimally on advertising as such. It's hard to see how making a paid-for service that's like radio (something you get for free) can work as a central plank of an advertising campaign. Well, not a successful campaign."Free trials will be available for every Sony consumer. More on that soon."Our breath is bated. So that'll make it like Spotify. Except only briefly. And then you'll have to pay. Or abandon it ans try another free trial under a different name. Hmm, what to do?"Spotify's paid for service (the only profitable / sustainable part of Spotify's model) is only a handful of devices, mainly PC and mobile. Sony's service on the other hand will work and be pre-loaded on hundreds of millions of gaming devices, PCs, Blu-ray players, TVs, Android devices and other Sony devices. It will feature on the remote control of many living room devices."It'll have to be back-loaded onto those, because Sony doesn't shift hundreds of millions of devices like that every year, and the problem is still thatthese days you can't make people pay for music. It's astonishing that this basic realisation was never allowed to penetrate in any of the discussions of this service. Let's be clear: if Sony offered this as afreeservice then it might have a fighting chance of becoming quite big, because Spotify hasn't yet started in the US, and Pandora has restricted itself to North America; in both cases costs and licensing have held them back from spreading further. As for Spotify's paid-for part being the only profitable part - well, it does OK on ads (and we7 too) and the idea is that the premium subsidises the other parts. It's the freemium model."Financial might. Sony are the world's biggest consumer electronics vendor, own Sony Music, half of Sony ATV... They have the power, might, retail footprint, device reach and the experience in networked services, where they already transact billions of dollars of transactions every year, to bring subscription to the masses."Of all the arguments, this is actually the weakest. (And some of the above are really quite weak.) Sony's profit margin for its latest financial yearwas 1.08% and its return on equity was 2.76%. True, itsrevenues were $77.2bn - but its profit was just $340m, which isn't a great return, and in the year before it made a $2.3bn loss (balanced out, to be fair, by a $3.8bn profit in the year before that). Its revenues have been trending down the past three years. It's not what you look at as a growth stock.You wouldn't expect rivals to be impressed, but sometimes they say things like "it's always good to have competition". Not here. We asked Clive Gardiner of the British site we7.com, which offers ad-supported streaming music, what he thought of the offering. Gardiner has been calling for labels to lower prices for streaming for some time. Here are his thoughts:"Any new lower price point for a monthly music subscription is a good step as labels need to become much more adaptable with subscription prices and offerings if they are to unlock potential monetisation opportunities in the wider market. However this £3.99 price only gives a limited radio-based offering, something already available for free (with ads) on we7 as Internet Radio Plus. Their £9.99 offering offers unlimited streaming, personalised playlists and a range of channels. But this type of offering is already available for the PC on we7 for £4.99 a month, and for PC and mobile for £9.99."He continues:"In my view the type of subscription packages offered by Sony will appeal only to the same old classic subscription target group (male 30+) who dominate our and others' subscriber user base. They are not the innovative breakthrough propositions we are seeking for our users which we cannot currently get licensed. We7 users tend to be young, mainstream, choosy about what music they listen to and very keen to see affordable subscriptions on mobile. We believe giving them for example their 30 favourites plus 50 more songs that sound like them cached onto their mobile each week for £1 a week payable by premium text would unlock tens of thousands of existing we7 users who will never contemplate the more rigid "tenner-for-millions-of-songs" offerings. We also believe there is huge potential in pay-as-you-go models by giving a free ad-based Radio Plus entry experience but allowing users to purchase say 200 'requests' for £5."Widespread incremental monetisation can only come from the mainstream market, and we believe that will be free + impulse. These types of offerings are being demanded now – and label licensing and commercial strategy needs to adjust to allow these innovative ideas and many others to fly."Our take? As far as competing with Spotify and other free-at-the-point-of-access services goes, Sony's play is dead on arrival. Like Sky Songs, which Sky last week conceded "just didn't see the consumer demand" it had envisaged, Music Unlimited will be popular withThe Big Four record labelsbut a turn off for users.We'll watch with interest. A launch in the US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and New Zealand is on the cards for next year, and an Android app is also on the way – restricted to Sony handsets? Don't be surprised.What do we give it - 18 months?
Having broken records for advance orders in the US, Call of Duty: Black Ops today crossed the $1bn (£648m) sales mark – less than six weeks after release.The game's publisher, Activision, said Black Ops raked in more than $650m (£420m) worldwide within five days of going on sale, outstripping last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 by $100m (£65m) in the same period."In all of entertainment, only Call of Duty and Avatar have ever achieved the billion-dollar revenue milestone this quickly," Activision chief executive Bobby Kotick said. James Cameron's Avatar became the fastest movie to reach the $1bn mark in December last year, taking the highest-grossing film in history award away from Titanic.However, the highly successful game series also today became the epicentre of a $400m (£256m) legal fight, as Activision charged Electronic Arts (EA) with hijacking the company's assets and threatening the Call of Duty franchise.Activision added EA to its counter-lawsuit against two of its former executives who helped develop Call of Duty, claiming the pair broke an exclusive contract agreement when theyleft the company in Marchto develop games for EA and set up their own company.More than 600m hours of gaming time has been logged on Black Ops since its launch on 9 November, Activision said, and the average player logs on every day for more than an hour at a time.The success of Black Ops, and the Call of Duty series at large, is no less important to game retailers, such as Game and HMV, than it is to Activision, which isreported to be suffering from an exodus in top developer talent.Game Group, owner of more than 1,300 Game and Gamestation high-street stores in the UK, has been boosted by the release of Black Ops and Fifa 11 in the final quarter. Discount promotions on Black Ops, which it sold at half price to customers who bought another chart title or traded in another game at the same time, had been successful, the retailer claimedearlier this month.
One worry a lot of parents have when buying games machines for their children is – will my son or daughter be able to access unsuitable content?Not everyone grew up playing Pac-Man and there are plenty of parents who've been given poor information about video games by inaccurate newspaper and TV reports. Recently, Microsoft commissioned a survey on this subject, and found that while 77% of UK parents are aware of thePEGI ratings system(which provides games releases with age certification), only 25% set the age controls available on their Xbox 360 consoles. Indeed, more than a third of those questioned hadn't put any set any sort of parental controls on their PCs or game systems.These parents could, of course, trust their kids not to search online for adult material, or to play violent games; they could also be waiting for Ed Vaizey to invent his magic internet bad stuff filter. On the other hand, a lot of parents may just not know about the controls they can put in place on the Xbox and PS3 consoles to prevent their children from playing games meant for adults.To help out, Microsoft has launched a new website,Play Smart, Play Safe, to provide information on what it calls "safer gaming". There are hints on how to monitor your child's gaming and how to set parental controls, and teenagers can read a few short tips on safer internet use.It's a nice idea, but the site is a little under-populated at the moment. Eventually, Microsoft hopes to build a community overseen by volunteer Ambassador Families who'll blog about their gaming expeiences, but that hasn't taken off just yet. I guess that they want is a sort of video game version of Mumsnet – a place where information is exchanged between variously experienced users.That's all fine, but I'd like to see more actually game-related content on there. It shouldn't just be about trying to ban your kids from playing Grand Theft Auto IV; it should be about locating games that are safe for kids, or even better, that the family can enjoy together. For example, I write about games for a living, but even I've found it difficult to track down Xbox titles that boast splitscreen two-player modes – a vital feature if you have two or more kids who want to compete against each other (and local multiplayer is much easier to monitor than allowing your child to go online and find people to play against).Also, there are very few Xbox Live games aimed at younger children, or even at families, so there are few easy entry points for parents who want to provide safe gaming experiences for children without having to pay out £40-£60 on a retail title. This site could at least point out a few suitable XBLA or Xbox Live Indie Games that suit younger players.Ideas like this site are important because the industry must been seen to be making gaming a safer pursuit – at the very least it takes some of the wind out of the sails of shameless scaremongers such as Keith Vaz. But Microsoft needs to do more than make a token gesture toward parents who don't understand gaming; it needs to make them feel at home, give them engaging content, and encourage them to discover games for themselves.I may feel differently when my two sons get older, but I think parental controls are a last resort – they're the nuclear option of gaming vigilence. A much better idea is learning about the games themselves and knowing that what your children are playing is suitable for them.But how about you? Do you use parental controls? Do you know what your children are playing?
Traditions are always puzzling to those who don't share them. I'm Jewish, so the idea of a "perfect family Christmas"is foreign to me.It can make me sad at this time of year to see my friends running themselves ragged to try to give their children the most "perfect" Christmas ever, with celebrity-chef-worthy food, mountains of elegantly matching-wrapped gifts and constant rictus grins. (Of course, my family is exactly the same at Passover, but that's another story.)We all know that the desire for perfection can get in the way of authenticity and enjoyment; it's the same with games. There's a completist part to many of us that can't rest until we reach the perfect 100% finish point.I've stayed up late into the night not to finish the main thread of a game but to get that last pesky bit of an accomplishment. I stayed up till 5am a few weeks ago to get all the weapons invery-far-from-hardcore cartoon game Plants Vs Zombies.It's at this point that gaming starts to seem less like fun andmore like an extra, boring job.A recent Panorama programme about gaming addictionhas been rightly called sensationalist– exaggerating the problems suffered by a very few gamers.But most gamers I know have experienced addiction's little brother: a completist compulsion that can keep you playing a game after it's stopped being fun.So I say to you Britain: don't aim for perfection. Serve your burnt roast potatoes. Give your wonkily-wrapped gifts. Embrace your family arguments as a sign of how much you trust each other.And leave your Christmas gaming gifts half-played. Have a half-arsed gaming Christmas.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) which has the power to set the rules for use and, more importantly, charging for internet use in the US, has passed "limited" net neutrality rules by a 3-2 vote which split along Democratic (yes) and Republican (no) party lines.It seems to have done the right thing - defending neutrality - for fixed-line broadband, but fumbled it on mobile, and the reason it gives for the latter is astonishing: it's because Android is open. Mull on that as we go along.The FCC portrays the decision on its own website as "FCC Acts to Preserve Internet Freedom and Openness" - and just to prove how free and open it is, then has the press release in two formats:Microsoft WordandAdobe PDF. (Just to add to the fun, I couldn't get them to download on Wednesday morning. Links to the documents, courtesy ofMatt TempleandAngrygoat, at end.)Ars Technica notesthat fixed-line broadband does seem to be getting net neutrality rules that you might recognise - where someone operating such a service "shall not unreasonably discriminate in transmitting lawful network traffic over a consumer's broadband Internet access service" - although "Reasonable network management shall not constitute unreasonable discrimination". And reasonable network management purposes "include: ensuring network security and integrity, including by addressing traffic that is harmful to the network; addressing traffic that is unwanted by users (including by premise operators), such as by providing services or capabilities consistent with a user's choices regarding parental controls or security capabilities; and by reducing or mitigating the effects of congestion on the network."However many people who are not in the FCC seem to think that it has not really preserved freedom or openness, and that it has really fumbled it on a particularly important field - mobile.The rules seem to allow mobile carriers to decide that they can introduce pay-per-service charges, so that Skype or YouTube or Facebook might be charged to get their content onto the networks; alternatively (or perhaps additionally) users who wanted those services might find themselves being charged extra. That, obviously, means that those services are not being treated in a "neutral" way. Which means that you don't have net neutrality.The gobsmacking reason given by the commissioners for not imposing net neutrality treatment on wireless? The fact that Google's Android is "open". Yes, you read that correctly: because there's a pseudo-open mobile operating system, therefore wireless networks don't need regulation about how they charge for content.Or to quote from the FCC statements as seen by some sites:"Further, we recognize that there have been meaningful recent moves toward openness, including the introduction of open operating systems like Android. In addition, we anticipate soon seeing the effects on the market of the openness conditions we imposed on mobile providers that operate on upper 700 MHz C-Block spectrum, which includes Verizon Wireless, one of the largest mobile wireless carriers in the U.S."In light of these considerations, we conclude it is appropriate to take measured steps at this time to protect the openness of the Internet when accessed through mobile broadband."It's a stunning example of American legislature showing that it simply doesn't know enough to be trusted with big decisions. There's somerumbling at Engadgetsuggesting that Google might have lobbied with Verizon, which sells an estimated 80% of the Android phones sold in the US, in favour of this "limited" (actually: thin wedge-end) approach to differential charging.Political reaction was, frankly, befuddling. Ars Technica caught up with them:"conservatives pledged their undying opposition to the decision. "I had always held out hope that the FCC wouldn't really move to regulate the Internet, not until hell froze over," declared Randolph May of the Free State Foundation. "I guess the fact that the temperature here in Washington has been not much above freezing for about two weeks now is not a good sign.""Hard to see quite how the FCC is regulating the internet, except in the sense of protecting the weak (users) against the powerful (broadband and network operators). Possibly you need to drink a lot of tea.And this one:"Voting against the move, Commissioner Robert M. McDowell warned that it would bring on an 'era of regulatory arbitrage,' chart a 'collision course with Congress,' and represented 'one of the darkest days in recent FCC history.'"We'll see. Next, we'll have to see how net neutrality fares over here in the UK. Over to Ed Vaizey for that...Links for the FCC docs: find them via thedirectory for that day- including good old text files. (The FCC does allow you to view the contents of the directory. It's like 1995 never stopped.)Or PDFs directly to the findings:•http://www.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2010/db1221/DOC-303745A1.pdf•http://www.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2010/db1221/DOC-303746A5.pdf•http://www.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2010/db1221/DOC-303746A3.pdf•http://www.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2010/db1221/DOC-303746A1.pdf•http://www.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2010/db1221/DOC-303746A4.pdf•http://www.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2010/db1221/DOC-303746A2.pdf
Statistical illustration of graduated distribution. Photo bygruntzookion Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow many Windows Phone 7 devices have been sold? Everyone wants to know, here's the best guess so far &gt;&gt; KellabyteDoesn't show its possible margin of error, but seems like it's probably in the ballpark. Have a guess (from the 1.5m that have been stuffed into the channel) at how many are actually in the hands of users before you click through.Windows Phone 7 Sales Off to a Promising Start &gt;&gt; Microsoft.comAnd now the PR puff: 1.5m phones have been sold by manufacturers to retailers and mobile networks - though not necessarily, note, to users. So what does Achim Berg think it compares to the competition? "It's a bit of apples and oranges comparison; our numbers are similar to the performance of other first generation mobile platforms... We're comfortable with where we are, and we are here for the long run; Windows Phone 7 is just the beginning."And the Smartest Site on the Internet Is... &gt;&gt; Technology ReviewFascinating: you can rank how smart a site's readers are by the words it uses. The Guardian? You can find its resultshere. Satisfactory.Ask Ed Vaizey December 2010 &gt;&gt; DCMS websiteSkip the first one, and fast forward to 4" in the second to where Ed Vaizey answers the question of why we tax optical fibre when we need superfast broadband. Clearly, the solution lies in some financial analysis.1 in 5 American Adults Plan to Own/Purchase a Tablet by 2014, According to New Survey by Fuze Box &gt;&gt; PRWebThat translates to 60m tablets sold by that time (which would be end 2013, if you read the dating strictly) with about 9m sold in 2010 (according to the survey, though the iPad has sold up to 12m). About a third of those see themselves using it in the workplace.Which means that Microsoft, without a proper tablet operating system, is going to have an interesting 2011. That is if it cares about tablets. Does it?One caveat: the survey was carried out online, so it's not necessarily representative.Mobile Carriers Dream of Charging per Page &gt;&gt; Wired.comGreat story by Wired: "For instance, in the seventh slide of the above PowerPoint, a Vodafone user would be charged two cents per MB for using Facebook, three euros a month to use Skype and $0.50 monthly for a speed-limited version of YouTube. But traffic to Vodafone's services would be free, allowing the mobile carrier to create video services that could undercut NetFlix on price."Possibly Facebook, Skype and YouTube would have something to say about this. Where's the lobbying power?Searching serves malware: Mal/Iframe-Gen on an insurance site &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityInteresting: hackers using Javascript generated only if there's a search engine referrer. This is more common than you'd think: I've seen spam generated which is only found by the Googlebot; when you're viewing it with any other user-agent, the site appears completely normal. Spam hackers are more subtle than you ever thought.Google DNS slowing down iTunes and Apple TV &gt;&gt; CNET"Last year Google started a public DNS service, promising faster speeds and security, but AppleInsider mentions that because some download services use the same path from the DNS servers to send data back to the client computers, using Google's DNS servers (which are optimized for name resolution and not for handling large amounts of data from each client) will bog down the network."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Yesterday saw the likes of Halo: Reach, Call of Duty: Black Ops and Final Fantasy XIII placing lower than some may have expected. What shocks are on the menu today? Find out with numbers 15-11 of our Games of the Year list...15. LIMBO(Playdead, Xbox Live Arcade)Amid the cacophony of E3 2010, a monochromatic indie game by a small Danish team somehow managed to grab the attention of the gaming press. LIMBO is an enigma, ostensibly a puzzle-platformer about a boy searching for his sister, it's more an expressionistic, psychological quest, the silhouetted monsters and shifting shadows hinting at primal, barely perceived terrors. If this makes it sound like some sort of arcane, artsy experiment, it is a huge disservice. The game has an excellent physics system around which it bases a series of individual logic puzzles that tease and intrigue as much as any of the technicolour tasks that befall Mario. Like Heavy Rain, LIMBO beautifully illustrates what can happen when leftfield minds are applied to the latest in games hardware.14. Civilization V(Firaxis, PC, Mac)Unlike most philosophers, political leaders or scientists, Sid Meier always knows what is best for Civilization. For the fifth incarnation of this legendary strategy title, the great designer and his team at Firaxis have re-written the rule book, retaining the basic concept (developing a fledgling race over six thousand years, from nomadic tribe to nuclear super power), but chucking out the old square-based grid system in favour of a hexagonal map, where units cannot be stacked on top of each other. It means that every city siege is a tense multi-faceted tactical encounter, where ranged weaponry and infantry muscle must be employed in tandem. It also looks lovely, the detailed randomly generated landscapes awash with life and colour. Some have criticised the loss of several key features; the words 'dumbing down' have been thrown about. For those people, well, Civ IV is still out there. But as a new take on the classic concept, it is fascinating, enjoyable and as ever, educational. There should be a PC running this game in every school in every corner of the world.13. Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(Ubisoft, PS3, Xbox 360)The latest title in Ubisoft's history-spanning adventure series had no right to be this good. Essentially representing an add-on to Assassin's Creed II, it follows renaissance hitman Ezio as he attempts to liberate Rome from the mighty Borgia clan, recruiting a new guild of killers on the way. But this is no hastily produced stopgap, it's a gripping epic playing out amid the crowded streets and over the rooftops of an intricately realised city. Along with the enthralling main campaign, there are dozens of side-quests and missions, while the story of Desmond Miles is also continued and expanded. Add in the unusual cat-and-mouse multiplayer and this is a luscious offering, rich with atmosphere, wallowing in the sort of historical detail that Dan Brown can only prod at. What a set up for Assassin's 3…12. Angry Birds(Rovio, Android, iOS, mobile, PSP)How has a simple physics-based mobile timewaster become a cultural phenomenon? How did combining the game design principles of Worms, Crush the Castle and Boom Blox into one portable catapult-'em-up possibly inspirea hilarious satire on the Middle East peace process? It probably shouldn't, but it has. And really, one should never underestimate the entertainment alchemy that comes from merging cute visuals and animal cruelty – this was, after all, the stock-in-trade of the Looney Tunes animation factory for half a century. Ultimately, Angry Birds is a masterclass in casual game design. It looks funny, it has a one-stop user-interface, it reveals its complexity gradually, and it is easy to talk about and share. The rumours of a motion picture tie-in will surely be confirmed in 2011. It will probably be an inept insult to this brilliantly constructed game.11. Super Mario Galaxy 2(Nintendo, Wii)Forget mere galaxies, what the latest Super Mario adventure reminds us all about is the sheeruniversalityof Miyamoto's work. As Steve Boxer wrote in his Guardian review, "the youngest children and grizzliest hardcore gamers alike will be held equally rapt by its charms." SMG2 takes the structure of its predecessor, a series of themed worlds, each with multiple galaxies to explore, tightens things up and adds new abilities, new characters and, most importantly, a ludicrous wealth of fresh ideas and game design treats. Somehow, Nintendo is able to craft an experience that is both utterly logical and astonishingly surreal – like a Dali painting with an instruction leaflet. But much more fun. So, so much fun.
Give generously. Photo byHowardLakeon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe news thatApple has pulled the Wikileaks app from its iOS App Storehas brought predictable groans and suggestions of censorship - but one possible reason for the move may be Apple's hard-to-explain refusal to allow apps to make in-app donations to charities or non-profits.(Update:seeaddition at end.)The issue of rejection of donation apps has been growing in size for some time now, but it may be the Wikileaks issue - if this is indeed what it's about - that tips it into visibility.(The Register suggests that it waspulled because it was "useless", only doing the same things as you could do on other apps - bringing together Twitter and the web site - though if you were rejecting on that basis you'd be chucking apps out of the App Store with abandon. Though maybe Apple is now. But we doubt it.)Other charities have already been having problems. Nick Aldridge, chief executive ofMissionFish, a registered charity whose purpose is (recursively enough) to help charities raise money, got in touch to point out how this is hurting them: "Apple continues to block charitable donations (specifically) from within all its apps. Instead, would-be donors have to send texts or open browser windows to donate, which (broadly speaking) they don't. We'd collaborated with PayPal to add a donations function to their main iPhone App, which went live at the end of August and raised $10,000 in the first couple of months. Once we'd properly integrated a disaster response within the App, I suspect it would have raised millions. However, Apple kicked it off the platform in October, with no explanation of why they'd changed their mind."He adds: "While we will push ahead and launch the system on other mobile platforms, charities are missing out on a huge opportunity by having no simple way for donors to give money from their iPhones."As Aldridge points out, "Apple has never explained the reasons for its policy that 'The collection of donations must be done via a web site in Safari or an SMS'. I suspect it is because they don't want to be responsible for verifying that Apps really do send money to genuine charities. But many other tech companies have solved this problem, including eBay (with our help), PayPal and Google - so why not Apple?"Beth Kanter, chief executive of Zoetica, has alreadyblogged on the Guardian's Voluntary Sector network blogabout this earlier this month; nothing has changed as far as we can see.And the fact that the Wikileaks app - which did call for "donations" (see ithere, and install it if you've jailbroken your iPhone) - has vanished seems to show a pattern.While Apple hasn't commented on the Wikileaks takedown, there have been nudges from the company that the reason it bans "charitable" donations is precisely because of that concern that it would be held responsible if someone were embezzling funds or if it weren't transmitted correctly.A quick scan of charity law for the US doesn't reveal anything there, but equally you can see that people might cut up rough from both the giver's and the would-be recipient's side if, say, Apple were to approve an app that appears to be letting youdonate to, say, the Disasters Emergency Committeebut the bank account it was sent to wasn't one controlled by DEC (or was set up by someone nefarious - after all, you could set up a meta-giving app which let you give to multiple charities, already filled in for you).Then Apple could be held liable, in the land of tort, for not having checked first that the details were correct.And that would quickly become very tedious. Far simple just to stick to what it details in itsApp Store Guidelines, where in section 21 it specifically sets out that "1. Apps that include the ability to make donations to recognized charitable organizations must be free" and that "2. The collection of donations must be done via a web site in Safari or an SMS".The use of an SMS still seems like it would leave Apple slightly liable to criticism - does it check that each SMS is a valid lookup for that charity? Maybe so, given that it's in the ratings - but it certainly distances it from people who'd want to scam your money. And never forget that there are plenty of those.Update:Apple hasmade a statement to Wired's Threat Level blog:"We removed the WikiLeaks app from the App Store because it violated our developer guidelines," a spokeswoman told Threat Level, reading from a statement. "Apps must comply with all local laws and may not put an individual or targeted group in harm's way."Which would seem to put the charity argument out of the picture - although it's still a live topic of annoyance for charities.
TheUS Federal Communications Commission(FCC) is today expected to formally approve controversial new rules on how internet users access content such as YouTube and Skype.Dubbed by one US senator as "the most important free speech issue of our time", the rules drawn up by the country's media and telecoms regulator would effectively create two levels of internet access – one delivered by traditional fixed-line broadband, and another by wireless and mobile providers.FCC members Michael Copps and Mignon Clyburn last night said they would support the proposal laid out by chairman Julius Genachowski. The five-member FCC panel is expected to approve the proposal in Washington later today.Fixed-line internet providers will be prevented from blocking content and online services from rival companies or providing preferential treatment to paying clients under the new rules.However, the new framework would allow mobile internet service providers to charge content companies for more efficient delivery to US homes. Wireless providers will also be allowed to block applications or services, providing that they are not competitors. Fixed-line and wireless provider Verizon, for example, would not be allowed to block access to Skype because it provides a rival voice service.The new rules also open the door for providers to charge customers more for using high-bandwidth services such as downloading or streaming videos on YouTube or online movie rental siteNetflix.Today's vote represents the first time the principle of net neutrality – where all internet content is treated equally – has been formally ratified in the US. It is the culmination of five years of heated discussion over the future of the internet.In the UK, communications minister Ed Vaizey will have a close eye on the US regulatory framework as he looks to implement new rules governing how internet service providers such as BT and BSkyB deliver content to UK homes. A number of internet companies, including eBay, Skype and Yahoowrote to Vaizey earlier this monthurging him to enshrine the principles of net neutrality into law.Public interest groups and technology companies called the framework "fake net neutrality" and said the rules "create a vague and shifting landscape, open to interpretation", rather than enshrining principles of the open internet. Netflix, Skype and Amazon have also previously expressed reservations about the plans.Al Franken, the Democrat senator, said the vote would decide "the most important free speech issue of our time"."Imagine if Comcast customers couldn't watch Netflix, but were limited only to Comcast's video-on-demand service. Imagine if a cable news network could get its website to load faster on your computer than your favourite local political blog. Imagine if big corporations with their own agenda could decide who wins or loses online," Frankensaid on Monday. "The internet as we know it would cease to exist."
Last week, I needed to get in touch with a colleague, an academic who'd recently changed universities; I didn't have his current email address, so I sent him a tweet: "Don't have your new email, can you drop me a line at doctorow@craphound.com?"And yes, I did get in touch with my friend but I also got a flurry of emails and tweets from people who were shocked to their boots that I had [gasp]published my email address. I even got an automated email from a twitterbot directing me to a website advising me on all the horrible unsolicited email I could expect to get if I made my email address public (the irony of sending this advice in an unsolicited email was apparently lost on the bot's author).But I've had a published email address for more than a decade. It's pretty much the only email address I use (more on this later), and yes, I get a lot of spam there. But I'm not convinced that keeping an email address secret is anything but a fool's errand.The main reason to keep one's email address secret is to hide from thespambots– those nefarious snafflers of unguarded email addresses that act as input for all the unsolicited email that unscrupulous huxters and scammers firehose over our inboxes.Like everyone, I have spam filters. I use three lines of defence: first, I have greylisting switched on for my mail server (this is a simple server configuration that sends a "busy, try again in 15 minutes" message the first time another mail server tries to communicate with it in a 24-hour period; this gets rid of over 90% of the 20,000-plus spams directed at me every day).Second, I have the spam filter built into Thunderbird, the free/open mailer from the Mozilla people (the same people behind Firefox). Finally, I have a blacklist of terms and from-addresses for filtering out commercial offerings from firms who think that buying a single machine screw or teacup means you want to hear from them twice a week for the rest of time.I don't really care how much spam gets eaten by my filters – all I care about is how much spam gets through; that is, how much spam I have to clear out by hand. If the server is culling 16,000 or 160,000 spams a day, it makes no difference to me. On the other hand, if the 100-300 spams I manually kill every day turned into 1,000-3,000, it would seriously undermine my productivity.So I publish my email address, because I have yet to see any compelling evidence that hiding your email address or using silly techniques like spelling it out (doctorowATcraphoundDOTcom) is any proof against email harvesters. I can think of a way of detecting and converting such obfuscated email addresses, and if I can think of it, so can some spambot author, and she can write the code to do it.I also have yet to see any compelling evidence that each additional publication of my email address accounts for any uptick in the amount of email that penetrates my filters. Surely after more than a decade, my email address is already in the databases of the world's greatest and most prolific spammers. Re-adding it doesn't make their spam any better at puncturing my defences.Indeed, the main category of spam that makes it through the filter comes from PR people who have bought it as part of a list of journalists who they might pitch and who are hoping to get a product mentioned on Boing Boing. This is the hardest stuff to filter, since it comes from so many valid email addresses, each message containing unique body text that mentions me by name.Every time I get one of these pitches, I add the agency's entire domain to my killfile (there's only one way to pitch me a Boing Boing story, and that's via the form that is prominently linked from every single Boing Boing page), but new agencies pop up like weeds. Lucky for me, PR people are exceptionally poorly co-ordinated and that makes it easy to catch the spams from the subject line alone – two or three emails with the same subject line received within a few moments of each other can be shift-click selected and deleted in an instant. I also get a small but steady stream of nutjob email – this is easier to filter, since the crazies usually use a stable address that's easy to add to a killfile.Meanwhile, obfuscating email addresses costs something: it costs me the time it takes to arse around with trying to come up with a bot-proof, human-readable encoding of my address, and it costs my correspondents whatever time they spend unscrambling my system.The only way I know of to avoid the spam-flood is to change email addresses frequently, thus sacrificing all the value that comes from having a long-term, stable email – easy password recovery (trying to recover a password from a service that you signed up to from a dead email address is a lost cause); a stable place for business correspondents (people who want to license my writing can use the email address that appears on it and it will reach me); a continuous way to correspond with friends and loved ones.Almost any email address that you use for any length of time eventually becomes widely enough known that you should assume all the spammers have it. So either you sacrifice stable communications, or learn to tolerate a certain baseline of spam.Idohave a few "secret" email addresses, but these are extremely special-purpose. For example, I sometimes create short-term secret throwaway Gmail accounts that a few trusted people have access to while I'm on an email-free holiday. I also have a secret Gmail account that my Android phone is connected to – I email myself grocery lists and other ephemera as a cheap-and-easy way of getting that stuff onto my phone. I also have a secret account that is connected up to a shared Google Calendar that my travel co-ordinator uses to store my itineraries; this synchs automatically to my phone and my wife's desktop. These secret account names are created by using a password generator to come up with a random string, such as "B6CD8C3112B51B4317FC8F1C0A1F3D85274C1E860CCC5F5D76F294529F5D8128@gmail.com" (I like the password generator atgrc.com/passwords.htmfor this). It's vanishingly unlikely that a spammer will hit on this by brute force – but if the addressdoesleak, it's easy enough to fix, since only a few people or devices use it. It's a measure that fails gracefully.I know a lot of people who swear by Google's own spam filters, but I'm privacy conscious enough that I'm loathe to give my whole email corpus to Google (though I correspond with so many Gmail users that Google already has a significant fraction of my email output in its servers).In any event, the Thunderbird filters work well for me, especially in combination with a nice trick I picked up along the way: every time I send an email, Thunderbird is set to add the addressee to my address-book, which becomes a database of known correspondents. Every time a new email arrives, it is sorted based on whether it appears in that database (that means I can easily prioritise email from people I know). I also have Thunderbird colour all known-sender email green, and so I can quickly check the spam folder for green messages before clearing it out as a way of catching false positives.The spam wars aren't going away any time soon, and yesterday's tactics might not work against tomorrow's spammers. Nevertheless, I can't imagine a future in which treating our public email addresses as secret will do any more good than tossing spilled salt over your shoulder. Meantime, the convenience of stable, easily copy-pastable email addresses is such that I plan on using doctorow@craphound.com for a long, long time to come.
Ah, what a week it was. England had just won the second Ashes test (little did we know what was to come), the kids were enjoying Gran Turismo 5 and Panorama was preparing to foist a tabloid farce onto the unsuspecting British public, every member of whom knew more about games than the programme's presenter. Yep that was December 6-10, 2010 alright. And now you can relive all the conversational thrills and communicative spills from that golden five-day period, courtesy of another 'Best of Chatterbox', the world's most oxymoronic online regular.This week's edition was compiled by Herecomestreble. "Can you be sure to make it clear that I didn't actually write any of this?" he requested in his email to me. "Actually, there's a couple of quotes from me still in there, so I'd prefer it if you didn't mention me at all."Oops.Monday December 6Another Baltic week began on a high note: England absolutely beasting the Aussies in the cricket over the weekend. Hurrah![Oh the hubris – Keef]Fantomex soon made an early bid to ruin the day's conversation by asking "So, what cartoon character would you [enjoy carnal relations] with?"Happily the vast majority of the blog ignored him, and normal service resumed with the usual tales of weekend gaming, film, music, food and drink consumption.Fantasy-book-recommendation blog reappeared for a bit (Joe Abercrombie, Stephen Erikson, R. Scott Bakker since you ask) until the question of  everyone's Game of The Year hoved into view. Lists! About games! This was basically chocolate-coated chat crack, and everyone helped themselves to seconds.There's a game about cars which is proving quite popular, Gin &amp; Tonic 5 or something? Whatever it is, it was responsible for around 93.4% of Monday's conversation. As far as your humble correspondent can make out, GT5 seems to consist of customising virtual vehicles, swapping them between your friends, and then getting a computer man to drive them for you. So, it's basically Pokemon GTi then."I'm-not-really-a-LARPer," Scamander rolled up with a chewy quandary for elevenses: "quick question here – assuming everything has mass, how much does the interweb weigh?" This was too much for the poor, struggling brains of the blog, with even resident Pedantichrist CunningStunt admitting, "I wouldn't know where to start on how to estimate how many electrons there are in the internet." Quitters.Sheep2 treated us to a glimpse of the future with his predictions of what we'll be playing in 15 years' time:- Street Fighter 9- Gran Turismo 7 Prologue- Call of Duty 22- Football Manager 2025- Duke Nukem ForeverThe last one seems vanishingly unlikely.New recordings of Norwich's Alan Partridge prompted TonyHayers to take a break from singlehandedly saving Christmas to regale us with all the new phrases he'd learned. If you can imagine how Bumblebee in the Transformers films communicates via snippets of radio broadcasts, you're pretty much there in terms of how Hayers interacts with other people. Later in the afternoon there were some quite hideous mental images being flung around. Suffice to say that the words "lap", "dance", "tassels", and "CunningStunt" should never, ever appear in proximity to each other.Quote of The DayThere wasn't one. GT5 saw to that.Games:GT5, Blops, GT5, BFBC2, GT5, Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, GT5TuesdayWhat goes down? Everything goes down.Nothing goes down...People. Humanity. Apes expanding into a realm of pure leisure, then hooting about it on the internet. Just hooting about it on the Chatterbox.At the Chatterbox there is a new trend. People log in and call the other posters by a nonsensical pseudo-humourous name. "Blog munchers". That kind of thing. Tuesday had a lot of this.Bloatboy posted loads. But if you want to read it then you had better go back to source.Do you want to read it?Panorama said games were addictive. To a belligerent response.And the day ended with talk of chicken sandwich fillings.Human apes: Hooting into the abyss.Quotations"Yesterday - I was leaving work, and I saw a young girl from Coronation Street being photographed. The photographer was telling her to look natural, like it was one of those 'Spotted Out-and-About' features. The young lady was taking direction from the photographer. It was all a set-up."HereComesTreble tackles the artifice of stardom"A fridge saved Indiana Jones from an atomic bomb – it's a sturdy weapon of choice"SerenVikity gets the terms 'weapon' and 'ridiculous plot device' confused"My gran used to put whole eggs (in their shell) inside a chicken while it was roasting. You'd get a roast chicken and roast (seriously hard-boiled) eggs too."SageSmith with a tip from his best-selling cookery bookWednesdayThe word on the street is that SSX is coming back. This was a genuine bit of gaming news. A few people seemed happy, most were too sick of snow to build up any kind of enthusiasm.Chat for the day focused on the Panorama show regarding games addiction. Predictably it was presented by a man who had almost zero knowledge on the subject. Apparently he had some kids who played games and he knew who 'Laura Croft' was; which seemingly qualifies him to present a national television show on the matter. So we followed that well travelled path of outraged parental concern and sensationalised ignorance based on a few isolated but tragic cases and in the end learnt very little."Really scraping the barrel to find their subjects - the long haired freak, the boy who screamed at his mum." This was the opening statement from EnglishRed, however it wasn't all doom and gloom as he soon managed to find some common ground: "I particularly liked the WoW player who they kept showing as his wall was plastered with Games Workshop art".A personal tale from Cameroon whose sibling apparently once was hooked on Call of Duty led Makar27 to question him: "What happened when your brother had the router taken away? Did he kick your door in? Did your Mum and Dad try hitting him lots first?"The only other chat perhaps worth reporting today was on The Christmas Office Party. It was summed up succinctly by TonyHayers who managed to successfully encapsulate this awkward festive workplace celebration into one simple sentence: 'F*ck off, Neil from Accounts.'The day finished with the discussion as to who was the most sexually alluring cartoon character[again? Really? – Keef]. It didn't quite confirm my suspicion that about half the blog are Hentai enthusiasts, but EnglishRed correctly pointed out that getting turned on by a cartoon character is 'the preserve of the social inadequate.'Most of the blog went for Jessica Rabbit.Quote of the day"I think Ashley really likes the parachute payments"BigWorv tries to make sense of BigMike's actions.ThursdayThursday dawned with a few new bloggers sticking their heads above the parapet – two declaiming their love of those opposing Chatterbox favourites Bad Company 2 and Black Ops, and FateIsInexorable clarifying that he takes his hobby seriously:"I suppose it depends on what you classify as taking your hobby too seriously. Is attending LAN events and competing in online leagues for cash and prizes taking it too seriously?" Short answer: Yes.We are all familiar with the circle of life though, and as we welcomed the newcomers, we bade farewell to Bloatboy, who signed off with a typically rambling missive. I think he needs to get on with more work or something.An otherwise slow start belied what was to come, and the comments soon picked up as Uncleb3n organised the regular Thursday night Gamesblog session, this time on Gran Turismo 5. GT5 comments were yet again dominating the box, as we debated the pros and cons of Maserati, Subaru, rally courses, damage, and driving aids. TonyHayers sums up his feelings: "TVRs are what Gran Turismo is all about though. Rear wheel drive monsters, that can be driven hard."Chatterbox car swapping was as popular as ever – does it give you the moral high ground though?"I'm determined not to borrow any cars to complete sections of the game. This is genuinely not a pop at any of you who are."Uncleb3n has a pop at anyone who borrows a car."I killed my Camaro yesterday – it flashed red and then my steering went. Do you want it?"A career as a used car saleswoman probably doesn't await SerenVikity."Don't buy him too much Meccano. He'll end up building a huge catapult to fire giant snowballs at all his teachers."AngryMan13 gives present-buying advice to SageSmith.FridayFriday was ethanol day. There is a saying that if you don't move when thinking you don't think – something to do with staring and consciousness, eye muscles, fatigue and memory: sense but one stage before perception. The body and mind as one. When work is boredom, we stare, get tired.Posts suggested a haze of colour and shape with no sense of what that might mean to those posting, little sense of the person doing the seeing. Bacon rolls, Berroca salts, beer and Buckfast as yellow brick roads back not to one's being but to one's self, self being the word that cheapens being, self being a word that works well with work and the demands it makes upon being, a word that denies what it is we as beings truly feel when a Gobi sniper rifle takes out a deathclaw with one shot at four hundred metres.For one, this awful state of affairs, a Friday morning hangover, brought a self closer to God and the power of silent stoicism and a moment of prayer, albeit shared with a gamesblog with thousands of voyeurs across the world. "Dear lord I feel awful..." (Chubster, 2010, p10).In another office, a building with walls and doors and stairs, a spreadsheet on a computer was cross fired with rows and columns: it hit a sweet spot called Smashing."Hell yeah! I'm feeling like crap… Thankfully I'm working at home today and will be stuffing my face and playing games… That's how you cure a hangover. Well, that and more beer."It was a formula, if not shared, then appreciated by the legend of Sheep and the ghost of Peter Cook."Don't sober up.Worked well for Peter CookFour cans of beer &amp; a large vodka. Bottle of wine with lunch. Then in the afternoon he'd start drinking"The recent discovery that bacteria in a lake in the USA have arsenic as a component of their make-up holds up hope that these days are not over.Seren's "dip intae" the realm of new world wines paralleled a new found land for the blog – a group of females, with guns, broke the circle and gathered round the blog fire seeking not only comfort from the pretensions of work but to share their knowledge of weaponry, FPS and general understandings of the perspectives of those with tails about those without.The blog sent out big greetings to Wardinator and the other no tail (i apologise, it is late and i now have no brain, i know you will never forgive me for this but seriously i am without capacity) for their frank dismissal of all things princess and tamponic, despite the immediate and serious threat posed to world safety by the now recognised unregulated nature of tamponic weapons. As Albert Einstein, the man with the non-fascist moustache, noted a few years before his death, "I know not with what tamponic weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks, stones and super plus sanitary towels."[I really don't know what's going on anymore – Keef]Gaming wise, the talk was of two door lamb biryanis and online car shares, colour schemes a big factor.Honourable mentions:Get better soon FoolsGold, the half-man, half-cattle bastard son of a Hearts and Hibs love affair.[Has he finished? Is it safe to come out now? – Keef]Quote of the Day"If you go back far enough, we are all descendants of the Scots.There's no real evidence for it, but it's still a scientific fact."Treble, 2010, p1707End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'State of Love and trust' by Pearl JamCheck theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by crispycrumb, lazybones, rustyjames, limni and mollocate. It was edited by Herecomestreble."In every real man a child is hidden that wants to play."Friedrich Nietzsche
Christmas just wouldn't be Christmas without an array of list features to argue with and shout at. So here's our contribution to the great festive debate. Over the next four days we'll present the Guardian review team's twenty favourite games of 2010. They are, quite simply, the titles we played the most, and that gave us the most pleasure.Feel free to heckle, contradict and mock – that's the fun of it. Some of the more quirky favourites from the team have been ejected as part of the democratic process, but we'll list a selection of those on Christmas Eve.For now, prepare your indignation – or agreement – for the first five games...20. Fable III(Lionhead, Xbox 360, PC)Once again Peter Molyneux promised the Earth and delivered... well, at least a continent. The third title in Lionhead's RPG adventure series takes place 50 years after Fable II and demands that you rescue an ailing kingdom then learn to govern it effectively. Our team loved the fusion of game styles, the engrossing plot and the sense of your actions and interactions having a profound effect on the world around you. Certainly though, it was let down by some technical issues and the rather uninspired environment design, while some gamers criticised the simplified structure. However, most of us agreed that Fable III represents an enthralling and often witty take on an over-subscribed genre. It also boasts a voice acting cast that stuffs in more stars than most Hollywood blockbusters. Not bad going for a British development.19. Halo: Reach(Bungie, Xbox 360)This is a game about last stands – it is the Spartans' final and ultimately doomed attempt to save Reach from the encroaching Covenant forces, and it is Bungie's closing Halo game before moving on to other projects. No wonder the story of valour and sacrifice is so epically drawn – and no wonder some felt it failed to hit the stratospheric emotional heights it aimed at. It's difficult to pull off tragedy with giant guns and wisecracking uber men. Whatever its narrative failures however, Halo Reach does everything fans of the series wanted and more, providing a compelling range of weapons and vehicles, and an intelligent foe to aim them at. And with its multiplayer engine still firing on all cylinders, Reach, ultimately, is a Triumphalist 'best of', a cocksure culmination of the whole Halo experience, as envisioned by its departing creator. Halo – and by logical extension, the Xbox 360 – will never be the same again.18. Final Fantasy XIII(Square Enix, PS3, Xbox 360)Another Final Fantasy adventure, another band of plucky young super models out to save their world from an invading evil. As with every title since the epoch shattering seventh incarnation, it has split critical opinion with a mighty battle-axe. The Guardian referred to this mammoth cinematic odyssey as 'grandly and unapologetically linear'. Hardcore game site Destructoid preferred to label it, 'a pompous and masturbatory affair'. Most gamers will swivel between both viewpoints as they trek through the 50-hour campaign, often marvelling at the almost ridiculous beauty of the landscapes and set pieces. Indeed, wherever you stand on the whole 'adventure-game-as-travel-documentary' debate, and whatever you think of the smoothed down active battle system, only a churl would wish an end to this idiosyncratic series – the Gran Turismo of RPGs.17. Alan Wake(Remedy, Xbox 360)Very specifically billed as a 'psychological action thriller', Alan Wake, was always a fascinating project – an obsessive labour of love, teased out over several years by Remedy's comparatively tiny development team. The central concept, a horror author travelling to a remote town to combat writer's block – only to end up combating an all-pervasive evil – is the familiar stuff of a hundred survival horror yarns. But the intense plotting, interesting light-as-a-weapon mechanic, and endlessly self-doubting hero make this much more of a 'think piece'. It is never quite the revelation it thinks it is however, and following the much weirder Heavy Rain, it looked positively conventional at times. Alan Wake is a paradox then.Time Magazine called it the game of the year– even the game's sternest detractors will understand why some love it so ardently.16. Call of Duty: Black Ops(Treyach, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)It was too conventional, too representative of the big money gaming mainstream, for some to stomach. But Black Ops is superlative blockbuster entertainment. The single-player campaign skilfully pickpockets twenty years of Cold War history, generating a conspiracy thriller that's as plausible as anything the movie biz could have chucked at us. And within it, there are marvellous set-pieces and well-tuned cultural references. The sequence where you start off on a murderous cruise down a Vietnamese river with Sympathy for the Devil kicking in over the speakers is approaching genius. Then you have the exhaustive multiplayer functionality, the zombies, the retro arcade game… There have been troubling problems with the PS3 version – these need to be addressed. And as I wrote in my review, the game stretches the whole CoD premise to snapping point. One more over-blown, globetrotting, shoot-fest could bring the whole edifice crashing down.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
See link 8. Photo byzipckron Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat They Know: Mobile &gt;&gt; Wall Street Journal"As part of the What They Know investigative series into data privacy, the Journal analyzed the data collected and shared by 101 popular apps on iPhone and Android phones (including the Journal's own iPhone app). This interactive database shows the behavior of these apps, and describes what each app told users about the information it gathered."Which turns out to be a lot more than you might have thought.Why I am sunsetting Yahoo! &gt;&gt; Ged Carroll"Email is only a strength if consumers trust you with their accounts. Bookmarks are almost as personal a set of data as your email. For those of us that use them it is our online memory bank. If someone was getting rid of your bookmarks on say Delicious or Yahoo! Bookmarks, why would you continue to trust them with you email account? Or your flickr account for that matter?"So you build up a bank of distrust regarding personal information, pretty soon after a competitor launches a new mail service? Facebook offers email as part of its new Messaging offering. This is the  same Facebook that is now responsible for 25 per cent of display advertising, so I guess that would make them a serious competitor for Yahoo!?"Infographic: Facebook vs Twitter Demographics 2011 &gt;&gt; Digital Buzz BlogActually, this could be done better by stringing the demographic details for the two along an axis and having one above, one below so that you could directly compare the two.Why is Dropbox popular and not something similar, like Windows Live Sync, which is free? &gt;&gt; Quora"No, shut up." Though at greater length.The Case Against Micropayments &gt;&gt; Clay Shirky"Jakob Nielsen, in his essay The Case for Micropayments writes, "I predict that most sites that are not financed through traditional product sales will move to micropayments in less than two years," and Nicholas Negroponte makes an even shorter-term prediction: "You're going to see within the next year an extraordinary movement on the Web of systems for micropayment ... ." He goes on to predict micropayment revenues in the tens or hundreds of billions of dollars."Alas for micropayments, both of these predictions were made in 1998. (In 1999, Nielsen reiterated his position, saying, "I now finally believe that the first wave of micropayment services will hit in 2000.") And here it is, the end of 2000. Not only did we not get the flying cars, we didn't get micropayments either. What happened?"Splendid essay by Clay Shirky (from 2000) about the enduring puzzle of micropayments: its economic points about decision-making are still to be observed.Exploring European Energy Data &gt;&gt; Open Knowledge Foundation BlogNeat visualisations of how Europe uses its energy. Unanswered: how Europe is going to reduce its energy usage. (Likely answer: it isn't.)Windows Phone 7 Marketplace Stats &gt;&gt; WP7applistConstantly-updated listing of apps in the Windows Phone 7 marketplace. Intriguing.Warning, don't get confused between the CE Mark and the China Export Mark &gt;&gt; ybwYes, good old Yachting &amp; Boating World points to a fascinating bit of sneakiness from Chinese manufacturers: a "CE" mark that looks strangely just like the real, er, CE mark.Free calling in Gmail extended through 2011 &gt;&gt; Official Gmail BlogTo the US and Canada. Other countries can just wait in line.Memo: 'Gawker tech team didn't adequately secure our platform' &gt;&gt; Poynter."Gawker Media servers and some company email accounts were compromised by hackers at some time during the last few weeks; the compromise was made public to us (and everyone else) this past weekend."Actually we've been hearing that the compromise had a longer timeframe. We'll see. Note that it's the first time that they've admitted it was a flaw in the Gawker code, not a staff password being hacked.Interactive US Airport Delay Visualization &gt;&gt; InetSoft TechnologyWouldn't it be nice to have one like this for the UK too? Uses FAA data. (Flash-based.)Microsoft quietly shuts down Office Genuine Advantage program | ZDNetHard to tell what this actually means - even Ed Bott, who wrote it, doesn't seem to know, as you still have to have your proper Office 25-alphanumeric code to get that validated. Probably that Microsoft has realised you don't need to validate the downloading of templates.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
In a dimly lit basement, half a dozen blindfolded players are edging cautiously around the room, crunching over tortilla chips scattered on the floor and occasionally dinging tiny bells suspended from the ceiling. Two of them seem to collide briefly, there's a whisper and then a bloodcurdling scream as one of them 'dies'.This isn't a scene from Silence of the Lambs but a Mexican game calledSangre y Patatas– or 'blood and potatoes' – now part of the genesis of a powerful and inventive new mobile game played entirely through sound.Papa Sangre, which was released through theiTunes App Storestore today, is described as "the first binaural real-time, 3D audio engine implemented on a handheld device". Too often the silent partner in film and gaming, Papa Sangre's ambitious horror game shows how sound has the highest fidelity of any gaming experience – the fidelity of your own imagination.It's also a consuming first-person thriller. Players navigate Papa Sangre's world through five palaces - brass, strings, wind, bone and finally the palace of Papa Sangre himself - each with seven levels and missions to gather musical notes that often nestle just behind a monster. Those monsters, including the much-feared snufflehogs, respond to sound - so if you accidentally crunch through broken bone on the floor of the Palace of Bone and watch your back. Navigation is through the phone's screen, so tap left and right on the screen move step by step through the game, and swipe the top of the screen to change direction."We're not the first to do a game entirely in sound but others have tried and realised it was a bat-shit insane thing to do," said a clearly exhausted Paul Bennun, director of digital at games studio Somethin' Else. "But sound is hugely under-rated and brings a massive amount to gaming. Even in a mass-market game like Silent Hill, some of the interface of the game is communicated through sound like radios that crackle when zombies are nearby. Sound is often far more important than people give it credit for."Papa Sangre took 73 weeks to create, with a core staff of five and extended team of 10 that included Tassos Stevens, Margaret Robinson, Peter Law Adam Hoyle and Ben Cave, as well as Bennun and Ryan. It also received some funding from 4ip, Channel 4's now defunct innovation fund – or 'paramilitary wing', as Somethin' Else has labelled it.Pictures are better in soundPerhaps inevitably, the game took three times longer than the team had planned but gathered a wealth of new insights during the project. "We realised that pictures are far better in sound than in graphics," said Bennun. "Stuff that takes place in your head is far more profound and personal than it is in visual graphics – it enables the ultimate first person game because you are in the moment in a way you aren't with visual graphics. Your senses map exactly into the game play."Somethin' Else also worked with the RNIB and a team of visually impaired testers. While they didn't set out to specifically design a game for the visually impaired, a game that was mechanically accessible for all players was an objective. "One of them described the game as 'a sighted person's idea of what a sound game should be like', though I'm not sure I entirely agree with that." said Bennun. "We set out to make a horror game before anything else. But blind people perceive the dark in a different way, perhaps one that isn't inherently terrifying for a horror game."Visually impaired players picked up the game far faster than sighted players, he said. "Sighted players typically start a new game by running around straight away and exploring. In Papa Sangre, they weren't able to do that because you can't skip levels – you have to learn how to play. Blind players started playing in a much more considered fashion which is the only way you can play the game. Every step counts."How to sonify players' behaviourNick Ryan, Papa Sangre's sound designer, said storytelling techniques had to be simplified for the game. "In radio there are things you can't tell without exposition or things you can't achieve without pictures," he said. "We discovered lots of techniques to sonify the space, but found that what we thought would sound like a river didn't sounds like that at all, so ended up simplifying the space massively."We were limited by audio cognition – our ability to perceive the directionality of a sound and space. To imagine ourselves to be in an audio environment we can only understand a number of sound sources at one time – we had to cut that down to three otherwise it was too confusing."Ryan won a Bafta for The Dark House, an interactive Radio 4 drama aired in 2003. That work has informed much of the spatial description and storytelling in Papa Sangre, where the team had to try and sonify objects, like keys, that players needed to collect. In total, the game uses 1,700 audio files and the team had to work hard to make sure those did not sound repetitive, but also didn't overwhelm the player.Is this the breakthrough moment for sonic games?Does Papa Sangre indicate the rise of sound as an interactive medium in its own right? Has it been 'overlooked' for too long? "There's an interesting disconnect between sounds which are associated with the thing that makes them. About 120 years ago you could guarantee that when you heard a sound you would be in the same place and time as when it happened. The idea that you could hear something that wasn't here and now is a fundamental change in our navigation of space. We're now able to associate sounds with things that don't make them."Ryan gave the beep-beep-beep of a reversing lorry as an example, but also said it's interesting to see how many people favour using the ringtone of an old phone on their mobile because it reminds them of an object that makes a sound that really belongs to it."We've started to fill our world with sounds that tell us things but not in the language of themselves. There's a new language of interaction that starts with telephones and ends with navigational sound design because people want to put physical navigation back into sounds."For Papa Sangre, the next challenge will be to more fully exploit the sensors on the iPhone including the gyroscope, which would mean players could navigate through real-world movement that might be walking or turning on the spot. New environments could be explored, like an underwater palace or anti-gravity in space.The game is on sale today through theiTunes App Storefor £3.99, and though Bennun said he's be disappointed if it didn't make a profit for the team, he concedes it's a challenge to market. "We're well aware we've created something that isn't easily communicated, certainly graphically, but at the same time it is genuinely new and ambitious and we hope word of mouth will carry it through."
Mark Zuckerberg thinks that China is not just a place where it would be nice to do business; it's where the social network's future must inevitably be found. "How can you connect the whole world if you leave out a billion people?" heasked in October.And so he began hisfirst visit to the countrythis week. Just as well it wasn't a week ago, when China banned pictures of empty chairs as they were considered symbolic of those designated to activist Liu Xiaobo at the Nobel peace prize award ceremony in Oslo. Liu has been jailed in China for "inciting subversion of state power".Thus Chinese users of the Twitter equivalent, NetEase, found the site "audited" to stifle talk about "empty chairs", while the 150 million users of the country's Facebook equivalent, Renren, were also muzzled. It is a stark reminder of the way in which seemingly innocent content is interpreted as "critical" or "subversive" and banned by censors there.Fresh from being anointed Time's Person of the Year, Zuckerberg has made no bones about wanting to woo China, and its 500m internet population – almost half its population. At present his creation has only a couple of million Chinese-language users – mainly based outside China – far from its dominance in countries such as the US and UK. Facebook last year was not in the top 10 biggest social networks in the country.So how can Facebook thrive? Robin Li (pictured), the man who founded the Baidu search engine which outperforms Google in China, was Zuckerberg's first point of call. One of the questions he might have asked Li in Beijing is whether wooing China's internet users is worth it. Is the commercial prospect of serving the world's fastest growing internet market attractive enough to run a state-audited, censored and licensed social network? At this point, Li might refer the billionaire Harvard dropout to the advice he privately offered Google chairman Eric Schmidt when his company was preparing to move east. "Market conditions change every day," he warned. "If you are not close, it is difficult for you to keep up."Google effectively shut down its Chinese operation in March, saying it would no longer bow to government censors – a move Lireferred to as both predictable and a gift to Baidu. "You need to be a little bit patient," he advised. "Don't complain. Find a way around the problem."Could Zuckerberg really uproot himself to Beijing, and change his determined approach to problems to cope with a government committed to one aim, its own preservation? Would he find censorship tolerable or just a cost of doing business? Is Facebook a force for socially-organised good, or is it just at the beck and call of government censors? And should it matter either way?In China, politicisation of the web begins right at the top. Disputes between state and private internet companies are not over technology, they are entirely political – as are their solutions. That's not something that a Time magazine award will help with. And no one has so far mistaken Mark Zuckerberg for an international diplomat.
Going to Spain for Christmas? Think you'll fancy ala cena de pavo? You might want to have a peek first at the latest augmented reality app to hit the stands.Going by the timeless maxim of futurologist Arthur C. Clarke,Word Lenseasily qualifies as a "sufficiently advanced" technology.Twenty-eight months in the making, Quest Visual's Word Lens app translates the printed word using the iPhone's video camera. Its launch last week sentTwitterandthe blogosphereinto a frenzy. "This is what the future, literally, looks like,"exclaimed TechCrunch.When pointed at a sentence – strictly English or Spanish for the time being – the app refers to an included dictionary (so no internet connection required) before feeding back the translation in near-real time. Very smart (if you've got an iPhone 3GS or above). Some users have balked at the price – £2.99 for one-way translations – and it's currently got a 3.5/5 star rating from iTunes users.But how does it fare away from the sleek promo video, out in the real world where shaky hands point phones at paragraphs of text? Er,not all that well actually. The magic fades in and out like a bad radio station signal.Far from wanting to do the effort down – language is nascent ground for this kind of innovation – these are the points on which this "proof of concept" must build:• It can reallyonly translate simple, dozen-word-at-mostsentences. Brilliant for tourists reading menus or road signs, but perennial problems persist for those wanting more. You have to take small chunks at a time or simply try decode imperfect translations.• Translationsjump about with shaky hands. Not so good if you're freezing.• No handwriting or stylised fonts - clear printed stuff only. (Perhaps this will help stamp out Comic Sans. Well, we can hope.)• It needs bright light. May we suggest that from your phone? This is likely because it's performing a machine vision process on the text - basically, a sort of real-time OCR, which then gets bunched into words, and then sentences, and then translated.• On that basis, lots gets lost in translation. As with Google's efforts in this area, syntax and grammar aren't readily transposed in another language.Speaking of Google,Reuters wonderswhat translation would be like if Word Lens put onGoogle Googles, its Android app which takes a snapshot of text and brings back a translation from the company's servers. "Such an app would deliver on the promise of augmented reality, which has been discussed much but unable to deliver apps that fit into most smartphone owners' daily lives," says Reuters' Kevin Kelleher.And no, we don't know when Android/RIM/Windows Phone 7/Palm versions will be coming. To quote from theweb page: "Our goal was to get a great first release on one platform. Keep in touch!"Ditto for other languages.So - have you used Word Lens yet? Is it still in the proof-of-concept phase, or would you readily pay £2.99 for its services?
The lord chief justice today opened the way for the reporting of some court proceedings by journalists using Twitter, texting and email, but made clear it was unlikely to happen where such use of social media could influence witnesses.Media organisations and journalists can apply for permission to use social media on a case-by-case basis, but Lord Judge said it may be necessary to bar its use by non-journalists to ensure the "proper administration of justice", prevent distractions in court and limit the potential for interference with courts' own recording equipment.The guidance is likely to increase pressure for cameras to be allowed into courts. Broadcaster Sky News said it welcomed "a very encouraging move, which shows that the judiciary is ready to allow the introduction of other modern communications methods to make the courts more accessible to the public at large".Judge issuedinterim guidance on the use of social media, pending a public consultation involving the judiciary, prosecutors, lawyers, the media and "interested members of the public". The guidance applies only to courts in England and Wales.It follows a district judge's decision to allow the tweeting of abail hearing for Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks chief, earlier this month. Assange faces extradition to Sweden over allegations of rape, molestation and unlawful coercion.Lord Judge had already been considering the issue, which he highlighted at alecture in Belfast last month.Under the guidance, anyone wanting to tweet from a courtroom will first need the permission of the judge, who will consider the risk posed to justice.This would be at its highest in criminal trials where witnesses who are out of court would be able to find out what has already happened.Lord Judge said: "The judge has an overriding responsibility to ensure that proceedings are conducted consistently with the proper administration of justice, and so as to avoid any improper interference with its processes."There is no statutory prohibition on the use of live text-based communications in open court. But before such use is permitted, the court must be satisfied that its use does not pose a danger of interference to the proper administration of justice in the individual case."Subject to this consideration, the use of an unobtrusive, handheld, virtually silent piece of modern equipment for the purposes of simultaneous reporting of proceedings to the outside world as they unfold in court is generally unlikely to interfere with the proper administration of justice."He said the "normal, indeed almost invariable, rule has been that mobile phones must be turned off in court"."An application, whether formally or informally made – for instance by communicating a request to the judge through court staff – can be made by an individual in court to activate and use a mobile phone, small laptop or similar piece of equipment, solely in order to make live text-based communications of the proceedings," he added."When considering, either on its own motion, or following a formal application or informal request, whether to permit live text-based communications, and if so by whom, the paramount question will be whether the application may interfere with the proper administration of justice."The most obvious purpose of permitting the use of live, text-based communications would be to enable the media to produce fair and accurate reports of the proceedings."Without being exhaustive, the danger to the administration of justice is likely to be at its most acute in the context of criminal trials, eg where witnesses who are out of court may be informed of what has already happened in court."The guidance comes days after reporters covering Assange's court hearing were banned from posting updates from court while a high court judge decided whether he should be granted bail.Mr Justice Ouseley, who went on to give Assange conditional bail that day, ruled at the start of the proceedings that supporters and journalists should not send tweets to give a blow-by-blow account of what was happening.At an earlier bail hearing, district judge Howard Riddle had allowed tweeting from Westminster magistrates court.He said journalists could send messages if they were discreet and did not interfere with the judicial process.John Ryley, head of Sky News, said the guidance showed Judge was a "moderniser" and "in touch with the real world". The chief justice "understands that, with the appropriate caveats, modern electronic communications can be used in courtrooms to inform the public without preventing justice being done. If the same policy was applied to video cameras, justice would also be seen to be done by the public on TV, online and on mobiles."
I don't much care for pornography, but it might be surprising for fair-minded types to note that most Britons don't see it quite that way. Which ought to make politicians think twice about trying to regulate adult pornography, because if being grown up counts for anything, then it must involve some kind of interest in the serious business of sex. But never mind...Ed Vaizey is talking tough on the subject, suggesting that adult pornography should be blocked by internet providers unless hapless consumers "opt in" to see filth on their screens.We like pornography so much that Enders Research reckons that half of all online video watching is for this sort of entertainment. So rather more people than Vaizey thinks might be caught up in opt-in net. See this graph below to see how we are a nation of porn lovers – if you like figures, you'll love this.Adult entertainment takes up nearly double the time that YouTube doesThen there's the question of defining "adult pornography". This is notoriously difficult. That said, it's safe to assume that you can expect ministers to rule that anything page3.com (and Mail Online) does is all right for general release, while more explicit sites such as YouPorn should be blocked at source. Then you have to ask (in the era of WikiLeaks) whether ISPs should really be entrusted with a list of people who are "porn enabled" versus a list of those that are not. Be kinda embarrassing if that database ever got out.Next, it is worth remembering that plenty of pornography is already legal, although you have to go the the trouble of reaching for the top shelf to opt-in. Which should make any sane person makes wonder whether blocking access to websites is the way to go. The point that is often made is that the serious seekers of such entertainment can find what they want online, regardless of whether a few sites are blocked – which is why child pornography is so hard to eradicate. But there is a more important argument: whether banning websites is really proportionate.As Larry Flynt, the Hustler magazine publisher, has pointed out many times, you may not like pornography, but banning it quickly becomes an important freedom of speech issue. We can all agree that child pornography is problematic, but this is an exceptional case. Adult entertainment is really a matter of taste, and its makers usually participate willingly in the creation of the content. Meanwhile, nobody, of course, likes the idea of children stumbling on all sorts of explicit adult video, but these are issues that can be tackled with a mixture of sensible parenting and good parental control software packages that can help.What it is not obvious that going down a Chinese-government style route of blocking access to certain webservers is really attractive. It is an idea that has also been canvassed by the film and music businesses hoping to deal with the problems of piracy. Filtering out pornographic websites would certainly provide legitimacy to that suggestion, and then you have to ask what else should be banned next? The WikiLeaks website, of course, and perhaps any other website that is involved in leaking/releasing previously confidential information. A nice trinity of national security, piracy and porn.One final thought: if you think this is an unlikely scenario, then think again. There is a Communications Bill in the offing next year. Ofcom is already saying that this is the moment to debate online content regulation. Or as the regulator puts it: if somebody is offended watching a YouTube video on their full-screen television at home, then they will want to know who (if anybody) they can complain to about it. Yes, the debate about internet content regulation is worth having, but it is a bit early to think about blocking content you may not like. If freedom of speech is worth anything, it has to be defended in the hard cases, not the easy ones.Which is why we have to stick up for porn.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 18 DecemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (38)Wii (5)PC (3)62 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (38)Wii (8)DS (7)123 (7)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (42)Wii (3)PC (1)54 (6)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)105 (4)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)56 (5)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)47 (8)Donkey Kong Country Returns(3+)Wii (100)38 (13)Medal Of Honor(18+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (49)99 (10)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)5510 (9)Professor Layton And The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)9UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, said yesterdaythat he wants UK internet service providers to filter sexually explicit content. By default, your internet connection would be restricted to only allow appropriate sites – unless you call your ISP and ask them to turn the filter off. There are many reasons why this is a bad idea.First, how do you define "explicit content"? Private web filtering companies have been struggling with that problem for years. Should advice pages for teenagers that have frank discussions about sex and sexual health be filtered?Then there's the issue of free speech – sooner or later, someone will try to use this filter to block politically sensitive sites. Claire Perry, MP for Devizes, gave the most telling quote: "We just want to make sure our children aren't stumbling across things we don't want them to see."And let's not forgetjust how bad the public sector tends to be at managing IT projects, orhow poor their digital security can be.Those are all great reasons not to waste untold millions of pounds either creating a government "great firewall", or requiring ISPs to do the same. But here's the most important reason of all: it won't work.Any "think-of-the-children" internet filter has a fundamental problem: if it's effective enough to actually block adult content, it will also be irritating enough that almost everyone will turn it off.An effective filter would have to censor Flickr,which has a large amount of adult imagery. It has to censor every blogging platform: Tumblr, for example, hasa whole swathe of porn blogs, and there are untold numbers of sex bloggers writing reams of explicit text. And it has to censor YouTube, particularly if4chan decide to flood it with porn again. Facebook could probably be let through, thanks to its strong filtering policies – although right now, most mobile providers block it for under-18s anyway.If an adult content filter allows those sites through, it fails. And if it blocks those sites, then hardly anyone will use it – and it fails.Even if a vaguely effective filter, which only removes obviously pornographic sites, would be enough for the proposal's supporters, it's still doomed. Not only because keeping up with the untold numbers of adult web pages that appear every day is a Sisyphean task, but also because children are not fools.Most children understand computers better than their parents. Bypassing a filter is quite literally child's play. It's easy to use proxies,Tor, BitTorrent, an open wireless connection somewhere down the street or any number of other techniques when you've grown up with a keyboard in front of you.It only takes one kid to know how to evade a web filter, and suddenly every one of their friends knows too. And all of their friends. And all of theirs.If you want to protect children, get their parents involved in what they're doing online – and for younger kids, thee-safety lessons that'll start in schools next yearare a great idea. But a Great British Firewall would be expensive, corruptible, and ultimately useless.•Tom Scott's website istomscott.com; he's on Twitter at@tomscott.
Google has cut the Sim-free price of its newly-introduced Nexus S smartphone, from £549 to £430 at Carphone Warehouse.The phone runs "Gingerbread", the latest 2.3 version of Android, but despite itslaunch hopesthere doesn't seem to have been a vast outpouring of excitement for it - that's even though it's got a fast processor and nice big screen.Then again, have you seen the weather? It's not quite the sort of time that you want to be struggling out to buy new smartphone contracts.The price drop may follow problems persuading the mobile networks to offer much in the way of competitive contracts: looking at thetariffs via Carphone Warehouse, there's nothing much that looks that competitive with the iPhone 4 or other big-selling Android phones. (It's difficult to read because the data allowances are offered in views of 0-500MB, 501-1GB and so on - when the more useful one would be 0-499MB..)My own tests on the Nexus S, using one provided by Google (but with my own Sim) suggest that it's an effective phone which has good battery life (I've managed around three days on standby with occasional calls and Wi-Fi use) and on which the applications load very quickly (especially if they've been left running in the background).So a brief overview so far....Good things:- excellent clean and clear screen;- robust;- light.- autocorrect offers various words that you might have meant as you type (in Twitter; not in text messages) in a row below where you're typing- tethering as an inbuilt functionBad things:- the design means it's often hard to figure out which way up you've got it when you take it out of your pocket. The speaker part at the top is almost the same black as the rest, and you could think it's a microphone slot.- can't forward contact details by text. This sounds trivial, but what if you're trying to send them to someone with a non-email dumbphone?- I find that it very difficult to type accurately on, moreso than the iPhone/iPod Touch; which is weird because their keyboards are exactly the same size, viewed beside each other. I think the reason is that the Nexus S also has "soft" buttons down below the keyboard which add extra functions, meaning you have less room for error than with the small iOS devices.Perplexing things:- you start with a blank front screen, to which you have to add applications from the set of applications that are already reachable by pressing the "applications folder" icon on the front screen. Why not just stick those applications on the front page in the first place? Why hide them and force me to put them in there?Other sites that have reviewed the Nexus S have given it mixed reviews:goodandbad.
The last weekend before Christmas then - how was your weekend gaming? Mine was a real mix. International Cricket 2010 and Assassin's Creed Brotherhood for the grown-ups. Just Dance 2 for everyone else. WoW: Catacylsm got a belated but very welcome look in too. But what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Not shown: third line reading 'TV decides it doesn't like Web so much.' Photo bydailylifeofmojoon Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle TV is struggling. Already. TheNew York Times reportsthat Google has asked TV makers who were planning to show it off at the upcoming Consumer Electronics Show (in the first week of January) have been asked to hold back from showing it off so that the software can be refined following its definitely lukewarm reception from reviewers.Not being at CES is a big setback for Google TV as a concept: it's the traditional place to show off your wares and set up what you're going to do in the year ahead. For the TV makers - Sony, Toshiba, LG Electronics, Sharp - which were going to wow the world (they hoped) with their Google TV-running wares, it's a slap in the face.Quick flashback to May: Google suggested that it would bring you as much TV as you could search for, and do it interactively.The question now is whether Google is going to fall into the chasm that has swallowed so many internet TV efforts. Remember Microsoft'sWebTV? No? Or how about the more recent efforts by Joost? An archaeologist of the internet could probably find dozens of internet TV efforts, but none has come to anything much. Google thought it could do differently, but it ran first into the problem of how different TV screens and computer screens are (one far away, one close) and second that the interaction mode is so different - which means you don't want to type web addresses.Plus there was the problem that in the US, which is the only place that Google TV launched, the networks froze it out: in mid-November Fox joined ABC, NBC and CBS inrefusing to let Google TV devices accesstheir sites and hence streaming services. Possibly Google didn't expect that bit when it announced Google TV with much triumphalism back in the summer. (You can call the networks "dinosaurs" if you like, but they could point out that if they're such dinosaurs, why is Google so keen to access their stuff?)GTVHub ("your source for everything Google TV") hadn't caught on the NYT story over the weekend, and was insteadreportingthat Google is planning to extend movie streaming in 2011 - perhaps with an announcement at CES. Well, no.But the Google TV effort shows Google once again struggling to come up with a coherent product launch. True, TV is perenially difficult to do. But Google is also being criticised for throwing so many ideas against the wall to see which ones stick, because after a few (hello goodbye Google Wave, hello Google Buzz are you going?) it starts to look unfocussed, and if you have something which really requires management focus, such as TV - where getting the deals lined up is essential - then it looks amateurish to mess it up.Or as one analyst put it to the NYT:"'Google as a company is not a particularly partner-friendly or partner-focused company,' said James L. McQuivey, an analyst at Forrester, who added that because of the delay, it might take another year before Google TV has a chance to catch fire."Samsung will be showing two Google TV appliances, and Vizio will display them, but privately away from the show floor. (We'll hunt them down...)And it seems the punters haven't been enthralled: the NYT looks at the Amazon ratings and finds that nearly one in five buyers gave their Google TV gear just one star, complaining of slow performance and limited features.Until now, Google has been able to assume that content acquisition is easy - though you might have thought that thelong drawn-out row over its scanning of copyrighted booksmight have taught it to be more careful.McQuivey reckons the company needs to learn how to charm its potential partners - on the content side too. As he told the NYT:"Google needs to learn some of those abilities — both in terms of partnerships with broadcasters and working with hardware partners," he said. "You can give me the recipe for the absolute best chocolate chip cookies in the world, but until I put the ingredients together and bake them at exactly the right temperature for the right time, they're not cookies, and that's where Google TV is."In short, the UK may well just get ahead of the US via iPlayer and YouView. But don't hold your breath for Google TV.
At first you may find it difficult to tell if you have ingested Christmas malware. Photo byThe Western Skyon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMy email to Ed Vaizey &gt;&gt; robmanuel's posterousFollowing the reports thatthe communications minister wants to "meet" with ISPs, Rob Manual weighs in: "I worry for all the sites and companies that'll be randomly thrown into the list because of errors. And there will be errors. Masses of them."One of my own websites b3ta.com is a user generated comedy site in the style of something like Viz - and has recently been listed as porn by the Three Mobile network. Which is isn't."I worry this will be used to censor free speech - like how Stop and&#10;Search is used by the the police to target young black men and&#10;photographers. Here's a big new tool to close down speech online.&#10;"It's porn" No it's not. "Well it has a few swear words in it. This is&#10;sexual and adult language."Just Make It Faster &gt;&gt; Feld.comMarvellous dissection of how you need a "stack programmer" - someone who can understand the system all the way from disk access times to unravelling why an SQL DELETE command could be speeded up.Hands on with Google Chrome OS: the good, the bad and the perplexing &gt;&gt; Macworld"Want to store your photos? You'll have to upload them to Flickr, Picnik, or Picasa—and upload them from some other device: the machine wouldn't pull photos from my iPhone when I connected it via USB. (The port is there mainly for attaching peripherals like a keyboard, mouse, headset, microphone, and so on.) While there is an SD card slot, I had no luck getting it to access my camera's memory card either."It's the same story for video: You have to upload your footage from some other device, although YouTube does have a rudimentary online-based editing service. Recording and editing podcasts? There's no obvious solution for the Chrome OS.If you want to make stuff, in other words, the cloud isn't quite ready for you—and that means Chrome OS isn't quite ready for you, either. Will it be when (and if) Chrome OS netbooks actually hit the market next year? That's tougher to say."In Defense Of Chrome OS &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"at its core, Chrome OS remains a good idea. And it seems like one that ties directly to Google's entire essence. If they put the resources necessary into it, and give it time, I do think it has a good chance to succeed."Of course, both of those are pretty big 'ifs'. One issue is that Google, like every other large tech company before it, seems to be spreading itself too thin. Despite some spin to the contrary, the company still essentially makes all of its money from one thing: search advertising. Other revenue sources are starting to emerge, but the actual potential of those businesses is still a bit cloudy — namely because there is a lot of competition in places like display advertising, local, and mobile."What's Next for Delicious? &gt;&gt; delicious blogAfter complaining about news organisations writing about it with "so little context" (er - whose fault is that?), the "team" continues: "No, we are not shutting down Delicious. While we have determined that there is not a strategic fit at Yahoo!, we believe there is a ideal home for Delicious outside of the company where it can be resourced to the level where it can be competitive."So true, Word Lens, so true &gt;&gt; FlickrMm, possibly some work needed on the auto-translation by Wold Lens.A Bluescreen By Any Other Color &gt;&gt; TechNet BlogsYes, now you can hack your Windows system so that when (if) it throws a Blue Screen of Deaeth, it isn't blue. Choose from 16 different eye-watering colours!A short history of Christmas malware &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityHappy ChristmaX!@£$^%&amp; NO CARRIERBookmarking Services Compared &gt;&gt; Paul BradshawPaul Bradshaw's spreadsheet of where to go now that Delicious is turning sour.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Earlier this year, Wii  announced Fireplacing, a game that would simulate the toastiness of a roaring log fire, and last week footage from it was released. You press a  button to load the logs; next,  ignite the lighter; burn a pinecone to start it off; and, finally,  use the Wii remote to stoke the flames.The demo continues with a helpful message: "Now don't start daydreaming! Soon you'll have to add more firewood". All with graphics that  suggested someone had gone wild with Windows 95 Paint. Truly this is the Dido of the gaming pantheon.Commentators have said that Fireplacing was the next logical step for the makers of the Wii. From the off, they have wanted to position the console as a "lifestyle brand", placing  it in the centre of the family  living room, presumably between the virtual fish tank and the holographic  drinks cabinet.Personally I can't wait for Wii's next triumph – Grouting: The Race to Rebar.
First shown off at Apple's launch of multiplayer gaming app Game Center in September,Infinity Blade(Epic, Apple App Store, £3.49) had attendees reeling at its jaw-dropping visuals. It's created by Epic, maker of proper, immobile games such asGears of WarandUnreal,andis its first venture on the iPhone.Somehow they've managed to cram sumptuousUnreal3D graphics engine on to a phone, making for the best-looking iPhone title to date. It's an action RPG, and you take the role of an armour-clad warrior, besieging a fortress in search of revenge. A variety of foes must be overcome, from nimble assassins to hulking metal golems. These battles are the bulk of gameplay, combining defence and attack, with finger-sweeping parries and well-timed blocks required to set you up for a frenzy of sword-slashing.The combat has surprising depth but is fast-paced enough to make it perfect for quick bouts on the go – ideal for a mobile game. Treasure picked up from the vanquished and around the landscape allows the purchase of new swords, armour and magical rings.The only part missing is multiplayer, but it should arrive as a free upgrade in the near future. As it is this is an entertaining game, designed with mobile pick-up-and-play requirements in mind, and with graphics so good it's hard to believe they are available on a phone.
One of the glories of our print culture is theEconomist, a magazine that combines eccentric, neoliberal editorial views with excellent, well-informed reporting. I have been a subscriber to it for more years than I care to remember and every weekend have tried to carve out the 90 minutes of undivided attention that it demands. It turns out that I am a perfectly normal customer in this respect.In November 2009, I went to a talk given by Andrew Rashbass, CEO of theEconomist, about the company's digital strategy. He related how he had commissioned research in a large number of countries into how subscribers in those territories used the publication. The message that came back was consistent: people who buy theEconomistmake a weekly "appointment" with the magazine – time that they set aside to read it. The conclusion: publications such as theEconomistprovide "immersive reading experiences", something that the web could not provide.Under questioning, Rashbass was coy about what his digital strategy involved, but it was clear to all in the room that he was pinning his hopes on what was at the time a purely mythical product, the device that eventually materialised as the Apple iPad.Almost a year to the day year after Rashbass's talk, theEconomistlaunched its iPad app. It's free, in the sense that anyone can download it. But to get it to download actual content (over and above a few free articles) you have to be an existing print subscriber or take out a digital subscription, which is almost as expensive. So this is a seriously walled garden. No surprises there: theEconomistdidn't get where it is today by giving away stuff for free.The surprises start when you launch the app. Every Thursday, the "Read" button changes to "Download" and suddenly your iPad acquires the entire content of the current edition – in seconds. The second surprise is that it's easier and more pleasant to read than its printed counterpart and much nicer than the Kindle edition of the magazine. The iPad has delivered a genuinely "immersive" reading experience. In part, this is a reflection on the device's screen technology and interface. But it's mainly down to the quality of the app's design.So your columnist now has an unexpected problem: every Friday,  the postman delivers the print edition of theEconomist. But the envelopes now sit unopened, gathering dust on the hall table. The upside is that I can share them with friends or donate them to a school, which is more than I can do with my walled-in digital edition, but that's another can of worms.Coincidentally, another interesting app arrived on my iPad last week. Actually, it's a book in app's clothing. It's David Eagleman'sWhy the Net Matters(Canongate), an eight-chapter manifesto that seeks to explain the significance of the internet for our future. As with the iPad edition of Stephen Fry's latest book, Eagleman's essay can be read non-sequentially. Each chapter splits the screen. On one side is conventional text. On the other are illustrations, photographs, animations and 3D models that the reader can manipulate. To see how it works, he's madea YouTube video. It's clever, informative, intriguing and fresh.These two developments – theEconomist'sapp and Eagleman's "book" – ought to serve as a wake-up call for the print publishing industry. The success of Amazon's Kindle has, I think, lulled print publishers into a false sense of security. After all, they're thinking, the stuff that goes on the Kindle is just text. It may not be created by squeezing dyes on to processed wood-pulp, but it's still text. And that's something we're good at. So no need to panic. Amazon may be a pain to deal with, but the Kindle and its ilk will see us through.If that's really what publishers are thinking, then they're in for some nasty surprises. The concept of a "book" will change under the pressure of iPad-type devices, just as concepts of what constitutes a magazine or a newspaperare already changing. This doesn't mean that paper publications will go away. But it does mean that print publishers who wish to thrive in the new environment will not just have to learn new tricks but will also have to tool up. In particular, they will have to add serious in-house technological competencies to their publishing skills.If they don't do it, then someone else will. There will always be "books". The question now is: will there always be publishers?
It's just a theory, but I think it's possible the general law of film tie-in games (the one that says: "Film tie-in games are usually miserable and seldom worth the money") may have begun with Disney's 1982 movieTronand the accompanying stand-up arcader that madePac-Manseem high-brow. And now thatTron: Legacyis making the punters feel slightly nauseous in 3D cinemas up and down the country, here'sTron: Evolutionas the half-arsed, unimaginative companion game.It looks good on the screen, without a doubt – the narrow, nuanced colour palette, highly reflective surfaces and crisp straight lines all look great on a decent telly. But anyone with a passing knowledge ofAssassin's CreedorPrince of Persiaknows in-game parkour can be more fun than this, while the combat elements are repetitive and humdrum. The light cycles (which are all anyone really remembers of the original film) are tragically under-utilised. Even the premise that the action takes place inside a computer is undermined, unless of course the insides of computers are subject to weather conditions.If there's any evolution on display here, it's certainly not 28 years'-worth. Tedious and short,Tron: Evolutionis a textbook film tie-in game.
Whenever aWoWexpansion pack is imminent, the forum chat among players veers from hysterical expectation to, well, "Meh!" Blizzard's claim to have 12 million players is tempered by the belief among some of the massively multiplayer online community that the game is in decline in the west, while gaining popularity in the far east. Whether true or not,Cataclysmis a clear attempt to reinvigorate the brand, to attract and retain new gamers, to re-engage with lapsing or lapsed players and to keep the hardcore raiders happy. It's a tall order.Cataclysmintroduces five new zones and dungeons to take players from level 80 to 85 and it's pleasing that Blizzard has really thought about this levelling-up. It's reduced the number of boring farming quests and replaced them with ones that immerse you in the story, allowing the player to be part of the task's conclusion. The resulting cut scenes featuring your toon are hugely satisfying.However, the biggest change introduced is to the Old World. The realms that were there fromWoW's birth six years ago have been completely overhauled. They needed to be. The life of a new player prior toCataclysmwould be dull indeed as the areas for those on levels 1 to 60 showed their age. Now the quests have been rebooted and the environment completely changed. A greater use of phasing makes the journey through Azeroth that much more personal. The world has been rendered beautifully and the effects are top-notch.There are two new races to try out. Become a Goblin and your starting zone is likeGoodfellasmeetsThe Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run. Become a Worgen and start questing in a kind of Olde London (basically a werewolf zone already populated byTwilightfans) where the women sport stovepipe hats. Both are great fun, and just what Blizzard wanted – engaging gameplay that keeps people entertained enough to stay.And that's something it's also achieved on the social side – revamping the guild system, introducing guild reputation levelling and rewards for co-operation. The difficulty of the dungeons means completing them with fellow guildies is more rewarding than with a group of randoms.Flaws in this iteration will, no doubt, become clearer over time, but for the moment,Cataclysmis new, and it is improved – a very successful stab at the tough task Blizzard had set itself. Get ready to roll.
Finding the ultimate Christmas present for the discerning geek has never been easy, but a small team of professional tinkerers based in New York has come up with the ultimate geek must-have –&nbsp;a printer that "prints" in 3D.Rather than printing with ink on a page, 3D printers build up objects using layers of plastic. They have been available since 2003, but Brooklyn- based firmMakerBot, which started early in 2009, has developed a small printer that comes in kit form. Having to assemble the "robot" printer adds to the charm for true tinkerers, but this DIY approach also makes it far cheaper than it might be; until now, commercial 3D printers haven't been available for much less than £25,000.This year, 3D went mainstream, from big-budget movies to the latest 3D cameras, camcorders and TVs. MakerBot goes one better by offering three tangible dimensions, created with their Meccanoesque kits. The first model, the Cupcake CNC, sells for $649 and the newer Thing-O-Matic for $1,225."If you have trouble putting Ikea furniture together, get a friend to help you," explains Bre Pettis, co-founder and chief executive of MakerBot. "But, for a tinkerer, making something that makes things is the holy grail."MakerBot "prints" in either ABS, the plastic that Lego is made from, or corn-based PLA - which smells like waffles when it is used. Hacker community website Thingiverse displays the witty creativity of "fabbers" (desktop-based fabricators and fans of 3D printing): from space invader earrings and keyrings to full-size lamps, built in sections. One Marty McGuire tells the story of going to buy a shower curtain for his new flat, but finding the store had run out of shower curtain rings. This is the kind of challenge the MakerBot owner lives for, and he enthusiastically set about measuring, designing and then printing out his own shower curtain rings.There's an obvious bonus: buy one MakerBot and you can probably make a good batch of Christmas presents – Pettis admits he's made bottle openers and dragons as presents. The only limitations are your imagination – plus the 12.5x12.5x12.5cm dimensions of the Thing-O-Matic and the fact that you can print in any material you want, as long as it's plastic. If you're short of ideas, you can choose from the 5,000 designs already uploaded by the MakerBot community.MakerBot has sold just 3,000 machines so far but is struggling to keep up with demand. A UK supplier, Robosavvy, is now selling the Thing-O-Matic for £847. As with the realised ambition of Bill Gates, who famously said he wanted to put a computer in every home in the world, all of us will eventually own a 3D printer, says Pettis. The key is to make these machines affordable."We're not engineers – we're tinkerers," he says, explaining that MakerBot's background in tinkering means a preoccupation with finding parts as cheaply as possibly, so much of the DIY kit is off the shelf. "If we were engineers, this thing would cost 100 times as much. But our goal is to democratise manufacturing so anyone can have a machine that makes anything they need. We want to render consumerism useless – and that doesn't work if the machine isn't cheap."
Were you to run perhaps the most famous line in literature, the opening sentence ofAnna Karenina, through Google Translate from Russian to English, this is what you would get: "All happy families resemble one another, each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way."The translation, which approximates to the best "human" version of the sentence, looks like a triumph for what used to be called artificial intelligence and now is called, less ambitiously, machine learning. The computer can understand language, we are invited to think. Run the subsequent lines ofAnna Kareninathrough the system, though, and the picture, along with the grammar, is not quite so clear."All mixed up in a house Oblonskys. Wife found out that my husband was in connection with the former in their house, a French governess, and told my husband that he could not live with him in the same house. The situation is now lasted three days and were painfully conscious of themselves and their spouses…"It's just about explicable, if we know the original, but barely readable. The reason for this discrepancy lies in one of the nuances of Google's system that allows interested users to improve translated texts where they can. Somebody has obviously got to the first line of Tolstoy's masterpiece and put it right. What follows is more representative of what the system is capable of.Ever since computers were a reality, the possibility of using their logistical power to break down barriers of language has been something of a holy grail in machine learning. The initial – unsuccessful – attempts were based on the principle that all languages could be distilled into two components: a lexicon of words with specific meanings, and a set of rules of grammar and syntax by which those words were linked together. The cold war prompted ambitious efforts by American intelligence agencies to understand the "code" of the Russian language on an industrial scale. It produced mostly gibberish.The first significant breakthrough in the potential of mechanised translation came in the early 1990s when IBM produced a model that abandoned any effort to have the computer "understand" what was being fed into it and instead approached the task by installing in the computer the comparative versions of as much translated text as possible and having the system compute the probability of meanings of words and phrases based on statistical precedent. The approach was pioneered by Frederick Jelinek at IBM, who, distrusting models that grew from analogies with human learning of grammar, insisted: "Whenever I fire a linguist, the performance of our system improves."A decade or so later, though, the statistical-based system was becoming severely limited, particularly so when it attempted translations from languages in which there was comparatively little text to "learn" as reference. It was at this point that Google entered the field in earnest. The impetus for Google's translation machine can be traced, corporate legend has it, to a particular meeting at the company's California headquarters in 2004. One of the search engine's founders, Sergey Brin, had received a fan letter from a user in South Korea. He understood that the message was in praise of the innovative scope of his company, but when Brin ran it through the machine translation service that Google had then licensed it read: &nbsp;"The sliced raw fish shoes it wishes. Google green onion thing!"Brin believed that Google ought to have the capacity and determination to improve on that particular piece of nonsense. In the years since, as its global interests have grown, the free Google Translate service has evolved to attempt instantaneous translations from 52 languages; it offers a "toolkit" for speakers of more marginal languages to establish their own services, and it is used tens of millions of times a day to translate web pages and other text.The great improvements Google has pioneered in that time have been based almost entirely on its unique access to vast quantities of translated text, billions of sentences, trillions of words, that can be searched for likely matches in seconds. A good deal of these data come from transcripts of United Nations meetings, which are routinely translated by humans into six languages, and those of the European Parliament, which are translated into 23.Google has incorporated text from its comprehensive book-scanning project and other internet sources to add still further to that syntactical database. (In this it has the edge over its chief translation rivals, Microsoft's Bing and Yahoo's Babel Fish, which are based on broadly the same principles.) As a company, it is in the habit of making great claims for the possibilities of this effort. It announced earlier this year, for example, that the translation tool was being combined with an image analysis application that would allow a person to take a mobile phone picture of a menu in Chinese and get an instant English translation. In the summer, it suggested that it would use speech recognition technology to generate captions for English-language YouTube videos, which could then be immediately dubbed into 50 other languages."This technology can make the language barrier go away," Franz Och, who leads Google's machine translation team argued. "It will allow anyone to communicate with anyone else."That utopian promise is a seductive one. In his recent book,The Last Lingua Franca, Nicholas Ostler, chairman of theFoundation for Endangered Languages, argues that translation engines such as Google's will eventually liberate the world from the necessity of learning dominant languages, such as English, and will reinforce linguistic diversity. When I speak to Ostler he is convinced that these changes are inevitable: "The future is easy to predict, though you don't know when it will happen."Despite a degree of fluency in 26 languages, Ostler says he is often on the Google Translate site and believes it represents this future. "Even if you don't like what it says, you can immediately make sense of what it gives you or compare it with what you know. It still needs constructive intelligence from the user. But the fact is that it is much better than it used to be and no doubt it will continue to improve."One consequence of its wider acceptance, presumably, will be to make people more lazy about acquiring languages?"There is," Ostler says, "a sort of irony in that; though we may see a more multilingual future, as English starts to wane, you will see less multilingualism in individuals." The fastest-growing languages online, he points out in his book, are Arabic, Mandarin Chinese, Portuguese, Spanish and French, in that order. "The main story of growth in the internet," he suggests, "is of linguistic diversity, not concentration."Given the garbled state of much current machine translation, though, won't a shared language be as far away as ever?Ostler argues that "mass production always gives you lower-quality stuff than artisan craftsmanship ever did. It is the same sort of consideration with Google Translate. Even so, there is no doubt that the more data that come in, the more languages that are assimilated, the better it is going to be."Those who are working at the sharper end of the translation models tend to be slightly more cautionary about that future. Phil Blunsom, who lectures in machine learning and linguistics at Oxford, and has been involved in creating next-generation translation tools, suggests: "Most of the difficulties we face are what we call 'tractability'. Even in the simplest word combinations, we are searching through a massive space of possible options. For a computer to understand how a sentence works, it basically has to iterate over all possible options of a syntactic structure between different words and then work out which is the most likely. It is an exponential computational problem, particularly as sentences get longer and more complex."Andreas Zollmann, who has been researching in the field for many years and working at Google Translate for the last year, suggests, along with Blunsom, that the idea that more and more data can be introduced to make the system better and better is probably a false premise. "Each doubling of the amount of translated data input led to about a 0.5% improvement in the quality of the output," he suggests, but the doublings are not infinite. "We are now at this limit where there isn't that much more data in the world that we can use," he admits. "So now it is much more important again to add on different approaches and rules-based models."That is where the old problems start. Does Zollmann see a way in which those models can eventually learn languages as well as human beings can?"No researcher would expect it ever to become perfect," he says. "Pronouns, say, are very difficult in some languages where the masculine and feminine don't correspond to each other. If you ever solve machine translation perfectly, then you have something that is properly artificially intelligent. Language is not separate from who we are."There are those that believe, as a result, that far from liberating us from our linguistic barriers, the translation tools will in fact serve to reinforce them. Douglas Hofstadter, author of the seminal book on consciousness and machine intelligence,Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid, as well as several books on the theory and practice of translation, has been among the most trenchant critics of the hype around Google Translate. He argues that the ability to exist within language and move between languages, to understand tone and cultural resonance, and jokes and wordplay and idiom are the things that makes us most human, and most individual (one of his books was based on asking 80 people to translate the same poem and delighting in the 80 discrete versions that were produced).The statistical models, he says, start from the wrong place. "There is no attempt at creating understanding and therefore Google Translate is doomed to the same kind of failure for ever. Of course they get occasional good results,  but essentially it is mindless. They are rendering a very low-level service that will always produce something not far above the level of nonsense. I suppose that we will all bow to the pressures to use it at some level, but it will never get the flavour of phrases."Hofstadter suggests that just as, perversely, we seem to like the idea of the world getting smaller, so we like to think that understanding language is somehow mechanical, another problem we can outsource to our screens. "Understanding the world is what humans are good at and what machines are no good at, at all," he says. We may well all be Google Translators soon, but we may also find that, more than ever, we are lost in translation.
Ancient Trader(Xbox 360, 4kids games)In what's been a really interesting year for independent games,Ancient Traderwas one of the best. An addictive turn-based strategy, set on weathered parchment maps with some stunning hand-drawn art, it can be downloaded fromXbox Live's indie games servicefor about the cost of a pint. Bargain.Chris SchillingDeadly Premonition(Xbox 360,Rising Star Games)A dark, Lynchian tale of murder in a quiet American town,Deadly Premonitionwas technically flawed, but hugely ambitious and entertaining. In abrasive FBI agent Francis York Morgan, it had the year's most interesting protagonist, plus a host of memorable moments that more than compensated for its graphical shortcomings. Bizarre, but brilliant.CSNHL 11(PS3, Xbox 360, EA)NHL 11became a favourite non-footie sports sim this year, possibly the best since its Mega Drive glory days. With exceptional realism, from an unpredictable puck to player physics, crunching checks and improved AI, no two plays are alike – especially when breaking your stick, falling on the ice or getting tied up in fights. Arguably, the best two-player sim out there.Felix&nbsp;AtkinGuwange(Xbox 360, DLC, Cave)Created by cult Japanese arcade game developer Cave,Guwangewas a strange and intense scrolling 2D shooter, unafraid of bewildering its audience. Set in feudal Japan, its strange majesty and intense difficulty made it well worth tracking down, especially for those unafraid of a challenge.Will&nbsp;FreemanVVVVVV(PC, Mac, online,Terry Cavanagh)With primitive visuals and seemingly&nbsp;archaic gameplay,VVVVVVwas easy to miss. But this lo-fi platform-puzzle game, based on gravity&nbsp;manipulation, was filled with more neat tricks and clever flourishes&nbsp;than most big-budget blockbusters. Unusual and taxing, this was an underground hit that was just the tonic for jaded palates.Serge&nbsp;Pennings
Though Microsoft's Kinect, which lets you play without a controller, simply by waving your arms around, and Sony's remarkably precise Move system have gained plenty of column inches, there have been some landmark games in 2010 that you can still play from a sitting position …Halo: Reach, Xbox 360Although claiming to be the last Halo game is proving to be about as final as a Status Quo farewell gig, Halo: Reach would make a fitting epitaph for a defining series. Enough new trinkets to keep long-time fans on their toes, a completely different feel to the single player-campaign and a multi-player mode that still dominates Xbox Live.Microsoft, £30.98-£49.95Starcraft II: Wings Of Liberty, PC &amp; MacAfter a 12 year hiatus, one of the biggest games of all time finally received a sequel, bringing the endless war of the Terrans, Protoss and Zerg to a new generation of real time strategy heads. Single player mode's contemplative pace couldn't be further from the breathless flurry of its internationally renowned deathmatches.Blizzard, £34.95Red Dead Redemption, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360While there are dozens of games about space marines, mercenaries and guitar playing, cowboys are conspicuous by their near-absence in gaming. No longer, with this epic tale of honour and betrayal at the cusp of the wild west's conversion to the modern era. Recent downloadable content provided period-costumed zombies to shoot.Rockstar, £24.99-£45Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit, PC, PS, Nintendo Wii &amp; Xbox 360Reinventing a moribund series, the powerhouse behind Burnout brings Need For Speed into the 21st century with a blaze of turbo chargers, nitrous oxide and supercar police chases.Electronic Arts, £24.99-£44.95Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360More Renaissance bloodletting in pursuit of the unsavoury Borgia family and their lackeys. With a few new tricks up its sleeve, this continues to improve upon last year's superb instalment.Ubisoft, £34.95-£44.95Super Mario Galaxy 2, Nintendo WiiThe Wii brought gaming to millions, but through this simplification process, many of its games have felt a little bit flimsy. Super Mario Galaxy 2 shows that accessible doesn't have to mean dull.Nintendo, £34.99-£39.95Bayonetta, Xbox 360A critical rather than commercial success, Bayonetta's intense brand of cartoon ultra-violence came with Japanese weirdery that may have put some off. Stylish, over-the-top action.SEGA, £39.90-£44.95Heavy Rain, PS3Sony's emotionally affecting videogame noir was a unique experience before it got the Move treatment. It's not often games get melancholy right - Heavy Rain does.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £24.99-£45Super Scribblenauts, Nintendo DSiSolve puzzles by writing almost any word you can think of, this time with added adjectives. Need a scary skyscraper or a massive mathematician? No problem! A smoother game than its hare-brained predecessor.Warner Bros Games, £24.99-£29.99Limbo, Xbox 360Wonderful and entirely original, Limbo is an ethereal, monochrome world of immaculate physics puzzles. Looking like a Jan Pienkowski drawing, it plays like a hybrid of LittleBigPlanet and ingenious gravity-bending puzzler, Portal.1,200 Microsoft points (approx £10.28)
