Paul Hemp has written an essayoutlining his concern over the unsettling side effects of our 24-hour, 21st century lives, and specifically the amount of information, emails and facts we are bombarded with.He writes:"The flood of information that swamps me daily seems to produce more pain than gain. And it's not just the incoming tidal wave of email messages and RSS feeds that causes me grief. It's also the vast ocean of information I feel compelled to go out and explore in order to keep up in my job."In case you got sidetracked and didn't get a chance to read the rest, here are the cold, hard facts:• A study found that once workers were interrupted by an email it took on average 24 minutes to return to the suspended task.• 2,300 employees judged nearly one third of the emails they receive to be unnecessary, but spend two hours a day processing them.• Research reported that the IQ scores of people distracted by email and phone calls fell from their normal level by an average of 10 points – twice the decline recorded for those smoking marijuana.To be honest I had to go and sit in a dark corner without the ring of a phone in earshot or flash of a computer screen in sight in order to concentrate for long enough to bring you this blogpost, and even then it was tough. How we get anything done is a miracle.But before your attention wanders elsewhere, please confess the tendencies you have noticed in yourself that may be symptoms of this very modern malady. Perhaps you are raising aBlackBerry orphan, or can't remember the last time youfinished reading a novel.Hemp recommends limiting emails to five sentences, or setting virtual break times to force yourself to step away from the desk, as possible remedies. But how do you stop yourself from completely drowning now the information floodgates are well and truly open? I'm off to declare email bankruptcy...
Nintendo has announced plans to slash the price tag ofits popular Wii consolein the run-up to Christmas – but British customers are set to miss out after the Japanese games giant said that the UK retail price would not follow suit.The Wii is the best-selling games console in the world,with more than 50m machines sold since 2006. But while the company announced on Thursday that the price of the machine would fall by ¥5,000 (£33) in Japan and drop from $249 (£152) to $199 in America – the UK will see no similar reductions. Instead, consumers will be offered the chance to buy their machine with an extra game at the same £199 price as before.In fact, the console is now £20 more expensive in Britain than it was when it first launched to widespread acclaim three years ago, following a controversial price hike earlier this year.That increase, which raised the price of the machine from £179, angered many British customers who already felt they were paying more than those in other countries.At the time Nintendo said it brought in the change to cope with fluctuating currency exchange rates.It is the first time that Nintendo has dropped the price of the Wii, which proved a surprise hit thanks to its innovative motion-sensitive controller and family-friendly games.The move comes on the eve of the Tokyo Games Show – the biggest industry event of the year – and is seen as a response to similar cuts by Nintendo's major rivals, Sony and Microsoft.The two companies, which make the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 respectively, both reduced the price of their games consoles in an attempt to stimulate sales in the run-up to Christmas and challenge the Wii's dominance."The Wii is still the top-selling platform, but there is no doubt the console needs a shot in the arm, particularly with the competition finally getting more aggressive," Colin Sebastian, an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets,told the San Francisco Chronicle.Nintendo UK says that it has cut prices for the Wii, just as has been done in the US – but that it's up to retailers whether you'll actually see that difference when you come to hand your cash over.A spokesman said: "We ARE lowering the cost price of Wii to retailers in the UK. If retailers do not decide to pass that saving onto consumers, we cannot be blamed for that – but we have lowered the price."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
The Tokyo Games Show (TGS) has kicked off with Sony boss Kaz Hirai delivering a keynote very heavy on networked communities – think LittleBigPlanet – and motion control.Originally shown at E3 the motion control was demoed again. As the pic shows– thanks Joystiq – the controller looks rather familiar. It does glow different colours though, which could lead to some interesting stuff. A glowstick rave game maybe?Networked gaming was Hirai's other main subject. Perhaps because he was speaking to a Japanese audience – where online gaming is *generally* less common than the US and EU – Hirai was keen to stress that Sony were listening to their users and customers.These networked communities are new experiences. This has made a new business model as well and this will help the game industry expand. The networked communities, that is games are really the basis, the core, and can be combined with networks to increase the fun. The question is what do we need to develop? We have to open our eyes and be sensitive to what users want.More will come out of TGS in the next few days but what do you think so far? Impressed by the motion controller? Think Sony are being too cautious when it comes to networks and online gaming?
&bull; John Donahoe, the chief executive ofeBaytold American retailers that hefully expects the $1.9bn sale of a majority stake in Skype to go ahead- despite a lawsuit from founders Janus Friis and Niklas Zennstrom. On which note, a piece in BusinessWeek claims that the legal claims are an attempt by the duoto buy back the company themselves.&bull;Googleboss Eric Schmidt says he sees the company continuing to hoover up smaller entities,at the rate of one company a month, according to Reuters.&bull; This week'sTechnology Guardianis out on the streets - featuring a look atco-working in the recession, an interview with Creative Commons chiefJoi Itoand aclose look at Spotify's new mobile app. All that and more in print, orread it online here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
My whole house seems to have turned into a wireless dead zone! My next-door neighbour's, too. Neither of us can get our routers to produce a usable signal. I have also been having occasional interference with analogue and digital radios and my TV set top box.Alison BaxterIt sounds as though something is swamping the signals, but I have no idea what. Wi-Fi offers a number of different channels, so check with your neighbour to make sure you are not using the same ones. Otherwise there is a long list of wireless gadgets that can interfere with Wi-Fi signals, with the worst usually being the "AV senders" sometimes used to drive second TV sets. Other culprits include cordless phones, wireless games consoles and controllers, baby alarms, microwave ovens and garage door openers.Experiment with your neighbour by turning your various gadgets on and off to see if one is affecting your Wi-Fi signal.If that doesn't solve the problem, you could pay a local service or field engineer to look around with a Spectran or similar RF (radio frequency) meter. I'd expect this to cost from £50 to £100. There are also some cheap (£70 or so) handheld devices described as "electrosmog meters" that you could use yourself.TomsGadgets.comhas a selection.As you are also suffering from radio and TV interference, it might be worth checkingOfcom's help pages. Ofcom has field engineers, but it will only investigate interference problems if you're using a rooftop aerial.
You have answered two letters about upgrading a 32-bit system to a 64-bit version of Windows 7 without changing the hardware. I have always assumed you needed a 64-bit processor.Peter WhartonMost PCs already have 64-bit processors. AMD launched 64-bit Opteron and Athlon processors in 2003 and Intel followed with similar chips, starting with the Pentium 4F in 2004. (It had launched 64-bit Itanium chips in 2001 but they didn't sell.) Microsoft has offered 64-bit versions of Windows XP since 2001, and 64-bit Vista completed the move to 64-bit operation three years ago.
For an unlucky few, Snow Leopard hides/deletes/overwrites all of the photos you have stored in iPhoto. Instead of five years of photos (about 6,000) there is a blank nothing. If I go to my Time Machine backup, these iPhoto files are also empty!Gyles PalmerOther users have reported the problem in a forum at Apple.com, and while there does not seem to be an agreed answer, it's worth keeping an eye on the discussionhere.However, Mac Life includes Time Machine – Missing Backups in itsSnow Leopard Troubleshooting Roundup, and this suggests that "simply rebooting and launching Time Machine again fixes the problem".If the worst comes to the worst, you should be able to use the Restore utility with Time Machine to do a rollback to an earlier date and time.In terms of storing photos, it's better to save the original image files to CD before entrusting them to a photo management program. I put mine on an external hard drive as well. Also, I'd never use a photo management program that doesn't visibly and obviously store images in their original file format.
BT has abandoned its broadband usage meter and directed us to an independent site. However, this is PC-only and does not work with Mac OS X.Adrian HopeSkoobySoft'sSurplusMetershould do what you want. It is small, open source and freeware so it doesn't cost anything to try.
A Java update says: "update failed to download, installation files required". Have I perhaps deleted these files?John MitchleyIt's not worth trying to debug Java updates. Go to the Windows Control Panel, Add/Remove Programs, uninstall all the copies of Java that you can see, then runCCleanerto clean up the registry and any orphaned files. Restart your PC, then download and install a new copy of Java from http://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp
As everyone knows, the videogame industry is cyclic. Roughly every five years a new generation of console technology arrives and we dutifully hand over our cash to experience the new visuals and, if we're lucky, the odd innovative new feature.The business ostensibly dislikes this rhythmic pattern. The implementation of new platforms is mind-numbingly expensive, both for the manufacturers and the developers. But yet, every five years, the rumours start, and with them the vociferous – yet never entirely convincing – denials ...In the second part ofan interview with Develop, the head of Microsoft Game Studios, Phil Spencer, claims there are no plans for Xbox 720 because the new motion control system, Natal, will indefinitely expand the lifespan of the current model: "And in terms of putting more hardware on the market, what else can we do? Put more memory in it? I don't think that's enough. We like where we are at with the box – 360 currently has a great price point. Consumers don't want another $400 box right now.""We instead want consumers and developers to know that we are all going to make a huge return on that original investment in the hardware – the one Microsoft made in building it, the one developers made in making games for it, and the investment consumers made in buying the console. In the current climate that's something people are going to appreciate much more."Convincing and sensible stuff, but unfortunately it's preceded by: "Do we need to sell a new console at some point? I don't think we need to right now. We'll wait until our experiences are at the right point … " You see, there's no such thing as denial when it comes to the generational business model – just flirtatious little stallers.This is an interesting point for the industry, though. In the midst of a recession and with two pieces of hardware that developers are clearly still extracting plenty of extra performance from, flirting with the possibility of replacements does seem a bit vulgar and unnecessary. And let's be honest, can anyone really afford to start thinking about PlayStation 4? Certainly not Sony, which announced losses of £685m back in May – and the company is still making a loss on each PS3 sold – even the skinny ones.At the end of last month, Rich Hilleman, the chief creative officer of Electronic Arts, gavean interview to the tech site Venture Beat, in which he ventured the following very brief prediction: "I expected we'll see a PlayStation 3.5 before we see a PlayStation 4 and an Xbox 560 before we see an Xbox 720."And this certainly seems to be the way things are shaping up. Xbox 360 is soon to be reinvigorated with Natal. PS3 has been slimmed down, has had video-on-demand and TV tuner features added, and has a motion controller on the way. There's been speculation Sony may offer a new iteration of the console before Christmas – designed with movie fans in mind, the bundle is said to feature a 250GB hard drive, PlayTV and Blu-ray remote control.The future then, or at least the near-future, is all about targeting and refinement. It's a bit more like how the car industry works: add a few little features to the basic product – a tweaked engine, nicer interiors, a fancy entertainment system – then market it to a fresh audience at a fraction of the price of developing a whole new model. Of course, Sega experimented with this approach between the Mega Drive and the Saturn, with various interstitial machines like the Mega CD, Mars and never-released Jupiter, but back then the consumers were hungry for a whole new generation and with the seductive PlayStation on the horizon, Sega's strategy just looked confused. This time round, no one is lurking in the background with something radically new and highly advanced. Unless Nintendo is about to really surprise us all.
British-based social travel websiteDopplris being bought by mobile phone titan Nokia for around €15m (£13.5m), according to reports.News of the deal, whichwas first reported by Silicon Valley blog Techcrunch, comes as the latest in a string of dotcom acquisitions by the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer.The boutique travel company, which is based in London and Helsinki,launched in 2007 as a way for frequent travellers to keep track of their movements. After receiving around €1.5m in funding from The Accelerator Group and a number of private investors, the company expanded into travel tips and forged a series of partnerships with high-end brands such as Mr &amp; Mrs Smith and Monocle.The company did not return a request for comment, but the deal is believed to have been in the works for several weeks.The acquisition does not come as a complete surprise, given the close connections between the company's team and the Finnish mobile giant.Co-founder and chief executive Marko Ahtisaari was a former director of design strategy for the Helsinki technology firm, where he worked alongside Dopplr'srecently-departed design chief Matt Jones.However, while the deal marks a significant return for the company's backers - who included LinkedIn boss Reid Hoffman, Reuters chief executive Tom Glocer and serial Esther Dyson - some remained sceptical that it will succeed in the long-term.Om Malik, a journalist and venture capitalist who writes at theGigaOmblog, saidhe was concerned about the possible outcome."I'm happy for the founders and backers of Dopplr, after all it is a nice financial outcome for a service that hasn't grown beyond a base of passionate users," he wrote. "It's only a matter of time before Nokia mucks up this acquisition, however, much like it has in the past."Nokia's own track record is blotchy in this area - particularly since the company announced in 2008 that it planned to move into the internet arena as well as its handset-manufacturing business. While the buyouts of mapping provider Navteq in 2007 has gone relatively sucessfully, the outcome of other moves - such as the spin-off of software company Symbian - remains unclear.It is also true that the purchase of British startups by foreign companies have a patchy history of success. In 2007 London-based music service Last.fm was bought by American media conglomerate CBS for £140m, a move which has yet to recoup major benefits for the US company.More controversially, the internet telephony company Skype was purchased in 2005 by auction website eBay for an initial $2.6bn. The move was widely seen as a failure, leading to an announcement earlier this month that the Californian dotcom planned tosell off 65% of the business for $1.9bn.Since then Skype's co-founders, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, havefiled lawsuitsagainst eBay and the company's purchasers overaccusations of intellectual property theft.
UK ranked downThe UK has dropped to sixth place in IT sector competitiveness, according to the Economist Intelligence Unit.Elite hits 25Frontier is celebrating the 25th anniversary of Elite, the space-trading game launched on the Acorn BBC micro.Malicious MonopolyWebSense reports a spam campaign is enticing users to download an infected version of the Monopoly board game.FLO TV for carsIn the US, FLO has launched a mobile TV service for use in cars.Noel's Cosmic OrderingNoel Edmonds has launched an iPhone app "to help people adopt a more positive attitude to life".Inside the hardware labsMicrosoft's Channel 10 has started a series based on visiting Microsoft's new hardware labs.Zune with HD radioMicrosoft's Zune HD is on sale in the US, with an OLED touch screen, HD radio tuner, browser and 16GB/32GB storage.9.99mm thinDell is taking thinness to extremes with a new "concept" Adamo by Dell laptop.dell.com/AdamoXPSA million switchersDigital UK says that a million UK homes have made the switchover to digital TV.
In the dead zoneMy whole house seems to have turned into a wireless dead zone! My next-door neighbour's, too. Neither of us can get our routers to produce a usable signal. I have also been having occasional interference with analogue and digital radios and my TV set top box.Alison BaxterJS:It sounds as though something is swamping the signals, but I have no idea what. Wi-Fi offers a number of different channels, so check with your neighbour to make sure you are not using the same ones. Otherwise there is a long list of wireless gadgets that can interfere with Wi-Fi signals, with the worst usually being the "AV senders" sometimes used to drive second TV sets. Other culprits include cordless phones, wireless games consoles and controllers, baby alarms, microwave ovens and garage door openers. Experiment with your neighbour by turning your various gadgets on and off to see if one is affecting your Wi-Fi signal. Or you could pay a local service or field engineer to look around with a Spectran or similar RF (radio frequency) meter. I'd expect this to cost from £50 to&nbsp;£100. There are also some cheap (£70 or so) handheld devices described as "electrosmog meters" that you could use yourself.Tomsgadgets.com has a selection.As you are also suffering from radio and TV interference, it might be worth checkingOfcom's help pages. Ofcom has field engineers, but it will only investigate interference problems if you're using a rooftop aerial.64-bit upgradesYou have answered two letters about upgrading a 32-bit system to a 64-bit version of Windows 7 without changing the hardware. I have always assumed you needed a 64-bit processor.Peter WhartonJS:Most PCs already have 64-bit processors. AMD launched 64-bit Opteron and Athlon processors in 2003 and Intel followed with similar chips, starting with the Pentium 4F in 2004. (It had launched 64-bit Itanium chips in 2001 but they didn't sell.) Microsoft has offered 64-bit versions of Windows XP since 2001, and 64-bit Vista completed the move to 64-bit operation three years ago.Lost Snow Leopard picsFor an unlucky few, Snow Leopard hides/deletes/overwrites all of the photos you have stored in iPhoto. Instead of five years of photos (about 6,000) there is a blank nothing. If I go to my Time Machine backup, these iPhoto files are also empty!Gyles PalmerJS:Other users have reported the problem in a forum at Apple.com, and while there does not seem to be an agreed answer, it'sworth keeping an eye on the discussion(http://bit.ly/aj311). However, Mac Life includes Time Machine – Missing Backups in itsSnow Leopard Troubleshooting Roundup(http://bit.ly/aj313), and this suggests that "simply rebooting and launching Time Machine again fixes the problem". If the worst comes to the worst, you should be able to use the Restore utility with Time Machine to do a rollback to an earlier date and time. In terms of storing photos, it's better to save the original image files to CD before entrusting them to a photo management program. I put mine on an external hard drive as well. Also, I'd never use a photo management program that doesn't visibly and obviously store images in their original file format.Metering on a MacBT has abandoned its broadband usage meter, and points to an independent site, which does not work with Mac OS X.Adrian HopeJS:SkoobySoft's SurplusMetershould do what you want. It is small, open source and freeware so it doesn't cost anything to try.Java updateA Java update says: "update failed to download, installation files required". Have I perhaps deleted these files?John MitchleyJS:It's not worth trying to debug Java updates. Go to the Windows Control Panel, uninstall all the copies of Java that you can see, then runCCleanerto clean up the registry and any orphaned files. Restart your PC, download and in-stall a newJavafrom http://bit.ly/aj310.
With a heightened awareness of the environment and an increased urgency to address climate change, people are looking to all areas of their lives to reduce their carbon footprint.Computers and the internet have come under fire from green groups for their contributions to carbon emissions. Environmental groups have evencriticised Google for the carbon costof  every internet search made via the search engine. But to put this in context, estimates from the London-based Climate Group found in itsSmart 2020 reportthat computers account for about 2% of total global emissions. By 2020, with more people owning computers, mobile phones and other gadgets, that percentage will rise to about 6%, according to the same report.The good news is that in the past decade, computers have not only become smaller, faster and cheaper, but also much more energy-efficient. The cost of electricity and the demand for longer battery life for laptops and portable devices have been driving companies to increase the energy efficiency of electronics.You can do a lot these days to build not only a very fast but also very efficient computer. You can choose energy efficient chips, energy efficient hard drives and power supplies with the80 Plus efficiency rating.Google and Hewlett-Packard are now getting involved by providing widgets to help you monitor the energy consumption of your computer and change your habits to cut your computing carbon footprint. Google employees have created a software "gadget" that willenable and optimiseyour computer's energy management settings. (You'll need to have Google Desktop installed to use it.)Hewlett-Packard has launched itsPower to Change schemewith a downloadable Adobe Air widget that reminds you to turn off your computer if you aren't using it. The site says that more than 23,000 people have joined the campaign.These may be small steps, but the energy monitors help you understand your contributions to cut your carbon footprint.
It is a situation eerily familiar to most gamers: I am lost deep inside a pyramid, being pursued by a monster about to devour me in a spectacular way if I don't make a decision pronto. The only difference to most other games is that the problem involves geometry. An arrow appears beneath my avatar's feet with a length on it, say 5 metres. Above are four boxes consisting of triangles, rectangles and other shapes with sizes marked on the side. Unless I drag the box with the right answer down in front of me, I will be devoured. If I succeed, a fresh section of a stone path opens and the game moves on. Called Pyramid Panic, it is aimed at key stage 3 – and is one of a family of "serious" or educational titles launched today bymangahigh.com. Others range from doing simple arithmetic to make flowers grow to solving quadratic equations to guide a spaceship to its destination.I found them surprisingly addictive, but the point is not whether they appeal to the likes of me, but whether they will catch on in the classroom, thereby delivering the holy grail of computer games – ones that pacify parents by actually educating while also helping bring about a revival of maths. To call them "serious" is, of course, a libel on the rest of the gaming industry; in, say, World of Warcraft you have to do calculations for crucial strikes and damage limitation while academic dissertations are already being written on how skills acquired in multiplayer online games are exactly those needed in industry as the digital revolution proceeds. Clearly, anything that could engage kids in maths during their early teens could eventually have an effect on the whole economy. Maths is the bedrock of the digital age.Mangahigh's advantage may be its lineage. It is being launched by Toby Rowland who, after failing in the first dotcom boom with clickmango, founded and nurtured the casual gaming siteking.comto be a global leader with an impressive 17m unique viewers. One of his board of advisers is the Oxford maths professor and occasional Guardian contributor Marcus du Sautoy, who is successor to Richard Dawkins as Simonyi Chair in the Public Understanding of Science. He says that maths, apart from helping to build the pyramids, has been at the heart of gaming at least since the Sumerian game of Ur (2,500BC), an embryonic backgammon. They both claim success when the games were tested in schools, particularly in retaining the attention of boys who would typically misbehave.There are stacks of maths games around ranging fromArcademic's smart suite(http://bit.ly/vkgames1) to Professor Kageyama's Maths Training on the Nintendo DS, but Mangahigh claims to be the most sophisticated as well as geared to the syllabus. It is free, though there is a premium version it hopes to make money from (possibly as a cheap alternative to private tuition). Casual gaming has seen huge growth during the recession and its centre may well be London, which is home to king.com,playfish.com(with a claimed 100m downloads) and the astonishingminiclip.com, which claims 50 million unique users a month. Its growth graph looks like the north face of the Eiger. Maths is a subsection ofserious games that are taking off on all sorts of levels.&nbsp; Channel 4, which won a Bafta for its online game Bow Street Runner, has just released some impressive educational games related to the experiences of teenagers and isinviting pitchesfrom one of the country's sleeping assets, indie developers.It is possible we are not far away from a revolution in which formal education will give way more and more to the attractions of internet learning including virtual worlds. Something is clearly happening, and Britain – with its skills in remote learning, gaming and independent developers – ought to be well-placed to take a leading role. Apart from anything else, wouldn't it be great if future improvements in maths at GCSE could be "blamed" on kids spending too much time on computer games?victorkeegan.com
Unusually, it might be neither. Last weekWikileaksposted a link to a copy of a database, in comma-separated variable form, which Royal Mail has confirmed is a copy of itsPostZon product, which contains a longitude/latitude pair, NHS ward and county location for every one of the UK's 1.8m postcodes.Given that Royal Mail charges from £50 (for a single user annual licence) to £25,000 (for a corporate annual licence) for PostZon, you might expect this leak to have a noticeable effect on its revenues for the product – and also lead to an army of web developers using the data for free to cross-reference postcodes against maps.Such postcode lookups are used all the time, for instance in web applications that try to show amenities near to your location or that do route planning.But the initial signs are that that won't happen. While many developers are eager to access a lookup table for postcodes, there is considerable distrust among the community that the PostZon database is "clean" – that is, contains no intentionally wrong entries that Royal Mail could use to identify unlicensed use.Such an intentional mistake – known as a Mountweazel or Nihilartikel – effectively poisons the database to unlicensed users, because its presence proves that the data was copied rather than created from scratch. (Under EU database laws, Royal Mail owns the copyright in the list even without such entries, but would have to demonstrate that all the entries could only have come from its database – a tougher task than finding the planted error.)The Royal Mail would not say if the database contains such errors: "We don't discuss our security procedures for protecting our intellectual property," said a spokesman – though clearly those procedures have broken down on at least one level. And what economic harm might Royal Mail suffer through this leak? "We're not discussing that," said the spokesman.Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign argues that the PostZon database – and the other Royal Mail location databases, principally its Postcode Address File (PAF), with postcode details for 18m locations – should be available for free, without copyright, so that everyone can use them without having to rely on third-party lookup systems (from organisations such as Google and Yahoo, which provide an API to their own versions of PostZon).In the meantime, there are still crowdsourcing efforts going on to create copyright-free postcode lists: theNew Popular Edition Maps sitehas a collection ofopen-sourced postcode locations– although there are presently only 58,000 postcodes in the collected list (which also includes those from Free The Postcode). But one thing's certain: none of them come from the Royal Mail.
EyesFree, a new interface for Google's Android mobile phone operating system, provides a perfect illustration of what today's "assistive technology" researchers are looking for. It provides a way for blind people to use a phone with a touch-sensitive screen, but the corollary is that it also provides sighted people with an easier way to use the phone. In fact, they can make calls without even looking at it.The idea behind EyesFree is that wherever you put your finger on the touchscreen represents the number 5. If you want 1, you move your finger up and to the left, and if you want 8 then you move it straight down, and so on. In alpha mode, your finger is surrounded by letters instead. You get spoken feedback for each selection, and if you pick the wrong number or letter, you can delete it by shaking the phone.I tried it at theTechshare 2009exhibition and conference held in London last week, where Julian Harty, accessibility evangelist at Google UK, was giving a talk. EyesFree is not, initially, as easy as it looks onYouTube demos. However, Harty says a tip is to put a simple grid pattern on the back of the phone and use your "pinch instinct" to improve your aim.Harty also reckons EyesFree will be better for people with physical problems that make it hard for them to use phones with very small keys. There is no number pad on a touchscreen phone, and with EyesFree, your aim doesn't have to be very good.EyesFree was developed byTV Raman, a blind research scientist at Google in Mountain View, California, and his colleague Charles Chen. Harty says it will be included in the next version (1.6) of the Android development kit, which also includes a text-to-speech engine and accessibility APIs (applications program interfaces). "It's up to the carriers to ship it," says Harty, "but users can download it from the Android marketplace, and developers can get the source code fromcode.google.com."Focus on extremesI described EyesFree to Dr John Gill, an accessibility expert who set up his own consultancy after leaving the Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB). He's in favour of "inclusive design, where you try to design for as wide a range of people as possible. Everybody talks about it, but few people do it," he says. "The problem with 'assistive technology' is that it tends to be focused on the extremes – the totally blind, the totally deaf – but there are many more people who are partially blind, or partially deaf," says Gill. "And the numbers are going to grow because the number of older people is going to grow."Gill also thinks people don't want devices that "look as though they were designed for the disabled", and much more could be done to make mainstream products more accessible. For example, he says you should be able to lay a mobile phone flat on a desk and operate it with one hand without it sliding around.Of course, the Techshare 2009 exhibition, which highlights the importance of digital technology for people with disabilities, featured lots of gadgets, including Geemarc's new BDP400 big-button desktop "talking phone", the Plextalk Pocket mobile book player/reader, and the RNIB's PenFriend voice-labelling device.Plextalk Pocket is an MP3 player roughly the size of a mobile phone, and it also has a numeric keypad and a text-to-speech engine. The built-in microphone and loudspeaker mean it can be used for keeping voice notes, but the key feature for blind users is that it supports the Daisy (Digital Accessible Information SYstem) standard used by the RNIB for its digital Talking Books. A Daisy book file usually includes one or more MP3 files of the book being read aloud, which are synchronised with a text or HTML file of the content. This means users can search and move backwards and forwards through the book without having to guess where something might be in the audio file. (This is even more of a problem with books on tape.)Daisy, DaisyThere are other portable Daisy-compatible products including the small Milestone 312 MP3 player, which the RNIB sells for £299. Though the format dates from 1994, and is an international ANSI standard, I can't find any ebook readers that support Daisy – or a ebook supplier who has even heard of it.The RNIB's PenFriend, launched at the show, looks like a handheld microphone, and lets people use their voices to label things: books or CDs, food packages, medicine bottles, bills that have arrived in the post, or whatever. You start by sticking a small round label to the object, register that using the optical scanner at the PenFriend's tip, then record your comment. Pointing to the label will then play back the associated comment. Again, there'sa YouTube video.The RNIB's Mark Prouse, who explained PenFriend to me, pays someone to read his post to tags. He says: "It'll be a household must, I think."PenFriend was developed by the RNIB and a London company, Mantra Lingua, and uses optical identification technology (OID) for the re-usable labels. OID is cheaper than RFID (Radio Frequency Identification), and the PenFriend only costs £63.24. It also works as an MP3 player and can store about 70 hours of notes. The audio for a tag could therefore be the type of medicine and the dosage, the name of a food product plus the use-by date, the full text of a letter, or the track-listing for a CD, and so on. Packs of 380 extra labels will cost £11.49, so the system is cheap enough to use for address books and diaries.While it was good to see the enthusiastic reception that PenFriend got at Techshare, it's disappointing that it takes the RNIB's involvement to get something like this to market. John Lamb, editor and publisher of Ability magazine, says: "Technology for disabled people still remains a minority sport, and that's surprising given the cutting-edge nature of assistive technologies such as optical character recognition, eye gaze control and haptic feedback."Things are beginning to change thanks to tighter legislation, more awareness of disabled people's rights, and belated interest from major technology companies. However, it's an uphill struggle to undo years of indifference," says Lamb. "Assistive technology is one way for the IT industry to pay society back for the billions it has made from us all."
Spotify is the legal online music service I've imagined for a decade. And Spotify for iPhone, which was (finally) released last week, has turned it into the music service to which I've just become a paying subscriber. Why?Because £9.99 a month for a Spotify Premium account is the price of never again having to buy music. I've not spent more than 30p on music in the past decade, since the rise and demise of Napster, but Spotify's year-old desktop application – with its near-instant-playback access to millions of tracks – turned me on to music anew. Who knew theNude Pube Banglerswould end up in my playlists? Serendipity is the joy of Spotify and, as I move around a fair bit, having deep joy in my pocket was tempting. Upon discovering that I could usefully split the cost of an advert-removing subscription with my iPhone-hand-me-down wife it became a no-brainer.If you've read that Spotify Premium subscriptions cannot be shared then you've been misled: on the mobile version, it's possible. How so? Well, Spotify's developers have dropped a "Force offline mode" into the mobile application (just click "More … "). Spotify for iPhone (or Android, for which it's also available) can store 3,333 tracks for offline play. Designed to enable users to listen to music when out of signal, this has a happy side-effect: force Spotify offline and friends sharing Premium login details can listen to the same 3,333 offline tracks at the same time. Try this when streaming online and Spotify will throw up a "Computer says no" message. Hence, my wife shares the subscription for offline use alone. Devils that we are, we get 1,666 tracks each, plus "our song" (currently Nude Pube Banglers' Sexual Famine). Syncing happens over Wi-Fi only; 3,333 tracks swallowed up 10GB of storage.There are annoyances. Spotify for iPhone (or Android) demands to go online every 30 days to check subscription validity (fail and it's bye-bye to all cached tunes). And desktop Spotify users should prepare for a few differences. There's no "home" page equivalent, so no "What's new" and no "Top lists". The "Artist radio" mode is also missing from the iPhone version. Comfortingly, though, playlist management remains rubbish (ordering, please, Spotify).Even so, this is a triumph. Streaming playback over both 3G and Edge is great – just four seconds from search to play – and, while synching for offline play can be slow, playlist changes or track deletions made with the desktop application are reflected almost instantly on the mobile version. There's no doubt the subscription model is off-putting. However, it can be cancelled without notice or penalty, so trying mobile Spotify need cost no more than a tenner. How many tracks does that buy in iTunes?Pros:Vast music database; store thousands of tracks for offline play; fast search and play; background play on Android devicesCons:Syncing can be slow; poor playlist management; no background play on iPhonespotify.com
If an expert panel of civil engineers told you that your plan for an Atlantic bridge was unrealistic, you'd probably have second thoughts about the project. Even if you were a government minister elected on a pledge to build one. By contrast, if you were asking for feasibility advice on an IT system, you might be tempted to go for a second opinion. Or a third. That is, if the first lot of experts were dubious in the first place, which is unlikely.As we all know, the IT industry isn't shy about talking up its abilities – somewhere I have a corporate T-shirt bearing the company slogan "Missions impossible achieved" – and government ministers like people who say "yes".Of course, through a combination of Moore's law, a bit of project re-scoping and a lot of extra budget, the nearly impossible can often be made to work (or at least beta-released). But there's a growing realisation on all sides of the industry that we need to get more professional about the way we do things.This week, the body formerly known as theBritish Computer Societyunveiled its latest efforts to raise IT's professional game. Rebranding is part of it; the old name, slightly redolent of men in cardigans meeting over a few pints, is out, to be replaced with "BCS – the Chartered Institute for IT".More importantly, the institute has revamped the process of awarding practitioners the status of "chartered professional". This now involves a "certificate of current competence", for which applicants will need to demonstrate broad technical knowledge as well as at least eight years' experience in a senior role requiring business insight.Professionals will also need to demonstrate specialist competence and interpersonal skills – which may be a challenge to some. Even more dauntingly, the certificate will be valid for only five years, after which they will have to undergo "revalidation".The idea, says David Clarke, the BCS's chief executive, is to give IT the same status as other professions, such as accountancy or law. Suppliers will have confidence that new employees are up to the job, and users the confidence that a contractor knows what they're talking about.In theory, the initiative should play well with the government's four-year-old effort to create an IT profession within the public sector. However, everything depends on the extent to which employers, particularly the government, go along with the scheme.The certificate of competence will carry real weight only when it is an essential requirement for a certain grade of job, a bit like a lawyer's practising certificate is today. And it is not certain that employers will be as enthusiastic in practice as they are in theory about raising their staff's professional status.The trouble is that professionals, answerable to their own peer groups and codes of ethics, tend to be troublesome as well as costly employees. It's no accident that new models of enterprise being set up to transform sectors such as law and healthcare are largely based upon the attraction of employing fewer lawyers and doctors.In whole swaths of the economy (not excluding journalism), the trend of the past couple of decades has been towards deregulation. Ironically, in many cases, this process was enabled and accelerated by IT.The public sector, of course, is a special case. In Whitehall, certainly, we're still moving towards more professionalism – the novel requirement that chief financial officers be qualified accountants, for example.But the trend could swiftly go into reverse if a new government finds IT professionals to be as stroppy and independent-minded as they find doctors and lawyers today. Governments like taking expert advice – but only if it's "Yes, minister".
If you want to be successful on the internet, first get big. That's the guiding principle that Joi Ito (his first name is actually Joichi, but he offers "Joey" as the pronunciation) suggests companies live by. And as he's been an investor in the photo-sharing site Flickr, the music-community site last.fm, and indirectly in the microblogging network Twitter, he probably has a good idea of what works and what doesn't. And he thinks he knows what will work, in terms of a business model, for Twitter – a topic we'll return to.Ito, 43, wears many hats: he has been a DJ and nightclub owner, but is also on the board of theMozilla Foundation(which produces Firefox), the blogging platformSix Apart, and runs his own venture capital company, as well as sitting on the board of a number of internet companies and organisations.Creative licenceHe was in London last week mainly in his role as the chief executive ofCreative Commons, the non-profit organisation that oversees the creation and evangelisation of the licensing scheme used by (among others) the White House, the film director Ridley Scott and the musician Trent Reznor – though most famously of course through Flickr, and most recently Wikipedia, which in Juneput all its content under a Creative Commons licence."I'm here talking to people about Creative Commons, more listening than talking," he explains. "I'm trying to understand what the issues are here, what people are thinking about, trying to understand what we need to do, and what we can do to help." (One way they could help would be to fund it: when I ask how Creative Commons gets its funding, he replies "I beg," and chuckles.) But he has plenty of people interested in talking to him: among those he met on his trip were Macmillan, publisher of the science journal Nature, EMI Records and various government departments.Ito is intense, thoughtful and energetic, with a sunny demeanour. He's online almost constantly, with ablogand Twitter feed. His biggest challenge in his present role is getting people to understand what Creative Commons really does. Most people have only a hazy idea of its application: often they think it means an absence of copyright enforcement, that something with the "CC" logo is automatically copyright-free and can be used in any way.Not at all, Ito points out. "Creative Commons is a tool that is built on top of copyright, so in order for Creative Commons to exist, copyright has to exist. And in fact in countries where they have little or no copyright enforcement we're not that interesting [to organisations]; Creative Commons is the most interesting in regimes where copyright is very complicated yet some people want to share. Then it becomes a very important tool. We're really a solution for failed sharing, where it's difficult for professors to share courseware, for students to do work together, for musicians to collaborate."He concedes that there is still some opposition. "There are some people whose business models become difficult when Creative Commons becomes popular, just because it shifts the attention. Wikipedia probably is not that exciting for Britannica" (where "not that exciting" actually means "threatening")."When you create huge bodies of shared content, there are certain people who become unhappy, so there are definitely people who don't like it, but a lot of the enemies we used to have misunderstood our mission," Ito says. "But there are people who just don't want change, and for those people I think it's difficult, because what we're enabling is legal change, meaning changing in a legal way."There are certain people who are what I would call abolitionist, who basically want to abolish copyright, and there are people who want to not allow any sharing because it destroys their business model and want everything to be controlled. But most of the people are sort of in between, and we enable everybody in between – although I will say that we are creating tools that allow people to waive all of their rights. We feel that in cases like government-created data and genome data and scientific data that it should be contributed to the public domain, and so we're creating tools like that."One tool that is being worked on with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is called RDFA –Resource Description Framework in Attributes– which could revolutionise how content gets moved around the web. Presently, it's easy for anyone to copy a web page and pass it off as their own; indeed, Tim Berners-Lee designed the web to be simple to duplicate so the technique of designing web pages would spread faster.RDFA, says Ito, is "basically a way to put copyright information into HTML. This isn't just Creative Commons licences – this will help anybody express who is the owner of this object, what is the licensing, so that when you copy and paste info from the web the copyright information comes along with it. In that context, anyone interested in copyright should be interested in what we're doing with W3C. As you can imagine, internet standards bodies can be difficult to work with, especially if you're not from the community, and so we're trying very hard also to educate a variety of industry associations and others on the idea of RDFA and the CC rights expression language."Flickr effectThe first large-scale implementation of CC licences was at Flickr. "That's been hugely important," says Ito. "Of the 250m CC licences in use, about 100m are for Flickr – but that quarter-billion doesn't include Wikipedia, which several months ago converted to a Creative Commons licence, and I think everyone understands Wikipedia. Flickr was the first and most important user of Creative Commons. But now we've got the White House, al-Jazeera, Gwen Stefani … so I think it's starting to ripple out."The advantage of the range of Creative Commons licences is that it can be tweaked as the creator likes. "Typically a professional musician will choose a licence that prohibits commercial reuse to protect their income, which usually comes from copyright. But for instance a photographer, and especially an amateur photographer, may want to be well-known, so they focus on attribution. Documentary producers often say 'no derivatives' because they don't want the story to change, but will allow commercial use so that movie theatres can show their work."And what about Ito's investment in Twitter? How will the company make money? Ito prefaces his remarks by saying that he's not authorised to speak for the company. But, he points out, "almost all the companies that I've invested in that have failed, or that I see fail, have business models, great products, great teams – but have no users. Getting users, getting distribution, getting attention, getting viral – that's the single most difficult thing on the internet to do. Just about every product fails because they don't have any users. Entrepreneurs tend not to focus on that. But there are very few companies that have been able to get to tens of millions of users that have failed, other than for being sued or some other reason like that." (Napster being the perfect example of a startup with a huge user base that succumbs to a lawsuit.)Being big also means that mobile networks and handset makers and ISPs will talk to you; and you can demonstrate to them how they benefit from the growth of your company. He thinks that the best opportunity for Twitter lies with mobile networks: "When Twitter grows, SMS usage goes up ... Twitter has a bunch of very smart business development people right now thinking about the various options." And his view of Twitter's best chance? "I will say that mobile is globally one of the areas that has significant growth in revenue for a lot of players. I think mobile will be an important part of the strategy."•Read the full interview transcript
Charles Arthur: how does Creative Commons makes its money? Where is the money coming from?Joi Ito:I beg. (laughs)CA: Is that sort of the classic problem with the sharealike style corporation?JI:Or non-profit. We could come up with a business model - we're thinking about it - I was on board of icann, but they make a bazillion dollars, they make $50m or soCA: from registration?JI:From registration, and I'm on board of Mozilla, which gets about $70m from Google.. so business models are possible.Non-profits are difficult, but there are certain things that you have to do as a non-profits, the World Wide Web Consortum wouldn't be what it is if it wasn't nonprofit, and as a nonprofit it also has financial problems. Having said that, Icann has a business model that is a cause of a lot of their problems. Governance is a lot easier when you're a non-profit.CA: What are you in London to talk to people about?JI:I'm mostly here talking to people about Creative Commons, more listening than talking, trying to understand what the issues are here, what people are thinking, and trying to understand what we need to do, what we can do to helpCA: What's the reaction – because the UK tends to be avery copyright-heavy kind of country compared to the US, where government data is made available for free because it's paid for by the people? In the UK the attitude is rather different, which is a very longstanding thing about copyright and data.JI:Creative Commons is a tool that is built on top of copyright, so in order for Creative Commons to exist, copyright has to exist, and in fact in countries where they have little or no copyright enforcement we're actually not that interesting, and Creative Commons is the most interesting in regimes where copyright is very complicated, yet people, some people, want to share, and then Creative Commons becomes a very important tool. So in fact in places where it's difficult - we're really a solution for failed sharing, where it's difficult for professors to share courseware, for students to do work together, for musicians to collaborate, and we provide a tool to help you do that.CA: You were an early investor in Flickr, which is one of the biggest examples of the use of Creative Commons.JI:Yes, they have over 100 million Creative Commons images.CA: Has that success at Flickr been translated into an understanding of what Creative Commons is about?JI:I think it's been hugely important, it has created a dialog, created a great deal of understanding; of the 250m or so licences, of them 100m are for Flickr, but not included in that quarter billion is Wikipedia which just several months ago [in June] has converted to Creative Commons licence, and I think everyone understand Wikipedia.So Flickr was the first and most important user of Creative Commons, but now we've got the White House, Ridley Scott, Al-Jazeera, Gwen Stefani, and Trent Reznor using Creative Commons so I think it's starting to ripple out, but Flickr was the most important initial user.CA: What's different about the way that musicians are using Creative Commons - you mentioned a number there - compared to the way that photographers or other people would use it?JI:We have a whole range of licences. We have six basic licences ranging from "just give me attribution, you can do what you want" to "you can't create derivative works or use commercially", or "you can create derivates but must share back". It depends who you are. We don't tell people what they should want to express; what we want to do is if you're a pro musician, we want you to express the copyright licence you want technically and legally very easily and clearly. Typically a professional musician will choose a licence that prohibits commercial reuse, to protect their income which usually comes in from copyright - not always the case - but for instance a photographer, especially an amateur photographer may say "what I want is to be well known", so they focus on attribution. Documentary producers often use a "no derivatives" licence because don't want the story to change, but their point is to tell the story so they will allow commercial use, so for instance that a movie theatre could show it. It really depends on the use.Educators for instance are by and large encouraged to use just attribution, because it's very important to allow textbook manufacturers to reprint educational material to allow it to finish its path. The different categories of people use different categories for different reasons.CA: One question that's come up is whether licences have been tested in court and shown to have a legal standing. What's the status there?JI:First of all there's these sorts of licences in general, these free licences or things like artistic licences. That was actually tested in court - not Creative Commons but very similar - in the US federal appeals court last year. It gets somewhat technical, but the original discussion was it's a contract, if you haven't signed it are you liable if someone breaches it, but the US Federal court decided that a breach of licence is actually a breach of copyright so you become a copyright infringer if you don't follow the stipulations in the licence, so we don't have to have this conversation about if it's a contract or not.And then specifically one of the most well known cases is Adam Curry, the former MTV DJ, who sued a publication in the Netherlands for not providing attribution and he won using a Creative Commons licence. And there are others. But they're slow, even old licences like the GPL there have been only a few cases. But we hope you don't have to go to court, and we depend a lot on the community and the normative part to be the thing that helps people conform to licences.CA: While you've been in London you've spoken to a number of companies including EMI and music companies. What sort of interest are they taking in Creative Commons?JI:Broadly speaking most of the progressive record labels are relatively interested in talking to us now. It's still mostly artists - but there are very few record companies who we aren't in discussion with. Usually we're talking to them on ideas on using Creative Commons for marketing, helping them understand the way that our technology works. One important thing is that we have worked with the World Wide Web Consortium to create a recommendation called the RDFa - resource definition framework in attributes - basically it's a way to put copyright information into HTML. This isn't just Creative Commons licences; this will help anybody who wants to express who is the owner of this object, bla bla bla, so that when you copy and paste an object from the web the copyright information comes along with it. In that context anyone interested in copyright should be interested in what we're doing with the W3C, and as you can imagine internet standards bodies are relatively difficult to work with, especially if you're not from the community, and so we're trying very hard also to educate a variety of industry associations and others on the idea of RDFa and the Creative Commons rights expression language.CA: What would be a key thing for the advancement of the Creative Commons? What would be the next step it would need to take to really break through into the consciousness of the people who need to be conscious of it?JI:It's a good question. If you look at our adoption curve, it's growing geometrically. The number of countries adopting it continues to increase, and the categories of people using it - so now scientists and educators and things like that - so I feel just looking at it statistically, we're growing very quickly, and we've gone from several years ago having to really evangelise it to now spending nearly all of our time just working with the people who want to use the licence, and helping them make sure they use it correctly.For me most people still don't know what Creative Commons is, but those people who are concerned about sharing and have run into the problem that Creative Commons solves - which is to lower the friction of sharing whether you're a producer or a government, the White House uses a Creative Commons licence - they all come to use for help. In that sense I think it's just a matter of time, and I think we've gotten to the point where, whether it's WIPO or RIAA or record labels, most of them not all of them, but most of them understand now that we are not anti-copyright and we are not out to get them or to fight them, and we're really a technical standard and an interoperability standard, and we're really trying to help people to express their choices, not trying to convince people to make certain choices.CA: So it's not like an open source vs Microsoft conflict at all?JI:Um..(pause) no, I don't think so. There are some people whose business models become difficult when Creative Commons becomes popular, just because it shifts the attention. It's like Wikipedia probably is not that exciting for Britannica; when you create huge bodies of shared content there are certain people who become unhappy. So there are definitely people who don't like it. But it has - we have much fewer enemies than - a lot of the enemies we used to have misunderstood our mission, and so they have changed. But there are people who just don't want change, and for those people I think it's difficult, because what we're enabling is legal change - meaning changing in a legal way.We're kind of stuck actually between two extremes, where there are certain people who are what I would call abolitionist and certain people who are pro-piracy, basically want to abolish copyright; and there are people who want to not allow any sharing because it destroys their business model and want everything to be controlled. But most of the people are sort of in between, and we enable everybody in between.Although I will say that we are creating tools that allow people to waive all of their rights, and we feel that in cases like government-created data and genome data and scientific data, that it should be contributed to the public domain, and so we're creating tools like that. But it's usually communities of people who believe that.CA: Is it right that you had to create a new flavour of the Creative Commons licence for the White House?JI:The White House - it's slight complicated - the White House itself has, the content that the US government creates, they are under a US government licence which is public domain in the US, and they use Creative Commons for third-party content that's uploaded to the WH page. There are some government agencies which are using our tool which is called Creative Commons zero which allows the government to dedicate content and data to the public and is usable worldwide. In fact some US government content is considered restricted outside the US, so there's some complexity here that we're trying to help resolve.CA: On another tack, you're a venture capitalist, you were an early investor in Last fm, you're an early investor in Twitter. A lot of people are interested by It's rumoured it's going to get some extra investment. Is that true?JI:Yes, there is that rumour (laughs).CA: Is it true?JI:I can't really say. I can't speak on behalf of Twitter. It's possible. (laughs).CA: The other question that keeps hanging over Twitter is how is it going to monetise itself? How is it going to start making money back? What is your understanding of the plans there?JI:Well, again, I'm not authorised to speak on behalf of he company but can speak generally about internet companies, which is that almost all the companies that I've invested in that have failed, or that I see fail, have business models, great products, have pretty good teams but they have no users.Getting users, getting distribution, getting attention, becoming viral - that's the single most difficult thing on the internet to do. And just about every product fails because they don't have any users.Entrepreneurs tend not to focus on that. There are very few companies that have been able to get to tens of mills of users that have failed, other than for being sued or some other reason like that.The other thing is that the people who would pay you for things, like carriers or big companies, typically don't want to talk to you until you have tens of millions of users. If you have a thousand users and you go to British Telecom and say "I want to come up with a business model with you guys", they're not going to sit at the table with you.So the focus on user growth initially may sound like an internet bubble-era way of thinking about things; but if you think about statistically what's suCreative Commonsessful and what's not, that is usually the suCreative Commonsessful thing, to focus on the virality and the user growth; and once you have that, what you look at is "who are we benefiting?" When Twitter grows, SMS [text message] usage goes up. Sites are now able to promote across friends' networks; traffic to certain kinds of sites increases; and you can search, and use Twitter traffic for doing search. People can sell, they can tell stories, there's a lot of things Twitter enables. And as a normal internet company would do, we'd look at "Who's benefiting the most in this value chain? Where is there the least friction to get paid?", and then "How do we come up with a business model?" Twitter has a bunch of very smart biz dev [business development] people right now thinking about all the various things. In Japan we're actually doing a lot of experimentations, we're running advertising on Twitter, we've got a Twitter portal, and we're talking to a variety of different partners, so there's little bits of monetisation experimentation going on right now, but I can't say for sure what's going to be the big thing.CA: In your view if you look at that value chain, which part of the value chain with Twitter has the money that can be most easily moved into Twitter's coffers?JI:It's pretty hard to say, but I will say that mobile is globally one of the areas that has significant growth in revenue for a lot of players. If you look at Japan, the companies that are growing are the mobile companies, selling hundreds of millions of dollars each on avatars for mobile phones and ringtones and games. I think mobile will be an important part of the strategy.CA: Is that the mobile user or the mobile network paying Twitter?JI:That I can't say for sure, because we're benefiting both of them. I used to run Infoseek, I was chairman of Infoseek Japan, and when I first used infoseek it was trying to charge the user for search. (Pause.) Didn't work, right, but there was still clearly value. And then eventually we figured out - I think Infoseek was one of the first to sell banners by CPM [cost per thousand impressions], and we figured that business model out. But if you have a clear value, you may experiment and find out that one way of collecting money is going to work better than another. But if you have the users and the traffic, you can experiment and iterate and usually figure out a way to make some money.Not always, but usually. I dodged your question. I'm not sure.CA: But you're not worried about Twitter burning out before it finds a way to go cash-positive?JI:I'm always worried, and there's always a possibility that you don't find the model. But if you just look historically, there are very few companies that have gotten to the scale that Twitter has, with the cash that they'll have, that have become zero - except for maybe some of the music piracy-related things, or other things that have run into liability issues and things like that.There are certain areas, like some of the Chinese companies, where you don't have the fundamental monetisation. One thing that is important is - people make fun of internet advertising as a business model, but if you think about it in the US, and now to a certain extent Japan, and more in Europe, you have a huge value chain that starts with e-commerce. E-commerce depends on payment systems and logistics, and that creates businesses like eBay and Dell and Amazon. So if you look at the big spenders on online advertising, it's the people who monetise traffic most directly, and that's the bulk of the money that goes in. But they can convert traffic directly into money. And there's the people who are a little bit more indirect, but there's a tremendous amount of e-commerce that drives the cash that goes into the websites, and that's why for instance in the US the  value of ads is so high, it's because the infrastructure is there.I think that when you look globally the infrastructure for e-commerce isn't available in a lot of of countries, so while you may have a lot of traffic, you don't necessarily have al lot of money. Having said that, mobile - people pay directly through mobile, and mobile carriers do the proxy, so it's kind of interesting to look at the internet ecologies where you have e-commerce and web, versus the ecologies where you don't have e-commerce but you have mobile. I think that the strategies for those markets will be slightly different. This isn't speaking just about Twitter - but just generally.CA: Thank you very much.
When walking throughSandbox Suites, a small office just south of San Francisco's City Hall, you would be forgiven for thinking that it was a business much like any other. It has a reception desk, a dainty little kitchen and comfortable sofas where workers sit chatting with each other or making phone calls.Even the inhabitants seem typical of a company in the city: software engineers, web developers, designers and an accountant. The difference only comes when you realise that none of the people who come here every day actually works with each other. Instead, they are "co-working" – a practice where offices are inhabited by a community of freelances and small businesses.The idea has gained credence in recent years, particularly among a certain cadre of wired workers whose only real requirements are a desk and fast internet access. Fed up with flitting between coffee shops but not ready for a traditional office, they have started reclaiming offices for themselves and created a worldwide trend along the way.Co-working is as much a philosophy as a practicality: adherents usually embrace the communal life that grows up around their office, and often end up collaborating with their "colleagues" on new projects.Communal dutiesClement Alteresco, an innovation consultant who runs another nearby co-working space,Parisoma, says that this community aspect is vitally important."In our contracts, every co-worker has to give one hour a week to the other co-workers or to the space," he says. "Even if it's not counted, it's more the idea that people come to a place and come with their skills and share a bit of that with everybody, with the network. It's not only that you share desks, coffee, books and Wi-Fi … it's that you come and you have to be open to share some of your time."Although there are now co-working spaces across the world – including plenty in Britain – the movement found a special significance in and around San Francisco, where a new breed of nomadic worker is developing, thanks to the internet. As a result, the number of co-working spaces in the city has shot up in recent years.But while the idea of communal working played well in the good times, with its dim echoes of the city's history as a hippy stronghold, what happened when the recession hit?These days, co-working spaces are at the sharp end, says Sasha Vasilyuk, a writer and consultant who has managed the Sandbox space with her husband since it opened two years ago. "We see it here from the basic level of the one-person company – and if the one-person company isn't doing anything, then neither is anyone else," she says.The recession has been tricky for Sandbox and the scattering of similar businesses across San Francisco. On the one hand, many workers have seen their contracts and projects for major technology clients dry up as budgets are slashedto save costs. But on the other, interest in flexible working has increased as many technologists try to ply their trade as freelance workers or by starting small businesses.One of Sandbox's tenants is Marine Leroux, a French emigre who moved to San Francisco from Paris this year to work on iPhone applications. Her company,Bamboudesign, consists of three people – but she runs operations from a single, meticulously clean cubicle squirrelled away upstairs.Even in the teeth of the deepest recession in years, she says, going it alone in Silicon Valley seemed like a better option than staying in France. "While I was going through the visa application, I thought 'why am I even doing this?'," she says. "I think overall the economy has affected all industries, but I want to say that probably the software industry is one of the least affected … there is no question that here is the place I want to be, here in Silicon Valley."Tech industry layoffsLeroux's optimism is typical of hi-tech entrepreneurs, but it does not necessarily reflect what is actually happening.The truth is that in the past year, the technology industry – like the rest of the world –  has been hit by vast numbers of office closures and job cuts.In Britain, major companies such as BT have shed thousands of workers, while Silicon Valley's biggest names have made unprecedented reductions in staff. Mass layoffs at companies including Yahoo, eBay, Cisco and Sun Microsystems have left tens of thousands out of work – and even Google was forced to make the first formal layoffs in its short history.While hi-tech companies at first appeared immune to the recession, – or at least pretended they were – the unemployment rate in Silicon Valley has accelerated in recent months and overtaken many other areas in the process. It has now risen to 12%, higher than the rest of California and significantly more than America's national rate of 9.7%.In comparison, the overall unemployment rate in Britain is estimated at 7.9% by Office of National Statistics.The result is that there are now more people out of work in hi-tech's heartland than there were after the dotcom bust. And while many industry-boosters trot out familiar lines about green shoots appearing in the aftermath of a crisis, Vasilyuk says that there is little evidence on the ground to support it. Recent months have not seen a swath of laid-off workers suddenly looking for places to work on their new idea, and instead there has been a greater turnover of Sandbox occupants than normal – with major dips in February and June as the ripples of the recession spread.While Vasilyuk estimates that around 70 people use Sandbox regularly, she remains sceptical of the idea that new technology giants will suddenly spring up because so many people are out of work."Usually they say that because people get laid off they end up starting companies – that all these companies started in bad times," she says. "That may have been correct … just not now. I think this time it was deeper, stronger and more scary. There are definitely people who started their businesses, but there are a lot of people who quit their businesses and got a job."Signs of recoveryMany money-conscious workers are concerned about the prospect of paying for desk space – after all, competition for co-working comes not from traditional offices but from the largely cost-free option of working from home.Alteresco is optimistic that the recession will not knock the stuffing out of the idea. He says that around 15 workers pass through Parisoma's building – a bright loft in the middle of the city just a few blocks from Sandbox – every day. Among the regulars are a designer, some web developers and a couple of startups that are trying to get off the ground.He believes that the recession's impact on his space has been to encourage people to consider the benefits that co-working might offer."I think the crisis has definitely had an impact on how people are relating to us," he says. "They are more interested in how they can work as independents … most of them don't know about co-working."Even after a difficult year, Vasilyuk says there may be some light at the end of the tunnel: on the morning we met, a six-person startup joined the collective – immediately filling up an annex space that had sat more or less unused for months."Two weeks ago, everybody was saying that stuff was picking up and I thought they were insane," she says. "But now, I don't know – maybe it has crawled up to us and it's picking up."
Where is Microsoft based? Redmond in Washington State, you might say. Except that when it comes to licensing its software, apparently that all happens froman office in Reno, Nevada. At least, that's where it records its software licensing revenue.Seem odd? Certainly. Why? Because it means it doesn't pay a tax on software licensing, which Washington State applies. And according toJeff Reifman - who has written a devastating blogpostrectifying this bit of tax, er, avoidance* (because Washington State is facing a deficit of $430m in its biennial budget) could balance the state's budget:Over the past thirteen years, I estimate that Microsoft has avoided paying more than $707 million in taxes on sales of its corporate software licenses (seeCitizen MicrosoftandMicrosoft's $528 million Washington tax break). Although the majority of its software development is performed in Washington State, Microsoft records its estimated $18 billion in licensing revenue per year through a corporate office in Reno, Nevada where there is no licensing tax.Toquote the Northern Nevada Business Weekly(linked from the Microsoft Licensing site):A good-sized piece of Microsoft's $58 billion in revenues in its last fiscal year touched ground, however briefly, in the company's licensing operation in Reno.And a Microsoft executive says the operation is likely to continue growing at about the same pace as the rest of the software giant headquartered at Redmond, Wash.And among the things that Microsoft identified as being needed to be a great community, according to Chris Weber, a Microsoft vice-president, in that interview, isCommunity involvement. People want to work for a company that gives back to the local community, Weber said.Perhaps it depends which "local" community you're talking about. As the Microsoft Licensing site says, "It's amazing what you can do here". Why, yes, it is. Like cutting your tax bills by millions of dollars. That's pretty amazing in anyone's books.Back to Reifman:Under [Washington] state's 0.484 percent software royalty tax(lowered from 1.5 percent in 1998 after industry lobbying), I estimate that Microsoft should have paid more than $90 million in 2008 and $87 million in 2009 in state taxes.Those aren't trivial amounts. Reifman suggests that Microsoft has been doing this for 13 years, and that the back taxes owed amount to $707m. (It would have been $2.8bn if the software royalty tax hadn't been lowered following industry lobbying, he calculates.)As he also points out,Since Microsoft began operations in Reno in 1997, it has enjoyed record-setting revenue of more than $446 billion and profit of more than $124 billion. If it paid its actual tax bill in full today, it would still have more than $24 billion in cash holdings.Still puzzled? Reifman set out how it works in an earlier article in Crosscut (linked above):Here's how the practice works: Microsoft's product teams, based mostly in Redmond and Issaquah, build software products such as Windows Vista, Windows Server, SQL Server, and Office. But sales of these products to PC manufacturers and corporate customers are conducted from a License and Operations office in Reno, Nev., where there is no corporate income tax. Microsoft records the revenue for these sales (traditionally about 31 percent of overall revenue) in Nevada and does not pay the Washington business and occupation tax required on software reproduction.Mm. I'd say Microsoft has some questions to answer. Reifman has alsoblogged about peoples' responses(often justifications) for Microsoft's practice - with his own analysis, which could be boiled down to "sure, Microsoft might move if the Washington State attorney applies this. But it might not." (He's more eloquent though.)Of course, the directors of a company have a responsibility to shareholders to organise their business in the most tax-efficient way possiblewhile remaining inside the law.The question is: is Microsoft really acting in everyone's best interests - including its own? If Washington State can't balance the books, its own employees in Redmond will lose out in one way or another, and Redmond (and Seattle) will be less attractive places to work.Not of course that that necessarily makes California - which has its own whopping budget deficit to deal with - any more attractive.After all the good works Bill Gates has done for those in the developing world, is it time for him to do something for the developed one too?*Tax evasion is illegal, tax avoidance isn't.(Thanks toGlyn Moody on Twitterfor the link.)
MySpace has rolled out its feature which allows people to sync their MySpace status with their Twitter feed. Now it's not just for the US - it's for "all international (non U.S.) English speaking cultures, including the UK, Canada, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, and India", according to the enormously excited press release we received.Of course, the question is: why would anyone want to? And, furthermore, isn't that the wrong way round - wouldn't you want to sync your Twitter status to your MySpace status, since Twitter tends to be the place where you go to find things happening in sort-of real time? (Though the system also does this - Twitter updates get passed back to the relevant MySpace account.)And furthermore, doesn't it tell us something different too - that MySpace now feels it has to keep up with the new (socially networked) kid on the block, this Twitter thing?From such subtleties one can perceive how the relationships between these organisations is changing. A year (and certainly two years) ago, MySpace wouldn't have taken the slightest interest in letting people sync their status with Twitter.Now, though, it's throwing the kitchen sink - in the form of an array of, um, celebrities - at this in the hope that it will make us all think that MySpace is (once again? for once?) the groovy place to be. Except that at the end of August, it wasTwitter which surpassed MySpace in the UK.To quote the breathless press release again:Feedback from our users has been overwhelmingly positive so far. We've also been excited to see musicians, celebrities and comedians including Lenny Kravitz, John Legend, Rachel Zoe, Margaret Cho, George Lopez, Jamie Kennedy, David Spade, Slash, Cat Deeley, Chamillionaire, Jim Gaffigan, David Alan Grier, Larry The Cable Guy, and John Witherspoon all sync their MySpace and Twitter updates to connect with fans.  Brands such as the NBA and Variety also synced their updates across both networks.Thank goodness - I was worried for a moment that Lenny Kravitz's comments on Twitter might be out of step with his MySpace thoughts.Of course, there are various tools around already that let yousync your Twitter content onto Facebook(oronly selected tweets). Though Facebook is trying to turn itself into a sort of pseudo-Twitter (especially after its purchase of FriendFeed) as fast as it can.Will this save MySpace? Probably not - it's still in decline last time we looked. And that's before we ask the other obvious question: what's special about English that it can be synced, but other languages can't? Presumably MySpace can already handle foreign languages, so has someone not figured out how to do UTF-16 conversion of the Twitter feed?
Twitter's path to profitability lies in charging for mobile use, according to one of its venture capital investors who has hinted that the company is about to close a new round of funding."When Twitter grows, SMS [text message] usage goes up," said Joi Ito, a Twitter investor who has previously invested in a number of successful internet companies including the photo-sharing site Flickr and the music community site Last.fm. "Sites are now able to promote across friends' [Twitter] networks; traffic to certain kinds of sites increases. There's a lot of things Twitter enables. And as a normal internet company would do, we'd look at who's benefiting the most in this value chain, and where is there the least friction [for Twitter] to get paid."Biz Stone, co-founder of Twitter, said at a conference in Los Angeles yesterday that the site will not start using ads this year. He said Twitter was "pretty good right now" with regards to funding, and stressed that the company's immediate focus was on building out features ranging from an improved search functions to paid-for commercial accounts."Any kind of approach toward advertising is going to be awhile ... We're not thinking about that just yet," Stone said at the 140: Twitter Conference in Los Angeles.Joi Ito, chief executive of Creative CommonsBut In an exclusive interview, Ito told Guardian Technology that Twitter has already achieved the most important step for any internet company by getting tens of millions of users. "I will say that mobile is globally one of the areas that has significant growth in revenue for a lot of [industry] players... I think mobile will be an important part of the strategy."Ito emphasised that he is not speaking on behalf of Twitter, which has so far kept silent about its plans to make money from its service.But, he said, "all the companies I've invested in that have gone bust, or that I've seen go bust, have business models and great product and pretty good teams, but they have no users. Getting users, getting distribution, getting attention, becoming viral - that's the single most difficult thing on the internet to do. And just about every product fails because they don't have enough users."Entrepreneurs, he said, failed to focus on that growth aspect. "It may sound initially like an internet bubble-era way of thinking, but if you think about it statistically, that is usually the successful thing, to focus on the virality and the user growth."Twitter has seen a dramatic rise in use during 2009. In May it overtook both Bebo and Linkedin for traffic to its website, a measure that understates its use by a factor of four because many users connect directly to its servers using third-party programs.That, suggests Ito, means that it now has the clout to deal with large organisations such as mobile networks. Rumours are swirling that the company is about to close another round of funding that could value it at more than $1bn."Yes, there is that rumour," Ito said. "I can't really say if it's true. I can't speak on behalf of Twitter. It's possible."But when asked whether he was worried if Twitter might run out of cash before it can find a way to generate revenue, he said "There are very few companies that have gotten to the scale that Twitter has, with the cash that they'll have" - a possible reference to the outcome of the funding round - "that have come to zero."Ito is bullish about the potential of Twitter to make money through mobile use - possibly charging either, or both, of the networks that see traffic grow from its use, and the users who get it on their phones. "Twitter has a very smart biz dev [business development] people right now thinking about various things. In Japan we're talking to a variety of different partners. If you look at Japan, the companies that are growing are the mobile companies - selling hundreds of millions of dollars each on avatars for mobile phones, and avatars, and games."But it is hard to say whether it will be the networks or the user who will pay. Ito says that both benefit from Twitter's growth: "if you have a clear value [to the user and network], you may experiment and find out that one way of collecting money is going to work better than another. If you have the users and the traffic, you can experiment and iterate and usually figure out a way to make some money."Listen to Joi Io inthis week's Tech Weekly podcast
The government is pressing ahead with plans to introduce its controversial£6 a year broadband taxbefore the election, despite potential opposition from the Conservatives.Stephen Timms, the treasury minister in charge of implementing the Digital Britain plan, said today that a 50p a month levy on all UK phone lines will be contained in this year's finance bill."My aim is that we should legislate for that this side of a general election," he said at a debate on IT and the economy in London organised by BCS, the chartered institute for IT.The levy would raise £150m to £175m a year, Timms said, for a fund to support the development of superfast broadband networks over the next seven years.But the response of the Conservatives to the plan has been lukewarm at best, leading toconcerns that the levy would have to be ditched.Parliamentary convention dictates that this close to a general election — which must be called by next summer — the autumn's finance bill should be short and uncontroversial. The winners of the election would then put in place their manifesto pledges in a full budget next year.But speaking after the BCS debate, Timms reiteratedthat "my intention is to pass legislation before the election".He gave no indication that an understanding has been reached with the Tories, suggesting the government has decided to go it alone on what it believes to be a matter of vital national infrastructure.This would present a Conservative government under David Cameron with a serious problem, since the fund could bring fast broadband within reach of Tory-voting rural areas, and dumping it could anger industry and regional action groups.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Back in July, I wrote aboutMicrosoft's confusing attempts to advertise its way to success, spinning off a conversation I had with Windows boss Bill Veghte and theinfamous vomit lady ad.You shouldread the comments, it was a good discussion.Anyway, it's been brought to my attention that Microsoft is now running a campaign to get people to host Windows 7 launch parties. I am left dumbfounded."I led an overview of some of my favourite Windows 7 features - I showed my guests things from two of the Windows 7 orientation videos and it took, like, 10 minutes. You know what was great? It was totally informal, like, everyone just kind of crowded around the computer in the kitchen."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Last minute talks are taking place between lawyers for Apple and Eminem as the iPod maker attempts to avert a costly and potentially embarrassing court battle with the rap star.The two groups are attempting to broker a settlement ahead of the Wednesday deadline set by an American court, amid claims that Apple has wrongly made as much as $2.5m from unauthorised sales of the Detroit rapper's songs through iTunes.If a deal is not reached by the end of the day, the case will go before a federal court in Michigan in a non-jury trial set to open on Thursday.The case hinges around the availability of 93 Eminem tracks through Apple's popular iTunes service, which the rapper says were not authorised for sale as digital downloads. His publishing company, Eight Mile Style, filed a lawsuit in 2005 alleging that Apple and record company Aftermath had infringed its copyright by agreeing a deal to sell the music online.Inlegal documents filed to the Eastern District Court in Michigan, Eight Mile - along with co-plaintiff Martin Affiliated - alleges that Aftermath only had the rights to negotiate CD sales, not online distribution. The suit claims that Apple made $2.5m (£1.5m) from selling Eminem's music, with Aftermath collecting a further $4m (£2.4m) that it was not entitled to."Eight Mile and Martin have not provided that permission," says the complaint. "Therefore, Apple's reproduction and distribution of the digital transmissions via iTunes constitutes a continuing, and willful, infringement of Eight Mile's and Martin's copyright interests."Apple has denied the allegations and said that its deal with Aftermath is legal.The case was originally filed in 2005, but it is still possible to buy Eminem's music through iTunes - including disputed tracks such as Without Me, Soldier and Cleanin' Out My Closet.It is not the first time that the rapper - whose real name is Marshall Mathers - has come into conflict with the Californian technology company. Four years ago the two settled out of court after Apple ran a much-publicised advert that featured a trademark silhouetted figure dancing to the song Lose Yourself.Eight Mile contended that Apple had not received permission to use the song, with the musician adding that the advert amounted to a product endorsement - something which he had never offered before.He has also filed asimilar lawsuit against Universal Music Group, claiming that the record company has failed to pay royalties due on digital licenses - in a complex argument over the terminology of royalty agreements that could alter the landscape for thousands of artists worldwide.
&bull; AsYahoo rolls out a $100m marketing campaign for its tweaked homepage, Cursin'Carol Bartztold reporters that the company was done with laying off staff. Phew!PaidContent reportsthat she also revealed that the 700 layoffs conducted under her watch cost the company $27m. Meanwhile, points out critic Eric Jackson, Bartz herself stands to makebetween $20m and $30m in her first year on the job.&bull; The heat is still from many quarters forTwitterto start making money - but co-founder Biz Stone said on Tuesday that"any kind of approach to advertising is going to be a while". That's despite the company recently tweaking its terms of service in a way that"leaves the door open"for ad placements.&bull; If you haven't seen the images of adust storm that hit Sydney, then prepare yourself for some incredible stuff:this Flickr gallery compiling pictures from across Sydney, as well as thisfrankly insane videoof the sky turning black as the dust moves in.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Japanese entrepreneur and CEO ofCreative CommonsJoi Itojoins us to discuss copyright law.Cate HallandGia Milinovich(andbaby) pop into the studio to tell us aboutBBC Four's new programmeElectric Dreamswhich gets a family to live with technology available in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s.We also take a quick look at what musicians are saying about filesharing, details about Intel's huge fine, further blows for Phorm, and which British TV presenter is getting in on the iPhone App craze.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Peter Landin, who has died aged 78 of prostate cancer, was a complex character: a political radical, a gay-rights campaigner and an outstanding academic computer scientist. With a burst of creativity in the 1950s and 60s, he laid the foundations for the software that runs the laptops, desktops PCs and the internet of today.In the early days of computing, software written for one make of machine would not run on any other. Computer scientists wanted to define "programming languages" that could be universally understood. That this is normal today – the software of the internet, for example, can run on every kind of computer – is a consequence of Peter's insight that the meaning of a computer program could be pinpointed in mathematical logic and liberated from the control of the manufacturer.His impulses were always anarchic and subversive: his work started, literally, underground. He was the leading light in a discussion group – run by the late, eccentric Mervyn Pragnell – unofficially housed in the basement of Birkbeck College, London, where Pragnell knew a lab technician who would unlock the door. Pragnell prowled bookshops spotting people who were buying books on mathematical logic and would invite them to join his group. Many leading computer scientists started their careers there.Peter's ideas were famously presented with humour. The first programming languages had robotic names like Fortran and Snobol: when he first showed a programming language with a logical definition, he called it ISWIM, for "If You See What I Mean". That joke was a genuine technical breakthrough and the root of many subsequent developments, down to the Java and Javascript applications that now run the pages of the world wide web.An only child born in Sheffield, Peter was the son of an accountant father who had been disabled in the first world war. Peter went to King Edward VII school in the city. During national service he amused himself by trying to drill a squad to imitate addition in binary arithmetic. At Clare College, Cambridge, he completed the mathematics degree in two years, then attempted the very difficult master's-level part three, but came away with a third-class degree.After marriage to Hanne in 1960, spells as a programmer in London, as a researcher in New York and as an academic at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he returned in 1967 to Britain, to a chair at Queen Mary College in London, where he remained for the rest of his academic career, latterly as emeritus professor of theoretical computation. He taught enthusiastically, to both students and the colleagues who worked, in effect, as his research assistants, and the influence of his ideas continued to spread, but increasingly he lost interest in the direction of computer science.In any case, computing was never all of his life. He was a radical in politics, a regular protester, and was arrested while on a demonstration with the Committee of 100, the 1960s anti-war group founded by Bertrand Russell.Peter was also an accomplished musician, and he would often end technical seminars by playing piano duets. But, characteristically, he was interested in understanding rather than performance: each new piece was a challenge to be surmounted then surpassed.Always bisexual, he threw himself into the politics of the Gay Liberation Front in the early 1970s. He separated amicably from his wife in 1973, and was closely in touch with her and his children till his death. For the rest of his life he pursued gay politics, and his house in Rona Road, Camden, became a gay commune. Always more of a facilitator than an activist, he saw many plots  hatched at his dinner parties. Aids: the Musical! was conceived there, as was the reinvigoration of Gay Pride marches in the mid-80s, just in time for the battle over Clause 28.Towards the end of his life, Peter became convinced that computing had been a bad idea, giving support to profit-taking corporate interests and a surveillance state, and that he had wasted his energies in promoting it. But whether he liked it or not, his ideas underpin developments to this day.He is survived by Hanne and his children, Daniel and Louise.•Peter John Landin, computer scientist, academic and gay rights campaigner, born 5 June 1930; died 3 June 2009
From tomorrow, Twitter users will be able to make direct phone calls to each other for the first time. Well, at least if they live in the US. ButJajah.com, an internet telephony company, that allows you to make voice over IP calls using your landline or cell phone, might want to bring the service to the UK as fast as it can. Twitter is not only at its most successful in Europe here, but even more popular more than in the US.This is how it works: To make a call you send a tweet with "@call @username" in it, where the 'username' is the twitter name of the person you want to call. That will initiate a free two-minute call, which Jajah.com says is the equivalent of a tweet. The Twitter users need to follow each other and both be Jajah users as well, although their phone number won't be revealed.The announcement is the second this week to show a voice over IP company dipping a foot into the live stream of the social media sites.A few days earlier Vivox, a Boston-based company that provides already a large voice network for gamers and works with Second Life,revealedthat it is developing a service for Facebook that will permit high-fidelity conversations with anyone on your Facebook friends list. Since the technology is not offered by Facebook itself, however, users will have to download an extra plug-in. According to the staff writer at CNET NewsDaniel Terdimanthe service, once installed, works almost seamlessly on the site and is intended for one-to-one chat as well as for group discussions.Voice over IP companies reaching out to social networks is an interesting development. If if works, Skype might face serious competition, as might the mobile phone networks. It is still to be seen how they will react to these services, which are available smartphones as well as on the web. The iPhone, for example, forbids voice over IP calls using AT&amp;T's 3G network. To get around this, Jajah.com has only offered a web application for the iPhone for some time.
Veteran games developer Archer Maclean is best known for 80s and 90s classics likeJimmy White's Whirlwind SnookerandDropzone. His latest title is Wii racing titleWheelspin. I recently spoke to him about making games for the Wii, the future of the PSP, retro gaming and his relationship with Jimmy..Can you describe what kind of game Wheelspin is?Wheelspin is a futuristic racing game coming out on the Nintendo Wii this Autumn. It is a very fast game, with cars flying around interplanetary tracks at up to 650kph! It has three modes – solo, race and battle – so caters for all racing game fans.Why did you go for Wii only?I've always had an interest in input devices for games, and even built a tilt sensing controller prototype in 1999 which led to the PSP tilt controller we did in 2005.  So when the Wii remote appeared in 2006 as the  standard input controller shipped with each Wii sold, it was perfect for using it as a vehicle steering device.  I bought various other Wii driving games and felt that there was some room to make a really seriously fast race game with excellent handling mechanics.How do you balance a game for the Wii's generally more casual audience while still making it a challenge for more experienced gamers?We wanted to provide a real fun experience that was going to appeal to the casual gamer. However, at the same time, for those who want to discover depth in the gameplay, there are multiple layers of objectives, secrets, short cuts, Easter eggs and combinations of performance upgrades to explore. We calculated that to try out every combination you'd need to spend over 700 hours of gameplay completing it all!!Are there simply too many Wii games released these days? How do you make yours stand out?I don't think so. The Wii is now the most popular gaming console in the world at the moment, so there's bound to be a wide variety of releases at any one time. We built Wheelspin to be one of the fastest driving / racing game on the Wii and I believe we have achieved that!Why Bethesda to publish?They liked the look of the game and felt it could do well in the Wii market place. Wheelspin offers a more serious but fun game experience than many of our competitors.Do you think a Wii version of your old Pool or Snooker games will ever happen?You never know! The Wii remote has already allowed there to be many interactive sports games on the console and I definitely think we could do something interesting if we decided to go down that route.Your Mercury game was one of the original PSP games so what do you think about the state of the PSP market as it is today and also are you planning anything for PSPGo?I think the new PSPGo and its online abilities and all the Minis that can be downloaded for it, could re-ignite its popularity. It's too early to say if we will do anything for it.Do you think the current trend toward small-teams creating download games/mobile/iphone games will see a return to the creativity of the 80s and early 90s?I think the pioneering spirit has come back due to mobile phone games. There are occasionally some award-winning little games that come out and that everyone has to have on their iPhone. And that reminds me very much of what was happening in the 80s, and that's good to see.Smaller game teams can change direction and add things far quicker than a huge 400 man team - changing the design on a project that big can have a major impact on time lines and costs.Which of your games from your back catalogue are your most proud of and why?All of them!Do you still hang out with Jimmy White?Strangely enough, yes, but not as often as 15/20 yrs ago when the JW games series was going. Nowadays it's more a chat about life, the universe and bringing up kids!Wheelspin is released for the Wii in November.
Tuesday's edition of you know what
&bull; American regulators have said they will try to make sure broadband in the US remains open to all bybringing in legislation to enforce "net neutrality"- a system where ISPs will be banned from throttling or speeding up certain web content depending on its provenance. It's got the backing of bigwigs likeVint CerfandLarry Lessig, but has raised the hackles ofbig telecoms companies. This battle isn't over yet.&bull; Aftermonths of speculation and preparation, former eBay chief executiveMeg Whitmanis due to announce her position asRepublican candidate to take over from Arnold Schwarzenegger as the governor of Californiaon Tuesday. Not that many technologists who have moved into politics - unless you count sometime presidential hopefulRoss Perot(whose company wasbought by Dell yesterday for $3.9bn).&bull; I don't know if you frequentReddit, but I love the absolutely brilliant series of "Ask Me Anything" posts that they've been running recently. Understandably, given that they're anonymous, these informal interviews could be utter hokum - but at they very least they're interesting. The latest gem:a $30m lottery winner who's spent the last five years travelling the world.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Roman Abramovich's latest extravagance, Eclipse, probably so-called  because it's almost big enough to block out the sun, is the world's largest mega-yacht. Measuring 557ft long, it boasts two swimming pools, two helipads and an onboard missile defence system. And, just in case any missiles do get through, it comes complete with an escape pod: its own submarine. Its most curious feature, however, defends it against an altogether more insidious weapon: the prying eyes of the paparazzi.The boat's anti-paparazzi system,  described in several  reports as a "laser shield", is a little less science fiction than it sounds. The lasers – beams of infrared light – are used to detect the electronic light sensors that digital cameras use instead of film. The camera is then targeted with a focused beam of bright light that disrupts the potential photo, making any shots unusable. It's not so much a space-age Star Wars laser shield, then, as a big budget version of shining a torch in someone's face.A similar technology is already available to all in the form of an  anti-paparazzi purse, devised by New York University student Adam Harvey, which detects the flash of a camera and responds with a bright flash of its own, cloaking the intended target in a blob of white light. Nigel Atherton, editor of What Digital Camera, explains, "You couldn't stop them taking a picture but you could ruin the picture." Eclipse's anti-paparazzi defence grid, he suspects, "is  essentially a large-scale version of that."What makes Eclipse's system special is that it can detect any digital camera, whether it's using a flash or not, and before the first shot. But Abramovich's shield still has a serious weakness: it can't possibly detect the presence of an old-fashioned analogue or mechanical camera.So for £724m, he's got himself a boat that digital-camera-wielding paparazzi can't photograph, say, falling over outside a nightclub at 3am. It's a shame really. That's exactly the sort of memory you'd want to capture.
Crunchy or smooth? Pacino or De Niro? Coke or Pepsi? Beatles or Stones? The millions of preferences we all have are, in many ways, what define us. Gaming throws up thousands of such variables - dividing lines along which we can group up and bathe in the warm glow of mutual validation.Whether or not you're a Fifa or Evo 'person' is a classic example of this. As multiplayer games, it's likely that you and your immediate peer group are devoted to either one chapel at the other, sneering at followers of the other, inferior religion.Traditionally (and my loyalties are sure to be revealed here), the two camps were easily divided. Fifa fans were children or casual gamers, sucked in by the official license and shiny advertising campaign. Players who wanted simple, accessible fun but had no time for tactics, one-twos or slide-rule through passes.Evo fans on the other hand, were football gaming aesthetes. They played for the beauty of the game, not the competition. They'd boast of memory card's chock-full of 30-yard top-corner volleys, not 72-match unbeaten runs. Who cared if Craig Bellamy was inexplicably named 'BELASIE'?The tendency of the two game franchises to be influenced by (steal) each other's ideas after each release however has meant that over time, the once polar opposites have been drawn further and further together - leading in recent years for even hardened Evo devotees to cross the battle lines in the name of calloused thumbs. Both have licenses and online play, both are endorsed by star names. By all accounts, in recent years, Fifa has simply been the better game.I, of course, could not countenance such brazen disloyalty, even though the last two Evos have been not much fun. But in the name of Gamesblog research I downloaded both demos last week (the Pro Evo 2010 demo was released on Thursday).Having had a few days to deliberate, cogitate, and digest my immediate thoughts on the new Pro Evolution Soccer are as follows:1. The menu screens are worse than ever.2. The phrase 'Game Plan' has no right to be used to label the Team Management screen, and was clearly written by someone who has no interest in football.3. The data is out of date: it's pleasantly nostalgic to play as Xabi Alonso for Liverpool but it also makes me feel sad.4. The game feels 'smoother' than 2009 (which was one of the worst Evos) - through passes, especially chipped, work much better.5. There was no learning curve - with previous versions it's taken me hours to score a goal as I get used to the new game engine, let alone beat Barcelona on the hardest difficulty setting. This suggests to me that the new version will be more 'fun' (like the heady days of Evo 4 and 5) than 'sim' - we may see 30 yard screamers again.6. Hopefully they've sorted out the online play as someone scoring against you while your players are frozen is really quite frustrating.As for Fifa?1. It crashed, and my Xbox crashed, before I even got to the match setup screen. This is a sign. The menus were nice though,  and I noticed an option to change the controls to the same as Evo's - very sneaky.2. I've decided that since I've barely played previous versions I'd rather know what you all think than further anger my temperamental Xbox.With Fifa out next week and Evo three weeks after, the decision will soon be upon you - could this be the year you finally switch allegiances? Unless anyone can convince me to give Fifa another go I'm pretty sure where my 35 quid is heading ...
European regulators have published evidence of anti-competitive behaviour by Intel, as arguments continue over the record €1.06bn (£960m) fine levied against the computer chip maker.In May, the European Commission announced that its long investigation into Intel's business practiceswould result the largest fine ever doled out in a European antitrust case. The Silicon Valley companyrejected the findings- suggesting bluntly that "the decision is wrong" - and launched an appeal, leading the two groups to enter into a public relations war against each other.The latest barrage came after the commission took steps to releasemore detailed evidenceof the case against Intel, delivering what spokesman Jonathan Todd said was a description of "precisely how Intel broke the law".The documents assembled by investigators include internal communications showing that between 2002 and 2005, Intel offered so-called "conditional rebates" to major computer manufacturers including Dell, Hewlett Packard and Lenovo - discounts for carrying their products, as long as they cut back on  business with Intel's chief competitor, AMD.In addition, Intel was also shown to have offered a similar deal to Media Saturn, the German retailer that is Europe's biggest supplier of home computers.On top of this, the commission said it had also uncovered a number of what it termed "naked restrictions" - payments made to block dealings with AMD, and threats that Intel would cut back if continued with plans to launch computers built using AMD's technologies. The deals resulted in major manufacturers including HP and Acer dropping or restricting the sale of rival machines.One email from 2004 explained how HP executives had been careful not to endanger payments from Intel aimed at restricting where AMD's products could be sold."You can NOT use the commercial AMD line in the channel in any country, it must be done direct," it said. "If you do and we get caught (and we will), the Intel money (each month) is gone (they would terminate the deal). The risk is too high."The commission said it hoped that publishing the documents would show that its decision against Intel was correct, and that the decision to impose the record fine was justified."These practices harmed consumers throughout the European Economic Area," said the commission in a statement. "By undermining its competitors' ability to compete on the merits of their products, Intel's actions undermined competition, reduced consumer choice and hindered innovation."Despite the compelling evidence, Intel - which launched an official appeal in July - has argued that the case ignored some vital pieces of contradictory evidence and had not been conducted properly.An Intel spokesman said in a statement that the EU "ignored or minimized hard evidence of what actually happened, including highly authoritative documents, written declarations and testimony given under oath by senior individuals who negotiated the transactions at issue".However, executives for AMD - which brought the complaint - said that it was important to put the details of the case into the public eye."This is the first time that Intel has had to confront now publicly available facts of its illegal behavior and it won't be the last," said Tom McCoy, AMD's executive vice president."The US Federal Trade Commission and New York Attorney General's continuing investigations and AMD's civil case against Intel will provide other clear demonstrations of Intel breaking the law, and we remain confident that we will win our US civil case against Intel, which goes to trial in March."
The European Commission has published apress releaseand a summary of the ruling (PDF) that it claims justify fining Intel a record $1.45bn. The press release says:Intel abused its dominant position in the x86 CPU market by implementing a series of conditional rebates to computer manufacturers and to a European retailer and by taking other measures aimed at preventing or delaying the launch of computers based on competing products (so-called 'naked restrictions'). The Commission's Decision outlines specific cases of these conditional rebates and naked restrictions, as well as how Intel sought to conceal its practices and how computer manufacturers and Intel itself recognised the growing threat represented by the products of Intel's main competitor, AMD.Intel has responded in a statement that says:We are convinced that the Commission's conclusions regarding our business practices are wrong, both factually and legally. We have appealed the Commission's decision Intel is committed to ethical business behavior and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations governing business practices. We are convinced that we've adhered to those standards and acted legally at all times in this matter.The Commission relied heavily on speculation found in emails from lower level employees that did not participate in the negotiation of the relevant agreements if they favored the Commission's case. At the same time, they ignored or minimized hard evidence of what actually happened, including highly authoritative documents, written declarations and testimony given under oath by senior individuals who negotiated the transactions at issue. (Quoted fromVentureBeat)The EU has been unusually quick to publish evidence to back up its case.Bloomberg quotes Dennis Oswell, a competition lawyer with Oswell &amp; Vahida in Brussels, saying: "The commission is playing the public-relations game."However, it may be because it was criticised by its own ombudsman for failing to record 'potentially exculpatory' evidence from a Dell witness.AMD has been shopping its complaints round the globe, and has launched its own cases against Intel in the US and Tokyo. America's FTC has also investigated Intel twice this century, without taking any significant action. (There was an FTC ruling against Intel concerning the supply of technical information.)The bulk of the complaints in the EU case seem to concern the period from Autumn 2002 to the end of 2005. In 2003, AMD launched the Opteron and Athlon 64 processors, code-named Hammer, offering Windows users 64-bit processing at a time when the Itanium was still Intel's main 64-bit solution. However, the Opteron/Athlon combination failed to hammer Intel, which had a huge success with the heavily promoted, Wi-Fi-oriented Centrino brand, launched in February 2003.Intel then followed AMD's leadin extending the 32-bit x86 line for 64-bit operations.
Forget skidding around corners at 95mph or firing coloured shells at your opponents – Gran Turismo is serious. A serious driving game for proper petrol-heads. So if you like to spend your Saturdays tinkering with engines, then Gran Turismo has always been the game for you.Despite some colourful icons and friendly welcoming audio, the series debut on the PSP is much the same. For many this will be good news. The GT games have always been about the cars and depicting the real-life performance of vehicles ranging frm your average Citroen MPV to a top-end sportscar. The game looks impressive. Not PS3 pretty of course, but for a handheld racing game this is probably as good as it gets.You would certainly never see something as sexy on the Nintendo DS. And once you get started in a race you really appreciate the differences in handling and performance between even relatively similar vehicles. There are some issues, though. Racing against three other cars – rather than the normal eight – makes races often feel a little lonely. Artificial intelligence has never been one of Gran Turismo's strong points and that trend is continued here, with your competitors rarely offering a realistic challenge. Multiplayer is offline only too, which seems archaic given online offerings from lesser racing brands.However, the main downside is the lack of a structured career mode. Unlike almost every other racing game – including previous GT games – there is no set path through the game. Instead you are left to your own devices. The game suggests you start off doing your training licences but you could easily just have a race or fiddle around in the garage or showroom. You can see the theory behind this – handheld gaming is generally consumed in short chunks while on the train or bus. The game actually gives you a decent amount of credits to start with too, so you can actually buy something worth driving from the start. Previous GT games had you toiling for hours to buy the equivalent of a 1995 Fiat Punto. Even so, the lack of an in-depth career mode feels like a mistake.Despite these issues, there is plenty to enjoy here. The on-track action is as satisfying as ever, with perseverance and skill rewarded by success and more cash to splash at the dealerships. And petrolheads generally will appreciate the attention to detail throughout the game. Less car-obssesed gamers will find less to love, but Gran Turismo is worth a spin.
Once the most eye-catching PlayStation beat-em-up, the Soulcalibur series seemed to have lost its way of late. After a muted response to Soulcalibur IV and a confused SC: Legends on the Wii, it falls to this PSP offshoot to get things back on track.Luckily, it makes a pretty good stab at it. SC: Broken Destiny returns to what made the series memorable; gorgeous graphics, well-balanced characters and a bevy of crushing moves, finishes and weapons. It's essentially a pared down version of SCIV, abandoning the ridiculous Star Wars characters and adding a new one, Kratos, armed with dual chains and sword, who makes a beefy addition to the likes of Hilde, Algol and Dampierre.Namco has listened to criticism too, clearing up some attack anomalies and adding a welcome note of humour to the usual po-faced platitudes about honour and birthright. To get things going there's Gauntlet, which introduces you to the basics of the characters, their weapon ranges and special attacks by way of a series of story-based mini-games that give you a few seconds to come up with the right move or defence. It's an interesting diversion but long and repetitive, so you probably won't be seeing it through to the end. If you want to get stuck in, there's a proper Training mode, Quick Match, (a 1-on-1 practice bout) Trial (an endless point-scoring survival mode) and Ad Hoc, a new multiplayer feature that allows you to customise your character for the local wireless battles.Once you get down to fighting, it's the familiar mix of high, low and middle attacks, blocks, sidesteps and critical finishes, keeping a close eye on your opponent's position in the environment for an easy or spectacular takedown. There's also a new element called Active Purge, building on the Active Gauge introduced in SCIV. Here you can choose to escape a critical finish by sacrificing your armour. It adds yet another complication to what was already a subtle and satisfying range of perfectly balanced moves and counter moves, raised above average by some crushing animations. On the downside, the PSP is still a bulky old device for beat-em-ups, and with only the two shoulder buttons available for shortcuts and quick jabs on the D-Pad all too easy to miss-time, playing Broken Destiny can be a thumb-crippling experience at times.However, with Tekken: Dark Resurrection already out there, Namco clearly knows how to make an eye-catching and playable PSP beat-em-up. In fact, it's arguably the most impressive game Sony's struggling handheld has seen all year.
The Guitar Hero franchise is hugely popular, inspiring a tribal level of following, and it's easy to see why – the original fake-band game is still fantastically good fun to play. But Guitar Hero 5 breeds a nagging sense of disquiet: one feels it is treading water, a dangerous approach given the huge strides the rival developer Harmonix made with Beatles Rock Band.GH5's main new innovation, though, is welcome: Party Play, which sets its songs playing on an iPod-style loop, and allows players to jump in at the helm of their favourite instrument whenever they want. Given Guitar Hero's status as the king of party-games, Party Play should go down well. There are also a welter of new competitive local/online modes, including elimination, which kicks out the player with the lowest score in each section of a song; Streakers, in which the player with the longest note-streak wins; and Do Or Die, in which anyone who misses three notes in a section loses.Such modes will delight hardcore players with the ability to crank up the difficulty, but leave casual players (of whom there are bound to plenty when Guitar Hero 5 is wheeled out at someone's house post-pub) floundering. Which gives the impression that the game is prepared to abandon casual players to Rock Band.As ever, though, the song-list is exemplary, mixing obscure rock and grunge with poppier classics like the Rolling Stones' Sympathy For The Devil, Gorillaz' Feel Good Inc and David Bowie's Fame. Garbage's Shirley Manson and the late Johnny Cash and Kurt Cobain make virtual appearances in the game. Each song comes with a Challenge, which may involve achieving a certain score in Star Power, or nailing a particular solo on the GH5 guitar's slider.This year's effort uses the same guitar, drums and mics as last year's, which at least shows an absence of cynicism, but maybe one new guitar would have been nice. And it has become harder to forgive the game's refusal to operate with Rock Band peripherals, given that The Beatles Rock Band, and subsequent Rock Bands, will work with Guitar Hero kit. Graphically, Guitar Hero 5 looks marginally less murky than its predecessors although, again, it compares badly with the lush Beatles Rock Band. If you've heavily bought into the Guitar Hero franchise, however, you should be satisfied with the fifth iteration of the game – one suspects that the vast majority sold will be copies of the naked software, without peripherals. But those who lack a tribal attachment to the game will scratch their heads and wonder what significant advances it brings to the genre.
Phorm'ssix-month financial results are out(covering the period to the end of June). It lost $15m but is cutting back its spending. The fun to be had is in looking at its financial results in detail. But first...As you'd expect from an announcement that is intended to make investors feel good about their choices, the company finds much to be happy about, saying that highlights are:# Launch of Webwise Discover, the personalised content consumer and publisher proposition. Excellent response from consumers, publishers and ISPs.# Nearing completion of a substantial market trial, launched in May, with KT, the largest ISP in South Korea.# Discussions with ISPs in over 15 markets, including nine of the top ten globally. Significant progress in a number of major markets.# Phorm remains active in its domestic market, and remains confident in the opportunity.# Completion of restructuring, launched during 2008, with forecast monthly cash expenses now reduced to $1.8 million (£1.1 million) per month, in line with expectations.# As at 31 August 2009, cash of $30.1 million (£18.5 million), reflecting equity fundraising and substantial reduction in monthly cash expenses.We're not sure we'd say there's been "excellent" response from consumers or ISPs to the "Webwise Discover" concept. BT, Virgin and TalkTalk have all said they won't be going ahead with any sort of implementation of Phorm's server-side adware scheme. Which makes the confident in the domestic market seem a little ... overeager. It's hard to reconcile that with "We remain in ongoing discussions with a number of UK ISPs and remain optimistic about our longer term potential in this market."At this point Phorm's best bet looks like the Far East. Certainly if it has managed to cut back its spending so that it's only burning through $1.8m per month, and it has $30m in the bank, then it can last for an entire 17 months before it vanishes in a puff of debt. (We're now 18 months on from the point wherePhorm first exploded into public consciousness, since when it has made precisely.. um, not very much progress at all.)However, it was a narrow thing:Following the equity fundraising announced on 10 June 2009, which raised $24.2 million before expenses, net assets at 30 June 2009 were $35.5 million (2008: $57.2 million). Meanwhile, at the period end our cash balance was $34.4 (£20.8 million) with no borrowings.  As at 31 August 2009, consistent with the monthly cash burn noted above, our cash balance was $30.1 million (£18.5 million).So that means that at the start of June, it raised $24.2m - which left it with $35.5m, compared to $57.2m in the year before. And it's already down to $30m. That's quite a spend. Clearly, if the fundraising in June had failed, things would be getting very tight just about now: there would be around $10m in the bank, and at $1.8m per month Phorm would have just five months to get itself profitable or vanish.Clearly, it has some very tolerant (and deep-pocketed) shareholders. Which it certainly needs - because for the past 18 months (and possibly before), Phorm has been a zero-revenue company, according to the accounts presented. Given that the idea of serving people ads based on what they look at could best be described as a zero-billion dollar business, perhaps that isn't surprising.
Google has been playing a little game with its so-called Google Doodles: the graphical variations on its search engine logos. First there was the flying saucer "abducting" a letter O, then it returned to hover over some crop circles. Now the Official Google blog hasrevealed the answer, HG Wells:Now, we're finally acknowledging the reason for the doodles with an official nod to Herbert George, who would be 143 years old today.Google says "we were delighted that people around the world played along with us," and we did. At the Guardian, John Vidal postedGoogle crop circles - coordinates clue in online sci-fi mystery, while Alison Flood at Books postedGoogle's crop circle mystery: is HG Wells at its centre?-- both on September 15.The co-ordinates gave it away, as both Guardian posts pointed out. Google's blog links to Alison's, which said:At around 4am this morning, Google tweeted the latitude and longitude "51.327629, -0.5616088" and a link to today's crop circle "Google doodle", complete with a hovering flying saucer and a missing "l". The coordinates are situated on a road running past Horsell Common, which users of Twitter quickly realised was the location for one of the first and best known alien landings in science fiction.The remaining mystery is why Google should celebrate HG Wells's 143rd birthday. Celebrating 100 years (or multiples of 100) is normal, and 150 years is an acceptably round number, and Google could have celebrated Wells at 140 ... but 143 is odd. It doesn't even make much sense in binary (10001111) or  hexadecimal (8F).There's always the chance that the aliens in the space ship have three arms, in which case they'd count in base 15. However, that would make it Wells's 98th birthday. If Google had just waited a year, 144 would have been Wells's 100th birthday in base 12.
What better way to test Sony's newPSP Gothan to take it on holiday?Yup, I thought so too. But after two weeks in Spain how did the download-only Go stack up?Well, good and bad, but first a quick history lesson. You probably know the handheld gaming story by now but if not here is the gist. Nintendo has historically dominated the handheld market with the Game Boy. Sony entered the market in 2005 with the PSP. Aimed at adults and with a great screen, movie playback and net access the PSP seemed sure to gain the upper hand against the ugly and seemingly faddish Nintendo DS which launched the same year. How wrong we were. Brain Training and a sleek redesign gave the DS market domination. Meanwhile the PSP appealed to core gamers only and despite building up a solid user base the lack of releases and failure of the disc format for movies has slowed growth. The subsequent release of the game-friendly iPhone and iPod Touch have further upped the ante, with thousands of free and cheap games now available from the iTunes app store. Suddenly the PSP felt very old. Enter the Go. This revamp of the PSP – the standard model (3000) will still be supported albeit targeted at a younger audience – took the radical move to go download only, with games available online from Sony's Playstation store. Can the Go reignite the PSP and help it compete against Nintendo and Apple?Well, there's no doubt the Go is a desirable bit of kit. The sliding control panel, sharp screen and build quality are all impressive.  Also the thumb stick on the Go is smaller, more accurate and generally more satisfying to use than the one on the standard PSP 3000. Plus the Go is far lighter to lug around than the 3000. Of course, you'd expect this being download only but it does make you more inclined to carry the thing around. It's no iPhone/iPod Touch but it does at least fit more snugly in a pocket than the PSP 3000.What else? Well the Go feels more comfortable to hold than the PSP 3000. If I hadn't already spent far too long on Monster Hunter Unite on the original PSP I'd have been tempted to download it for the Go simply because it is far nicer to use for lengthy sessions. Battery life too is a huge improvement. Not too difficult of course - the battery on my 3000 needs charging every time I use it - but I played at least 5 hours of Final Fantasy VII and did some browsing before it needed charging. This compares favourably to the original PSP. You can also pause a game and do other stuff - watch a video, listen to music - before resuming where you left off.The hardware is decent then but this is only half the story. Because the only way to get games is via download the online Playstation store is integral to the Go experience. And currently the content is not good enough. Yes, there are some big name titles on there - Monster Hunter Unite, Madden 2010 - but the 25-ish pound price tags feel astronomical. Why? iTunes and the app store. Yes, Madden or Monster Hunter are "proper" games that offer hours and hours of entertainment - or frustration in Monster Hunter's case – and 25 quid for a boxed copy feels acceptable. But slap that price on a download and it feels far too much, mainly because the iTunes app store has already set the low-price agenda. Even franchise releases – Assassin's Creed etc – on iTunes cost around 6 pounds or less and most games are cheaper or free. To compete in this market Sony are releasingminis– smaller, more casual games, similar to many on the app store. Some of these will be ready for the Go's launch on the 1st October and the quality, pricing and quantity of these will be crucial to the Go's future.The better news is that Playstation store access works well from the Go itself - it feels and looks better than accessing iTunes from the iPhone or Touch. But PC access to the store and Go via the Media Go software is functional at best. PC owners shouldn't complain too much though - currently there is no Mac support.So is the PSP Go worth getting? Well, the hardware is a nice upgrade but there are still too many questions unanswered. How good, and cheap, will the mini games be? How you can transfer over your PSP UMD games? (Sony are planning a migration option for PSP 3000 owners but details remain scarce at the moment) Until these issues are fixed it is difficult to fully recommend.But the biggest issue is cost. The Go will sell around the £220-£230. For around £20 more you can pick up a PS3 plus you are still forced to use Sony's pricey Memory Sticks if you want to up your storage. Yes, early adopters get a free copy of the solid but slightly disappointing Gran Turismo, but the price is still too high.A nice bit of kit yes, but for now the Go will be one for hardcore PSP owners only. Everyone else should wait until the choice of games gets wider and the price comes down.PSP Go then - tempted?The PSP Go is released on 1 October.
It's never much fun returning to work after a hard weekend completing Batman: Arkham Asylum or unlocking tracks on Guitar Hero 5. So to make things a little easier, I've compiled a selection of my current favourite browser games. You should be able to enjoy any of these between less important start-of-the-week chores – and this is educational too as they're all offbeat gems with interesting approaches to simple, intuitive gameplay.So go on, hit the 'New Tab' shotcut on Firefox and follow the links below to eight weird and wonderful (and free) browser-based beauties – and when you've finished, feel free to add your own suggestions in the comments section!Station 38 (Pat kemp)A great Commodore 64-style inertia game, in which you direct a lander craft across a rugged landscape by drawing lines on the screen. Your space ship will boost in the direction you've drawn, and the longer the line, the more powerful the leap. It gets extremely challenging.(ViaIndieGames)Canabalt (Adam Atomic and Danny B)The set up is simple – you run along a series of rooftops using a single key to jump between the gaps; one false move and you plunge to your death. It's another game with attractive 8bit-esque visuals, including old skool parallax scrolling. There are some lovely little touches, like the birds flying off as you land nearby. Gets the old heart pounding quite a bit, too.Protonaut (Andy Moore and Greg Wohlwend)This minimalist physics-based platformer requires you to collect the correct gas molecules while running and jumping your way around a series of increasingly fiendish levels. Looks straightforward, but it requires lots of careful creative thought and it's brilliantly constructed. You can register for a full version which includes a level editor.(ViaJayisgames)Fig. 8 (Intuition Games)An extremely stylish little game in which players ride a bicycle through a series of architectural drawings, avoiding all the black lines en route. As you swerve through the obstacles you draw lines on the ground which earn you extra points. All the while an accordion plays softly in the background.Alchemia: surreal, lateral, modestly wonderfulHeat Rush (Astute and LongAnimals)If you're a veteran of eighties arcade racers, you'll love this impressively slick OutRun clone. Your aim is to drive through a series of city circuits, getting to the checkpoint before the timer runs down. There are loads of recognisable features 'inspired' by Yu Suzuki's defining classic and you can even select your own soundtrack.Alchemia (Springtail Studio)Possibly my pick of the bunch, Alchemia is a surreal, mind-bending point-and-click puzzler, which begins with a weird little man shooting down a metal creature, then - overcome with grief - setting out to find a replacement for its robotic body. The visuals are reminiscent of an Oliver Postgate series or some weird sixties Eastern European animation. It's quite tough to get into but worth it.
Noel Edmonds might not be a name you'd readily associate with high technology. Beards? Yes. Woolly jumpers? Yes. Huge, pink, spotty creatures that scream a lot and throw on-screen wobblies?Of course.But like the scads of bedroom developers who have been excited by the rise of the iPhone, Edmonds has decided to get in on the act and put his name to a new downloadable mobile application.But the veteran presenter isn't offering you a game of Deal or No Deal - the quiz show that brought him back in from the cold - or even linking up to other programmes he's involved in, such as Noel's HQ and Are You Smarter Than a 10 Year Old?.Nope, instead of that, he's offering you the chance to spend £1.19 of your hard-earned as a way of joining in with the idea of"cosmic ordering"- the bizarre system of belief that he says is responsible for his return to television.Cosmic ordering is a fantastic bit of woo that baffles me: it basically boils down to a wishlist that has had a strange spiritual dimension added to it - essentially, you tell the universe what you want and then... well... you get it.(Edmonds says that "Belief and trust in the power of the Cosmos gives even the most chaotic life a new sense of order and purpose")It seems to me to combine both the fact that measuring something (like your desires) increases the likelihood of success and the fact that adherents are likely to attribute any successes to the Cosmos that would, in their past, have been the result of old-fashioned coincidence or hard work. Please, save me from the woo.Anyway, back to the app itself. What do you get for your cash?The description in the press release in front of me sounds disappointingly like a note-taking system. Keep track of what you want, and whether you achieve it. Except, and here's the incredible part: it alsolets you place cosmic orders.The rest of us call it a to-do list.Noel Edmonds calls it a hotline to cosmic room service, and charges you more than a quid for the privilege of using it.
Monday's back from holiday edition of Chatterbox
