Google has become the latest company to join the chorus of voices supporting the European Commission's investigation of Microsoft over allegations of anti-competitive behaviour.The Silicon Valley internet giant said yesterday that it was hoping to become a party to Commission's investigation into Microsoft's dominance of the internet browser market.Google said it hoped to add "perspective" to the inquiry, which is due to report over the coming months, and is focusing on whether Microsoft has unfairly boosted take-up of its web browser, Internet Explorer."We are applying to become a third party in the European Commission's proceeding," Sundar Pichai, who is responsible for the development of Google's own Chrome browser,wrote in a blog post."Google believes that the browser market is still largely uncompetitive, which holds back innovation for users. This is because Internet Explorer is tied to Microsoft's dominant computer operating system, giving it an unfair advantage over other browsers."Pichai compared Microsoft's position on home computers to its share of the mobile internet market, where it has much lower penetration.The announcement is the latest salvo in the continuing action against Microsoft, which is effectively a re-run of a previous antitrust investigation into its dominance of the internet browser market.Although European regulators have taken a dim view of Microsoft activities in the past – fining it €497m in 2007 and a further €899m last year – for anti-competitive practises, the latest action specifically to its dominance of the web browser market.The complaint that sparked the latest investigation wasmade in 2007by the Norwegian web browser company Opera, who said that bundling Internet Explorer with copies of Windows put competitors at a disadvantage.The pace of accusations has gathered in recent months as investigators begin to close in on a ruling.Last month the Commission gave apreliminary view of proceedingsin which it said that Microsoft's influence "distorts competition"."The Commission is concerned that through the tying, Microsoft shields Internet Explorer from head-to-head competition with other browers, which is detrimental to the pace of product innovation and to the quality of products which consumers ultimately obtain," it said.Those comments led Mitchell Baker, chair of the Mozilla Foundation - which makes the popular Firefox browser – to write that she agreed wholeheartedly with the Commission's view."The damage Microsoft has done to competition, innovation and the pace of the web development itself is both glaring and ongoing,"she said."There are separate questions of whether there is a good remedy, and what that remedy might be. But questions regarding an appropriate remedy do not change the essential fact."The timing of Google's announcement, however, was more than a little. The news came on the same day that Google said it was launching anew version of its toolbarfor Internet Explorer, as well as Apple's release of a new version of its ownSafari browser.
The Pirate Bay trial had a long weekend off and then a 1pm start today, which was the prosecution's first Talk Like A Witness Day. There were three scheduled – Magnus Mårtensson, Anders Nilsson, John Stenmark – and the timetable allocated them an hour each. However, the prosecution decided it didn't need three of its witnesses, including Stenmark, which raised the prospect of an early finish. (The law is starting to sound like an easy life, but I assume someone sets them homework.)You'd have thought that witnesses could take out a little laptop and demonstrate how to use The Pirate Bay live and unedited. Apparently not. Mårtensson's evidence consisted solely of screenshots, taken from the point of view of an ordinary user downloading a few albums.TorrentFreak reports:When asked if he had any network equipment logging exactly what was going on 'behind the scenes' of any of his sample downloads, he replied that he didn't. When asked if he verified in any way during the download process that he had any contact with The Pirate Bay's tracker, again the answer was negative.It seems unthinkable that the prosecution has gathered 'evidence' in this way. Mårtensson was further asked if he was aware that Google can also act as a torrent search engine. The IFPI lawer seemed to be unaware of that, and he stated that they never had any problems with Google.Mårtensson has worked for IFPI for 15 years.The second witness was a policeman, Anders Nilsson, from the Anti-Piracy Office. He had downloaded some games and movies, and was sure that most of the of the content on The Pirate Bay was copyrighted, but he couldn't prove it. "I have no documentation as to the claim that most material is copyrighted. It is just an opinion," he said.However, he may have been useful to the defence case. He agreed that the actual downloading took place outside The Pirate Bay, and that the site wasn't involved in the file transfer. Also, he said they hadn't contacted any of the people who had uploaded files.Having run out of witnesses, the court decided to knock off for the day. But it would be interesting to know just how much the day cost, in legal and other fees, including  loss of earnings. I rather doubt the Swedish taxpayer got value for money.Another six witnesses were scheduled for tomorrow, but the guy for the 9am slot has already been dropped, and procedings are due to finish at 3pm. It could be another hard day.Anna provides an 11-minute summary of the two-hour session on video at Bambuser:Tue 7th day Sum up Pirate Bay. She says there's lots of room if you want to watch the trial unfold.
Microsoft'sTechFestseems to feature an inordinate number of Brits - based not only in the company's Cambridge research centre, but also in Redmond, Asia and beyond.The fruits of UK researchers have proved very interesting, including one project that caught my eye; Second Light - a system that one person described as "Surface Plus Plus".It's a glass table-style display (like Microsoft Surface) but with a difference. By sliding a piece of paper or other semi-transparent material over the table, you can see hidden information about the objects on parade - in their example, for instance, an astronomical map appears over a picture of the night sky.It's as if you are exposing a whole extra layer of information above the screen, a sort of digital X-Ray. In fact, the whole thing is really a visual trick: there are two projectors throwing different images up in the air, which alternate rapidly. A switchable diffuser lets you By breaking into the second image with your piece of paper you get to see the "invisible" layer, which then exposes (in their example there was text attached to a photo, or an astronomical map on a picture of the night sky).But that's not all.More work is underway to develop the system - such as enabling 3D imaging of, say, CT scans for doctors - and it's certainly clear that there might be educational opportunities for museums and suchlike. It's very cool - although right now I imagine you'd have to sell people on using a Surfacebeforeyou can take them onto the next generation.Conveniently located next to Second Light was another intriguing - and probably more immediately useful - system called "nanotouch". This takes the idea that you'd get a lot more value out of a small touchscreen if, well, you didn't have your fingers in the way the whole time.So, instead of using your fingers on the screen itself, you use your fingers on the back of the device. The demo on display used gaming as an example - using touch to move your on-screen character around without ever needing to obscure it from view.Nanotouch isn't brand new - I'd read about it before - but this is the first time I've seen it in operation, and it's very intuitive... if you incorporate it in the right way (here's a video from New Scientist to show you).Researcher Patrick Baudich (who is also looking at other touch-based systems to try and take them forward) also allows other objects - ones that are even smaller than an MP3 player or phone - to be operated while you can still see the screen.
I'm at Microsoft HQ just outside Seattle to see what the company has up its sleeves in terms of research and early-stage development - something calledTechFest. Research is a huge part of what MS does, and the company funds labs across the world to try and develop ideas that could be useful to it in the future.This morning we were treated to a brief Q&amp;A session with two big cheeses; Craig Mundie (who took over part of Bill Gates's remit to become chief research and strategy officer) and Rick Rashid, who has headed up MSR since its inception in 1991.From those early days, says Rashid, research inside Microsoft has really opened up to cover a huge variety of different areas. "Biology, astronomy, chemistry, physics - a broad collection of things that computer science is now relevant to," he says."We think of it as software," says Mundie, although he admits that "sometimes we have to do a little hardware around the sides".Enough wibbling, though: what we're really here to see are the gadgets and software that's under development.First up is a video version ofPhotosynth, the innovative image stitching application that got a lot of press for creating huge panoramas from images taken from lots of different people (see CNN'shuge picture of Barack Obama's inaugurationif you want a straightforward example).Researcher Ayman Kaheel says that the system can take video being shot on multiple mobile phones and piece them together to create a bigger, real-time shot (from say, a street scene or inside a sports stadium)."It picks up similarities in the different videos and stitches them together," he says - including understanding the frame rate and information in the videos so that they match up in real time.There is plenty of work being done inAugmented Reality- systems that overlay digital data onto the real world - a sort of HUD for life. One researcher, Darren Edge, is behind a system that lets you keep virtual sticky notes in an imaginary space off your computer screen - a little reminiscent of Minority Report, I have to say.Another researcher, Simon Winder, showed me a system that can smartly project information over footage you're looking at through your phone's video camera (say directions, or data about the place you are looking at).Using a database of squillions of images, the system is able to work out where you are and give you information back. The initial dataset is slimmed down by using your phone's GPS to determine your location, and then computer vision is used to work out where you are and project your augmented information on top. At the moment they are running a test project which takes in all of Seattle - and still the whole process, he says, takes less than a second to work out where you are and render the information.At the moment they're playing treasure hunt-style games using it, but the applications are multiple - directions, recommendations, location-sensitive information and so on.It's actually one of the best implementations of AR that I've seen - using some of the systems behind Photosynth and other MSR projects to build a very smooth system.More from TechFest coming soon; I'm doing some more exploring and interviews as the day goes on.
The Sunday Times's latest Style magazine had an article --A load of Twitter-- full of priceless quotes such as this, credited to "Dr David Lewis, a cognitive neuropsychologist and director of research based at the University of Sussex":"Using Twitter suggests a level of insecurity whereby, unless people recognise you, you cease to exist. It may stave off insecurity in the short term, but it won't cure it."Another gem from "Alain de Botton, author of Status Anxiety and the forthcoming The Pleasures and Sorrows of Work". He said:Twitter represents "a way of making sure you are permanently connected to somebody and somebody is permanently connected to you, proving that you are alive. It's like when a parent goes into a child's room to check the child is still breathing. It is a giant baby monitor."But the third of the three wise monkeys was the best by far:The clinical psychologist Oliver James has his reservations. "Twittering stems from a lack of identity. It's a constant update of who you are, what you are, where you are. Nobody would Twitter if they had a strong sense of identity."Of course, this is the kind of nonsense you expect to greet new technologies, and you could say much the same things about telegraphy, telephony, pagers, television, the internet, instant messaging, blogging, MySpace/Facebook and so on. Or, indeed, you could say exactly the same things about newspapers, which Twitter userKevin Marks* promptly did.InA load of Thunderer, he recasts the text to turn tosh about Twitter into tosh about the Sunday Times. For example:The clinical psychologist Oliver James has his reservations. "Being quoted in the Times stems from a lack of identity. It's a constant update of who you are, what you are, where you are. Nobody would talk to them if they had a strong sense of identity."Still, not knocking the Style magazine: I rely on it for all my health, beauty and fashion tips, and the superbMrs Mills Solves all Your Problems.* A Cambridge graduate, formerly of Apple and Technorati, now at Google.
Apple has releaseda beta version of Safari 4for Mac and Windows, with the most surprising thing being that the Windows version actually looks like a Windows program, and does Windows font rendering.Like Google's Chrome and Android, the Nokia Series 60 and Palm webOS browsers, Safari is based on the Apple'sWebKitopen source rendering engine, and v4 is said to be the first browser to pass the Web Standards Project's tough Acid3 test. Safari 4 also features a new Nitro engine for rendering JavaScript, in response to Google Chrome's superfast JS processing.@Bill_Hodgsonon Twitter, who runs Windows XP in Parallels, says Safari 4 is faster on both OS X and XP than Firefox 3 is on OS X. Whether it will be enough to tempt away people who love their Firefox extensions remains to be seen.People who like Apple's bought-inCoverFlowtechnology should particularly like its use for viewing history and bookmarks in Safari 4, as well as presenting full-page previews. (Some have said it looks like a rip-off ofCoolIris, but I don't use that, so I don't know how the two compare.)Apple provides a very good overview of the new and old features athttp://www.apple.com/safari/features.htmlIt will be interesting to see how Safari 4's features and speed stack up against Internet Explorer IE8 RC1, Firefox 3 and Chrome -- or Opera, of course, though that has proven to be the browser you can't even give away. It certainly looks more appealing than Safari 3. But they are all have their merits, and users can choose whichever browser(s) they find most useful.Update 1: Just been catching up with some test results, and CNet UK has not only run some, they've turned out some nice graphs. The story,Safari 4 benchmarked: 42x faster than IE 7, 3.5x faster than Firefox 3, says "our benchmarks confirm Apple's Safari 4 browser, released in beta today, is the fastest browser on the planet. In fact, it beat Google's Chrome, Firefox 3, Opera 9.6 and even Mozilla's developmental Minefield browser."The tests were run with WebKit'sSunSpider suiteof JavaScript tests. But maybe they could also have tried Google's JavaScript test, which Google's Chrome used to win hands-down, according toCNet.Of course, old testers know there are lies, damned lies and benchmarks, and they may not mean much. However, Safari 4 is certainly a snappy performer, and while racing through JavaScript hasn't done Chrome much good so far, it's definitely a welcome feature. Indeed, as more and more bloated JavaScript is dumped into memory by more and more underpowered web-based applications, the need for speed could become increasingly apparent.Update 2: Lifehacker has a review using the Windows version:A Hands On Look at Safari 4's (Crashy) Eye Candy. Gina Trapani says:Apple says Safari 4's 150 features are 'leading the way with innovation,' but in reality they're all things we've used before in other browsers — with Cupertino's magic aesthetic touch thrown in. Let's take a look at Safari's headliner features, what other browsers already have them, and how Safari's offering differentiates itself.Also, in a comment below, KrisJones has posted a link toan image of benchmarksincluding the Google JavaScript tests.
Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister charged with "digital engagement", isn't sitting around. The Cabinet Office today released an interesting document which it says will put open source software onto an equal footing with proprietary forms for procurement.Announcing it, Watson said: ""Open Source software is a not a cure-all remedy and is not the only solution to IT questions. However, by levelling the playing field and allowing Open Source to be as competitive as possible we can ensure that taxpayers get maximum value for money from Government IT, something that is more important than ever during the worldwide financial climate."Oh, yes, the financial climate. We'd noticed it.Not that this means that all those Windows boxen are going to be ending up on a scrapheap any time tomorrow, though you can bet Microsoft's salespeople to UK government will be on their phones right now talking to key people. (Note to self: must search through thepublic listofcivil servants' freebiesfor references to (a)Microsoft(b)Ubuntu(c)Canonical(d)Alfresco.Later:searched it. Zero references to all. That I find surprising. But: EDS: 13 references. Fujitsu: 38 references. Interesting...)Here'sa key pageand its relevant paragraph:Procurement decisions will be made on the basis on the best value for money solution to the business requirement, taking account of total lifetime cost of ownership of the solution, including exit and transition costs, after ensuring that solutions fulfil minimum and essential capability, security, scalability, transferability, support and manageability requirements.And not overlooking:Where there is no significant overall cost difference between open and non-open source products, open source will be selected on the basis of its additional inherent flexibility.And furthermore:The Government will, wherever possible, avoid becoming locked in to proprietary software. In particular it will take exit, rebid and rebuild costs into account in procurement decisions and will require those proposing proprietary software to specify how exit would be achieved.And:Where non open source products need to be purchased, Government will expect licences to be available for all public sector use and for licences already purchased to be transferable within the public sector without further cost or limitation. The Government will where appropriate seek pan-government agreements with software suppliers which ensure that government is treated as a single entity for the purposes of volume discounts and transferability of licences.Steve Shine, executive vice-president for (open source database maker) Ingres, said: "Looking at cost savings that have been achieved by companies and governments all over the world, it's estimated that the UK Government could reduce its annual IT bill by at least £600m a year if more open source software was used as part of an effective procurement strategy.  Today's announcement is the final confirmation that there is a New Economics of IT that is sweeping across both business and government."Oddly, Microsoft doesn't yet seem to have commented, but no doubt it's in the works.The background page to this - given that the government last formally reviewed its open source policy in 2004 (oh, you didn't notice?) - is interesting too. Here's a few key paragraphs:Since 2004 the Government has increased its use of Open Source, particularly in operating systems and middleware components of business solutions. For example:• 50% of the main departmental websites use Apache as the core web server.• The NHS "Spine" uses an open-sourced operating system and, when complete, the replacement of Netware by Open Enterprise Server will mean that 35% of NHS organisations covering almost 300,000 users will be supported on Linux infrastructure.• Open Source components are used in major mission critical systems such as Directgov and Electronic Vehicle Licensing.Start with theopening page, and move outwards. There's alsoa page which includes lots of links back, via Netvibes, to all the web reaction.And then tell us: does it seem like this will make a difference?
On the latest episode of Tech Weekly,Aleks Krotoski,Jemima KissandCharles Arthurare joined in the pod by Mike Butcher, editor ofTechCrunch UK and Europe, Tom Ilube, the CEO of British data privacy startupGarlickand Professor Noshir Contractor from Northwestern University.It's a packed show, as the team getting deep into the issues of online data ownership and web privacy. Professor Contractor is part of a university consortium seeking to gain new insights about human behaviour using 60TB of data scraped from the online game EverQuest 2, while Ilube's company  seeks to inform indiviuals and companies about their data rights.Mike, meanwhile, brings us up to date with the last work on last week'sMobile World Congress, offering up his version of events: the best apps, the latest trends and the british start-ups that are making waves in this space. Is the future handheld? Tune in and find out.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Microsoft allegedly paid Grand Theft Auto's developer, Rockstar, $50m to secure exclusive rights for downloadable GTA IV content. Whether it was worth it remains to be seen, but PS3 owners will be disappointed as The Lost and The Damned is an excellent – if not particularly cheap – addition.Fans will require the original GTA IV game to play this content but will feel right at home from the off. This time the plot involves biker gangs, revenge, and politics. Familiarity means Liberty City isn't quite as gorgeous as it looked last year, but you will still want to explore and play through. Sadly, the difficulty issues that have bedevilled the series remain. But thankfully you do now get to restart some failed missions from midway through rather than from the start – a welcome improvement. With downloadable content an increasingly important part of the games industry, TL&amp;TD sets a high bar for future efforts.
Switching genres is usually a recipe for disaster, as proven by C&amp;C: Renegade, so Microsoft is risking much by turning its most treasured first-person shooter into realtime strategy.It's not bad, though, with slick navigation and unit selection only compromised by a weedy optical zoom that never lets you get close enough to the action. And once you start occupying bases and building up forces, you'll find a well-drawn and balanced game with occasionally spectacular battles. The single-player campaign lasts a mere 15 levels, but multiplayer mode grants access to Covenant units and another level of anarchy. Halo Wars probably won't delight die-hard fans of the series but, for a console RTS, it's better than most.
Tradition dictates that, after the Christmas frenzy, the games industry enters hibernation in January and February, with releases thin on the ground and much of its personnel decamping to the ski slopes. Which leaves the way open for enterprising publishers to pump out big releases into an uncluttered market, confident that they will grab centre stage. And there's the extra prize of being tagged as the first big game of the year. This is clearly Sony's strategy with the first-person shooter Killzone 2, which hits the shops on 27 February – although, unusually for this time of year, it has competition from GTA IV: The Lost and Damned (which, as an upstart download, must be irksome for Sony) and Street Fighter IV.Killzone 2 is a huge game for Sony – PS3 exclusives are scarce these days, and PS3 owners are surely fed up with casting envious glances at the cutting-edge first-person shooters (most notably Halo 3 and Gears of War 2) available for the Xbox 360. Luckily, Killzone 2 does the business – just about. Visually, it is stunning, and in general is very well crafted. But the fact that Sony is also releasing it bundled with a PS3 suggests that it sees it as a game that will persuade people to buy its latest console and it isn't really good enough to fulfil that ambition.For a game to become a hardware-shifter, it must offer something that previous examples of its genre didn't and, as far as the gameplay is concerned, there isn't anything in Killzone 2 that we haven't already experienced. Visually, it's very crisp, and impressive technological touches are apparent, such as the way in which firefights in enclosed spaces soon cause the atmosphere to fill with virtual smoke. But, if anything, the more you play it, the more it reminds you of Gears of War 2.Firstly, it's a cover-based shooter – if you launch a gung-ho run at the enemy, you'll be cut down in milliseconds. It has a dark, grimy art style, and a storyline built on the interplay between distinctly meat-headed and extremely Americanised squadmates – again, Gears of War trademarks. And like Gears of War 2, it works hard to deliver a certain amount of variety to the gameplay. Which is fair enough, but it would have been nice if that variety had included something truly fresh and new.Perhaps Killzone 2's strongest suit is its intensity: right from the start, you feel as though you have been thrust into the most hostile environment imaginable. Namely the planet Helghan, whose denizens invaded the Earth colony Vekta in the first Killzone. Now, as Sergeant "Sev" Sevchenko, you're a key member of a force invading Helghan, with a mandate to assassinate the Helghast dictator Scolar Visari. So, as your convoy grinds towards Visari's palace (encountering plenty of setbacks on the way), you take part in pitched battles held outdoors and indoors (in which a strategic, flanking approach coupled with patience is key), sequences involving manning fixed guns, sniping, firing rocket-launchers and even piloting a mech and some boss-battles. The latter are more inventive than usual, as you take on believable opponents, rather than weird creatures, such as Helghast heavy soldiers, which (in a nod to Resistance: Fall of Man) you have to shoot in the head so they double up, allowing you to then rupture the tanks on their backs. Then there are the seemingly impregnable ATAC airborne vehicles and, finally, Visari's right-hand man, Colonel Radec, who has an annoying tendency to disappear, reappear behind you and stab you in the back.There's a sub-plot involving a sort of lightning-energy, which the Helghast have harnessed to create devastating firepower, which of course you must disrupt in order to advance on Visari's palace. Throughout the proceedings, the control system proves well-sorted (although it's near-impossible to move backwards without accidentally clicking your weapon into zoomed mode, at which point you become near-immobile) and the enemy AI impressive. All of which makes for an absorbing and rewarding experience. But not, unfortunately, an experience which feels unlikely any you have encountered in first-person shooters of yore.The multiplayer side of the game will undoubtedly prove a big draw on the PlayStation Network – up to 32 players can take each other on and, as in the likes of Battlefield, you can choose which role (scout, medic, engineer and so on) to play within your squad. Given the dearth of truly credible first-person shooters for the PS3, Killzone 2 is pretty much an essential purchase for any non-shooting-averse PS3 owners. But while it is a very good game, it certainly isn't a great one. When we think back to the number of PlayStation and PlayStation 2 games that truly broke new ground, we can't help being disappointed by Killzone 2.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Here's an amusing thought-experiment/time-waster for people who pride themselves on distinguishing a Will Wright game form a Peter Molyneux vehicle: Sheri Graner Ray, game designer at Sony Online Entertainment has devised The Pub Game in which,you take an experience, in this case a restaurant, and describe it as if done by different designers.So, using her example,she offers:IfSid Meiercreated this restaurant, first we'd have to invent the Chinese, and the Koreans and all the other Asian cultures before we could invent the food that would then be served in the restaurant…IfWill Wrightcreated this restaurant, we'd have to continually monitor what each employee was doing, instructing them when to cook, when to clean and when to go to the bathroom, but eventually, it would burn down anyway.. and if it didn't a natural disaster would occur to make sure it was destroyed.IfRichard Garriottcreated this restaurant, it would have been started by him and a number of his friends. At the restaurant, the customers could harvest the grain, mill it into flour, mix it and bake it into bread… which of course would have nothing to do with anything on the menuIfRaph Kostercreated this restaurant, it would be completely self contained. It would be completely automated, adjusting its menus to reflect the changing seasons, regulating its resource consumption based on available crops and making the food. It wouldn't even need customers.. in fact, customers could just watch as it ran itself!IfBrenda Brathwaitecreated this restaurant, it woud be staffed by naked people and the customers would have to order their meals from a terminal equiped only with an excel spread sheetIfSheri Graner Raycreated this restaurant, there would be extensive discussion on the new diner experience and how to create the easiest onramp to the restaurant and making sure all dining styles were accounted for.. this would all then be put into a visio flowchart before any work on building the restaurant could begin.Raph Koster hasadded his tuppence:IfJohn Carmackcreated this restaurant, it would be just like his other restaurants, except much prettier.IfSteve Mereztskycreated this restaurant, an octopus, a priest, and a cowboy would immediately walk up to the bar….His readership has also been very clever. So let's put them to shame. There are no British designers on their list (well, Garriott is nominally British, but he's not been in residence here for a while). What about Peter Molyneux? Dr. David Doak?  Jonathan Smith? Jeff Minter? Richard Bartle?
I've been looking forward toAlan Wakesince at least 2006. The survival horror/adventure has a great setting - think Twin Peaks – and huge potential. But things have been very quiet over the last year. Until now. Ok, don't get too excited but at least *something* is happening.  Developer Remedy have beenposting snippetsof text on their forum  – Alan Wake is a novelist in the game – and desperate fans have been taking what ever crumbs they can get.  So what does it say?The amount of pages keeps growing each night. There are also new edits on the old pages. They keep getting more aggressive. The story is rewriting itself. The protagonist is now my namesake, and his wife is called Alice. The most worrying aspect: the genre seems to be shifting. It's turning into a horror story. I can no longer be certain whether the hero can succeed or even survive. Apart for jumbled fragments of bad dreams and an oppressive feeling, I can remember nothing of the process when I wake up. But this morning, a breakthrough! When I came to my senses, I could smell her perfume on my shirt. I am close. I know it. I must push on.- Alan WakeYes, it's a marketing/PR stunt but such is the clamour for anything Wake related that some will lap it up. Me? I just want see something new– anything will do – of the game itself. Rumours persist that the game may finally be shown atGDCbut Wake fans have learnt not to hold their breath. Alan Wake has the potential to be one of the games of the year. Let's hope it's this one.Alan Wake then – still excited? Or have you simply given up caring?
Technology giant Microsoft has been forced to make an embarrassing climb-down after it asked some former employees to return part of their redundancy payments.In what the company has described as an "administrative error", a handful of workers were given around $5,000 (£3,450) more than the severance pay they were entitled to after being made redundant last month.Despite the fact that the company initially requested that they return the extra cash, however, it has now said they can keep the money after a storm of protest online.In a statement, Microsoft said that it had mishandled the affair and would no longer be chasing repayment."Last week, 25 former Microsoft employees were informed that they were overpaid as a part of their severance payments from the company," it said."This was a mistake on our part. We should have handled this situation in a more thoughtful manner. We are reaching out to those impacted to relay that we will not seek any payment from those individuals."The gaffe came after 1,400 workers were given their marching orders in January – the first major job cuts in Microsoft's long history, and part of the software titan's plan to reduce its staffing levels by 5,000 posts next year. Most employees affected were given a 12-week severance package as part of the deal.However, news that the company was asking for the excess cash to be returned spread across the internet last weekend, after one letter demanding repayment waspublished online.According to those documents, the letters claimed that an "inadvertent administrative error occurred that resulted in an overpayment," and asked for repayment to be made within 14 days.Response to the news was varied, but some criticised Microsoft for being hard-hearted during a time of financial hardship for those affected."Are you kidding me?" wrote one commenter on the blog Techcrunch, where thenews first erupted. "Screw you… what goes around comes around."One Seattle employment lawyer even suggested that Microsoft might not have been legally able to demand the money back if the error was not immediately obvious to laid-off workers."It may depend on whether or not it was obvious that there was an error," Jill Pughtold ComputerWorld. "A lot of the people laid off were salaried employees, who often don't know exactly what they make in a week minus taxes."In the end, though, Microsoft executives decided that swallowing the $125,000 slip-up would be easier than suffering from bad public relations."I don't think it's worthy of us asking them to make that payment back to us," Microsoft senior vice president Lisa Brummelltold the Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
After last week's mini-best of, here's a full-flavoured adult-sized portion of Chatterbox meat, pan fried to perfection by Limni. And if you're wondering about the food metaphor, check out this week's suggestions for what to do with pigeon breasts... What? That has nothing to do with games? Are you new here?Anyway, from Parisian trips to Freudian slips here's what all the smart kids were talking about a week and a bit ago...Part one: podcasts, pidgeons and memesWhich Podcasts are the Gamesblog fraternity listening to? It's a question I ask myself endlessly, but now we know the answer:Beardofbees:"Anyone listen to the Adam and Joe podcast? I almost burst out laughing on the bus listening to the latest one. I managed to control it though and just grin inanely so that everyone thought I was a bit special."[Keef says - I actually had to stop listening to it on the bus for that very reason. Even the theme tune to 'Text the Nation' has me giggling in my seat like a weirdo]Smellavision:"Nearly spat in some woman's face this morning, listening to Adam and Joe, and their daft domestic disputes. Never get a chance on Saturdays to listen to the radio show, I should make time for it really, or listen again. Also love the way Herring and Collins are constantly talking about how good A&amp;J's show is compared to theirs."Dizzyisanegg:"Jon Richardson seems to have got better since Russell Howard knobbed off to be famous. Phil and Phill's Perfect 10 is worth a listen but it's got to a kind of plateau with the community and in-jokes. You Look Nice Today is the one that should be checked out - right from the beginning, poor Bill Cosby impressions and all."[Keef adds - I also listen to the Official Lost Podcast which is much more funny than you'd think, and Philosophy Bites, which isn't.]The blog is a more cultured and culinary place than you might initially think.Davefalsegot the resident chef's juices flowing with this conundrum: "I've got a pack of pigeon breasts from Sainsbury's but don't really have much of an idea what to do with them. Does anyone have any ideas? (Apart from Umboros, you sick f**k!)"BeardofBeeswas no help but had a nice anecdote: "I can't really help you with the pigeon, but you remind me of a housemate at University. She would buy anything in the shop that was heavily discounted despite having no idea what it was or how you prepared it. She bought a squash once and was going around looking for advice all day to little avail.The worst was when she bought a large amount of lovely smoked salmon because it had, pound-for-pound, the largest amount off the price - £10 instead of £20 or something. I found her boiling it all up in a large pan when I came in - tragic. Should've curried it and given her sister a call."Cheddarfrenzywas more helpful though: "You can cook it pretty much like duck, the flavour is a bit stronger though. Pan fry/grill. Be nice with a red wine sauce and some mushrooms and potatoes, or maybe some root veg. Have an experiment, that's what cooking should be about."Uncleb3ncame over all Ramsey: "Season well and pan fry 'em in olive oil. Use the pan juices (while your pigeon rests for a few mins on the side) and add a bit of chicken/veg stock; full whack, reduce by half, take off heat, knob of butter. Serve with mash and something green of your choice. Done."Umborous23proved he's a good sport: "Have you thought of making pigeon ravioli with mushroom and truffle topping? Goes down a treat with the ladies. Just ask my Nan."Alfienoakestows the pan frying line: "The only time I've ever done them is to just pan fry them in some olive oil and some seasoning - I've served them with a salad but probably not best to do that in this weather."Craggyisland's suggestion is my favourite: "Pigeon is really lean, so you want to give it some fat and either cook it slow or quick. If you had the whole bird I would braise it wrapped in pancetta with some Chestnuts and red wine. As you only have breasts, grill/pan fry them for about six minutes on each side and you are looking to leave them at most pink in the center, but preferably more than a little rare. I would serve them with some Savoy cabbage cooked with a little bacon and shallot and some mashed potato. If you pan-fry them you could de-glaze the pan with a little sherry or port and whack in a touch of redcurrant jelly to make a nice sauce. Easy."AndDavefalsewas kind enough to let us all know how it turned out: "Pigeon was very nice, lightly fried it with some mushrooms, then deglazed the pan with some Marsala wine, served it with mash. Very nice, in an odd way it reminded me of liver."The Chatterbox list of 'memes'If you know the history and meaning of all these, you can consider yourself a full member of the community. If you can pinpoint when they started and the responsible blogger, you need to get out more.Pseudonym?Mel GibsonThe backwards 'b'ROUTERSThermal pasteQuestion MarksHow do you do a gap between paragraphs?Reference QualityJames BluntNaNPart two: down with loveWith a waft of petrol station flowers and all the beautiful sentiments of a miniature teddy clutching a fluffy heart, Valentine's Day sauntered into our midst yet again. But are the Gamesblog regulars incurable romantics of insufferable cynics? See if you can guess...Goody84got the ball rolling: "Stupidly tried to arrange a night out with mates on Saturday forgetting it was Valentines/Love Day. My mates questioned my motives, and fobbing the Missus off with the family looked a bit stupid. She doesn't care but my mates are all 'busy' spending too much on useless pap. Anyone else got any Valentine plans or, even better, stories that end up in ridicule and embarrassment? Hayers?"BeardofBeesis basically stingy: "No gifts or overpriced cards in the Bees household just because of the date. It means less to buy someone flowers on Feb 14th than it does on May 12th or whatever. Still, a good excuse to do something romantic so it's normally a special dinner at home, romantic film, candles. You don't need to join the idiots in the queue in Clintons Cards to pass the message on to your other half. That said, this is the established relationship/marriage version. For girlfriends or prospective woo-ees, go the whole hog..."Humofevilisn't messing about: "Its b****cks. I have always thought so and have made that clear to my girlfriend. Will probably use it as an excuse to have a nice takeaway but other than that nought."Nor isUncleb3n: "I share Hum's view of Valentines and, fortunately, so does the wife."What a surprise,ImperfectRexis also against the idea: "Nonsense. The fact that it falls on a Saturday though means equally overpriced and underwhelming food on Friday, Saturday and Sunday night. Fixed menu, expensive food, another couple at each elbow? Oh, sounds terribly romantic."Smike's view is classic: "As I'm single this year I was quite looking forward to not having to bother with it. Thing is, I think I'm missing it a bit even though it's an artificial manufactured load of old rubbish (or "bollocks" as I think someone put earlier). I'm now just feeling lonely and worthless. Valentines Day should be banned. It's a pain in the arse for people who are in a relationship and a kick in the teeth for those who aren't. Still. It might be worth going out on Saturday night as there's bound to be plenty of single women who feel the same and will be a bit desperate."Zelosseems reasonably lucky: "I'll be spending it drinking and watching the rugby with the gf, cheering for opposing teams.I agree that Valentine's day is a waste of time, last time I went out for a meal on the 14th the restaurant was full of long-term couples who clearly had nothing to say to each other any more and just sat in awkward silence."Cameroon95still enjoys meals out with his other half. He must be young: "I don't mind, I got the girlfriend some Ultraviolet perfume and Desperate Housewives for the PC. I actually have a lot to talk about with her when we go out for meals, we don't sit in silence at all. I actually like going out with her for a meal."Part three: Been ThereWho needs the Guardian's (admittedly excellent)Been Therereaders travel tips site when the Chatterbox can offer you the same service?!Uncleb3nis off to Paris soon and was after some advice. Here's the pick of the bunch:Dizzyisanegg:"They have a kind of orange juice over there that's fizzy. It's called Orangina. Try it."Craggyisland:"If the weather is good then you can just lose yourself walking and stopping for the occasional drink. Last time we were there was just for a day on our way south and that was all we did, no museums and bugger-all shopping but just enjoying the atmosphere."Loser:"Have lunch at Chez Omar near the Picasso museum. The Metro is really good cheap way of getting around.Marais (east of the Townhall) and along towards the Bastille, is full of bars, pubs and restaurants just off and on Rue Rivoli &amp; St Paul. I can recommend Le Vin aux Pyrenees just down from Le Bastille."The left bank and the Luxembourg Gardens is a must for a arty wander.Speak at least some French. Paris is an expensive place, the exchange rate is going to make that worse. Montmatre and the Sacre Coeur is lovely, the surrounding areas not so much. You really, really can't fail to have a good time in Paris IMHO, would make my top five cities."(This is a really good list from Loser – and I can't believe it didn't spark a 'Top 5 cities' topic all of its own. Limni)Owlyross:"Eiffel Tower, Pompidou Centre, Musee D'Orsay, Montmartre, Palace of Versailles, Pere Lachaise Cemetary (to get away from the crowds). If it's warm, get a picnic and go to one of the parks, Place des Vosges is really nice."Apic:"May be a little obvious but the climb up to Sacre Coeur in Montmartre is well worth it; just losing yourself in the district for a few hours. Strange finding vineyards in the middle of a city and the views towards the river are incredible, if the air is clear. Also, if you're there for a weekend then Friday/Saturday night beneath the Eiffel Tower is a must for you and a couple of thousand Parisians. Well worth it. One thing I do everywhere I go is visit a market to pick up some lunch, especially in Paris as the range of olives, meats, breads, cheese and fruit is incredible."ImperfectRex:"Louvre obviously. It's shut on either a Monday or Tuesday though (can't remember which). Versaille if you have the time. Your Louvre ticket is good for it too as far as I remember. L'Open tour bus. Worth it for Paris - get a 2 day ticket for around 20 Euro. Gets you to all the touristy spots and you can see them all when traveling. There are 3 or 4 lines - each colour is on the front window of the bus."Champs Elysee for window shopping and people watching. One of the best times I had in Paris was sitting on a park bench at the end of the CE watching the world go by. If you're taking the Mrs, take her to LaDuree on the Champs Elysees for hot chocolate and macaroons. Really old-fashioned tea house and they were in Sex and the City apparently. It was the only time a Parisien was rude or snooty though. Montmatre at night. Usual stuff like the Arc de Triomphe, Musee des Invalides, Opera."BrownNova:"Don't think anyone has mentioned the Rodin museum yet. That is fantastic, one of Paris' highlights. Although my tip for Paris is not to rush around hitting too many tourist spots, much better to just wander around soaking up the ambiance. Oh, and stay in the St Germain/Montparnasse area."Goody84has a warning: "On the stroll up to Sacre Coeur be mindful of the bracelet guys who tend to try and wrap them round your wrist while you're not looking. Seen it happen and they insist you pay them money. More of an annoyance than anything."Part four: the restQuote of the Week"Fish is a vegetable. I make salmon fillet tikka and serve with a mild vegetable curry and rice. Does more for my sex life than proposing ever did, I can tell you. My dad loves it."From Umborous23 - along with Gibson-gate, an early contender for Quote of the Year.Quotes"Spanish people use bumpers to park. I.E. they reverse park until the bumpers touch, rather than using spacial awareness. And after a few cañas, it's not a gentle stroke your car's getting. Note that I'm not condoning drink driving here..."Don't mind Adamskii, he's from Barcelona."Ronan was standing outside my window, leering at me and making scary faces."Chub being stalked by Boyzone. Are you sure it's not the other way around?"'How do you feel about the pedestrianisation of Norwich city centre?' Are you local? Actually I love it. Norwich is a brilliant city; it's nice to see the city centre reclaimed for people, motorists have it too easy IMO."Newcomer SEN5241 fails to spot a Partridge quote. He'll learn."I'm thinking of doing a double date on 14th like a Hollywood film. 2 restaurants and dashes between, mate wants to film it. Can it be done?"If anyone can, TonyHayers can."@Lair: Yes, on inserting game disk you will get an update allowing for anal control."Shewrog2 tries to take on Umborous23 for the 'worst Freudian slip' prize."I think the WoW players/protein shake drinkers Venn diagram has a very sparse intersecting area. Venn diagrams are great aren't they. That is a statement not a question."CBPodge keeps it educational. I saw an excellent Wu-Tang Clan/Venn diagram based joke this week, which I imagine has a very small audience."@Dave Why do you have a girl sorting out your shared internets. Sounds wrong."Craggyisland you daft sexist….."Last old firm game at paradise, you know the Five Ways inn? Had to swerve at those lights, a guy about 40 was crawling across at the crossing. Wasn't even a green man. He stopped half way and just started vomiting on the white lines as buses, cars etc drove round him. Think he was heading for the wee chippy opposite"Mollocate paints a lovely picture of his homeland. He should call the Scottish tourist board."There's a woman at work who when she doesn't understand something says 'I'm confused dot com'. She is quite a nice lady actually, which is all that's stopping me from strangling her"Cagool – keeping calm in the face of idiocy.Links of the WeekIt was a really good week for links – to the extent that there's three of them.From Shewrog2:Noel Edmonds in full flightFrom Dizzyisanegg:A caloriegasmAnd from GranaryThorax:An impressive HalfLife 2 movieGames:World of Warcraft, Muramasa: The Demon Blade, Dawn of War II, Chrono Trigger, Guitar Hero World Tour, Bioshock, Metal Gear Solid 4, Streetfighter IV, Fracture, Left4Dead, Dead Rising 1 and 2, Steel Battalion, Quantum of Solace, WarHawk, Lair, Heavenly Sword, Dwarf Fortress,Films:The Good, the Bad, the Weird, The Mist, Blindness, Death Race 2000, Death Race, Benjamin Button, Gangster No. 1, In Bruges, Poultrygeist Night of the Chicken Dead, Miami Vice, Cloverfield, A Few Good Men, Die Hard 4.0, JCVD, Gran Torino, Gomorra, Reno 911: Miami, Che: Part 1, Man on Wire, Revolutionary Road, Changeling, Defiance, Lakeview Terrace, Max Payne, Anvil: The Story of Anvil, In the Loop, I Am Legend, Mulholland Drive,Books:A Song of Fire and Ice, Dawn of the Dumb, Damned Utd, TV Go Home, We Don't Know What We're Doing, Black Man, Market Forces, Hyperion, The Steel Remains, Altered Carbon, The Traveller, The Handmaiden's Tale, Gardens of the Moon, Carrion Comfort, Ilium, Olympos, The Blade Itself, The Lies of Locke Lamora, The Mirror of her Dreams, Reaper, Oryx and Crake, Twilight Watch, Perdido Street Station, The Scar, Iron Council, UnLunDun,
A young woman has been given police protection after a video clip of her undressing in a bedroom was circulated on the internet, provoking a debate about how the law deals with morals and technology in India.The short film is thought to have been taken by an MBA student who decided to release it to his friends when his girlfriend refused to marry him. The pair, who were classmates at a local college, fell out and to take revenge the man broke into his former girlfriend's email account and sent out the video. It has become India's most searched item on Google.The National Commission of Women has asked police to investigate the case, which has seen allegations surface that the 23-year-old girl was being threatened by her ex-boyfriend's family. "We have asked for two police to guard the girl. She is in a vulnerable position especially given the allegations of threats," said Manju Hembrom, a member of the commission.Women's organisations have repeatedly warned of the rising tide of sexually explicit video clips that are emerging after failed relationships. "It is getting to be a big problem. In the past we have not had such love affairs being exposed like this," said Hembrom.Lawyers say that the problem first surfaced in 2005 when mobile phones with video cameras – or Multimedia Messaging Systems – became widely available in India. Eighty per cent of victims of these "MMS misdemeanours of passions" are young woman.There have been cases highlighted of young women being blackmailed and beaten up. Others have reportedly committed suicide – ashamed by being exposed by their own naivety. In most instances women and men are willing participants in making the video clip – without realising the implications for their personal privacy when the relationship sours.The most recent case comes just as India is about to make "online viral video voyeurism" a crime, with both the uploading and transmitting of such clips an offence being punishable in the first instance by three years in jail or a half a million rupee (£7,400) fine.However, experts say it will not work because India has no privacy law. "The new law does not recognise that the victim's privacy has been violated. It allows the accused out on bail where he will delete the data. It does not recognise the irreparable damage caused to the girl's reputation. It does not understand what goes on in private homes needs to be kept private. That's a fundamental flaw," said Pavan Duggal, a supreme court lawyer specialising in cyber crime in Delhi.
If you may recall, about two months agoI posted a requestfor British development studios who focus on casual games to get in touch. I'd recently been in the US under my guise asUKTI 'New Media Sector Champion'and one of my colleagues asked if there was a directory of British casual games developers. He knew several big-name companies interested in working with them.I received some responses, but realised that my sample was likely not the most comprehensive and/or representative. Now, for the sake of rigour, there's a survey for casual game developers to complete, so we have enough information to pass their details on to prospective international partners.Here it is.So if you're a casual games developer, please log your detailshereby 6 March. We aim to release the top-level information (games company, website, location) asap. All other details will be private, for the purpose of business only.Thanks!
A portal for games that advertise brands and products now has a home on the web.Advergames.comaggregates the good, the bad and the ugly of viral games that seemingly every marketing team implemented a few years ago to make their websites 'sticky'. Over onwatercoolergames, Ian Bogost asks if there's an audience for this site, and I would leap to say (perhaps a little sadly) yes.AsIan Schreiberoffers in the comments, it might be useful in a classroom as a resource for design debates and criticism. I imagine that it would make it remarkably easy to identify the real innovations, and the tragic copycats.People aren't unwilling to engage in branded spaces anyway; the success (for a time) of branded virtual worlds likeCoke StudiosandMTV's Virtual Laguna Beachindicate that brands can be useful for pulling people to games and playful interactivity. Additionally, if the games are any good, they may go viral again. Casual is big, and a resource of branded games - with the associated credibility that goes along with a familiar logo - could be even more popular than their unbranded equivalents.Would you go?
As a web user, you might have noticed that some sites look beautifully designed, with attractive pictures and stylish typefaces, while many others look cluttered or even crude. You might also have noticed that hardly anybody uses some of the pretty ones, while some of the uglier ones are extremely popular. For example, Amazon, Craigslist, Digg, eBay, Expedia, Facebook, IMDb, MySpace, TripAdvisor, Yahoo and Wikipedia wouldn't win any beauty contests, but they're all among the most successful sites on the web.How can this be? The answer, of course, is that most people don't go on the web to look at sites, they go to use them. They want to buy or sell something, book tickets, find information, share thinks, or chat to friends. So our key criteria are how useful and how usable sites are, which is not the same as how they look. Websites are not glossy magazines, they are software applications. Pixel-perfect graphic designs have their place, but on the web, appearance is usually less important than usability, readability, reliability, speed, and the quality of the content.As it happens, there's a web site about usability that scores well in all these areas: Jakob Nielsen'sUseIt.com. But it's not pretty, and this tends to get web designers frothing at the mouth. Nielsen is the man theylove to hate.This is a pity, because UseIt.com is where Nielsen publishes his Alertbox columns. He does usability research, writes papers, produces books and organises courses throughNielsen Norman Group, the company he runs with a former Apple Fellow,Don Norman, so his advice has plenty of commercial value. And through Alertbox, he's been giving it away since 1995.Over the years, Nielsen has published several columns about commonmistakes in web design, with the latest updated in 2007. Often these "mistakes" are obvious, and almost every web user will recognise them. But it doesn't stop countless web sites from making them.Still, isn't it odd that Nielsen doesn't defuse criticism by updating UseIt's defiantly old-fashioned appearance? His answer is that it's a Purple Cow, which refers both to a rhyme and toa book by marketing guru Seth Godinthat says: Transform Your Business by Being Remarkable."Keeping the same website for 10 years does make for a sort of purpleness, and that makes it hard to abandon it," Nielsen says. "Purple is not actually a great colour for a cow, but it does stand out. And in the modern world, you have to stand out."Redesigning it would take away the real value: I'd be just one out of 10 million. But I'm probably the only one who could get away with it."Although some graphic designers claim they hate UseIt, ordinary users tend to like it. We usually want sites to be usable, and we get frustrated when they're not, even if we don't really know what's wrong with them. Nielsen helps us to understand the problems, and that they're not necessarily our fault.
Print-on-demand companyMoo.com- purveyors ofteeny business cards- have long trumpeted their fondness for Britain's Royal Mail, which helps them deliver around the world. And I've written before about themtranscending their physical locationto act like a global company, rather than one that feels hindered by being based in the UK (as many dotcoms outside Silicon Valley do).But even though the company has become a central part of the capital's internet scene - as the heart of the so-called"Silicon Roundabout"- it's not stopping there: and is today set to announce a new US office.The basics are pretty straightforward - a new space in Rhode Island that will supply all of the company's North American customers (which is, I'm told, 50% of the business). It will make dispatching orders in the US cheaper, faster and provide customer service too. But given Moo's connections with partners like Flickr and Facebook, why not open in San Francisco? Founder Richard Moross told me that it was more about logistics.Of course, it won't hurt that investor Atlas Ventures has its US office based in nearby Boston, or that a time difference of a mere five hours will help keep the US office in touch with London HQ. But it also builds up Moo's business and gives it more options for the future. After all, whatever it does, the question remains: where does Moo go from here?After all, it's a venture-funded business, which means that there are two major options that will please its investors: flip or float. Right now the stock market is cold and dead, ruling out an IPO, and likely buyers - such as Hallmark-style greeting card companies - aren't looking at the recession with any glee.So, where does Moo go from here? To new territory, it seems.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Questions about the internet giant's dominance have been gathering steadily since the revelation thatChristine Varney, who is Barack Obama's pick to take over the top antitrust job at the Department of Justice, has already talked about the subject."For me, Microsoft is so last century. They are not the problem,"Varney is reported to have saidduring a panel discussion last summer. Google, she suggested, "has acquired a monopoly in internet online advertising".Those comments, combined with Varney's background as a lawyer for Netscape in its epic case against Microsoft have led to speculation that the DoJ could be ready to set the ball rolling on an antitrust case that could potentially hamper Google in the same way that the interminable hearings stiffed Microsoft in the late 90s. But are they missing the point?At Techdirt,Mike Masnik suggested that Google "doesn't have anything close to a monopoly". In the New York Times, meanwhile, Randall Stross made his point by showcasing the numbers; in 2005, Google had just 36.5% of the market, compared to Yahoo's 30%. "Today, however, that advantage is much wider, at 63 percent to 21 percent,"he wrote.(Meanwhile a small company called TradeComet added fuel to the fireby launching a suit against Google alleging discriminatory business tactics).But perhaps the real question is why the Department of Justice, under the Obama administration,wouldn'tconsider investigating Google. After all, even though Obama has specifically said he wants to crack down on monopoly abuse, it was the Bush White House which presided over the Google/Yahoo case last year - which ended withGoogle pulling out of the deal under pressure.Underneath the concerns and arguments about Varney's Google comments is an assumption that she has been nominated to the job Obama precisely because of her previous experience taking on a technology monopolist.However, sources close to the Department have told me that it may be too easy to connect those dots and get the wrong picture. Google's an important company, for sure, and Varney's technology background is useful - but I'm told that she wasn't hired with a specific case in mind... and that the antitrust job wasn't even necessarily the role she wanted.So will Google face a deeper antitrust investigation? It seems almost certain. After all, once the political posturing has been dispensed with, the fact remains: Google's one of the most important companies in the world - if antitrust lawyers aren't keeping their eyes on its business, who else should they be watching?
I jumped off the PC gaming hardware ratrace a couple of years ago when I bought a high-end gaming laptop. At the time I thought it would see me through the next 5 years or so. Naive? Probably, but the space saving over a desktop was welcome in my house and anyway, MMOs aside, doesn't every PC game come out on console now?  And no, I'm not bothered about 99.7% of RTS games. But arecent postby major PC developer Valve left me feeling a little underpowered.The developer listed their current office system and what they are transitioning over to. Put it this way – you may be happy with 2 or even 4GB of RAM. Not Valve, their next system will contain 12GB.  There's plenty more Monday morning spec-envy to be had in the post but the main details are:EVGA X58 3X SLI Intel MotherboardIntel Corei7 940 2.93GHz Quad-Core Processor12GB PC3-10600 DDR3 1333MHz ram(Crucial Ballistix, Kingston ValueRam)1 x NVidia GTX285 1GB - OR - ATI 4870 1GB graphics card1 x 250GB 7200RPM SATA HD (Seagate, Western Digital)1 x 500GB 7200RPM SATA HD (Seagate, Western Digital)Lian Li P60-F CaseIntel CPU Cooler850W Antec power supply1 x Dell 3008FPW-HC 30" LCD - OR - 2 x Dell 2001FP 20.1" LCD monitorsWindows Vista 64bitAnyway, it does beg the question. How up to date is your gaming PC? And in today's console-friendly market is it even worth trying to keep up?
Lord Carlile, the independent reviewer of anti-terror laws, has written to the home secretary to ask her to enable computer hacker Gary McKinnon to be prosecuted in the UK rather than face extradition and a jail term in the US. The intervention comes as the director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, is considering whether to prosecute McKinnon, who has been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome, under British computer misuse laws.In a letter to Jacqui Smith, Lord Carlile, QC, writing in a personal capacity, states that "there is no doubt that Mr McKinnon could be prosecuted in this country given that the acts of hacking occurred within our jurisdiction".Lord Carlile of Berriew suggests that McKinnon's condition makes a very strong case for any prosecution to take place in the UK. "Of especial importance is the opinion of Professor Simon Baron-Cohen, who describes the unusual and florid symptoms which place Mr McKinnon clearly within the category of Autism Spectrum Disorder, with potential injury to his health of a high order were he to be transferred to the US legal system," he said. He suggests that the argument that such a transfer to the US jail system could infringe European human rights laws, is "plain and strong".He adds: "I would hope that the US authorities would be prepared to accept that the English legal system is capable of dealing with the case in full."Lord Carlile is the latest among a growing number of political and legal figures who have urged the home secretary and the DPP to prosecute in the UK. About 100 MPs from all parties have signed an early day motion urging that McKinnon should not be extradited unless a guarantee is given that he would serve his sentence in the UK. Earlier this month, the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, called for the case to be tried in the UK. McKinnon's lawyers have also written to President Obama urging him to intervene.McKinnon's hacking activities were carried out between 2001 and 2002 from a room in a north London flat. He entered the US defence department and Nasa computer systems, sometimes leaving messages such as "your security is crap".A final judicial review of the case is scheduled for next month. The DPP's office confirmed last week that the matter was still being considered.
BEAT THE ROBOT&gt;&gt; it makes me think what else robots will be doing for their human programmers in the not-too-distant future. Now we've all seen Terminator, and i am not suggesting an Arnie type Robot is going to be formed any time soon, but where there is money to be made, surely there is a robot ready to take that cash.We already have programs to 'win' on ebay. There are programmes to attempt to beat the stock exchange, there are already programmes beating the punters on gambling websites and there are obviously 1000s of fake women on 'dating' sites pretending all sorts of things - so what next? And is it acceptable?ip-seo.comKINDLING PROBLEMSAmazon is getting hung up on wispernet. Its a great feature, but I would happily buy a Kindle and download the books directly to my PC.What I really want is access to their 230,000 books and journals.George Lemonofides, Cowes, Isle of Wight&gt;&gt; from conversations down the pub on Friday, people over here [in the UK] are jonesing for the Sony Reader instead.brightmeadow.co.ukANSWER ON A WIKI&gt;&gt; For those who don't know, Answers.com has been a major donor and supporter of the Wikimania conference over the years, as has Wikia, which makes this showdown all the more intriguing.andrewlih.com.TEL ME ON THE GRAPEVINE&gt;&gt; Apparently the sole use will be a single web page showing the contact details of the person who owns the domain. Since most people do not have unique names, this immediately invalidates the whole point, and since there is no protection as to who can register names in the first place, it is merely an exercise in internet greed, encouraging both cybersquatting and generating FUD in people scared of somehow missing out.goruislip.blogspot.comFREE OUR DATA: THE DEBATE&gt;&gt; Mr Afriyie, explicit he was outlining proposed policy, left us with the impression of politicians, still unconvinced at the value or interest in opening data, wanting to maintain control of Copyright, and apparently not seeing charging for data as an obstacle to reuse. Surprisingly there was no mention of The Open Data Commons where Ian and others have been thinking about issues of licensing data to eliminate all restrictions on data, not just IP restrictions such as copyright and database rights.blog.whatfettle.comRECORD THATVictor Keegan writes that "the easiest way to record thoughts is to speak them into a mobile phone and have the message converted into text message or email". I wonder whether he has tried speaking into a tape recorder and playing it back?Ken Balkow, SheffieldLASSETER IN FOCUS&gt;&gt; He confirms what Docter and other 3D film directors have said, that the medium is really just used to give the movie extra dimension and that they'll be straying away from any cliche gimmicks.pixarplanet.comSAMSUNG: DELAYED?&gt;&gt; Today Samsung's Kim Titus said that the phone isn't delayed - they never planned to show an Android phone at MWC. It's not their fault if we were all jumping to conclusions, basically.gearlog.com&gt;&gt; Ouch! A definite no-show at the MWC. Of course Samsung is doing a bit of smart maneuvering, waiting for other manufacturers to get Android's act together before putting the revolutionary-yet-in-infancy-stage OS on their conveyor belt. Still, on the consumer side, would've been nice to have a Samsung Android at the MWC.freshphonenews.com&gt;&gt; this news has certainly put a damper on whatever excitement may have been lingering. Truth be told, this is probably a good move on Sammy's part as there are still a TON of kinks to be worked out of Android before it's truly ready for mass adoption. As such, it's probably smart to sit back and wait as other companies slowly fall in line to be guinea pigs for the cause.tagso.com&gt;&gt; Most Android experts still believe that the Android phone manufacturered by Samsung will be based on Samsung Omnia and Instinct models.androideka.com&gt;&gt; Looks like Samsung will be one of the few companies not to show off an Android device at next week's Mobile World Congress.engadgetmobile.comCURRENCY AFFAIRSThanks for the name check in today's article (The micropayments argument: do we want to turn the web into Zimbabwe?, February 13).Isn't the pound currently a currency masquerading as a loyalty scheme?Charles Cohen, Chief Executive Officer, Probability plcMAC MINI AT LENGTHAlan Gent is right again.  Do I also hear a distant grating sound, as of the grinding of teeth that have ground before?  I will be brief.My original point was that it was not style and substance that attracted me to the Mac in 1993 but price and performance.  With the Mac Mini, Apple came within reach of that again, and should not abandon it.Apple would like people to believe they are "green", now; keeping the Mac Mini would help people to believe that.  But that's another story.Roger Larkinson, BedfordI don't wish to demean the beliefs of PC users, but... really. The "Apple vs PC" has moved on. Since 2006, both PC clones and Apple have developed their systems around an Intel processor, and whereas PC users have ample choice over what operating system they choose (provided that it is the current Windows operating system), or may choose to install Linux, Apple users conversely have the option of Unix BSD (acquired by Apple through the acquisition of Next prior to the introduction of OS X) supporting Apple WIMPS, Linux or, indeed (if they want to), through the use of Boot Camp and proprietary software, can even boot up from whatever Windows operating system is available, or even run both Mac OS and Windows simultaneously.Sincerely.... the Apple vs PC debate has moved on, and it is something that games players who have grown up with a Wintel games platform should reflect on if they ever wish to become serious and professional IT people.Jewel Staite, LondonAlan [Gent] is quite correct when he says Mac equipment is a thing of beauty and also that it "just works" (well most of the time anyway!) He is however wrong in his suspicions regarding my Mac ownership, I have been a Mac user since the IIsi and at last count am the happy and proud owner of 2 iMacs, a Mac Mac mini, an Apple Tv, a MacBook Pro and a several iPods. Oh, and I sent this email from my iPhone! I wrote my original letter so people who might be interested in jumping over from the "dark side" would not be discouraged by the idea that non Apple peripherals would need to be replaced at additional cost, I'm glad we seem to have put that to rest but welcome the increased percantage on Mac related correspondence!Will Gore, Dublin
This is a second hand second hand story from what might not be the world's most reliable anonymous source, so treat it accordingly. Nonetheless, Philip Elmer-DeWitt'sApple 2.0 blog at Fortunehas picked up something from Robert X Cringely's latest column,Where's Steve?Cringely says:A friend of mine has for years been one of Steve Jobs' Internet chat buddies. And as such his chat client has – again for years – shown as Steve came online each day and remained there for hours and hours as you'd expect a Silicon Valley mogul to do. And it's a trend that continued well past Jobs' announcement that he was taking a six-month leave of absence to get well. But then Steve started logging-on less and less. And several weeks ago he stopped logging-on at all."Now this doesn't necessarily mean anything. And, like us, Cringely has been attacked on the grounds that what Steve Jobs does is nobody else's business. To which he replies, in a comment:I knew that this would be a polarizing column but that, in itself, is not a valid reason to avoid it. And if the commenters are Apple shareholders, then I'm really surprised. If they aren't Apple shareholders, then I'm not at all surprised they don't care. But no major company in the computer industry is guided more personally than is Apple by Steve Jobs. Not even Microsoft under Bill Gates and it was Bill Gates who told me that, admiringly. So his condition IS material and he can change that by resigning and nothing else. I'm not calling for that, by the way. But if he wants to take his name off my map that's what it will require.And that, like it or not, is the reality with regard to Steve Jobs and Apple.Otherwise I suggest you heed the immortal words of Shirdi Sai Baba: "Before you speak, ask yourself: Is it kind, is it true, is it necessary, does it improve upon the silence?"
In the cold economic climate many people could do with a hug, so a UK technology firm has come up with a way to give and receive them over long distances. CuteCircuit, based in London's Shoreditch, has developed a "Hug Shirt" that it claims makes sending a hug is as easy as sending a text message from a mobile phone.Showcased at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona last week, the shirt works by the wearer pressing sensors on their own body. It then connects with a mobile phone and transmits the "hug" to the recipient. When they slip on their "Hug Shirt" they experience what the company describes as inter-continental "human-to-human interaction".CuteCircuit was one of six companies handpicked by UK Trade &amp; Investment to represent British technology firms in Spain. At a breakfast event last week, the new UK trade and investment minister Mervyn Davies told industry executives: "I would encourage you all to send hugs to politicians... as I have found out recently, when you become a politician you need lots of hugs.""Hug Shirts" should be ready for commercial launch later this year.
With plentiful scenes of gore, a spiralling body-count and a female protagonist seemingly designed to the specifications of a nerdy teenage boy, Angel of Death may not sound like the stuff of TV revolution.But when the drama is unveiled on 2 March it will be with the eyes of hundreds of broadcasting executives upon it. Angel of Death is one of a clutch of new online dramas which transcend the medium's lo-fi origins to feature lavish production values and a major Hollywood name - Zoe Bell, who appeared in Quentin Tarantino's Death Proof. At the forefront of a wave of big-budget web series, its release is being viewed by some in the industry as the moment the medium comes of age.The level of expectation surrounding the programme reflects the extraordinary rise of online TV, which had barely entered the public consciousness three years ago. Then, in June 2006, Lonelygirl15, a bite-size drama masquerading as the YouTube diary of an angsty teenager, became a cult hit, attracting feverish speculation as to whether it was a genuine weblog or an elaborate hoax. A Lonelygirl spin-off, the UK-based Kate Modern, was quickly commissioned and ran on social networking site Bebo in 2007, receiving 35 million views. Since then digital production companies have increasingly expanded the format with online documentaries and reality shows such as The Gap Year. And at the end of last year, the TV establishment gave the clearest sign yet that it was fully embracing the medium, with the BBC earmarking &pound;1.3m for online drama.Luke Hyams, lead writer on Kate Modern, believes online TV has the potential to transform our viewing habits, describing it as "a whole different viewing experience for a new generation". The online model means that viewers don't just watch the story unfold, they immerse themselves in it, talking to their favourite characters via live webchats, playing online games associated with the show and influencing the direction of the narrative through emails to the makers."We see online TV as a multiplatform thing," says Pasa Mustafa, head of digital studios at Endemol, which produced The Gap Year. "It allows you to give real depth to the content."Most of the content is rapidly-produced, teen-focused and presented in bite-sized portions but it is expected to expand rapidly, both in its profile and the types of projects it attempts."There are no restrictions," says Mustafa. "Suddenly you can talk to people on the other side of the world, and that is something that only rarely happened in television events like the Olympics or Live Aid. As budgets get bigger, it will lead to some really exciting projects."
Once the preserve of the geekiest of geeks, "smartphones" are about to become ubiquitous. Mobile phones that have professional-grade cameras, that allow you to mix your own music like a DJ, that read you a book or newspaper,  charge using sunlight or double up as wristwatches are just some of the gadgets that the mobile industry hopes will help it ride out the economic storm.It was hard to move at the Mobile World Congress, the industry's largest annual trade show, in Barcelona last week without bumping into a company showcasing them. Once attractive only to anoraks, smartphones that can access the internet, download whizzy applications, have touchscreens, know where you are located, play music and high quality video (and still receive calls) are going mainstream as the rest of the industry reacts to the arrival, a year and a half ago, of the Apple iPhone.The investment bank Jefferies estimates that global shipments of smartphones will increase 17% in 2009 to 191m units, making them one of the only growth segments in a mobile-device market that Nokia - which makes four out of every 10 handsets sold worldwide - has warned will be down at least 10% this year. Steve Ballmer, chief executive of Microsoft, which has been trying to get its Windows software into phones for a decade, told delegates that in a few years' time they won't even bother with the term "smartphone" because the devices will be ubiquitous.The fact that smartphones are one of the only growth areas of consumer electronics brought new faces to this year's trade show. Companies including computer makers Toshiba, Asus and Acer, and possibly Dell, are looking to cash in on the boom, but their arrival poses a real threat, according to Nick James, analyst at Panmure Gordon. "The smartphone market is looking increasingly crowded and could turn into a bloodbath until cost is driven out," he reckons.But for now, the mobile phone companies are too busy throwing ever more complex gizmos at consumers to worry about exactly where the money is going to come from.Korean electronics giant LG came closest to creating a "wow" moment at the show when it unveiled the G910 wristwatch phone. The small touchscreen device can connect to a Bluetooth headset for anyone who does not want to be seen talking and listening to their wrist when they make calls.It can also make video calls, for anyone who wants to feel like the hero of a spy thriller. And the phone is no chunkier than the sort of sports watch you would expect to see on the wrist of a Premier League footballer (though that may not be a good thing).Not to be outdone, bitter local rival Samsung gave conference attendees a brief glimpse, on its exhibition stand, of its own range of watch phones. There are no details of when its not-very-catchily-named, but certainly slimmer, GT-S1100 will be available, but LG's wristphone will be released by Orange in the UK over the next few months. It is expected to be free to anyone who is willing to take up a pay-monthly contract.Also scoring highly on the design scale was Samsung's BeatDJ phone, which is rounded at both ends; when it plays music, its built-in Bang &amp; Olufsen stereo speakers turn into touch "turntables" that can be used to "scratch" and sample tracks to create new tunes. It will be out in the UK in spring.Samsung was also one of the manufacturers unveiling a "green" phone. Its Blue Earth device, which is made from recycled water bottles and will be out in the UK later this year, has a back covered with solar panels. LG is also working on solar-powered phones, as is Chinese manufacturer ZTE.Sony Ericsson, meanwhile, created a buzz with its latest concept phone, codenamed the Idou. Like many of the handsets on show it has a touchscreen, but beats all the others hands down with its whopping 12.1 megapixel camera, enough quality for a professional photographer. Details of prices and availability are expected in the summer.Most consumers expect a camera on their new device, and the quality of the photos they can take is improving rapidly. Nokia has teamed up with optics specialist Carl Zeiss to create the 8-megapixel N86, which can cope with both bright and low light settings - in the past most camera phones have only been good with one or the other. It should start appearing in spring.Samsung took the wraps off its 8-megapixel camera phone, the Omnia HD. It goes one better than its Finnish rival in that it can record and playback high-definition video. With up to 16GB of internal memory and the capacity to take a 32GB MicroSD card, you can store 35 DVD-quality movies - enough to keep anyone amused when the in-flight movies selection fails to satisfy.As for the newbies, Asus relied on its link-up with satellite navigation company Garmin for its Nuvifone M20. The phone is all about making it very easy to use satnav services on a mobile. Acer's move into the smartphone market has only one device with any obvious gizmo appeal - the Acer Tempo M900, which has a slide-out keyboard and a fingerprint reader.Microsoft announced a new version of its Windows Mobile platform at the show. Part of the reason for its redesign is the arrival of Google on the software scene with its Android operating system, which makes it easy for users to download applications on to their phone from the "Android Marketplace". Apple has already made a big splash in so-called "mobile apps", with iPhone users downloading more than 500m programmes via iTunes since the apps service launched last year. At this year's show, Nokia, Microsoft and even operators Orange, T-Mobile and O2 all announced their own app stores in an effort to compete.The applications available range from games and news feeds to incredibly complex tools such as iPointer from Intelligent Spatial Technologies (iST), which allows a mobile phone user to point their device at any building and pull up information about it from the internet. The company has pooled information on 50 cities in Europe and 58 in the US to produce the equivalent of visual search. Ultimately it hopes that businesses will want to use it as a local advertising tool. Nokia, meanwhile, showcased kReader, an application developed for its phones by US-based KNFB Reading Technology, which uses a mobile phone's camera to decipher text and then reads it aloud to the user. It can read everything from receipts and bills to pages from books.One of the biggest rounds of applause received by Rob Conway, the head of trade industry body the GSM Association, when he opened the event, was in response to his announcement that the major manufacturers and networks have got together to develop a universal mobile phone charger. It is based on the micro-USB connection found on the BlackBerry Storm and should be ready by the end of the year. By 2012 most mobile phones will use it. But by then, who knows how many other things a mobile phone will be capable of doing?
"A critical vulnerability has been identified in Adobe Reader 9 and Acrobat 9 and earlier versions. This vulnerability would cause the application to crash and could potentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected system. There are reports that this issue is being exploited,"says Adobe.Adobe expects to make available an update for Adobe Reader 9 and Acrobat 9 by March 11th, 2009. Updates for Adobe Reader 8 and Acrobat 8 will follow soon after, with Adobe Reader 7 and Acrobat 7 updates to follow. In the meantime, Adobe is in contact with anti-virus vendors, including McAfee and Symantec, on this issue in order to ensure the security of our mutual customers..The hole is already being exploited, according toSymantecandMcAfee. Both companies suggest you should disable JavaScript by going to Edit, selecting Preferences and then JavaScript, then unchecking Enable Acrobat JavaScript.Ars Technicasays:Meanwhile, users of Mac OS X can do a couple things to mitigate the issue. One easy step is to set Preview to handle opening all PDF documents. If Preview is not already the default:Select a PDF file in the FinderSelect File &gt; Get Info (cmd-I)Under "Open with:", choose Preview from the drop down menuFinally, click the "Change All..." buttonThe security problem seems to be susceptibility to a buffer overflow attack, but it's not yet clear how dangerous it's going to be.Update: For more info and suggestions, see Sophos:PDF exploit - proactive detection confirmed
What you thinkmay be written all over your faceFrank Sinatra chokedracial bigotry at the grass rootsIt's toughwhen you're dating a city bankerWhat to dowith five kilos of Gummi bearsWhat the most annoyingsong ever sounds likeA scene we don't expect to seein Spielberg's Adventures Of TintinThe distancebetween A and B406 bandswho TwitterGermany's 1976 Eurovision entrywas awesome
Many celebrities have embraced Facebook and told us if they're stuck in a lift via Twitter, but few have what Baywatch genius David Hasselhoff has. Having bounced back from a medical condition that made him "appear to be drunk", he has reclaimed his birthright as an American TV icon and even has his own social networking site, HoffSpace. Watch videos and read blogs by the man himself ("that no one else gets to see"), interact with other Hofflovers or join useful groups such as David Hasselhoff's Hair Appreciation Society.
Of all the cars I've parked outside my house, none has attracted as much attention as the Cadillac CTS. My wife asked if it was my "pimpmobile". I noticed a number of people stop and take a second look, and one morning I came out to see two surly-looking men peering inside the car's windows.When they saw me, they walked off with grudging expressions that reminded me of a scene from American Graffiti. "Is that you in that beautiful car?" asks a bemused cruiser when he sees the nerdy Toad in a borrowed Chevy Impala. "Jeez, what a waste of machinery."With its fat grill and sturdy elegance, the CTS is not exactly a 58 Chevy, but it is likely to turn a few heads. Most necks will probably be jerked by the sort of curiosity that can be summed up in a simple question: what is it? Because the fact is that, American presidential state visits aside, Cadillacs have always been a rarity on British streets.There have been right-hand drive export versions, but none met with success; they were overweight, overpriced and underwhelming.This new attempt is billed as a "sports luxury" vehicle. With a 3.6 engine, it boasts a 150mph top speed - though I kept below that - so that accounts for the "sports". And the luxury is a leather interior that cries out "business class".However, the CTS is a sluggish city ride, exacerbated by the automatic gearbox. Automatics are to cars what electric hobs are to cooking. Don't try whacking your foot down if the traffic light suddenly turns amber: the response is comically delayed.It would not be a problem in a grid-style American city, where everyone glides along in expansive unison, but it doesn't seem right in a suburban street with a bus lane and roadworks - in other words, Britain.The motorway is a far more pleasant experience. It felt less like driving a car than sitting in the control seat of a Eurostar train. The faster this car goes, the more sense it - and the world - make. It's conceivable that as you pass the 140mph mark the crisis in the capital markets becomes intelligible. At 150mph even the Middle East seems a solvable issue. Unfortunately, I went only fast enough to work out that the Cadillac CTS is not to be driven slowly.Cadillac CTSPrice£29,366Top speed150mphAcceleration0-62 in 6.3 secondsAverage consumption25.4mpgCO2 emissions264g/kmEco rating2.5/10At the wheelDick CheneyBoundThe petrol stationIn a wordCaddish
There is a diner in Arizona called the Heart Attack Grill where they serve lard-drenched, deep-fried burgers served by micro-skirted nurses, a place where bad diet and political incorrectness go hand in hand to the grave. But even they cannot compete with the artery-clogging wonders displayed on this blog, where one's first sensation is revulsion, shortly to be followed by the thought: "actually that looks pretty good." Here is a world where bacon is chocolate covered, hot dogs are deep fried with chips attached and delivered on a stick, and a good idea for Sunday roast is a Turbaconucken (that's a chicken inside a duck inside a turkey, all wrapped in bacon). This is food so unhealthy you'll gain a stone just looking at it.
Discouraging news for Apple. NPDreckons that fewer people are buying its machines in the USas the credit crunch bites. Are we surprised? No. It was utterly predictable that, as the implausible high-wire act that was consumer spending in the US tipped over and began the long drop into recession, it would hit the companies that offered the highest-priced goods.Houses aren't selling. The Humvee isn't selling. And BMW - a marque that people often compare to Apple, saying "Apple is like the BMW of computers - and you don't see them selling cheap ones!" - is pinning its hopes on the Mini, after seeingoverall BMW sales drop by 24% year-on-year in January. (Soon after that piece appeared, itfired 850 agency staffat the Mini plant in Cowley. So perhaps things aren't eventhatgood.)So one question that Apple's executives might be considering on their regular Monday morning detail-fest, in which they go over what has sold and what hasn't, is: should Apple make a netbook?Tim Cook, the chief operating officer who is looking after the companywhile Steve Jobs takes medical leave, explicitly didn't rule out making one in thefinancial conference callfor the first-quarter results; and amore recent talk with an analystincluded Cook saying of the netbook segment that Apple had "ideas here".Well, that's a good thing. If there's a single ray of light in the PC gloom, it's netbooks. Theirsales are rocketingwhile larger models' are tanking. And there's another threat to Apple on the horizon: the upcoming Windows 7, which those who've tried it say is much more presentable and usable than Vista. If Microsoft can get Windows 7 out of the door in quick order, then the chance that Apple had to persuade people to switch from XP, or Vista, to Mac OSX will be gone.The question is, would an Apple netbook chew up share from Windows, or would it cannibalise Apple's own sales?There are two examples that Apple can follow from its own history: what it did with iPods, or what it did with the Mac mini.First, iPods. There, it was a latecomer to an already-established (but nascent) market. It was expensive, and didn't sell that well - until Apple released the iPod mini in February 2004, two and a half years after the first iPod. And it was in Christmas 2004 that sales of iPods - all iPods together - suddenly rocketed. In 2005, Apple added the (lower-cost) iPod shuffle and, later that year, the iPod nano (effectively replacing the iPod mini). With that, it was all over the price range for digital audio players: bottom, middle, and top. It wasn't worried about cannibalising its own sales - in fact, it almost welcomed it as a way to make people upgrade from older versions to new ones.Apple iPod and iPhone sales from Q1 2002 (Oct-Dec 2001) to Q1 2009 (Oct-Dec 2008)By contrast, we have the Mac mini - Apple's grudging offering to the low-end market, introduced in January 2005 by Steve Jobs, who did it with a vague air of "Why thehellam I doing this again?" A "headless" machine - "bring your own keyboard, display and mouse" Jobs warned (shortened on the accompanying presentation slide to "BYOKDM") - the Mac mini was carefully designed not to cannibalise any of Apple's laptops or desktops. It was only worth buying, even when new, if you really did BYOKDM. And since then it has been allowed to fall further and further behind in processing power (as contributors to our letters pages have complained). Does the Mac mini threaten Apple's existing products? Not at all. But I doubt it's helping sales much either. These days, you can buy a netbook with almost as much processing power as a Mac mini for about a hundred pounds less. And it has a screen and keyboard.The netbook plan looks like it would be a sensible one. Sure, Apple has enough money in the bank to ride out the recession. But if it loses its customer base, or its potential customer base (and note how sales of iPhones fell quarter-on-quarter in the last results), then it loses its future.What sort of netbook should Apple make, then? The trend seems to be towards 10-inch screens; Asus has said it is going to stop making the 7-inch versions. People like bigger laptop keyboards too.Apple sort of makes a netbook already - as in, something with reduced functionality: it's called the MacBook Air. Except that it presents it as a top-end product (and prices it accordingly), despite it having no CD or DVD player. Well, nor does my daughter's Eee PC from RM, and that weighs less than a MacBook Air to boot.Now, I know that there arerumours about new Mac Minissporting more USB ports than seems polite - which has beenquickly denounced as a fake. (It would have been nice to have this sort of analysis when Stalin was about.)Apple needs to react to changing market conditions. It has before: when it last made a quarterly loss, in the first quarter of 2001, Steve Jobs realised it was because he had focussed on giving the computers DVD-reader drives, rather than CD-burning ones. A rapid focus on CD burners followed, along with heavier emphasis on iTunes: the CD-inspired "rip, mix, burn" is rather better than the DVD-gazing "insert, click, watch".So should Apple introduce a netbook? Hell, yes. If it wants to get into a market that is expanding rapidly, which is giving an old version of Windows - the long-past-end-of-life XP, or "Windows Zombie" as it's becoming known to analysts - then it needs to roll its sleeves up. There's a big market there waiting to be tapped.Will it cannibalise its own sales? Perhaps. But I'd bet that there are enough Apple fanatics out there who would buy a second Apple machine if it's a netbook, but simply can't extend their credit, or sense, to encompass an extra full-blown laptop.Hell, even I might buy an Apple netbook. There seem to be enough people who have created their own "Hackintosh netbooks" that it must be feasible - perhaps even desirable.So is Tim Cook brave enough to give this his go-ahead? It would certainly be a way to make his mark on the company. And if it proves to be a success - which I think it would - he could justifiably claim to have laid the foundations for becoming Apple's chief executive outright in the future. Remember, Tim, fortune favours the brave.
Street Fighter IV is out and getting amazing reviews. It's a real return to the 'feel' of Street Fighter II, which is perhaps why it has caught the imagination of gamers who may have lost their way with the series after SF III and all the Alpha variations.If you're a complete newcomer, or just a bit rusty, here's a quick guide to the basics of street fighting, written with the invaluable aid of Capcom employee and Street Fighter fanatic Anil Das-Gupta. Of course, button bashing like a monkey on a caffeine drip is fun for a while, but in case you feel like stepping up a gear, this may come in handy...Start with Ken or RyuAlthough you may be tempted by one of the more glamorous offerings these two are essentially the foundations of the game – they both offer a full range of moves and styles while the other fighters merely exaggerate specific elements. Learn the basics here and you have the building blocks of your own fighting strategy.So what are the basics? "Ryu and Ken both have the Hadouken and Dragon Punch special moves," says Anil. "Hadouken (a fireball that travels across the screen) is performed by moving the stick or d-pad from the down position in a circular movement towards your opponent, pressing punch at the same time as you reach the 'towards' position. This is known as a quarter circle movement and many other characters in the game use the same motion to perform their special moves."Dragon punches are performed by pressing towards, then moving the stick or pad from the towards position, then down, and then finally to the down-towards position, pressing punch at the same time as the last directional input. This move is one of the key special move motions in the game, and again it's used by many characters. This type of motion also tends to be attributed to moves that can counter an opponent who is jumping at you, meaning that it forms an essential part of many characters' defensive aresenal."Here's another couple of basic moves that'll work well as you get to grips with these characters:Crouching Medium Kick (Down + MK) - ensures that opponents cannot easily approach you on the ground.Crouching Hard Punch (Down + HP) - can be used to fend off aerial attacks if you are not confident with the dragon punch move.So are there differences between these two staple fighters? Of course there are. "Ryu has always been better at ranged attacks while Ken is better up close," says Anil. "Ryu's fireballs travel across the screen faster than Kens. Another key difference especially when fighting against each other, are the EX moves – that's when you press two punches to perform a fireball. Ryu's are a lot stronger because they will knock down the opponent, whereas Ken's won't. If you knock down your opponent, you can get close to them very quickly."But Ryu doesn't have it all his own way. Ken's Dragon Punch has got a longer range – if you jump over Ryu from medium distance he can't reach you. Ken, however, can pull-off a hard Dragon Punch and bring your flight to a painful conclusion.When you find your style, explore the other charactersStreet Figther characters are like football teams; some are about all-out attack, others are better at sitting back absorbing pressure and then countering, others play the long ball game, or in Street Fighter parlance, ranged attacks. Through experimenting with Ryu and Ken you should find a tactic that suits you. Now you can move on to a fighter that fits with – and accentuates - your specific style.If you find that you prefer a defensive style of play, Guile is your man. "Traditionally, he's always been a brick wall type of character," says Anil, "If you have a player who just stands there sending sonic booms across the screen, they're very hard to break down; they'll often pressurize you into making a mistake."As soon as you start using Guile, you'll immediately find that you're able to adopt elements of Ryu's game. For example, Guile can use a fireball, then perform a Flash Kick if his opponent tries to jump into him - this is the same as Ryu using a Hadouken followed by a Dragon Punch. These are called Traps, because they tempt an opponent into performing a specific move, which you then anticipate and counter.Alternatively, if you're a more pro-active fighter, try Crimson Viper or Rufus, both of whom are newcomers brought in to provide frenzied close-up play. They are 'rushdown' characters – they get in tight and use fast, highly aggressive moves, but they're no good for long range attacks. "The onus is on you to get close," says Anil, "but if you manage it you can end the bout very quickly."Incidentally, Crimson Viper is the only character in the game able to perform a 'super jump', leaping from one corner of the screen to another (accessed by flicking down then up really quickly). This gives her a lot of extra maneuverability and means she can get up close and personal with even the most timid range players.Learn to focusStreet Fighter IV introduces a new move known as the Focus Attack, capable of absorbing an opponent's strike and countering it in one fell swoop. These are executed by pressing and holding down Medium Punch and Medium Kick; the longer you hold, the more powerful the result. When the buttons are released, your character performs a blow capable of crumpling (or stunning) your opponent, allowing you to follow up with an additional combo afterwards.Perfect the Ultra moves"Ultras are very flashy and powerful attacks that can be performed when your Revenge gauge is glowing yellow with the word 'Ultra'", says Anil. "Your revenge gauge is filled up every time you take a hit, meaning that no matter how badly you think you are doing, you always have a chance to turn the tables on your opponent!"Ryu's Ultra, the Metsu Hadouken, is performed by pulling off two successive quarter circles on the d-pad, each starting at the down position, and moving up toward your opponent. As you're finishing the second quarter circle, you press all three punch buttons. So that's:Down, Down-Towards, Towards, Down, Down-Towards, Towards + Light Punch + Medium Punch + Hard Punch. (Sometimes written as QCF x 2 + 3P)."If you are playing as Ryu, his Ultra should not just be thrown out for fun," cautions Anil. "To maximise the move, try to use it after a successful focus attack, otherwise an opponent can easily jump over your Ultra fireball and punish you!"So Ultra moves are best to use when your opponent is stunned. They're also excellent for capitalising on your enemy's unforced errors. As Anil explains, "If an opponent misses a dragon punch attempt, press and hold MP + MK and time it so that you release the buttons as they hit the floor. If timed correctly, you will crumple them. When you see this, dash forwards by pressing towards twice quickly, and then execute an Ultra."Appreciate the art of counteringIt's not all attack, attack, attack. Success in Street Fighter IV is also about anticipating your opponent's moves. "Try to appreciate the space around your character, and the ranges where your moves extend to," says Anil. "If an opponent moves into any of these areas, you should counter appropriately. Also, try to think about moves that can nullify or beat an opponent's attacks. For example, if your enemy is throwing fireballs at you, use an EX fireball so that it passes through and hits them. Abel's air grab, performed by pressing Towards, Down, Down-Towards + Punch will grab your opponent from the air and slam them down to the ground."If in doubt, trainFighting a friend is a good way to learn, but to really start getting to grips with a character you need to use the Trial mode, found in the Challenge option. This teaches all the fundamental moves as well as basic, intermediate and advanced combos. Eventually, you'll learn how to connect moves together, and crucially, how to fool opponents by switching moves half way through – for example, breaking out of a special to perform a Focus Attack.In case of emergency, go cheapIf you've absolutely, positively got to show off a few hot moves before really getting to grips with the game, pick new charater, Abel. "He's great for looking flashy without requiring a high skill level to use," assures Anil. "His Tornado Throw is easy to perform but looks very cool. His Change of Direction move is also really flashy and yet is as easy to pull off as a regular fireball."There. Now fight!
Here's a little Friday afternoon treat for you. A couple of weeks ago,we threw togethera haphazard list of some of the many many games available from theGlobal Game Jamevent. A few weeks on, I thought it only right to compile a few more lists from around the web, vetted by the superbIndieGamesand the always awesome team atWired.The games are all free, and all available for download atGlobal Game Jam.Read upand play on. Next time, get involved!
What's your favourite piece of technology, and why?It's the same wretched answer that everyone's giving at the moment, the iPhone, but I love it. Before that, I would have had to say my portable DVD player. But I do absolutely adore my iPhone. I was a bit worried when I first got it, because I'd used the Palm for about 8 years, but it took me only a day to get used to it.How has it improved your life?I honestly can't think of any piece of technology that has genuinely improved my life. You become so reliant on it – I don't know if that's really much of an improvement.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning, I used it to check my diary and make a couple of calls. The last time I used it in an amazing way was when I was in New York at the weekend. I was looking for a bank, and used the application Around Me – it knows exactly where you are and lists everything around you in terms of banks, cinemas and shops, and tells you how to walk there.What additional features would you add if you could?I would love to be able to cut and paste on it – not being able to do so is incredibly annoying. And my Palm Pilot had a foldaway keyboard, which I'd like because you can use it like a little desktop. And I'd like a decent battery life, because mine is not great at all.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?It will be obsolete in 10 months' time, if not 10 weeks. It will be laughable when we look back on our technology in 10 years.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?Constantly back everything up – I think that's my golden rule, do it every day to keep all your data safe. And Apple are actually brilliant at all that.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Six of one, half a dozen of the other. I'm not a nerd, but I know what I know. I guess somewhere between the two. Like most blokes, I love a gadget.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The first time I bought a portable DVD player, when I was going away filming for three months. It cost me £800 which, at the time, was crazy expensive. Worth every penny, though. After that, the next most expensive was a home cinema projector, which I love.Mac or PC?Mac – always has been. The Mac Classic was my first, and it's just what I've always had. They're extraordinary, and have always led the way.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?100 Days, 100 nights by Sharon Jones, which is just incredible.Will robots rule the world?Nah, he said confidently, they might destroy the world but they will never rule it.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I love 3D – absolutely love 3D cinema. So I'd love a state-of-the-art 3D projection system at home.Andy Nyman played producer Patrick in Charlie Brooker's Dead Set, which is now available on DVD
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The answer, you might not be surprised to hear, is money.YesterdayBoxee, a much-lauded software startup that lets users turn their computers into web-surfing, social-networking media centres, revealed that it was going to bedropping support for Hulu, the popular American TV website. The decision, said Boxee founder Avner Ronen, came after a direct request fromHuluitself, which has proved highly successful since launching in 2007 (think the BBC's iPlayer with adverts).From a distance, the scrabble might seem like a minor issue – a spat between one large company and one small - but it illuminates how problematic the relationship between the TV industry and the internet still is.After all, not only was Ronen understandably miffed - but Jason Kilar, the chief executive of Hulu, also said he regretted the need to make the move."This has weighed heavily on the Hulu team,"he wrote, "[but] Our content providers requested that we turn off access to our content via the Boxee product, and we are respecting their wishes."So if both Hulu and Boxee didn't want to decouple, why did they do it?The short answer is straightforward, but the longer answer is not quite as clear. Still, one likely reason has been articulated by entrepreneur Marc Hedlund. Hisentirely plausible thesisis that the TV producers who support Hulu don't want to undermine the price of genuine television advertising."The only reason they're on Hulu is to make money from Heroes when you watch it online so Apple or Google doesn't make that money instead," he said.Put simply, it's about where you watch your TV.The television companies who support Hulu don't mind if you watch their shows on your computer through their website from time to time. It means they can stick adverts on it and recover cash that would (at best) only go to rivals like iTunes or YouTube.But the last thing TV companies want is for you to stop watching broadcast telly altogether and push internet streams onto your living room TV. Their lucrative live ads get switched out for inexpensive web ones – dealing another blow to their already struggling businesses.For the broadcast bigwigs, it seems, the internet is good for you as long as it's locked down – but once the handcuffs come loose they're not so happy.
TinyTrials from KemptChrist Kempt and Alex Lee met at Fine Art college. There, they dreamed of a world where advertising was interactive. Thus, Kempt was born.Their latest advergame isTinyTrials, a browser-based series of minigames similar in pace and lunacy to Nintendo's phenomenal Wario Ware. I invited them into the gamesblog's elevator to give us their pitch, and to celebrate the success of simplicity.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.TinyTrialsis a game that you can play online in a web-browser. It's made up of a collection of extraordinarily simple games which the user plays in quick succession. It's this frenetic pace which gives the game its character - the user must work out what the micro-game wants them to do and then play it as best they can, all in about 30 seconds. The user's performance in each micro-game is scored out of 100, which is then added to their running total.At the same time the user is competing with all the other people playing the game. The secondary challenge is to get good enough at the game to rise all the way to the top of the leader-board. This is no mean feat considering that at the moment the game peaks at about 1500 simultaneous players.How do players control the game?The games are either controlled by the mouse or the keyboard, the user is informed which before the start of each game via a simple Icon.What is your background?TinyTrials is one of a suite of games onTinyMania, a games site run by Kempt, the company we both work for. Kempt are a digital marketing agency that specialise in the conception, production and promotion of Advergames – casual games with an advertising message incorporated in some way.Our games are gigantically popular and spread infectiously around the Internet, engaging millions of people with the associated brand in the process. It's probably one of the most powerful forms of brand communications available right now; quite frankly it's scarily powerful when it's done well. As well as building Advergames we also build games for the love of it, TinyTrials is a labour of that love.Alex and I met at university in Canterbury where we both studied Fine Art of all things. One of us was quite talented...Name your competitors.At the moment, the world and his dog! Right now it feels like everyone wants a piece of the action. We're simultaneously competing for audience attention with everyone from the wonderful amateur developers atnewgrounds.comthrough to some of the largest advertising agencies in the world. With regard to the latter, I'm pleased to say we trounce them every time!How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?Today we peaked at nearly 1600 concurrent users, which, considering we launched just a week ago, is pretty damn good. In that week we've entertained 160,000 visitors, but in 12 months, who knows? Our more successful games still receive tens of thousands of visits a day years after launch but we're hoping that TinyTrials will be even better and continue to grow as we add new content. The next few months will be very exciting indeed.What's your biggest challenge?Remembering to keep things nice and simple. It's one of the great ironies of the games industry that everyone but the user seems to forget that simple is often best. The publishers, the journalists and even the reviews strive for bigger, better, faster, more but it's often the simplest ideas that make a great game. The Wii of course is a case in point but even from our own experience, the most successful game we've ever released, King of Defenders, was conceived in five minutes at the end of a long phone call with Will King (Founder of King of Shaves). To date that game has received in excess of 50 million visits worldwide, 3.8 million in the UK alone, making it - as far as I'm aware - the biggest trafficking Advergame ever recorded. Even I can scarcely believe it.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?A few years back we were working on a deadline for Sony. It was the night before we were due to deliver the project and I was working late to get the last bits and pieces done. All of a sudden the office was infested with a swarm of baby daddy long legs', a real Biblical plague. But still I sat there, working away and breathing in the little buggers. It was a disgusting experience.What's your distribution/publishing plan?Err... to be honest, we're not sure... we'll keep telling people about the game and hope that they like it, we'll seed it out (as we do with all our games) to drive traffic to it but fundamentally we'll keep adding silly, fun games into the mix. Build it and they will come...!Are indie games the latest killer app?Sitting down to the latest Rockstar sandbox game or Nintendo franchise blockbuster is always going to have huge appeal. But some of the stuff that people are publishing independently online is incredible; for example, Brad Borne's Fancy Pants Adventure 2 is a far better platform game than 90% of console releases. So, maybe indie games, at least those that are distributed online, are more like the soul of gaming, allowing free expression on the part of the maker and relying on a positive reception to gain popularity. It's still fundamentally a meritocracy, which is something that continues to drive my passion for the medium. Having said that, with the amount of "inspiration" that many Flash games draw from the 16-bit console era some might call it body snatching…Are you the next big thing?TinyTrials? Of course! Your kids will be wolfing-down TinyMania branded happy-meals before you know it! Well, maybe not, but we hope it will be really big.But if you mean us, Kempt that is, we're kind of part of the last big thing than no-one noticed was happening. At a conservative estimate the eight biggest games portals share a whopping 350 million users and to this date we're aware of another 700 significant portals. What's happened is that over the ten years since Tom Fulp effectively created the medium with the hilarious Pico's School, while venture capitalists were busy getting all sticky about Mobile, advertising agencies obsessed about how best to rip-off Burger King "Subservient Chicken" campaign, the Flash games community quietly went about its business, plagiarising, parodying but fundamentally innovating its way into being one of the biggest things on the web. And no-one noticed, until now!
The next time you line up a headshot through your sniper rifle, remember, it's not the inside view of your enemy's cranium that propels you to pull the trigger. According to a recent study from a team of psychologists at the University of Rochester, it's the sense of control and competence that motivates you.The team from the Centre for the Study of Violence released their findings in Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin last month. From the abstract,Six studies, two survey based and four experimental, explored the relations between violent content and people's motivation and enjoyment of video game play. Based on self-determination theory, the authors hypothesized that violence adds little to enjoyment or motivation for typical players once autonomy and competence need satisfactions are considered. As predicted, results from all studies showed that enjoyment, value, and desire for future play were robustly associated with the experience of autonomy and competence in gameplay. Violent content added little unique variance in accounting for these outcomes and was also largely unrelated to need satisfactions. The studies also showed that players high in trait aggression were more likely to prefer or value games with violent contents, even though violent contents did not reliably enhance their game enjoyment or immersion. Discussion focuses on the significance of the current findings for individuals and the understanding of motivation in virtual environments.Read morehere, and grab the article (subscription required)here.
I was away yesterday so didn't get a chance to mention the Nintendo DSilaunch announcement. You probably already know but Nintendo's updated version of the DS will launch in Europe on April 3rd – two days before the US! – priced at 149UKP.  The DSi has a sleeker design than the DS and adds a camera and SD card slot. Software will include picture editing and access to the DSi shop for games downloads. But what about the games?No launch titles have been announced yet although because of the casual audience the DS attracts this is probably less important than it once was.  Having said that core gamers are likely to be attracted to Chinatown Wars, the first DS incarnation of Grand Theft Auto.  The game is out a fortnight before the DSi launch and the UK boss of publishers Rockstar thinks the new handheld willboost sales of their gameand may attract Sony PSP owners to invest in a DSi.I think anyone releasing high profile titles on the DS will definitely benefit from that. We also think there is the potential to attract lots of new owners into the market, particularly from our fans who may have played our GTA titles on the PSP.So what do you think? Does the DSi have the specs to tempt you away from your PSP? Or will it take more games like Chinatown Wars before you get tempted? And what about current DS owners – are the hardware upgrades enough to tempt you to splash out on a DSi?
I expect most people suspected sales of Apple's premium-priced computers would come under pressure, given the dreadful state of the US economy, and that seems to be the case.The Wall Street Journalis reporting: "Apple Inc's unit sales of computers through US retail channels fell 6% in January from the same month in 2008, the first monthly decline in three years, according to market-research firm NPD Group."NPD analyst Stephen Baker said consumers are becoming more price-sensitive as the economic climate continues to worsen."Casual buyers or people who are trying to make a choice are trading down," Mr. Baker said.NPD reckons that Apple's retail market share, measured in units, fell from 16.4% to 13.7% in January 2008. "The firm estimates that the dollar value of Apple's sales through U.S. retail channels fell 11% during the month, faster than the decline in unit sales," says the WSJ. However, PC sales did not suffer as badly, thanks partly to the popularity of cheap netbooks. According to the story:NPD said unit sales of all brands of PCs rose 13% in January from a year earlier, but the dollar value of systems sold fell 3.2% as consumers bought less-expensive models. Hewlett-Packard Inc had the strongest showing in the month, while the company's PC unit shipment rose to a market share of 40.1% in January compared with 39.2% a year earlier.Although Dell is a major player in the US market, its sales are still mostly direct. At retail, HP's HP and Compaq brands are much stronger, and are outselling Macs by almost 3 to 1.AsJoe Wilcox has noted: "In January, the average [US] selling price for Macs was $1,488, compared with $586 for Windows PCs."This is the larger context in whichI suggested yesterdaythat it might make sense for Apple to offer a netbook, which would enable it to make some money on portables at a price point lower than $999.Apple may also come under further pressure when Windows 7 replaces Vista. Windows 7 is a very much easier, very much cheaper and far more compatible upgrade for XP users than switching to Mac OS X.Update: Writing separately, my colleague Charles Arthur has made a similar point inShould Apple make a netbook?but rather stronger than I'd put it:And there's another threat to Apple on the horizon: the upcoming Windows 7, which those who've tried it say is much more presentable and usable than Vista. If Microsoft can get Windows 7 out of the door in quick order, then the chance that Apple had to persuade people to switch from XP, or Vista, to Mac OS X will be gone.I share the view of Forrester analystIan Foggthat Apple has, in his words, "missed [the] opportunity to take vast slabs of share from Vista".He tweeted to me: "Disagree re Netbook, it's a red herring. But Apple is missing a once in 2 decades opportunity for a step change in Mac sales."Fact is, when Apple could have been taking real advantage of Vista, by selling cheaper Macs in higher volumes, it charged a large premium for Macs and trousered billions of dollars instead. I don't think there's as much opportunity with Windows 7 because if you already know Windows, it's a better option than OS X.
Two of the defendants in the Pirate Bay trial (#spectrial if you're following it on Twitter) gave evidence today in the case in a Swedish court. They said they don't read contracts they sign, don't check the speeches they write, and the law - well, what's the use of that?Fredrik Neij was questioned by lawyers for the music business, which is bringing a civil case in parallel with the criminal one being brought by the Swedish state prosecutor. Peter Danowsky, representing the music business, noted that Neij owns the Pirate Bay domain; there's a contract with his name where he says he'll oversee its operations."But I didn't read it," said Neij. (In a British court this would be a "dog ate my homework" excuse. And works just as badly.) How about his2006 speech(in Swedish) where he said the site had received threats from copyright owners? "I just read what someone had written," Neij, who says he is dyslexic, replied. He added that he thinks the site is legal.A telling slice of the examination:Prosecutor: But who decided what would be done?Neij: Everyone! Whoever thought that something needed to be done, did it.P: So no one had any overall control?N: No, why should it be needed?Then Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, dubbed the "datanörd" (yup, data nerd) took the stand. A prosecution line of questioning trying to get him to say who ran the site and who profited didn't garner much; he insisted it was not a top-down business, but instead a "project" where volunteers would come and go.So: not a great deal of excitement to report. But that's how trials often go: drama at the start, and then it settles down into a long, slow crescendo as the prosecution builds its case - followed by the diminuendo and then crescendo as the defence buildsitscase. And then a quick bit of parry and thrust, and then judgement. Set your watches for April...
In the same week asthe European Union gave computer games the A-OK, declaring them 'good for children', a new and rather excitingschoolopened its doors in New York to the public, celebrating the art of learning through play.The brainchild ofGamelaband the team who brought us theRules of Playand supported by the MacArthur Foundation and other innovative, forward-thinking enterprises, theQuest Schoolis a public school for 6-12th graders (12-18 year olds) that promotes:the play, analysis, and creation of games, as a foundation for learning, innovation, and change in the 21st century. Through a variety of programs centered on game design, the Institute engages audiences of all ages, exploring new ways to think, act, and speak through gaming in a social world.That means they'll be learning about collaboration, problem-solving and innovation by usingDigital games, videogames, mobile games, board games, paper-based games, collectable card games, big games, pervasive games, ARGs, slow games, fast games, and everything in between.I officially want to be a kid again.Now, before you start dismissing the Quest team as a bunch of hippies, recognise that they have a firmly established pedagogical model that hasagain and again proven its worth(pdf). They're also very realistic about the needs of learners:Quest balances traditional academic needs with a belief that students today can and do learn in different ways, often through work with digital media, games, online networks, and mobile technologies. Kids today use digital media as part of their everyday interactions—their learning should too.More from the Quest School can be foundhere.Originally found onHASTAC.
Earlier this week,I postedabout Google's decision to finally open up the Android Market to paid-for applications - the system is ready now, apparently, although they all still appear to be free at the moment. It'll be interesting to see what the immediate effect is, when developers do start charging. Obviously we'll see a lot more publishers moving into the space. Currently, Namco Bandai, Glu, Gamevil and SquareEnix are there, but most of them with just one or two games - and old ones at that.Coming soon are Guitar Hero World Tour Mobile, Tetris (although there are a couple of bootleg variations on the store already), Who Wants to Be a Millionaire and Monopoly. European publisher Connect2Media haspromised12 titles including Go! Go! Rescue squad, the hugely promising fire-fighting platformer that I mentioned inmy iPhone featurelast week.All well and good, but the interesting thing about Android Market at the moment is the genuine community feel...Most of the games are by lone coders who are happy to provide their email addresses for constructive feedback. I've seen several titles that have already gone through several iterations thanks to user feedback. Also, whenever you click on a game in the menu, you get a chunk of intro text from the author, which often provide an illuminating glimpse into the haphazard dev process; with one particularly bug-riddled demo the programmer acknowledges that his product isn't really ready for public consumption, but claims he was too excited by the prospect of getting it online.It's definitely easy to use the Market, though the general presentation is nowhere near as slick as iPhone. From the phone's main screen, you can just touch and slide up a menu tab at the base of the display to bring up your control panel, then just hit the Market icon. You get a choice of Applications or Games - select the latter and the menu offers All games, Arcade and Action, Brain and Puzzle, Cards and Casino or Casual. Not sure if many mainstream phone users get the use of the latter term, it feels more like an industry typecasting of a non-specialist demographic. I mean, do many people call themselves casual gamers?Once you're in you can search by popularity or date - just like iPhone. It's frustrating that there's no option to search by ratings (the highest reviewed games aren't always the most popular...), but there aren't enough games on here for that to be a problem just yet. Downloading is really quick; an icon in the top left of the screen shows that a download is in process - if you touch that and drag down, you get a progress report.So anyway, what's worth playing at the moment? Here are five suggestions...Pac-Man (Namco Bandai)Obvious, but there you go. It's not the best mobile implementation of the arcade classic; it doesn't, for example, boast the excellent Bluetooth multiplayer mode found in the Remastered edition of the game which is now available on Java handsets. There are a variety of control methods, including swiping the screen and using the accelerometer - neither is particularly well implemented, indeed the latter demands that you twist the handset virtually on its side to tempt Pac-Man to move. However, this is Pac-Man so as long as you don't mind playing with the phone's weenie trackball controller, it's a must.Bonsai Blast (Glu)A beautifully presented Zuma clone, with decent use of the touch controls - you need to jab the screen where you want your coloured ball to be fired. Great background scenery, all the power-ups you'd expect and nice music too. An essential puzzler, that proves iPhone won't have everything its own way when it comes to visually arresting casual titles.Retro Defense Light (Larva Labs Ltd)A basic Tower Defense-style game that users vector-like visuals for a decent retro look. You can build a variety of coloured towers, each more effective against different enemies. It's also possible to upgrade your towers, giving them a wider targeting area, for example.Aevum Obscurum (Noble Master Games)A reasonably complex turn-based strategy game where the aim is to expand your territory on a Risk-like environment. The visuals are basic and the instructions and interface aren't that intuitive so it's not always clear exactly what you're doing or what you're able to do within a turn. Once you get the hang of it though, moving troops, building towers and fortifying cities is quite compelling.Labyrinth Lite (Illusion Labs)Just a really simple ball and maze game, but the accelerometer implementation is very good (much better than Pac-Man) and the levels are well designed. Not quite Super Monkey Ball, but it'll do for now.
Now we can all laugh about it, but just two weeks ago the country was lost under several centimetres of snow and it looked very much as though society was about to collapse like a shivering OAP in front of a barely functioning radiator.But how did Chatterbox contributors - the few that could make it to their computers through the howling winds and relentless blizzards - record those tumultuous days? Fantomex was unavailable to record this epic period having lost his broadband connection to a 'strimmer incident'.Instead, Imperfect Rex leapt into the fray, with no thoughts for his own personal safety, or indeed the safety of our readers. Here then is a much-reduced Best Of service, cobbled together at short notice, but yet still more reliable than the British transport infrastructure...Take it away, Rex. No really, take it away...Part one - winter strikesSnow almost stopped play at the start of the week but being able to 'work from home' ensured a steady stream of chat. Various newspapers quoted that one in five people couldn't get to work due to the adverse weather. If I were to name everyone who didn't make it in (and I will), the ingenuity and excuse-making of the Chatterbox regulars is above average.Take a bow, Sheep2, amipal, Zelos, Shewrog2, Fantomex, smellavision, chubster2010, Smike, Sorbicol, Manic, CheddarFrenzy, makar27, boozy, Crispycrumb, Timmmy and Be4ch.The rest of us struggled on through snow and ice to keep the economy afloat...Part Two - sensible debateA few regulars were able to download the Resident Evil 5 demo while 'snowed in'. Control, inventory, camera angle and difficulty issues aside,M33nanposteda link from Eurogamerthat started some debate.Obviously the issue of racism is sensitive, and the Chatterbox posse stepped up admirably. As you would expect, there were some differences in opinion but it was good to see a sensible discussion (for the most part).M33nanstarted off with some details on the Eurogamer preview: "Very refreshing to see that EG actually understands the racism controversy. And they make very strong hints that the game contains even more ill-advised imagery than we may previously suspected."chubster2010was first to respond: "I thought they were talking nonsense. Why is it racist to set a game in Africa? Capcom seem to have made some concessions (by populating RE5 with Chinese and middle eastern zombies), but I don't see why they should have done so. It's nonsense. RE5 is no more racist or shocking than something like Call of Duty WAW, or COD4. Africa is the setting so therefore there are a lot of black zombies. What's the problem?"davefalse:"From reading the EG preview it did seem to imply there were moments where you were fighting black people who weren't showing symptoms of the 'zombie disease'. Hard to know what to make of it at the moment until the game is released."Art1eFufkin:"From that article, the issue isn't that black people are being portrayed as zombies, it's that ordinary Africans are being portrayed as violent and primitive. If that is true, then it is concerning."HumofEvil:"Since none of us have played the whole game through it does seem hard to judge, my view is that it isn't racist to have a majority of the enemies be black if it is set in a country with a majority black population."chubster2010:"Are you saying that black people should not be able to be featured in video games - especially as 'the bad guy' - because of old prejudices? Should Africa be a no-go area for games developers? How offensive would it be to say to someone of African origin - 'We would like to use you're likeness as a zombie in this game, but because of the whole race issue, I don't think we can...'. I think there's only racism there if you're looking for it."cagool:"Seems that Capcom have been a bit thoughtless rather than racist. They seem to be following the formula of RE4 (in that game you saw a mob setting fire to a person in the village before you knew that they were infected) without thinking of the context."MajorDeCoverley:"It's all about perception - can something be inherently racist (or sexist, sizeist, etc) or does it only become racist if someone perceives it as such? Personally I don't think the game is racist but I can see how it could be viewed that way. Capcom should have been a bit more aware of how it was likely to be interpreted by others."shadyMrPatch:"Unfortunately certain sensationalist media franchises DO look for this kind of stuff everywhere. Computer games are seen as a particularly soft target. I played the demo and the 'Zombie Outbreak in Africa = Black Zombies' seemed perfectly logical*, to other people however they will see black people portrayed as shambling, mindless killers."*as logical as any Zombie outbreak can be... (ImperfectRex - of course it's logical. Have you staked a claim on your anti-zombie weapon of choice yet?)Part three - quotes of the week"Me and my neighbour had went to check to see if my overflow pipe had been leaking, because someone's in the building is. So we go to my water tank, which is in like a little cupboard above my kitchen. He goes up first, lifts off the top and screams. Resting at the bottom was some form of decomposed rodent. I shit you not, taking that thing out was the worst thing i have ever ever done in my life.'cameroon95 and the closed-tank rat mystery."Does anyone know if it's frowned on to wear balaclavas in public these days? Was quite tempted this morning, but chickened out at the last minute"alfienoakes fails to explain why he has a balaclava. And no, it's not acceptable unless you're seven years old and it's the 1970s."I'm just jealous really. It's cold. I don't like it - my eyebrows are frozen."MajorDeCoverley on commuting through the snow rather than staying at home."Its important that i re-post this, apparently being relieved of your nuts adds 13 years to a male's lifespan. much more than giving up cigarettes. poor excuse to keep smoking but essential news none the less."I have no idea where mollocate was going with this."Our dog ate half a big bar of Galaxy this morning after stealing it from a table. What's the deal with chocolate being poisonous to dogs? Should I be concerned? And back to chocolate blog, what's the most effective chocolate for poisoning dogs with?"piratejuice giveth and piratejuice taketh away.Part four - any other businessLink of the week:NHS is exploiting my life, claims transsexual.Birthdays:chubster2010 turned 30 on Wednesday. Smellavision offered some advice: 'Happy birthday Chubster - @ 30's - invest in a good nasal hair remover. You won't regret it.'New bloggers (they came, they saw, they posted. And we havent heard too much from them since):Jessdoll, shadyMrPatch, kaylim, diplomatt.You're all very welcome to post again. No guarantees that you'll get another Best of.. mention but only one way to find out.The Chatterbox libel list:Christian Bale, Mel B, Paris Hilton, Brooke Hogan, ITV, Geoff HoonFood (with a decided crisp bent this week):Chocolate-covered Oreos, Cajun Squirrel, Chocolate &amp; chilli, Builders breakfast, Onion bhaji crisps, Curly Wurlys, Drifter, McCoys, Bacon fries, Mango chilli kettle chips, Dragon Puffs, Salt n shake, Monster Munch, Discos, Lion bars, Caramac, Walkers Sensations, Picnic, Brannigans beef &amp; mustard, Chipsticks, BBQ Pringles, dry-roasted peanuts, Chomp, Freddo, Tayto cheese &amp; onion (Go smellavision!), baked camembert.Games:Killzone 2 , Chrono Trigger, PES, Mario Kart, World of Goo, Fallout 3, Lego Star Wars, WoW, Resistance 2, Resident Evil 5, COD:WaW, LittleBigPlanet, FF13, Guitar Hero:World Tour, Uncharted, Burnout, Skate 2, Moto GP07, Saints Row 2, Devil May Cry4, Motorstorm2, Heavenly Sword, Wipeout, Bioshock, SF2HD, Fable 2, Far Cry 2, FEAR2, Halo3, MassEffect, Mario 64, Rogue Squadron, Commandoes, Return to Castle Wolfenstein, Metal Gear Solid, Sega Rally, Left4Dead, Rockband, Team Fortress 2, Street Fighter 4, No More Heroes, Oblivion, Mortal Kombat, Zack &amp; Wiki, Mirror's Edge, Battlefield:Bad Company, Halo Wars, Battlefield 1943,Movies:Gone Baby Gone, the Wrestler, Revolutionary Road, X-Files, The Goonies, In Bruges, Wall-E, Indiana Jones, Iron Man, The Mist, The Host, The Descent, Slumdog Millionaire, Max Payne, My Bloody Valentine, Dr Horrible, Predator, Transporter 2, The Orphanage, The Machinist, Groundhog Day, Hellraiser.TV:The Superbowl, Louis Theroux in Johannesburg, Good Arrows, Masterchef, Oz &amp; James, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Paris Hiltons BBF, Hogan Knows Best, Living with Alzheimers, BNP Wives, Question Time.
