
Twitter has introduced the ability for some users to create polls within its mobile app and desktop site during a significant feature trial.The polling feature, which takes the form of a two-option choice, has been rolled out to Twitter staffers and certain – but not all – verified accounts.The feature works natively and is embedded into the tweet itself. It is not compatible with third-party apps or clients such asHootsuiteorTweetdeck.Twitter has released a standard statement confirming the experiment but not elaborating on whether polls will be introduced for all users or permanently.All users can participate in a poll, but just a few can create them. At the moment, it appears the polls have a lifespan of 24 hours, and tweeters are informed of how long is left to vote, and how many people have voted – as well as the results in percentage.For those who have access to the feature, a poll can be created by clicking on a small piechart in the right hand corner when drafting a tweet.Who&#39;s got the new Twitter Poll feature then?pic.twitter.com/jQiE4ejYzO&mdash; Matt (@MattNavarra)September 24, 2015@fredwilsonto all who asked how i created that poll, i went to the tweet field on twitter&#39;s web client, selected poll, and wrote the tweet&mdash; Fred Wilson (@fredwilson)September 24, 2015So far, reaction has been mostly positive, and the polls have proved to be good for brand engagement and follower interaction with many people participating and a high level of retweets.Cool use of@twitter&#39;s new poll feature from the@RAIDERS: Letting fans vote for the content they want.#smsportspic.twitter.com/AunmpZJjnc&mdash; Jessica Smith (@WarJessEagle)September 25, 2015New Twitter poll feature makes for some great#fanengagementas seen on@ESPNNFLpic.twitter.com/yKX2RqsAeq&mdash; WePlay (@WePlayCo)September 25, 2015Questions have ranged from the practical to the banal to the meta to the absurd:Are you about to go to bed?#TestingTwitterPolls&mdash; Raheel Khursheed (@Raheelk)September 24, 2015can u see this twitter poll&mdash; ಠ_ಠ (@MikeIsaac)September 24, 2015Would you rather travel 100 years into the...&mdash; Ryan Hoover (@rrhoover)September 25, 2015The complaints about polls so far focus on the lack of third-party integration and the rather more pressing concern that in timelines and embedded tweets (see above) polls only show up as a text question without the interactive element. In a situation as with the last tweet embeddedabove, this can even render the tweet nonsensical. Here’s how that tweet looks on the Twitter mobile and desktop apps:However, given that the feature is on trial, it is to be expected that these issues would be ironed out if given a full release.Twitter has built in poll support now? Tweetdeck pls add this&mdash; Sleepy (@SleepyJirachi)September 25, 2015Today in Twitter: create a poll product, give no indication at all that a tweet is using it.pic.twitter.com/jYMDHXjPbx&mdash; Benedict Evans (@BenedictEvans)September 24, 2015Aaaand of course the Twitter poll thing can&#39;t be seen in either Tweetdeck or the official Twitter for Mac client#figures&mdash; Mathew Ingram (@mathewi)September 24, 2015Perhaps the most important impact Twitter polls will have is as follows:The new Twitter poll feature will turn &quot;RT for A, Fav for B&quot; tweets obsolete.&mdash; Pangeran (@pangeransiahaan)September 25, 2015This isn’t the first time Twitter has experimented with polls. In 2014, users were given the chance tovote on Oscars favouritesvia a poll provided by Poptip, but that function was only available on the mobile app. Twitter’sown @support accounthas also utilised polls to receive user feedback before now.@tmcmill81they have played with Twitter cards for polls for years. Still no official open access card for all to use.&mdash; Matt (@MattNavarra)August 17, 2015The new feature could really boost engagement, and fits with the online media trend of publications offering readers’ polls. It could even be used to gauge public opinion on certain issues, whether that be politics or entertainment events, such as reality TV shows or, as already mentioned, the Oscars.Some, however, have posited that a proliferation of polls could become annoying.So, what do you make of the Twitter’s polls?Do you:a) Like them?b) Think they’re a waste of time?
From the outside, it looks like an enormous grey warehouse. Inside, there is a hint of the movie Bladerunner: long cavernous corridors, spinning computer servers with flashing blue lights and the hum of giant fans. There is also a long perimeter fence. Is its job to thwart corporate spies? No – it keeps out the moose.Related:Data centre emissions rival air travel as digital demand soarsWelcome tothe Node Pole, a hi-tech hub in Luleå, northern Sweden, and the site of Facebook’s first datacentre outside the US. The warehouse opened in 2013 and is set amid a green pine forest, lakes and an archipelago. The Arctic Circle is just down the road. A second centre next door is due to be completed later this year.Facebook has four giant datacentres in the US,its newest at Fort Worth in Texas. The construction of the Swedish data halls is in response to the huge amounts of electronic data being generated around the world, at a rate that doubles roughly every 18 months.In Facebook’s case, this means 350m photographs a day, 4.5bn likes and 10bn messages. The chances are that if you upload a selfie in London, or post a status update in Paris, your data will be stored in Luleå, home to migrating reindeer and the northern lights. Pull up a 2008 photo and it will be conjured from a server here too, with data storage now a multi-billion dollar industry.According to Facebook, its Luleå warehouse is themost energy efficient computing facilityever built. It is cold in the Node Pole: winter averages -20C (-4F). Freezing air from outside is pumped into the building. It acts as a natural coolant, with hot air generated by the servers circulating out. Walls of axial fans keep temperatures constant.The location was also chosen for its electricity supply. A century ago, Sweden began building hydroelectric dams for its steel, iron ore and pulp and paper industries. These have declined – though Luleå’s waterfront steel mill is still in business – leaving the northern region, Norrland, with a power surplus. Facebook’s datacentre uses as much energy as the steel plant.Related:Inside Facebook's Swedish datacentre – a visual tourAccording to Tom Furlong, Facebook’s vice president of infrastructure, the company has done a heck of a good job with energy efficiency. The goal, he says, is to run its datacentres on 50% clean and renewable energy by 2018. What about funnelling heat into a swimming pool? Furlong said Facebook thought about the idea but decided it was uneconomic.The Luleå warehouse is vast, 300 metres wide by 100 metres long, and the size of four football fields, with three protruding square diesel generators, in the unlikely event the grid fails. Furlong said: “Architecturally, these are big buildings. They are not the Shard in London or Freedom Tower in New York, but as buildings put up for a purpose they are pretty darned good.”Inside, the warehouse mixes Sweden with California. There is a six-sided snowflake with Facebook’s logo in the middle; colourful paintings of reindeer hang in reception; a blue graffitied Facebook covers a large wall above a bank of screens. Clocks give the time at the other data hubs in North Carolina, Iowa and Oregon. Most of the 150 employees are locals, and a team of cleaners trundle constantly around the complex.Ville Sjögren, 28, the lead technician, says: “It’s exciting here. We’re at the front edge of technology. You get to see new stuff.” Sjögren was repairing a broken server on row 28B, holding a new memory stick. The servers – housed in endless black racks – were made using theopen compute project, an initiative where tech companies share the designs of their datacentre products.The site manager, Joel Kjellgren, said Luleå had proved a great location. During the winter he sometimes skiied to work; one Facebook employee turned up on a snowmobile. Staff went ice-fishing together. Kjellgren says: “Two weeks ago, I was biking home and there was a northern lights display. I stopped my bike and took a photo. You get really clear, crisp winters.”The computer servers are housed in endless black racks with twinkling blue lights. Photography by David Levene for the GuardianThe arrival of Facebook has put Luleå on the map. A delegation from the town flew to California in 2009 to meet with Silicon Valley executives. Matz Engman, the CEO of Luleå business and economic development, said that for the next two years, he lived on US west coast time – a nine-hour difference – as he lobbied to make the Node Pole a reality.The marketing slogan was the work of a canny PR firm in Stockholm. Such was the secrecy involved that Engman used a codename to discuss the Facebook warehouse: Project Gold. The town also pitched the fact that Sweden isone of the most secure and stable places in the world. Its last formal war was in 1814; seismic activity is extremely low.Still, the Facebook project almost fell through. One local environmentalist said the new datacentre would damage birdlife, including the rare three-toed Swedish woodpecker that nests nearby. The Social Democrat-run municipality dismissed his objection. The town beat off competition from a rival in mid-Sweden and another in Norway. Facebook spent hundreds of millions of dollars on the building. Five other companies have now set up datacentres nearby.The datacentre in Luleå, northern Sweden, is Facebook’s first outside the US.Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianEngman says: “This is a completely different city. It’s given us a tremendous sense of pride and self-belief. This should never have happened here.” Facebook’s co-founder, Mark Zuckerberg, has yet to drop by. But in 2012, he used the website tolike a giant thumbs up built from ice and erected in a park.The photo went viral, attracting 1,000 likes a minute, and flooding Luleå’s normally sleepy civic webpages with global traffic.Facebook has also transformed the town’s sensibility. Traditionally, northern Sweden is known for its gritty working class and laconic residents who say little and sometimes breathe loudly to signify yes. In the past, the cultural traffic has all been in one direction: from the sparsely populated north to the milder south, with its greater job opportunities.The entrance to Facebook’s datacentre, where the interior design mixes Sweden with California.Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianNow, the flow is in the other direction. The numbers applying for computer science courses at Luleå’s technical university have gone up, according to Peter Peter Parnes, a professor there whose own company was bought by Google. There are also new hotels and restaurants in Luleå’s small centre, including a fancy grillhouse where for 400 Swedish krona you can eat moose. (It was delicious, more tender than you might expect).Outside the datacentre, meanwhile, is a single bike adorned with the Facebook logo. Given the long, dark winters and sub-zero temperatures, would it not make sense to have a Facebook snowmobile instead? Zuckerberg would surely like that too. Kjellgren replies: “I’ve had numerous requests for a branded Facebook snowmobile. We do get two metres of snow. I’m thinking about it.”Luke Harding flew to Luleå as a guest of Facebook
Remember a time before Twitter? Before Facebook? The internet used to be a completely different place.Onthis week’s episode of Updog, a podcast about the internet, we talk about things we used to get up to on the internet: from angsty LiveJournal blogs and Harry Potter fanfiction towhether or not the stairs in your house are protectedorthe Narwhal bacons at midnight.Related:What are your memories from the internet? Your GuardianWitness contributionsAnd now, we’d like to hear from you: when you were younger, what did you used to get up to on the internet? Do you understand how One Direction fans feel because you too were part of a fandom? Were you a Myspace celebrity? Or are we just not going far enough back into internet history to cover your internet past?Whatever web community you were a part of, we’d like to know about it. We’ll use the best stories in a future episode of Updog. Share your stories with GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue button. You can also use the Guardian app, just search for “GuardianWitness assignments.”Want to follow future episodes of Updog? Good! You can follow us on Twitter @Updogcastand new episodes are posted every week on Fridays.GuardianWitness is the home of reader content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication.
The now-yearly queue for the new iPhone release was back again, but outside Apple’s Covent Garden store – the biggest in Europe – the mass of people queuing for the just released iPhone 6S wasn’t quite as big as last year.Some die-hard fans queued overnight to be the first few to get their hands on thenew iPhone 6S or 6S Plus, of course. Front of the queue was 29-year-old Sam Shaikh, from Stratford, who had camped outside the store “since 8.30pm on Monday night” and had been the first in line for theiPhone 6 last year.But the metal barriers erected in the cobbled streets in front of the store were not full to bursting, as they were last year and the year before. The scene in London was described by onlookers as “a lot less hectic”.Queue at the Covent Garden Apple Store. Security guard says it seems they were expecting more people.#iphone6sLivepic.twitter.com/EMV5jrK0On&mdash; Liza Hearon (@hello_liza)September 25, 2015Estimates put the queue at around 400 people strong by the time the doors opened at 8am; an impressive number for any launch butfar short of the 1,000 or so that queued last year.Does that mean the appeal of the iPhone 6S was just not big enough to drag as many people onto the streets overnight as last year’s iPhone?Tick, tockThe iPhone 6S is the “tock” in Apple’s two-year “tick, tock” update cycle. Once every two years – the “tick” year – the design of the smartphone changes making it look like a new phone. In the alternate, “tock” year the outside stays the same while Apple upgrades the internal components. The iPhone 6 was the tick with a larger screen, the iPhone 6S is the tock.The new iPhone 6S and larger 6S Plus have a new pressure sensitive “3D Touch” screen, improved camera, quicker fingerprint scanner and faster processor, but they essentially look the same as last year’s models – save for a new pink colour.Early reviews were positive, but revealed that Apple had failed to address a major pain point for consumers: short battery life.New iphone day. Whisper it, but they might not have needed the barrier.pic.twitter.com/fjlgkUhYq1&mdash; Janine Gibson (@janinegibson)September 25, 2015Smaller queues could show a couple of things. First that buyers might not be quite as eager this time around. Apple claims the new iPhone is looking set to beat the 10m sold of last year’s iPhone 6 with the first few days.Perhaps queuing overnight has lost the allure it once had when that was the only way to guarantee being one of the first in the country to buy one. But queueing is not the only way to buy one and hasn’t been for several years, leaving only the die-hard fans or those looking to flip the devices and sell them for a profit.Apple opens up pre-orders on its online store several days after announcing its smartphones. Typically pre-order delivery times quickly increase. This year, however, Apple either had enough stock in place to deliver many more new iPhones to buyers on launch day or the demand was not quite as big. Only in the last week has the delivery time increased to one-to-two weeks.Hive of activity...ish. It&#39;s no iPhone 4, is it? ;-)pic.twitter.com/ZqJhEoF6Yv&mdash; Dan Grabham (@dangrabham)September 25, 2015Buyers can also reserve and iPhone for purchase in store, like many other shops offering “click and collect”, which means there isn’t quite such the urgency to rush to the shops.Whatever the reason, and we won’t know until Apple reveals sales numbers, the queues are not as massive and the streets in front of various Apple stores around the country are not quite as clogged as they once were.Apple iPhone 6S and 6S Plus review roundup: stronger, faster, heavieriOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?Why Apple shouldn’t be selling a 16GB iPhone 6S or 6S Plus
Soma is a horror game that should try to act less like a horror game. Taking place in a remote underwater research facility, it plays on fears of the deep sea, of drowning and darkness and the disturbing alien lifeforms that dwell down there – all a welcome change from the mansions and asylums that tend to haunt horror titles. But the sea is rarely a threat – the ocean floor is often just a beautiful corridor between the underwater bases in which you experience more traditional horror gaming fare: ie running away from monsters. The thing is, this game is horrifying enough without them.Soma is essentially an existential nightmare about personal identity. “Soma” is Greek for “body”, as in “psychosomatic”, but the question Soma asks is whether identity can continue through psychology alone.Early in the game, the player character comes across a robot that’s convinced it’s human, specifically that it’s the person whose memories occupy its robotic brain. Whether or not you believe that psychological continuity ensures personal identity, to progress you have to disable the robot, potentially killing a person who’s aware of your actions. As in The Swapper, in which you solve puzzles by creating clones of your character that you then kill, the interactivity makes this philosophical exploration far more impactful than the same topic considered in a book or a film.If at times the point is hammered home a little too strongly by Simon, the protagonist, wondering aloud to himself or to guide Catherine, the personality of the characters makes up for it. Simon’s reactions are admirably authentic, sometimes overwhelmed but mostly determined and with a sense of humour that might sound inappropriate but seems a realistic survival mechanism. Catherine is rational, reassuring, but with her own interests beyond those of the player character. Their relationship threads through the story and holds it together in a way that pure environmental storytelling might not.That said, the world of Soma is absolutely full of detail. Each underwater base tells a different part of the story. Interaction with some objects will trigger audio clips of past conversations, a standard for exploratory games that’s actually given a reasonable explanation in this one. But you also get a lot of information just by looking around, from big scenes like a bloody corpse with a drill in its hand to smaller touches like a game of hangman with the answer “quantum mechanics”.There are plenty of notes and log entries to read, and an explorative player can piece together a surprising amount of detail given that in many horror stories fear comes from the unknownPhotograph: FrictionalImportant items need to be discovered and collected, but there’s also a third way to interact with the world. Like Amnesia: Dark Descent, Soma is a tactile game. You don’t click to open a door but click and hold then drag the mouse to push or pull. Finding a voice recorder feels like more of an achievement, the audio clip more of a narrative reward, when you physically yanked open a drawer to see it. This system is also used to solve puzzles, as you pick up and drag a cable to plug it in elsewhere, or throw something heavy at a window to shatter it.The detailed environments and methods of interaction make Soma feel at times like a “walking simulator”, but progress from area to area is much more involved than in the likes of Gone Home or Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture. While some tasks are familiar, like moving a battery from socket to socket to open doors (a process obviously designed to allow the time needed for the concurrent conversation between Catherine and Simon), others are unique. At one point, Simon has to do some programming, enabling and disabling components of a program without enough memory for all of them when each relies on the inclusion of others.Sometimes it’s unclear what exactly you’re supposed to do next, but you can’t stray too far off course and a bit of wandering around will eventually lead you to the necessary action. Occasional confusion is an acceptable trade off for the welcome variety in your tasks, which reinforces the strength of the narrative and maintains interest throughout the 10 or so hours of play.Naturally, the end goal is to escape, but what stands in your way is the game’s one slightly disappointing adherence to horror norms. The monsters. Each new area is inhabited by a roving unkillable beastie so you must perform each task while staying hidden.Frictional Games has a history with this kind of horror, and on a basic level it works: crouching in a corner while a mutated silhouette in the doorway scans the shadows is tense. But the first time a monster gets you, the effect is immediately lessened. One hit won’t kill; instead, the player character will awaken in the same spot with a limp and a blur to his vision that makes the world look like it’s been RGB split in After Effects. If you’re hit again before you can heal you’ll die. Disturbingly, you heal through interaction with flesh-like orifices scattered around the environment. Initially, you just have to touch them but with time, you need to insert a finger, then a fist, prompting violent contractions. Some players will find this much more disturbing than the monsters.While it’s a shock the first time something rushes towards you and the screen goes black, the fear soon gives way to frustration. More frustrating though is the fact that these monster jump scares seem so unnecessary – it’s as if the developer threw them in after worrying that they were deviating too far from horror game conventions. There’s a narrative explanation for their presence, but its resolution is unsatisfactory. The tension would have been increased if their existence remained hinted at for most of the adventure, rather than resorting to regimented sections of hide and seek.With such interesting interactions above and beyond the continual exploration and discovery, these monster sections just feel totally unnecessary. Worse than that, their existence makes other parts of the game seem duller: because you have to carry out tasks in a rush before you’re spotted and repeat them if you’re hit, those evocative environments are often reduced to mere mazes.Soma tells an affective tale and carries the horror genre a few steps forward. Had Frictional shown the courage to shake off tradition entirely, it could have carried it further still.Frictional; PC(version tested)/PS4; £23; Pegi: 16+
“A 25 year old man that acts like a hyperactive adolescent on speed – no thanks … I hope his camera falls on his foot and his toe goes septic … Some arsehole talking shit while playing games … an annoying bell-end … He’s absolutely obnoxious … basically the Pitbull of YouTube; nobody knows anyone that likes them, but inexplicably they’re huge … I feel old.”PewDiePie certainly divides opinion: those are all real comments posted on Guardian articles about the YouTube star Felix Kjellberg over the past 18 months. Yet he has plenty of fans too:39.5 million subscribers to his channel, where his gaming videos have been watched more than 10.2bn times.It’s those fans who Kjellberg’s new mobile game – PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist – is aimed at. Yet a fair few of those critics would enjoy it if they gave it a try: this is a carefully crafted touchscreen platformer that knows its gaming history, and which shuns in-app purchases in favour of an emphasis on player skills.The game itself sees PewDiePie and (once unlocked) a number of his fellow YouTube stars setting off on a quest to defeat a barrel king and his barrel army, although you’ll encounter falling killer whales, flying unicorns, dinosaurs and exploding cows along the way.The YouTubers include fellow gamers Markiplier, JackSepticEye and Kjellberg’s real-life partner Marzia, who provide their own voices for the intermissions between the levels.PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist.The feel is retro with 8-bit-style graphics and a chiptune soundtrack, and there are plenty of references to games and YouTube culture, from Minecraft Endermen and a snowbound Donkey Kong to an achievement earned for killing 301 enemies – “301+” being the number that YouTube’s view-counter famously used to get stuck on shortly after new videos went live.The controls involve a floating, virtual analog-stick wherever your left thumb touches the screen, and jumping triggered by a tap of your right thumb on the other side. On-screen buttons trigger special attacks and defences bought within the game’s “Pants” (ie shop) section.This is where Brofist eschews the freemium mechanics that now dominate mobile gaming. The game costs £3.99 up front with no in-app purchases, so to buy new characters and upgrades, you have to earn the in-game “Brocoins” currency purely by collecting them within the game.The upgrades appear as you discover them within the game, with early examples including a crab that heals three of your life hearts; the ability to slow down time; and a farting pug attack – PewDiePie and Marzia’s pet dogs are present and correct, fans will be pleased to know.Downsides? Touchscreen platform controls are one of the most difficult mechanics to nail in mobile gaming, and while Legend of the Brofist does a very good job, there’s still the occasional frustration missing a jump; accidentally tapping a power-up activation button; or realising that your left thumb is obscuring your view.The game’s difficulty is also worth noting: it has three difficulty levels, and even the “easy” one is pretty hard. That said, the punishing higher levels, plus the inclusion of features like spikes that kill you instantly and the challenge of leaping between moving platforms with touchscreen controls, will be a selling point for many gamers.Plus, they should make for some good Let’s Play videos in the coming weeks, as will the game’s “survival arena” mode for competing against friends.If you see PewDiePie as an annoying bell-end who deserves a sceptic toe, you’re unlikely to shell out £3.99 on his game – even if its quality means you’d probably enjoy it much more than you do his videos.Equally, if you’re one of his fans, this is £3.99 well spent, with plenty of potential for replayability using the different characters and power-ups, as well as taking on the higher difficulty levels.For everyone else, the most encouraging thing here is that one of the world’s most popular YouTubers could have simply cashed in on his fame by taking a big cheque for a derivative freemium title – but didn’t.The resulting game is much better than that – and thankfully, alotmore fun than listening to a Pitbull record.PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist costs £3.99for Androidandfor iOS.•YouTube star CaptainSparklez starts crafting mobile games
If you’ve been using Facebook recently, it may be time to ask for a raise. According to newfigures from market-research website eMarketer, you’ve made the company over 20% more this year than you did in 2014.The average Facebook user now generates $12.76 in advertising revenue every year, according to the analytics firm, up from $10.03 the year before. That figure is expected to rise still further, to $17.50 in 2017.If you don’t use Facebook, you may be earning Twitter money instead. The company makes $7.75 per user, up from $5.48 last year, and its average revenue per user (ARPU) is expected to almost double over the next few years, to $12.56 in 2017.Where you are matters an awful lot to how valuable you are to social networks, however. Break down the difference between Americans and the rest of the world, and it becomes immediately obvious why the US receives the bulk of the attention from Facebook and Twitter. While one Facebook user outside the US will make the site $7.71 this year, an American on the same site will earn it a whopping $48.76. A similar discrepancy exists for Twitter: ARPU is $3.51 everywhere but America, and $24.48 there.Where will that extra money come from? Two places: advertisers paying more to sell products on social networks, and social networks working out more ways to show you adverts. It may seem like Facebook and Twitter have reached saturation point on the number of adverts they display, but with both sites constantly developing new products, there will always be new places to put ads.As for advertisers paying more, that too can come for two reasons: supply and demand. As the opportunities for advertising directly to consumers shrink, with the death of print, the decline of broadcast media, and the rise ofadblockers. Conversely, social networks are offering better and better deals to advertisers. The more information a site has on a specific user, the more valuable the ad space on their screen, and new and innovative styles of adverts also encourage advertisers to spend more (see, for instance, video adverts on both Facebook and Twitter for one example).Of course, Facebook doesn’t actually pay you for all the money you make it. But some have argued that it should:musician and internet theorist Jaron Lanier arguesthat for every piece of data we hand over to “spy agencies”, as he calls Facebook and Google, we should be compensated.“The reason that monetising information is crucial, is that it’s the only path that creates moderation. People talk about rights and regulation. My concern is that those things can never keep up with computer programmers. Programmers move faster than the law. But monetising will do it,”he told Channel 4 in 2013.
I use Corel VideoStudio extensively and want to buy a faster system to run it. My current HP Envy has an Intel Core i7-3630QM. New HPs have an i7-5500U. My confusion is that when I search for a comparison on the internet, I am told the 3630 is better than the 5500 as it has more cores.GraemeThe internet is correct. Your old Intel Core i7-3630QM is a very fast processor, by laptop standards, and it is a lot faster than the new i7-5500U. The fashion for thin laptops is crippling performance.Thin laptops require chips that run at low voltages and don’t generate much heat. The Core i7-3630QM runs at 45W, whereas the i7-5500U (U for Ultra-low voltage) runs at only 15W. The latest Core M chips run at 4.5W, so they work without cooling fans.The internet is also right about cores. It’s relatively simple to run video processes in parallel streams, though this depends on the software and drivers exploiting parallelism. Most Intel chips also use hyper-threading, where each core runs two threads (processes). The i7-5500U has two cores/four threads whereas the i7-3630QM has four cores/eight threads. If all the threads are used, the i7-3630QM could be twice as quick.Clock speed and cache memory also make a difference. Generally, a chip with a higher clock speed will run faster, so your current processor has a very slight edge. The i7-3630QM runs at 2.4GHz, with a burst mode that can reach 3.4GHz for short periods. The i7-5500U also runs at 2.4GHz, but the burst mode is limited to 3.0GHz.Burst mode generates extra heat, so it’s not much of an advantage. The processors in thin laptops tend to get hot, and when they do, their performance is throttled until they cool down. Processors in thin laptops can’t run four or eight threads at burst speed for the amount of time needed to render a movie.Getting data to the CPU is another bottleneck, so processors use memory caches to keep stocks of data handy. Again, the Core i7-3630QM wins: it has a megabyte of Level 2 cache and 6MB of Level 3 cache. The i7-5500U has only 512K and 4MB respectively.Intel does make chips that should outperform your third-generation i7. These include theCore i7-4980HQ, used in the HP 450 and other laptops, such as the quad-core version of theApple MacBook Pro Retina. However, it’s barely faster – 2.8GHz, same cache – and, at 47W, even hotter.CPU Bosssays it’s “too close to call”. An i7-4980HQ probably adds around £500/$500 to the price of a laptop, so it’s not a worthwhile improvement on what you have now.If you want a big increase in processor speed, you might have to switch to a desktop tower that can support a hot processor. The current ultimate is the 12-core Intel Xeon E5-2697 v2, which runs at 130W. Check the top 30 at Notebookcheck’sComparison of Mobile Processors (CPU Benchmarks)for some alternatives. However, I notice the 2011-vintage IntelCore i7-3960X Extreme Edition(6 cores, 15MB cache), in fifth place, still knocks spots off almost all modern processors.Graphics mattersExtra speed comes from adding a GPU or Graphics Processing Unit, but the fashion for thin laptops has hit those as well. A few laptops still have them, but the vast majority don’t: GPUs use too much power, run too hot, and cost too much.Instead, most of today’s laptops use “integrated graphics”, where the GPU is included with the CPU, and shares its slow memory. Processors with Intel Integrated Graphics are fine for most purposes, but dedicated cards are better for games and serious graphics processing.If you have an HP Envy dv6, you’re probably using the Intel HD Graphics 4000 GPU integrated with the Core i7-3630QM. (HP sold a version of the dv6 with a slowish NvidiaGeForceGT 630M graphics card – you may have one – butyou can’t upgrade the graphics card without changing the motherboard.) You therefore need to find a laptop with a faster graphics card that is compatible with Corel VideoStudio.Alas, I have no idea which laptop graphics cards run Corel VideoStudio best, and I can’t find any useful information of the sort you can get for Adobe Premier, which works best withQuadrocards.However, you can compare the performance of yourHD Graphics 4000 with alternatives such as the GeForce GT 750Mat the Game Debate website. I’ve picked the GT 750M because it’s used in the previously-mentioned MacBook Pro, Dell and other serious laptops.Other considerationsIf you have an HP Envy dv6, it has a 5400RPM hard drive, which could be a bottleneck. For video processing, it’s better to have a 7200RPM drive. Obviously SSDs (solid-state drives) are even faster, but they tend to be too small or too expensive for video.Either way, the best option is to have two (or more!) drives: one for the operating system, video editor and caches and the other for reading and writing video files.Due to the problem of overheating and throttling, mentioned above, anactive coolerwould be a useful accessory. Try one with your HP Envy 15.You should also be usinga 64-bit version of Corel VideoStudio, such as Pro or Ultimate X7, Pro X8 Ultimate orPro X8.5. Earlier releases were 32-bit. If you have to buy a new copy, consider tryingSony Movie Studio 13 Platinumfor 30 days (free).Possible laptopsThe new Dell XPS 15 (9530, 2015) looks roughly equivalent to the MacBook Pro Retina. The cheapest model has a fast Core i7-4712HQ, 16GB of memory, a GeForce GT 750M graphics card with 2GB of GDDR5 memory, a 32GB SSD and a terabyte hard drive. The 4K Ultra HD screen has a resolution of 3840 x 2160 pixels, though a Full HD version (1920 x 1080) would probably be better for your purposes. Unfortunately, I can only find this onDell’s US website for $2,199.99, though there’s a similar laptop for £1,811.16 onAmazon.co.uk. Maybe the US versions will appear in theUK….A cheaper option would be anAsus N550JK-CM604Hwith a Core i7-4720HQ, 12GB of memory, and GeForce GTX 850M graphics card for £720. Swapping the 5400RPM terabyte hard drive for a 7200RPM 750GB model would bump the price up to £814.80. SSD drives are available at extra cost. In fact, this website has a number ofAsus and MSI Prestigemodels you could consider.I’ve ignored the HP Envy 15 laptops because of their Core i7-5500U processors, but you might consider HP’sOmen 15gaming laptop. This has a Core i7-4710HQ, 16GB of memory, GeForce GTX 860M graphics with 4GB of GDDR5 memory, and a 256GB SSD for £1,399.There are many other gaming laptops from the Asus ROG (Republic of Gamers), MSI and Dell Alienware ranges, but Gigabyte offers some cheap options. For example, you could get aGigabyte P35Wwith a Core i7-4710HQ, 8GB of memory, GeForce GTX 870M, 128GB SSD and 1TB hard drive for £1,099. AP15Fwith a GeForce GTX 950M but without the SSD costs £799.99. Shop around for prices.But I can’t really recommend any particular model, I’m just trying to indicate possible directions.It would be easier if someone benchmarked Corel VideoStudio on a range of GeForce GT, GTX,Quadroand ATI Radeon graphics cards to find the best, because I don’t know. And, unfortunately, the graphics card will be the main factor in whether a new laptop performs significantly better than your old one.Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
It’s Friday!
To deal with the sickly sweet elephant in the room: no, Candy Crush Saga isn’t included. Not for reasons of snobbery, but rather because surelyanyonewith an interest in playing puzzle games on their phone will know about it by now.Candy Crush Saga’s popularity shows the appetite for small-screen puzzling, though, so what else is available on your smartphone or tablet to stretch your brains?Here are ten of the best games – all available for both Android and iOS with a few also on Windows Phone – to get your grey cells fizzing. The links for each platform lead to the app stores, while “IAP” indicates in-app purchases.Monument Valley (£2.99 + IAP)iOS/Android/Windows PhoneMonument Valley isn’t the longest mobile game you’ll play, but it’s one of the most beautiful. You guide a princess called Ida through a succession of physics-challenging levels, twisting the scenery to clear her way. With no time limits, the pace is relaxing, but the sense of achievement is huge.Monument Valley.Triple Town (Free + IAP)iOS/AndroidOne of the oldest games on this list, but still one of the best puzzlers you can play on a smartphone or tablet. Triple Town involves building a town by matching trees and houses to make bigger versions. It’s wonderfully (if sometimes work and sleep-cripplingly) addictive, with decidedly unaggressive in-app purchases.Triple Town.Threes! (Free - £2.30)iOS/Android/Windows PhoneThrees! is simple at its core: slide numbered cards into one another to add them up, carrying on for as long as you can before filling the on-screen board. It’s as addictive as Triple Town: you’ll keep wanting one more go, with just enough of a maths element to persuade you you’re not wasting your life. Possibly.Threes!The Room Two (£1.99)iOS/AndroidThis is the second game in developer Fireproof Studios’ series – with a third coming soon – and it’s brilliant. This “physical puzzler wrapped in a mystery game” sees you twisting and prodding on-screen items to solve a cryptic tale. The graphics are top-notch, and the puzzles are genuinely challenging.The Room Two.Framed (£1.79)iOS/AndroidIf there’s a theme in this roundup, it’s the reminder that the puzzle genre is more than just swapping coloured objects on grids. Framed, for example, sees you switching comic-strip panels to progress in the game, with visuals to match. Oh, and a jazzy soundtrack that complements the action perfectly.Framed.Lara Croft Go (£3.99 + IAP)iOS/Android/Windows PhoneThe Tomb Raider games always had a big puzzling element to them. Lara Croft Go makes it the focus: a cleverly-designed turn-based adventure with a range of taxing puzzles to solve. And if you’re not a huge fan of Lara, do try this game’s predecessorHitman Go, which took a similarly-polished approach to the Hitman franchise.Lara Croft Go.Spider: Rite of the Shrouded Moon (£3.99)iOS/AndroidThis is the sequel to the just-as-marvellous Spider: The Secret of Bryce Manor. Like that game, you play a spider exploring an empty mansion, solving puzzles including spinning your webs to catch insects. The joy here isn’t just in the puzzles, but in the storyline that reveals itself as you progress: a proper work of craft.Spider: Rite of the Shrouded Moon.Dots: A Game About Connecting (Free + IAP)iOS/AndroidThis might have the best claim at being the smartphone gaming era’s Tetris – not a phrase to be used lightly. Dots has you tracing lines (and, if you’re lucky, boxes) through coloured dots to make them disappear, with a beautifully-weighted system of power-ups and a choice of timed, move-limited or endless modes.Dots.Best Fiends (Free + IAP)iOS/AndroidThere’s been a rush of games where you match things at the bottom of the screen to kill enemies at the top, from Puzzle Quest to Puzzle &amp; Dragons. Best Fiends is the best of them all, though: from its slug and bug characters to the balance of its gameplay. It also walks the line well between testing your brain and demanding your wallet, unlike some of its peers.Best Fiends.Blek (£2.49)iOS/AndroidMore line-tracing and coloured circles here, but Blek is one of the most original mobile puzzlers available. Your job is to connect the circles while avoiding black holes, but the fun here comes in finding your own routes rather than seeking the sole solution to any given level. A minimalist masterpiece.Blek.Photograph: PRWeeding down a longlist of great puzzle games to just 10 was a hard task. Triple Town’s follow-upAlphabearwas unlucky to miss out, for example: if you love word games, it’s fabulous.Also narrowly missing the cut – while remaining excellent – wereScribblenauts Remix,SpellTower,Trainyard,You Must Build A Boat,ShadowmaticandThe Trace, which are all well worth a look.Finally, brand new as this roundup was being written wasSPL-Tby Simogo, the developer of the wonderful narrative games Year Walk, Device 6 and The Sailor’s Dream. I’m still getting to grips with its box-splitting intricacies, but it looks like a keeper too.What are your recommendations? The comments section is open for your suggestions.•The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPad
An outage briefly forced Facebook offline on Thursday. The issue affected all platforms from around 5.30pm UK time.A message posted onFacebook’s platform status pageread: “We’re working with our core infrastructure teams to identify the issue and will update you when we have more information.” By 6pm in London the site appeared to be accessible again.According to the Amazon-owned web metrics firm Alexa, Facebook is the world’s second largest website, behind Google. Facebook says it averaged 968 million daily active users in June.With Facebook down, some users went to Twitter to discuss the outage.How am I supposed to know what my friends’ babies are wearing today?#facebookdown&mdash; KevinFranck (@KevinFranck)September 24, 2015Perhaps, Facebook is down so they can add the dislike button.#FacebookDownpic.twitter.com/vewy75lFHf&mdash; Simon Ostler (@SimonOstler)September 24, 2015Productivity across the world has just increased exponentially#FacebookDown&mdash; Giles Tanner (@gilestanner)September 24, 2015Either@facebookis down or Mark Zuckerberg just set everything to PRIVATE.#FacebookDown&mdash; Take Samarth (@IamStake)September 24, 2015Free at last, Free at last, Thank God almighty we are free at last.#FacebookDownpic.twitter.com/bIawTBWOVz&mdash; Julie Rasmussen (@JulieRasmussen)September 24, 2015And millions of people across the world just did this for the first time in years.#FacebookDownpic.twitter.com/VEEalkcqE3&mdash; Dan Speerin (@danspeerin)September 24, 2015Facebook isnt working which now means I have to *whispers* talk to people *gasps* *faints*#facebookdown&mdash; sasha cooper (@Sasha_Rose_)September 24, 2015A Facebook spokesman has not responded to a request for comment.
For the last two years a supersonic car has taken shape in an ordinary-looking unit on an industrial estate near Bristol, a joinery on one side, a plumbers’ merchant on the other.On Friday, the car,Bloodhound SSC, will be unveiled for the first time in the much more glitzy surroundings of Canary Wharf in east London.Over two days, more than 8,000 members of the public will view the car, which is designed to reach 1,000mph and help inspire a generation of youngsters to take up – or at least take an interest in – science and engineering.“It’s a really exciting time in the project,” said chief engineer, Mark Chapman. “Many of us have lived and breathed this project for eight years now but to see the car put together like this is something else. It looks stunning. We can’t wait for people to see it and tell us what they think.”The car will be tested on a runway in Cornwall next Easter when it is expected to reach a (relatively) modest 200mph. The team will then deploy to South Africa to begin high-speed testing with a target of reaching 800mph – thus breaking the current world land-speed record of 763mph. The plan is then to return to the UK, review the data and travel back to South Africa in 2017 with the aim of reaching 1,000 mph.The cockpit inside the Bloodhound SSC features a sophisticated digital dashboard, designed by the driver, RAF fighter pilot Andy Green.Photograph: Will Oliver/EPACarbon fibre panels have been partially removed on one side of Bloodhound for the next couple of days to show the technology inside the car.Bloodhound has three power systems: a Rolls-Royce EJ200 jet from an RAF Eurofighter Typhoon, a cluster of Nammo hybrid rockets and a 550bhp supercharged Jaguar V8 engine. Between them they generate thrust equivalent to 180 Formula One cars.When it is finally unleashed on the Hakskeen Pan, Northern Cape, South Africa, where a team of locals has shifted 15,800 tonnes of stones by hand to create the perfect test track, Bloodhound will go from zero to 1,000mph in 55 seconds and back to zero again in a further 65 seconds, covering 12 miles.For now, visitors are being invited to look inside the finished cockpit: a huge and complex monocoque (single piece shell) crafted from multiple layers of carbon fibre to produce what the designers believe is the strongest safety cell ever fitted to a racing car.Inside there is a sophisticated digital dashboard, designed by the driver, RAF fighter pilot Andy Green, as well as manual backups for the major controls.The car has three separate braking systems, seven fire extinguishers and 500 sensors, twice as many as an F1 car, so engineers will know exactly how it is performing during each high-speed run.Bloodhound will go from zero to 1,000mph in 55 seconds.Photograph: Stefan MarjoramIt has been created by a team of Formula 1 and aerospace experts with assistance from the army’s Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers and technicians from the RAF’s 71 Squadron who built the tailfin. In all more than 350 companies and universities have been involved.Given the VWemissions rigging scandalthis week, the Bloodhound team is quietly pleased that their power systems are not made by the German manufacturer. But Chapman said a major aim of the project was to inspire future generations to be interested in science, technology, engineering and mathematics - and be able to ask the awkward questions of the likes of VW. “One of the points is to help make sure people can question manufacturers and politicians about issues like emissions andHS2.”Before the car even turns a wheel, more than 100,000 children in the UK alone have had lessons connected to Bloodhound or attended events related to the car. Universities involved with the project have seen record numbers apply to study engineering.Such is the level of interest that the free public appearance at Canary Wharf quickly became fully booked.Project director, Richard Noble, said: “Public interest in the project is incredible. With the car now built and the track in South Africa prepared our focus is on racing in 2016.”
Users complaining that their iPhones have slowed down after updating to the latest iOS 9 software may not be imagining it.The new iOS 9 operating system works on models from 2011’s iPhone 4s onwards, with the company claiming that more than 50% of iOS users had already installed the update within a week of its release.However,some usersof Apple’sofficial discussion forumsare alreadycriticising the impact on their older handsets.Videos fromvloggers iAppleBytesdirectly comparing the latest iOS 9.0.1 software to iOS 8.4.1 running on an iPhone 4S, 5 and 5S have also demonstrated a noticeable amount of slowdown with the new update.iOS 9 compared to iOS 8 on an iPhone 4S.The smartphones take longer to start up, camera performance is slower, as is launching apps and switching between them.Some actions take a very similar amount of time, particularly on the newer iPhones. The performance of Apple’s virtual assistant Siri actually seems to be slightly faster, although some users within Apple’s forums havedisabled Siri’s new app prediction featuresin an attempt to speed up the rest of the phone.The issue of new software slowing down older phones is familiar to smartphone owners. New features demand more resources from the device, and can therefore slow down normal operations and affect battery life.iOS 9 compared to iOS 8 on an iPhone 5.Some updates – Google’s Android Lollipop in 2014 for example – focus on performance and optimisation, and can actually improve the speed of the smartphone or tablet they are installed on.This does not appear to be the case with iOS 9, although in other ways, it has been one of the smoothest annual updates for Apple’s devices.On its release in 2014, iOS 8 caused issues for people upgrading because it demanded a 5GB of free of space meaning many had to delete music, apps and photos from their devices just to install the update.Apple corrected the issue with iOS 9 requiring under 1.5GB of space, and providing support for smaller applications, but its impact on the speed of older devices is evident.While some users will try and avoid updating to the latest version of iOS, it could put them at risk of security vulnerabilities and will eventually stop being supported by the latest apps, making an upgrade inevitable at some point.iOS 9 compared to iOS 8 on an iPhone 5S.•iOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?
Facebook users watch more than 4bn videos a day on the social network. Soon, they’ll be able to watch some of them in 360 degrees.The company has begun supporting videos that allow viewers to pan round the scene in a full circle, six months afterYouTube added a similar featureto its service.“To create 360 videos, a special set of cameras is used to record all 360 degrees of a scene simultaneously. This means that when the video is playing on Facebook, you can choose what angle you want to see it from,”explained engineering director Maher Saba.On Facebook’s website, viewers will use their mouse to control the video view, while on mobile devices they will either swipe their finger on the touchscreen or physically turn around.Facebook enlisted some prominent partners for its launch, including Star Wars, Discovery, GoPro, Vice, Saturday Night Live and basketball star LeBron James.Facebook’s demonstration of 360 videos on its service.The exact launch date for the videos remains vague, with Facebook only confirming that its web and Android users will be able to watch them “soon”, with iOS support following “in the coming months”.Even so, the fact that both YouTube and Facebook are now supporting 360-degree videos is a shot in the arm for the nascent industry of virtual reality (VR) filmmakers, as they look for an audience beyond the tiny number of people who own VR headsets.“Virtual reality now is mobile-first. We’re uploading these in 360 to YouTube, and I’m sure Facebook is going to have an in-app player as well,”VR producer Bryn Mooser told the Guardianin August, as his company released its 360-degreeWelcome to Aleppofilm, shot in Syria.“When Facebook is able to show 360-video, anybody with a mobile phone will be able to watch it by moving the phone around them... Headsets aren’t going to be the way it goes: it’s just your phone.”Facebook has a strong interest in headsets too: in 2014 itpaid $2bn for headset developer Oculus VR, whose first commercial Oculus Rift headset will launch in early 2016.•How virtual reality porn could bring about world peace
The adblocking debate might just have been solved with the launch of the Ethical Adblocker.Adverts suck, and many people would prefer not to see them. But the economics of the internet are such that adverts are also the effective payment for reading free content online (such as this article here).And so, while blocking ads may make the experience of browsing the web better, it is also morally dubious, lying somewhere on the same spectrum as piracy and theft.But coder and artist Darius Kazemi may have found the solution. He’s invented the Ethical Ad Blocker. The download, he writes, “is a Chrome extension that, when it detects advertising on a website, blocks the entire website.“This way, the user doesn’t experience ads, but they also don’t leech free content. Everybody wins!”Sure enough, visiting an ad-supported website like the Guardian with the Ethical Ad Blocker turned on protects users from seeing adverts, being tracked by advertising, and accidentally reading any content on the site. Instead, an error message pops up:The ethical adblocker in action.Photograph: Tiny SubversionsOf course, it’s fair to say that Kazemi may not be entirely serious about the whole prospect. The artist, who is most famous for his Twitter bots such as @twoheadlines,tweeted pondering one final addition to the site: gigantic red uppercase text reading “please don’t take this literally”.•Hear Darius Kazemi discussing his twitterbots on the Guardian’s Tech Weekly podcast
Felix “PewDiePie” Kjellberg built his audience of 39 million YouTube subscribers by playing games. Now he’s releasing his own mobile game: Legend of the Brofist.Releasedfor Androidandfor iOS, the game stars a pixellated version of Kjellberg as well as fellow YouTube gamers including JackSepticEye, Markiplier and Marzia.The game bucks the dominant trend of “free-to-play” mobile games that make their money by selling virtual items and currency. PewDiePie’s game costs £3.99 upfront with no in-app purchases.It is part of Kjellberg’s expansion beyond YouTube, which includes his first book – This Book Loves You – to be released by Penguin Random House in October.In both cases, the bet is that PewDiePie’s online audience, who have watched his YouTube videos more than 10bn times, will be keen to buy other products bearing his name. Even before these deals, heearned $7.4m in 2014from his videos and related sponsorships.KSI’s app is a spin-off from his book.PewDiePie’s new game has been released in the same week as another app from a prominent YouTube gamer-turned-author: Olajide “KSI” Olatunji.KSI: I Am A... has been releasedfor Androidandfor iOSas a £1.49 download, although in this case it is a spin-off from his book of the same name, published by Hachette.Related:YouTube Minecraft star CaptainSparklez starts crafting mobile gamesThe app promises exclusive videos triggered by pointing the smartphone’s camera at images in the book; a football mini-game; and the first chapter of the book for fans who have yet to buy it.Olatunji has two channels on YouTube: his main channel has 10.6 million subscribers and just under 2bn video views, while his second has 3.8 million subscribers and 500m views.YouTubers are hot property in the publishing industry, keen to repeat the sales success of books from online stars like Zoella and Alfie Deyes. Another YouTube gamer, Joseph “Stampy” Garrett, is releasing his first book through Egmont in October.PewDiePie’s move into mobile gaming has parallels too. YouTuber Jordan “CaptainSparklez” Maronco-founded his own mobile games studioearlier in 2015, releasing a free-to-play game called Fortress Fury in May.
On 9 September 2014, in a converted multiplex cinema in Bellevue Washington, a team of over 200 people launched a brand new kind of video game. They had spent four years preparing for this moment; among their ranks were some of the most experienced software engineers in the industry. But they had no idea what would happen next.Months later, David “Deej” Dague, the community manager at Bungie Software looks puzzled when asked about that night. “I’m not sure I have any memories of the first two weeks after launch,” he says, sitting in the darkened entrance hall to the company’s vast office, surrounded by cabinets hosting dozens of awards. “All I know is, the game was pretty stable.”That game, of course, was Destiny, an online sci-fi adventure set in Earth’s distant future. Combining the fast-paced action of a first-person shooter (FPS) with the in-depth progression systems of a massively multiplayer role-playing game (MMORPG), the title effectively sought to unite two very different audiences: gamers who just wanted to shoot at stuff and gamers who liked to build characters, explore worlds and level up to access increasingly potent equipment.Certainly, these two genres have been borrowing ideas from each other for years. Shooters such as Call of Duty and Borderlands have taken the exhaustive character progression and loot-collecting concepts of the role-playing sector, while RPGs like Mass Effect and Fallout have in turn become more dynamic and action-orientated. But with Destiny, Bungie wanted to bring all of this into a seamless experience where players could easily migrate from hit-and-run “strike” missions to demanding co-operative raids and arena-based competitive shoot-outs. And it wanted all this to happen online, without any sort of server partitioning between different play types.The preparations were exhaustive. Years before launch, Bungie built a large in-house user testing laboratory where it hosted dozens of volunteer gamers, watching how they played, even monitoring their eye movements to help design the onscreen displays. “We knew Destiny would have a much more complex UI than any game we’d ever made before,” says head of user research John Hopson. “A lot of shooter players have never experienced mechanics like gear and talent points. If they weren’t using those elements during play-testing we needed to know why: was it because they’d seen them and didn’t care, or was it that they hadn’t noticed them at all. By analysing where they looked on screen we could say, OK, yes they read the help window and closed it – it just wasn’t telling them what they needed to know.”At his Game Developers Conference talk earlier this year Bungie head of research John Hopson talked about the company’s extensive user-testing. Players were invited into the studio and given a simple button-input system to show how they felt at different points in a game.Photograph: John HopsonOn the technical side, there was a simple aim: avoid the sort of total infrastructure collapse that had plagued other big online releases likeSimCityand Battlefield 4. For Destiny, a game selling itself as a new type of connected experience, that would be a disaster. Bungie built a state-of-the-art data operations centre (DOC), a control room filled with screens showing stats and metrics from the vast global server infrastructure that would run the game. The company employed a 24-hour hit squad of systems engineers, capable of reacting to server shutdowns and overloads whenever and wherever they happened.Reportedly, some of the staff had previously worked on the Large Hadron Collider project at Cern.According to Bungie, over a million players hit the game on day one. The traffic was managed through a server bunker in Las Vegas, as well as rented data centres all over the world. It held up. However, what the studio quickly realised was, this was just the beginning. “The DOC did incredibly well to respond to that demand,” says Dague. “But the real learning happened afterwards, in the months that followed, when we were able to identify how players felt about the story arc, the narrative of their own character, the end game content, and about approaching the rank cap. We had to prove to players that we understand our own game, that we played it, that we knew who they were and what was important to them.”Peter Parson, Bungie’s chief operating officer, concurs. “Certainly, on the positive side, people were playing the game; and the way they were playing – the core investment loop – was really smooth. But there were questions about the story ...”Indeed, many players felt the story was fragmented and unclear. What was the vastTravellersatellite that was protecting humanity? What was the dark enemy that had followed it across the cosmos? Why were alien races attacking Earth? There were rumours a lot of content had been cut in the run up to launch so that the team could concentrate on other technical challenges. “We’d tried to do something different,” says Parsons. “The story wasn’t about a fictional character you’d created, it was about you and your journey as a player, your own personal narrative. But we definitely didn’t get that right.”Accessing new weapons and armour is a key element of Destiny, but the game originally failed to make the progression system clear.Photograph: BungieAnother problem was the unclear character progression at the end of the story missions. Suddenly, players had to start collecting exotic armour that added a value named Light – but it wasn’t clear how to find it, or how this related to levelling up. “What we really did not do a good job of was sending players off to the end game,” says Parsons. “It wasn’t just the raids, it was starting to use the bounties, doing the high-level strikes – that’s something we learned a lot about. The community really helped, not just by providing feedback, but by assisting other players across that bridge.”Bungie knew it had to react – but a video-game studio with over 200 staff is like an oil tanker: it doesn’t turn fastBungie knew it had to react – but a video-game studio with over 200 staff, in a huge variety of disciplines, is like an oil tanker: it doesn’t turn fast. To cope with the constant influx of feedback from players, the company totally restructured its development team. While small dedicated groups were tasked with designing each of the incoming expansion packs, a large new “live team” was formed – a group of 20 or so senior staff with a specific focus on listening to and implementing player feedback.“They’re the operations team,” explains Parsons. “They manage and monitor the game around the clock to ensure we’re always up and running, and making the experience better. Although the group is usually about 20 people, they flex much larger when we’re getting ready to ship new content or need the support of extra engineers. We also allow the group to tap in to other specialists across the studio, providing everything from bug fixes to new content. We’re continually pulling people into that vortex, then pushing them back out. The fun part of that is even if someone’s working on something that’s far down the road, they can feel part of the process along the way.”Alongside the Live team, Bungie has also organised a handful of its most senior team leaders into a special triage unit. This is effectively a sort of development tribunal: when bugs or gameplay problems are encountered, they decide what gets fixed first. “At any given point in time there are thousands of things in the world of Destiny that we’d like to make better but there are only so many resources,” says Parsons. “That team is constantly deciding what are we going to fix and what are we not going to fix – it has it’s fingers on everything in the game world. It’s all about managing development priorities, and they’re constantly changing. They’re free to bring in other team leaders to bring them up to speed. It’s not uncommon to get an invitation from triage to come up and explain what it is your trying to fix and why it shouldn’t be pushed to a later date.”Hopson and his user research team soon became heavily involved in this process, analysing the live data and using it to guide decisions. “Mostly what we do is prioritise,” he says. “Very few things that fans suggest are bad ideas - it’s usually, that’s awesome we should do that, but is it more important than the 50 other things we wish we could get into the game? If three million people are having a problem then yes we should fix that now, but if it’s 500 people that need the fix? The design team have to set priorities.”There have been occasions, for example, where a particular weapon has appeared over-powered, and the immediate goal is to work out how many people are being affected. One example involved the Vex Mythoclast, an exotic fusion rifle. “In its heyday, people were posting videos on youtube just completely dominating the crucible,” says Hopson. “So we asked, okay, how bad is this? How many people are actually running around with this thing? And we found that there were only 600 people with this gun. We didn’t have to panic and do a next day patch - we could leave it a little bit.”“We also look at which weapons people actually use. There are some we thought would be really popular but weren’t. I mean, I don’t think anyone thought that the No Land Beyond sniper rifle would besuperpopular but we had a role for that weapon and people didn’t pick up on it in the way we planned. A lot of it is analysing the live data. We’re saying, okay, how are people actually playing? Destiny is a really complex game there are a lot of different ways to do it. Players have certainly surprised us in a bunch of ways -the loot cavebeing the most prominent example. We never thought people would just sit there doing that.”But Bungie isn’t totally indulging players with however they want to play: it has a plan for them. As the game was being developed, the company worked out that player retention was going to depend on getting as many newcomers as possible to try all the different experiences from co-op strikes to single-player patrols to competitive multiplayer death matches. In his GDC talk on user research earlier this year Hopson, who has a PhD in behavioural psychology, talked about the buffet effect – a phenomenon in which people will eat more if they are presented with greater variety. Destiny, with its array of game types and events, is the digital equivalent. For the game to remain successful, goes the thinking, it needs ‘omnivores’ – players who’ll try a bit of everything.Right now, Destiny does allow people to have preferences for co-op gameplay (strikes, raids, etc) or competitive (The crucible) – but to unlock the best new kit, they have to occasionally switch over. To make sure no one was being alienated by this structure, Hopson formulated 15 different types of Destiny participant, based on phases of the player lifecycle and different types of preferred engagement. The team then began to compare proposed new features against those profiles to work out how they’d be affected.“You do a bunch of analysis,” says Hopson. “You say, okay, how does each player type engage with the game and what can we do for them? We’ve actually been amazingly successful in creating omnivores – pretty much anyone who gets to level 20 or beyond is playing like an omnivore. Even when we talk about someone as being a raider – raiding still ends up being only 40% of their time so they’re spending a lot of time in patrol or PvsP - even when we talk about PvP people, they’re spending a lot of time in raids to get the gear they need to do well in the Crucible. So the game design is working amazingly well in terms of encouraging omnivores.”DestinyAccording to Parsons, Bungie also looked to seduce shooter fanatics by making Destiny’s more in-depth, grind-heavy gameplay work within their usual timeframes. The team knew that people who like to play Call of Duty online for an hour, level up once or twice and then log off, may be intimidated by an RPG that was going to demand hours of their time in order to complete epic missions and progress. So the team designed the short Strike and Patrol missions, which both provide plenty of loot potential, so that the game could be played for an hour in an evening. As Parsons explains, “If you provide people with multiple ways to engage with the universe – even if the core mechanic is just building and growing your guardian - they can have a rewarding experience. People say that for a console game Destiny is very grindy, but you can get a reward in less than an hour by knocking off a couple of bounties.”Destiny also makes clever use of what psychologists call variable-ratio reinforcement schedules. Whenever a quest is completed, there’s a chance that a boss will drop valuableexotic armour or weapons, but it’s never certain. Indeed, in the current form of Destiny, every single piece of gear you’ve earned by the time you run your first raid will have come though a double stack of randomised rewards: first, you have repeatedly killed high-level bosses waiting for them to drop a legendary engram (random chance), then you will have repeatedly decrypted that engram waiting for an item of a high-enough level to take on the raid; or you will have taken a low-level legendary item, and then used high-level rare items (which are also dropped randomly) to “infuse” it and boost its level.However complex the system, the hope is always that the next drop will be the big one – it’s this variable schedule that compels players. In this sense, Destiny has been darkly compared to a slot machine, and the analogy is pretty accurate: both tap into that “the next one is the big one” compulsion loop. At the same time Bungie has learned from the ‘appointment gaming’ phenomenon we saw in the social space. Facebook titles like Farmville succeeded because they were designed to allow players to keep dropping in and finding new stuff to do. Destiny mimics this with its daily and weekly challenges, as well as having vendor characters who’ll often arrive unexpectedly in the world with rare goods to sell.“We planned these calendar rituals,” says Parsons. “If you type ‘where is’ into a Google search, [the name of a vendor] Xur comes up as the third or fourth search. These rituals of ‘I can’t wait for the next Iron Banner tournament’ or ‘what will Xur have when he comes back?’, even the more regular public events – people look forward to the surprises.”The Taken are the new antagonists from the latest Destiny expansion, The Taken KingPhotograph: ActivisionWhat the team seems very keen to stress however, is that everyone at Bungie is a player of Destiny, not just a developer. “I see people playing this game every single night,” says Dague. “They are as deeply invested as the people who bought the product – that’s a wonderful thing. We have our own email debates that rage over our server about what Destiny is or what it should be or what we need to do to fully realise the potential. Everybody at Bungie has an opinion about Destiny – if they don’t they shouldn’t be here.”According to Parsons, the studio has its own elite team of Destiny players, called the Tiger Corps, who will dive straight into new updates and expansions as soon as they’re on the company intranet, and start testing them. “They’re on the frontline because they act and react as an even more sensitive and opinionated version of our larger community,” he says. “We actively challenge them to provide feedback and, man, they do not hold back.”A year after launch, the latest expansion,The Taken King, is out and getting good reviews. People are saying that this is what Destiny should always have been. The progression system has been ironed out, it’s clearer, it’s more logical, and it’s easier to get into co-op gaming sessions. But the thing is, it’s taken a year of experience to get here. “I don’t think I can stress how much of a shock to the system this has been to Bungie,” says Hopson. “I mean, we used to take pride in the fact that our games didn’t require updates – it was lesser studios that did that. We were shipping these perfect shiny things that were perfectly balanced.“Destiny is just not that kind of game and we really didn’t know what the reception was going to be. We’d worked really hard, we were proud of it, but last summer there was a lot of tension, a lot of worry. Is anyone going to play? The answer, clearly, was yes.”Destiny forsaken: the three stages that Bungie lost playersHead of research John Hopson has spent the year analysing player data. Here he explains the points where people tended to leave the game during the first 12 months, and why.Almost immediately:“The first place we lose people is right away. There’s a certain number of people who rent the game or borrow it from a friend - they play a few levels and it just wasn’t the experience they were looking for, that’s cool – not every game is for every player.Level 18-21:“There are people who finish the story and never make that jump to the mid-game. They never quite realise that they need to be running strikes and upgrading their gear by collecting Light, they just don’t step into that section of the game.”“We knew that was going to be a problem – we tried to make the transition as smooth as we could, but we did lose a few people there. It was a bad problem by our standards, it was a rough patch, but we were only losing something like 4% of the players – by the general standards of video games, that’s not a whole lot. We learned that we were too abrupt in that transition.”Level 26-28:“These are the people who never quite tap into a social group in order to take on that hard endgame content: all of that requires you to have friends or people you can call on. You could get to level 27 totally solo and then you sort of hit a wall where you suddenly needed friends to be playing as well. One of my favourite things that came out of the community was all the solutions for finding groups - the Destiny LFGs, the Hundred – all these wonderful systems for matching you with other players.”
Apple has updated the operating system of its first smartwatch with native apps, added complications and a few interface tweaks.On the face of it, watchOS 2 changes very little. Fundamentally the Apple Watch looks, behaves and lasts as long as it did when it launched.There are a few new watchfaces and some new colours for the originals, including a more eye-catching multicolour mode for the Modular watchface.The London time-lapse watchface.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAll of the new watchfaces are picture- or video-based, including six time-lapse faces depicting cityscapes in Hong Kong, Mack Lake, Paris, New York, Shanghai and London. They display a video showing 24 hours from a fixed location – across the Thames from the Houses of Parliament in London’s case.A particular photo or album of photos taken from the Photos app on the iPhone can also be used, with a basic digital clock in the right-hand corner.All the new watchfaces move away from the light-text-on-a-black-background rubric Apple used for the initial set of faces and end up emphasising the small size of the Apple Watch’s screen compared to its body.More complicationsThird-party apps can add little widgets called ‘complications’ on to the watchface. Here Dark Sky displays rain coming soon and Citymapper displays the estimated time of arrival for a planned journey.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMore interesting are the third-party “complications”. Apps such as Dark Sky can insert a small weather-information widget right on the watchface. The number of apps is limited at the moment, but a good example is Citymapper, which puts the estimated time of arrival of any planned journey in a complication.The complications also act as buttons to quickly launch the app, rather than having to hunt for them in the app grid, swipe through a glance or ask Siri.The nightstand mode, which displays the time, date, charge state and next alarm in a green hue reminiscent of monochrome LCD alarm clocks. It works well given the Apple Watch has to be charged over night – but no change there to battery life.The time is displayed when the screen or buttons are touched, while hitting the side button turns the alarm off or the crown to snooze. It works better on a phone as an alarm clock.Moving forwardThe digital crown will scroll forwards or backwards in time, showing events including within some third-party apps and complications.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTurning the digital crown on compatible watchfaces now moves forwards or backwards in time. On the modular watchface, for instance, it will scroll through upcoming calendar events, the weather or other interactive elements. That includes new third-party complications such as Dark Sky, which lists the temperature forecast at that particular time.Other watchfaces, such as Astronomy or Solar, will run through their animations when the dial is turned, while you can make Mickey dance by moving his hands backwards and forwards. It’s the little things.The Mickey Mouse watchface moves as you twist the digital crown.Beyond amusing animations, I found it quicker to dive into the dedicated app to view my upcoming appointments or weather than it was to turn the crown.Siri does more, from launching glances to starting workouts, but it still feels awkward talking into a watch. Users can also reply to more messages with emojis, dictation and canned responses. Wi-Fi calling is also built-in, which means you don’t need a phone to place a call if being Dick Tracey is your thing and your mobile phone provider supports it – currently EE and Vodafone in the UK.Apple has also added activation lock for if the smartwatch ever gets stolen – a feature the iPhone has had for a while and was conspicuously missing when the Apple Watch launched.All about the appsThe biggest change has yet to be realised. Apple now allows apps to run directly on the Watch, rather than relying on the iPhone to do all the processing.At the moment, for most apps that means running a little faster. We’re not talking leagues faster – I still routinely got the loading screen while the app attempted to pull data from the iPhone – but at least a little.As with the iPhone and iPad, apps are likely to provide the killer feature for the Apple Watch and now they can do more.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianDevelopers can do more now, including accessing the sensors and various hardware features of the Watch, so I suspect that will open the door to much better, more function apps in the future.Most of my niggles with the Apple Watch are still there. The user interface is still inconsistent. For example, you can force touch to clear multiple notifications, but not a single one. Glances are still not actually glanceable, and some third-party ones take a while to load data. And it is still not obvious when you should force touch, when you should swipe left or right, or when you simply have to scroll to the bottom to get stuff done.Apple has fixed one of my original complaints of the Watch, however. One press of the digital crown now takes you back to the watchface from the app grid, rather than centring and then requiring another press.VerdictIt doesn’t cost anything, brings a bunch of security fixes, activation lock and unlocks greater app possibilities, so I don’t know why you would not install watchOS on an Apple Watch if you have one.Yes, the Apple Watch is better with watchOS 2, and arguably should have shipped with it out of the box, but none of the new features are revolutionary. The Pebble, for instance, does time travel better and most other smartwatches have a night clock-style mode.Maybe a killer feature will emerge once developers get their hooks into the hardware, but for now the Apple Watch is still not the best smartwatch out there.Pros:potential for more powerful apps, quicker to get back to the watchface, third-party complications, improved Siri, nightstand mode, Wi-Fi callingCons:the update took hours, inconsistencies not ironed out, apps can still take a while to load or pull dataOther reviewsApple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated softwareAndroid Wear 5.1 review: simple, useful and the best – for now
Instagram, with its Kardashian selfies, retro filters and endless stream of images of meals, has reached 400 million active users, the company has announced. Facebook’s photo and video-sharing app has added 100 million users in the last nine months, with three-quarters now based outside the US.“While milestones like this are important, what really excites us is the way that visual communication makes the world feel a little bit smaller to every one of us,” the company said in a blog post, revealing that its fastest-growing countries include Brazil, Japan and Indonesia.Instagram launched in October 2010, and eyebrows were raised throughout the technology industry 18 months later whenFacebook agreed to pay $1bn for the app, which at the time had 30 million registered users. Instagram has been allowed to continue running as a separate company, and it has since flourished. It reached 100 million active users in February 2013, 200 million in March 2014, and then 300 million last December.In terms of active mobile users, Instagram still lags behind its parent company’s 1.3 billion, as well as Facebook-owned apps WhatsApp (900m) and Facebook Messenger (700m). But it remains ahead of Twitter’s 316 million monthly active users.Another rival, Snapchat, claims 100 million daily active users, but has not published a monthly figure that is directly comparable with Instagram. But it is these two apps that are building the biggest, most engaged audiences among teenagers and twentysomethings. Instagram recently announced that it has 14 million users in the UK and research firm GlobalWebIndex estimates that 38.4% of them are between 16-24.“Instagram remains one of the fastest-growing networks in the UK, with a younger user base than any of the other major networks,” said Jason Mander of GlobalWebIndex. “Given that Facebook itself has lost a little of its appeal among young demographics, Instagram’s continuing success among this age group is great news for Mark Zuckerberg.”What Instagram and Snapchat have in common is their emphasis on photos and videos rather than text, even though Facebook and Twitter have been working hard to improve their photography and video-sharing features.“Pictures are being used for talking. So when you see your children taking a zillion photos of things that you would never take a picture of, it’s because they’re using photographs to talk,” said Snapchat’s chief executive, Evan Spiegel, in a recent video posted online to explain the app to parents.“Both teens and kids are a very aspirational audience and images are a much more powerful – or at least immediate – channel for that sentiment to flow compared with one hundred and forty text characters,” said Dylan Collins, chief executive of children’s digital media firm SuperAwesome. He predicted that the growth of Instagram and Snapchat may be one of the biggest threats to the future of Twitter, which is “barely on the radar” of most teenagers.“I suspect that Twitter really doesn’t appreciate how important it is to engage the younger audience with their product. The kids’ market will kill the future of your product if you don’t make it relevant for them,” he said. “Facebook have been strategically light-years ahead in this respect with their Instagram and WhatsApp acquisitions. It’s entirely possible that the death of Twitter actually started a couple of years ago without the company even realising.”Instagram has become a haven for celebrities and public figures. Kim Kardashian posted her infamous #BreakTheInternet nude shot from her Instagram account, although more recently she wasissued with a warning letter by the US regulator the FDAfor posting a “false or misleading” Instagram post promoting the morning-sickness drug Diclegis.Many of the most popular Instagram accounts belong to musicians such as Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and Justin Bieber. Instagram has also created its own stars, who have followers in the millions – andcan earn six-figure salaries from commercial endorsements, where they are paid to publish posts featuring particular products or services.“Companies have realised that one photo on the Instagram account of someone with over 100,000 followers is reaching more people directly than any traditional ad campaign,” said US Instagrammer Liz Eswein in November 2014, as she revealed that she charged brands $1 per like under her sponsored photos.With 400 million users, Instagram’s current challenge is to make money for itself from this huge audience. The company started accepting its first paid advertisements in the US in 2013, before expanding to the UK in September 2014 with brands including Waitrose and Channel 4.Research firm eMarketer predicts that Instagram’s global advertising revenues will be $600m this year, rising to $1.48bn in 2016 and $2.81bn in 2017.
Smartwatch pioneer Pebble has unveiled a new round model, which the company claims is the world’s thinnest and lightest, beating Apple, Samsung and Motorola.The Pebble Time Round is a new version of itshighly-rated Time smartwatch, which eschews the square design for a circular one and is just 7.5mm thin and 28g in weight – the downside to that being it only offers two days of battery life between charges where the previous watch lasted a week.The original crowdfundedPebble TimesmashedKickstarter records in Februaryand shipped in May, weighing in at 42.5g and 9.5mm thick.Apple’s Watch, released in April, is 10.5mm thick and weighs 40g at its lightest.One button on the left and three buttons on the right-hand side control the watch.Photograph: PebbleThe colour epaper screen is always on and always readable, including in direct light or the dark thanks to an LED backlight. It connects to both the iPhone and Android devices, displaying notifications, controlling music and other smartphone features remotely and running Pebble apps, of which there are more than 6,500 availableEric Migicovsky, chief executive and co-founder of Pebble said: “It’s the first smartwatch that looks like a classic wristwatch and furthers our mission to create useful technology that blends into your everyday life, not the other way around.”The Time Round comes in three colours and with either a 14mm or 20mm band. Unlike the Time orthe Time Steel, which lasts up to 150 hours per charge, the Round’s battery only lasts up to two days – but charges in 30 minutes as opposed to the Time Steel’s two hours.It will be available in the US from November costing from $249 (£163), with a UK release coming later this year and Europe in 2016.With traditional watchmakerssuch as Swatch, Fossil andMontblancmaking smartwatches, Samsung releasing its sixth smartwatch, and a batch of new, second-generation Android Wear watches on the way, the smartwatch industry is striving for attention.Apple’s introduction of its first smartwatchshone a spotlight on the device category, but the question of what a smartwatch is actually good for and why would anyone other than geeks buy them has yet to be answered.Pebble Time Steel: metal body and 150-hour battery life is how all smartwatches should bePebble Time review: the simple but effective answer to Apple WatchPebble Time review: better on Android than iPhone
The news that Apple was opening the iOS app-store to ad blockers for mobile devices created a storm in publishing circles, which meant that we heard a lot about them, because publishers publish things that are important to publishing.Whatever happens with ad-blocking for iOS, the reality is that ad blocking has grown more prevalent, year after year, since the web’s beginning, and shows no sign of slowing. It’s only a matter of time until a major browser ships with ad blocking turned on by default. It’s also only a matter of time until one of the big-data brokerages fed by the advertising ecosystem has its own privacy Valdez and leaks toxic, immortal, compromising information all over the web at unimaginable scale, making the Ashley Madison dump and the Office of Personnel Management breach look minor by comparison.At root is an intrinsically toxic relationship between the three parties to the advertising ecosystem: advertisers, publishers and readers. Advertisers buy publishers’ inventory to sell things to readers, but publishers sell inventory to advertisers because they want money, not because they want to help sell products. Readers want to read what the publishers are publishing. A tiny fraction of readers want to buy what the advertisers are selling, and this microscopic minority subsidises the whole operation.It’s easy to see the way this plays out for the worse. Unscrupulous publishers have made a practice of defrauding advertisers, spoofing the number of times their ads are shown in order to make more money from the same amount of readers. Advertisers have leaned on publishers to make ads more obtrusive – first with pop-up ads, then, after blockers became standard, with roll-downs, interrupters, pop-unders, ads that scroll with the page (eating your CPU in the process), and the whole parade of mutated attention-economy market-failures that fill your browser every day. Readers respond by installing ad-blockers, meaning that fewer readers are counted by the advertisers, meaning that the publishers get paid less and have to allow advertisers to serve more obtrustive ads in order to keep the money flowing.The mistrust between advertisers and publishers has given rise to a fourth entity in this ecosystem: ad counters. These are companies that generously offer to independently count the number of times the publishers serve the advertisers’ ads – all the advertiser needs to do is tell the publisher to put the ad-counters’ “beacons” on their pages. Of course, ad counters aren’t charitable operations: they give away this independent counting function because it lets them gather titanic amounts of information about browsing habits. When you use Ghostery or Privacy Badger to examine a page and discover that a dozen (or dozens!) of companies are tracking your visit there, that’s this dynamic at play.Ad counters are really data brokers and they’re incredibly profitable. The data is sold to marketers, to governments, and to consumer-research institutions. The only reason that data can be economically captured and aggregated is because advertisers don’t trust publishers, and insist on allowing ad counters/data brokers to act as trusted third parties to count ad-views.The boom in ad-blocking technology is driven by three factors: annoyance at the content of ads; annoyance at the effect of ads in slowing computers to a crawl and worries about privacy. Advertisers and publishers can do something about the first two. In the early history of the web, pop-up ads climbed to a kind of terrible apogee before collapsing catastrophically because of audience pushback. Given enough pushback, advertisers will figure out ways to make their ads less obnoxious and less processor-intensive.But the privacy concerns – always a minority issue, now a growing worry – are not so easy to address. Ashley Madison and the Office of Personnel Management weren’t the big leak-quake: they were the tremors that warned of the coming tsunami. Every day, every week, every month, there will be a mounting drumbeat of privacy disasters. By this time next year, it’s very likely that someone you know will have suffered real, catastrophic harm due to privacy breaches. Maybe it’ll be you.Privacy-minded ad-blocking is only going to increase from here on in, because we have already shot past peak indifference to surveillance.Here’s the dirty secret of ad blocking: it only works because advertisers don’t trust publishers. If stickyeyeballcontent.com serves ads from its own server, from stickyeyeball.com/images/, then any blocker that prevents those images from loading will also prevent the images that accompany the stories you want to read from loading, too. It’s not hard for publishers to serve their own ads, it’s just hard to get advertisers to believe that those ads have been counted accurately.The answer isn’t complicated, it’s just hard. Arrive at a technical, economic and/or legal means by which publishers can be trusted to serve ads themselves, without the ad counters interposing themselves in the mix.One possible solution that gets us most of the way there: a foundation-funded charitable trust, subject to reliable third party audits, that will count ads for anyone, anywhere, without collecting or retaining any personal information. Rather than having ad blockers review advertisers’ practices to decide which ads to block and which ones to pass, they could simply pass any ad that was counted by this “fair trade” trusted third party. Some advertisers won’t pay as much to reach audiences that can only be targeted by which sites they read (or possibly where they are physically located), but in a privacy-conscious future, it’s not a choice between targeting or not targeting ads. It’s a choice between reaching readers or not reaching readers, full stop.A more elegant solution would be to find a way for publishers and advertisers to deal with one another directly, without any need for a trusted third party. That’s a much harder problem, though: if you don’t trust someone, you also shouldn’t trust anything that their computer tells you. Random audits and secret shoppers get you some assurance, but they’re clunky and inelegant.A single, trusted third party is much more attainable. It has its own pitfalls; a hacker for a government or criminal enterprise could learn a lot about the whole world by comprimising such an entity. It would also be a litigation target –anyone who disliked any ad-supported website would militate to have his adversary struck from the list of trackable publishers, depriving the enemy of income to fight back with.If it were a matter of business-as-usual or something as weird as a charitable web-tracker, I’d bet on business-as-usual. But the one thing I’m sure of is that business-as-usual isn’t an option, and it never will be again.
It’s Wednesday!
The novelty of the awkwardly named toys-to-life genre has well and truly passed. When Skylanders first appeared four years ago, the idea of unlocking characters and levels by placing toys on a “portal” peripheral was fresh and interesting. Now we’re on the fifth instalment and Activision has Disney Infinity, Nintendo Amiibos and Lego Dimensions to compete with. The emphasis now is on finding new gimmicks to keep things fresh.This year the theme is racing and with that a new line of air, land and sea vehicles have been added to the Skylanders ecosystem. This not only brings driving missions and a new racing mode but finally adds proper articulated toys along with the static collectable figurines. Kids can play with the cars even when they’re not on the console.The plot is the same old nonsense: series nemesis Kaos has another plan to invade the Skylands, this time using a new weapon that swallows the sky itself. From here, it’s a colourful action adventure with a tethered two-player co-operative scheme allowing you to play with a friend either online or locally. The challenge is never particularly complex, but this remains part of the charm. Waves of fantastical enemies are encountered through each level, and dispatching them requires the strategic combination of ranged and melee attacks.The environments themselves really come to life this year. They’ve always looked good, but now bristle with hidden areas, treasures and bonuses. Visual tricks hide secret areas for all but the most inquisitive on their first play, giving rise to multiple passes before everything is discovered.Familiar on-foot platform brawling is punctuated by the impressive driving sequences. The starter pack includes Hot Streak, one of the cars that grants access to the land sections. To access the air and sea zones you need to purchase more vehicles (£14.99 each). Additionally some sections are tied to a particular elemental type meaning that to access all of the areas you will need to purchase nine variants.The game features land, sea and air vehicles, all with their own custom features. They’re more powerful when used with their companion figuresThe three types of vehicular zones are impressive and distinct. They each offer specific abilities relating to the environment – including diving underwater to find hidden paths in the sea sections and barrel rolling to safety in the airborne zones. The land areas are most enjoyable, combining Mario Kart style races along with open arena boss battles. This could feel like a gimmick, but Skylanders Superchargers expertly works this year’s toy furrow with deep customisation and upgrades.The vehicles also have a paired Skylander driver. Use them together and you get a special supercharged enhancement. Tricking out each vehicle with their stat-enhancing modifications grows into a compelling part of the experience. In co-operative mode this really comes to life with one player driving and the other looking after weapons, reminiscent of the often overlooked Mario Kart Double Dash. For parents and children, this works fabulously with both players needing to coordinate efforts to succeed.Throughout the game, Skylanders offers new features and ideas, perhaps conscious that it needs to go the extra mile with strong commercial competition from Lego Dimensions and Disney Infinity this year. Beyond the on-foot and driving novelty, other gameplay mechanics are tweaked to keep things fresh. Whether this is adjusting gravity or adding the ability to shrink or grow characters, there is a sense of fun and freedom to the whole game.There is also a stand alone online kart racer mode with single races, time trials and boss challenges. This is available in all versions of the game, although it forms the meat of the Wii and 3DS experiences as they don’t include the main adventure. Additional packs can also be purchased to unlock more boss battles and circuits.The racing is breakneck paced with the usual range of power-ups and upgrades. Here though you are using vehicles that have been modified as part of the campaign game so a back and forth develops between the two modes. On Wii, Wii U and 3DS the starter pack includes a novel Nintendo crossover. This collaboration brings Bowser and Donkey Kong into the Skylanders universe complete with their own figurines and related vehicles.It all adds up to a wide-ranging package – and quite a hefty financial outlay if you get sucked in to collecting too many characters. Sure, you can complete the game with just the Starter Pack, as well as using all your old characters. You can even opt to reuse your old Portal via the downloadable version of the game, keeping costs down. But if you’re the parent of a Skylanders completist, this is not going to be cheap.Superchargers is, though, the most fully featured Skylanders offering to date. The combination of new modes, online play and backwards compatibility is unparalleled in this sector. It seems competition really is a good thing.Activision; Wii/Wii U/PS4 (version tested)/PS3/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £55;Pegi rating: 7+
Sony’s latest update to its “no compromise” smaller flagship smartphone proves size really isn’t everything with three-day battery, top-spec features and a great camera.While the rest of the market has been stretching phone screen sizes, Sony has been offering smaller “Compact” phones since 2013 fitting the same processor and camera from its larger flagship phones into a more manageable size.TheXperia Z3 Compactwas an excellent phone with over two-days battery life. The Xperia Z5 Compact promises something very similar.This review was conducted using a near-final prototype. Although unlikely, some aspects may be different to the device that goes on sale.Minimalist and one-handableThe frosted glass back is protected by a small lip to the plastic sides that keeps it off the deck when placed flat on its back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony’s minimalist design has reached its natural conclusion with the Z5 Compact. Some will like it, others will not.The plain plastic sides and glass front and back feel and look basic – a step back compared to last year’s model. The phone is also relatively chunky for a flagship smartphone at 8.9mm thick. Its larger 5.2in brotherthe Xperia Z5is 1.6mm thinner andits predecessor was just 8.6mm thick, but it is markedly thinner than the 11.6mmMotorola Moto G.Its size makes it feel really nice in the hand. With a reassuringly solid build, easy to reach power button and front-facing speakers that aren’t blocked by hands: there’s no doubt this is one of the easiest smartphones to use.Call quality is excellent but the volume buttons are quite low down on the right-hand edge making them relatively difficult to reach while holding the Z5 Compact in a secure grip.The 4.6in screen has relatively low resolution at 720p with a pixel density of 319 pixels per inch (ppi). It is colourful and bright, but not quite as pin-sharp as some rivals with much higher pixel densities in excess of 400 or500ppi.The Z5 Compact is waterproof to IP68 standards, but still has an exposed headphones port and microUSB port, meaning there’s no need to struggle with fiddly doors during normal use.The Z5 Compact’s plastic sides and a frosted glass back look a little plain.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:4.6in 720p LCD (319ppi)Processor:octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:32GB; microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop”Camera:23MP rear camera, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4 and GPSDimensions:127 x 65 x 8.9 mmWeight:138gSmall frame, full-specced hardwareThe Xperia Z5 Compact had an impressive three-day battery life without activating power saving modes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 Compact has the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 processor as the Z5 and performs similarly. I did not experience any undue heat issues, and the Z5 Compact seemed cooler overall than its bigger brother.It wasn’t the fastest feeling Android smartphone I have tested this year, but it was no slouch either. It runs games, image editing software and data-heavy Evernote notes without issue. Only having 2GB of RAM compared to 3GB within the 5.2in Xperia Z5 is not noticeable in daily use.But what’s really unusual about the Compact is its battery life: it is exceptional. Using it as my primary device, receiving hundreds of push notifications, emails, listening to music via Bluetooth, browsing for a couple of hours and a quick spot of gaming, the Z5 Compact lasted an average of 72.5 hours during my testing without applying any battery saving modes.Sony claims up to two days battery life but,unlike the larger Xperia Z5, the Z5 Compact over-delivers. With the excellent Stamina mode enabled I suspect it would last closer to four days between charges.Sony’s AndroidCustomisable quick settings within the notification shade are just one of the useful, small additions Sony makes to the standard Android experience.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 Compact runs the same software as the Xperia Z5 - a customised version of Google’s Android 5.1 Lollipop.Sony’s music, movies and album apps are all solid, but can be ignored for Google Photos or similar apps if preferred. High resolution audio playback, digital noise cancelling and access to Sony’s PlayStation Remote Play – all hallmarks of Sony’s recent smartphones – are present.Users wishing to take advantage of noise cancelling or hi-res music will have to buy the right earphones, although some may come bundled in the box depending on the deal.For more information on the software seethe Xperia Z5 review.CameraThe camera app on the Sony Xperia Z5 Compact is one of the best in the business.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 Compacts camera is the same one as fitted to the rest of the Z5 range, and it is great. Autofocus is very fast, images are captured with good detail, video stabilisation is fantastic and a dedicated two-stage camera button is very welcome.It performs better than average in low-light conditions compared to the high-end competition, although, like the Xperia Z5, the flash is basically not worth using.The selfie camera produces solid shots in good lighting, but loses detail in in-door lighting conditions. The photos look good zoomed out, but noise is apparent when viewed at full resolution.Fingerprint sensorThe fingerprint sensor under the power button on the side of the phone is excellent.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe fingerprint scanner hidden under the home button is one of the best in the business. During my testing only once did it fail to recognise my thumb print when trying to unlock the phone. I must have unlocked the phone hundreds of times.It cannot be used for some third-party apps such as Evernote or LastPass just yet, but that will likely change when fingerprint support becomes standard in Android 6 Marshmallow.PriceThe Sony Xperia Z5 Compact is available for pre-order in black, white, yellow and pink costing £450. For comparison, the4.7in iPhone 6S costs £539and theSamsung 5.1in Galaxy S6currently costs around £400.VerdictThe Sony Xperia Z5 Compact is the best smaller Android smartphone of the year and arguably the best smaller smartphone currently available.The camera is great, the phone is powerful. It’s waterproof and the battery life of three or more days between charges is fantastic. The design will not be to everyone’s liking – it could be thinner and the screen could be of higher resolution, but they are trade-offs worth making.Pros:three+ day battery life, great camera, microSD card slot, fast, useful software additions, PlayStation Remote PlayCons:relatively low resolution screen, no wireless charging, selfies soft on detail, chunky design, volume buttons difficult to reach when on a callA door seals off the microSD card slot and nano Sim slot.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviewsSony Xperia Z3 compact review: best small Android phone and iPhone 6 competitorSony Xperia Z5 review: good but not exceptionalSamsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killerMotorola Moto G (3rd Gen) review: the best budget smartphone just got better
Google has been challenged about its approach to advertisers after a study claimed that the company has been charging advertisers for YouTube views even when it thinks that the advert was viewed by a robot, rather than a human.A group of European researchers behindthe studycarried out an experiment in which they uploaded videos to YouTube and then bought YouTube adverts targeting those videos. They also created bots, software that runs automated tasks over the internet, to view the videos.While the bots “viewed” two of the videos 150 times, YouTube’s public view counter only listed 25 of the views after apparently correctly identifying the rest as fake.However, Google’s AdWords advertising platform charged for 91 views, according to the study.Google was reported to have said that it was contacting the researchers – from NEC Labs Europe, Charles III University of Madrid, the IMDEA Networks Institute and the Polytechnic University of Turin – to discuss their findings further.The company added: “We take invalid traffic very seriously and have invested significantly in the technology and team that keep this out of our systems. The vast majority of invalid traffic is filtered from our systems before advertisers are ever charged.”The researchers’ paper says that while substantial effort has been devoted to understanding fraudulent activity in traditional online advertising such as search and banner ads, more recent forms such as video ads have received little attention.It adds that while YouTube’s system for detecting fake views significantly outperforms others, it may still be susceptible to simple attacks.“Furthermore, we find that YouTube penalises its users’ public and monetised view counters differently, with the former being more aggressive,” it states.“In practice, this means that views identified as fake and discounted from the public view counter are still monetised. We speculate that even though YouTube’s policy puts in lots of effort to compensate users after an attack is discovered, this practice places the burden of the risk on the advertisers, who pay to get their ads displayed.”
Apple’s new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus smartphones land in customers hands on Friday, but a select bunch of reviewers have been given early access.The Guardian is not one of those picked by Apple to receive a sample of the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus ahead of its release, and will publish a review after buying one at the same time as consumers.In the meantime, here is a quick roundup of the general opinion on Apple’s latest.Review: Apple’s iPhone 6s And 6s Plus Go ‘Tick’ - Tech CrunchMatthew Panzarino sees quite an uptickin performance of this year’s iPhone over the iPhone 6, in its“tick-tock” upgrade cycle:In our tests, there was a 56.5% increase in Geekbench benchmark scores from the iPhone 6 Plus to the iPhone 6s Plus. That follows a 97% increase from the iPhone 5 to the iPhone 5s.In comparison, there was only a 24.9% increase from the iPhone 5s to the iPhone 6.In terms of performance, the ‘tock’ years are really kicking the ‘tick’ years in the butt.iPhone 6S review: Apple’s 3D Touch screen and camera improvements make the best better - Digital SpyDespite the iPhone 6S being thicker and heavier than its predecessor,Matt Hill found it wasn’t noticeable.No need to grumble, this is still slim by any standard, with the phone’s increased portliness barely noticeable and the added 14g giving the phone a more reassuring heft. Easily the most well constructed handset on the market - despite increased competition from the likes of the Samsung Galaxy S6 and HTC One M9 - the iPhone 6S’s cool-to-the-touch metal body and softly curved edges make the phone look and feel great.iPhone 6S review: Apple presses forward - The VergeNilay Patelloves the new pressure-sensitive “3D Touch” screenbut admits that it’s not exactly a novel concept, even if it’s a new implementation:On the home screen, app icons can show quick actions when you push them. Pushing on a calendar entry shows you more information about it, and pushing on a map pin lets you jump straight to directions. Pushing on a message in Mail opens a preview that you can slide to either side to delete or archive, and pushing harder opens the message. It’s the same in Safari: pushing lightly on a link opens a preview, and pushing slightly harder actually opens the page.It’s not some insane lightning bolt of inspiration; Google is doing something very similar with Material Design and Microsoft has been sliding things all over the screen since someone was drunk enough to approve the name ‘Windows Phone 7 Series’. But 3D Touch [is] by far the most aggressive and interesting step in this direction anyone has ever taken.iPhone 6s Review: A Slightly Better iPhone 6 - The Wall Street JournalThe camera’s better, the processor is faster and it has a new screen, butthe battery life of the iPhone is still poor, according to Joanna Stern:Let’s get this out of the way first. The No. 1 thing people want in a smartphone is better battery life. And the iPhone 6s doesn’t deliver that.The 4.7-inch 6s will get you through the day, but you’ll struggle to make it til bedtime with moderate to heavy use. And it seemed to drain even faster than my 6 when I used the new processor-intensive camera features like Live Photos. The bigger 5.5-inch 6s Plus lasted longer and is the best choice if you’re a heavy user and want some juice left over at the end of the day.I Used The Crap Out Of The New iPhone 6S And This Is What Happened - BuzzFeed LifeWriting for BuzzFeed Life (not BuzzFeed News, that’s below) Nicole Nguyen found Apple’s marketinga little distasteful:The marketing slogan for the 6S is “The only thing that’s changed is everything,” which is funny because that’s, well, not true. Take a look at the hardware. It’s impossible to tell the difference between the 6S and 6 iPhones, save for a tinyyy [sic] ant-sized “S” on the rear and slightly more heft (the 6S phones are one ounce heavier). They’re fraternal twins that basically look like identical twins.What is different are the few, significant internal improvements, one of which is what I think will entice people (namely, me) to upgrade. 3D Touch is the 6S’s killer feature. But it depends on what apps decide to support it.Yet Another iPhone 6s Review - BuzzFeed NewsJohn Paczkowski found images shot by the 12-megapixelcamera were generally better, as you would expect.The photos I’ve taken with the new 12 megapixel rear camera on the iPhone 6s look a little bit better than the ones I’ve taken with the 8 megapixel one on the iPhone 6 — and even my not-at-all-a-photographer’s eye can see that.Apple says this is because of “improved local tone mapping” and an “advanced pixel technology” called Focus Pixels. It probably is. I don’t care. What matters is that pictures of my daughters look warmer, sharper, more detailed, whatever. And they look equally good when I blow them up.iPhone 6S Plus review: Is bigger better? - Pocket-LintStuart Miles says the optical stabilisation and phase detection autofocus make the new 12-megapixel upgrade to the iPhone’s camera a winner, butLive Photos are a mixed bag for now.A lot of Live Photos we’ve shot have footage of us hastily dropping the camera after taking the shot. Another frustration is that audio is automatically recorded, which at times is lovely - a child’s giggle for example - but not so great when you’ve got the same child screaming in the background.All that extra video adds to their size too, meaning a Live Photo is worth around two still photos in terms of space. While you can offload some of that to Apple’s iCloud Drive service (at a yearly subscription) a 16GB iPhone 6S Plus isn’t going to stretch as far as it used to (compounding the argument for a 32GB minimum model).iPhone 6S Review: Come for the New Features, Stay for the Screaming Speed - BloombergSpeed isat the heart of the new iPhones for Sam Grobart, including the new and improved fingerprint scanner:The Touch ID sensor is instantaneous: By the time you’ve pressed the home button to wake up the phone, you’ve already authenticated yourself and are on the home screen.iPhone 6s review: built for success - The TelegraphAccording to Rhiannon Williams, the always-listening “Hey Siri” featureneeds a bit of work learning to ignore everyone but you:Thanks to the integrated A9, Siri is now always on, waiting to be activated by the command “Hey Siri”. This is attuned to your voice when you first set Siri up during the iPhone activation process, which means Siri is supposed to be able to pick out your voice alone from within a crowded room. I did find that a woman of a similar age and voice range to myself was able to activate Siri from a distance by speaking a command, so maybe this is a feature which needs a bit of refining.iPhone 6s Plus review: more battery, better camera and a bigger screen mean new phone could win you round to huge phones - The IndependentAnd of that Rose Gold colour, apparently it’s difficult to photograph andlooks better in real life, says David Phelan.The rose gold, by the way, looks better in the flesh than in photos, thanks to a colour that is understated and warm rather than out-and-out pink.iPhone 6S review - Tech RadarGareth Beavis sees the upgrade as a no-brainer if money is no object, but it’s amuch more difficult call for most people.It’s still one of, if not the, most expensive flagship phones on the market, and as such needs to impress in every way, which the iPhone 6S doesn’t quite do. The iPhone 6 remains on sale at a lower price, and the difference between it and Apple’s latest phone is negligible.•iOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?
The number of deaths in 2015 related to the practice of taking selfies has risen to 12 after a 66-year-old Japanese tourist, Hideto Ueda,died when collapsingand falling down stairs posing at the Taj Mahal in India. His travelling companion survived, but suffered a broken leg.TheBBCcites an eyewitness, Sagar Singh, as saying Ueda fell when taking a picture at the mausoleum’s Royal Gate.The incident now takes the death toll of officially recorded selfie-related deaths to 12. Previous incidents this year include a man who wasgored to deathtaking a picture during a bull run in a Spanish town, and two men who accidentallyblew themselves upin the Russian Ural mountains when posing with a live grenade. The picture was discovered saved to the camera roll on one of the men’s phones.Other selfie related deaths this year in Russia alone include a 21-year-old woman in Moscow who shot herself in the head while pointing a 9mm pistol at her temple, another whoreportedly fell from a bridgeand ateenager in Ryazan who diedwhen coming into contact with live wires while snapping a portrait near to railway tracks.In July, Russian authorities issued aselfie safety campaignafter “hundreds” more injuries were reported. The interior ministry’s initiative included a leaflet, video and a website.“Unfortunately we have noted recently that the number of accidents caused by lovers of self-photography is constantly increasing,” a government aide said at the time. “Since the beginning of the year we are talking about some hundred cases of injuries for sure.”The advice handed out by the Russian interior ministry, discouraging risky selfies.Photograph: Russian interior ministryIn May,a Singaporean tourist diedwhen falling from cliffs off the coast of Bali attempting to take a picture. And earlier this month, a 19-year-old from Houston, Texas,shot himself in the throatwhen framing a shot; a similar fate to that of a Mexican whoposed with a gun when drunk.Mashable reportsthat the 2015 death toll so far caused by selfies gone wrong is now higher than that for shark attacks, which is recorded at eight.More and more people are putting themselves into dangerous situations in a bid to get the most sensational or outrageous pictures to share on social media. In particular, pictures with animals, or taken at great heights, or posing with weapons, are widespread.Selfies with bears evencaused the closureof apark in Denver, Canada, after visitors would not stop getting close to the animals in order to take photographs.“The current situation is not conducive for the safety of our visitors or the well-being of the wildlife,” said the park manager of the site. “We’ve actually seen people using selfie sticks to try and get as close to the bears as possible – sometimes within ten feet of wild bears.”And in an echo of the man gored to death at the bull run in Villaseca de la Sagra, a woman from Mississippiwas attacked by a Bison, but survived, in Yellowstone National Park after turning her back on the animal to take a picture with herself in the frame.Others who do not intentionally put themselves in danger can befall injury by simply not paying attention to their surroundings when focusing on getting the perfect shot. Take, for instance,this woman, who narrowly avoided being hit on the head with a baseball when snapping a picture at a stadium.Or the 32-year-old who died in a car crash on an American highway minutes aftertaking a selfie and posting it to Facebookwhile enjoying Pharrell Williams’ hit song, Happy, in her vehicle.This Danish fighter pilottook a selfie while launching a missilefrom his F-16 aircraft, which probably isn’t the type of thing one should be doing when flying a plane and firing a missile. Rather than focusing on, you know, flying a plane and firing a missile.People putting themselves at risk for likes and shares and favourites on social media is not limited to selfie-taking. Viral trends have includedplanking(lying in a prone position in unusual locations) andtomb-stoning– jumping from cliffs into the sea – to film and photograph.Perhaps in growing recognition of the risks involved in creating a shocking viral picture, more creative and sensible types have started mocking up pictures in Photoshop instead. Including this humorous one featuring a cat chased by dogs, entitled “the last selfie”.A mock-up of a cat selfie, chased by dogs. Because internet.Photograph: ScreengrabThere’s no doubt humour to be found in outrageous and daring selfies. The two girls escorted from a baseball field after aninvasion mid-match to take a vinewas an impressive example of chutzpah. There’s also beauty to be found in extraordinary selfies, such as thosetaken from space.But as a society we need to get a grip on the real value of attempting an unusual selfie in situations which could, by even the most rudimentary observation or assessment, be deemed potentially harmful. If two teens blown up on a mountainside leaving behind a tragic, meaningless .png file isn’t a solid enough wake-up call, I don’t know what is.•‘A selfie with a weapon kills’: Russia launches campaign urging photo safety
It was a year ago when Destiny hit consoles, promising a new era of super-connected online shooting. The first new series from Halo developer Bungie since 2001, it combined the meaty gunplay and polished exterior of that series with the deeply satisfying loot-gathering of a game like Diablo. On top of all that was a smattering of World of Warcraft-style massively-multiplayer content such as raids and public events.Those first few weeks flying around in space with your AI “Ghost” buddy in tow were glorious, even ifPeter Dinklage’s deliveryas the sidekick was so bad that simple adjectives like “bored” and “wooden” fail to do it justice. But as the novelty wore off, so too did the shine. For something so clearly standing on the shoulders of giants, there was a bizarre failure to learn the lessons of the past.Where World of Warcraft has spent the best part of a decade iterating and improvingMMOmechanics, Destiny seemed intent on reinventing them from scratch. The game launched with almost no matchmaking functionality for any serious play, requiring players to put themselves into teams of three to six friends manually. Bungie insisted on treating co-operative and competitive play the same for balancing purposes, ensuring that weapons were frequently bizarrely overpowered or completely useless. Earning high-level loot, explicitly required to participate in the game’s high-point, the Vault of Glass raid, was an exercise in frustration and destructive psychological loops to the extent that players chose to stand outside a cave shooting low-level enemies for hours on end to earn rewards, rather than play the game “as intended”. Those are problems World of Warcraft experienced at launch, too – over a decade ago.Worse, Bungie had seemingly forgotten its own history. Where Halo’s sprawling space opera presented an engrossing world with memorable characters and fully-realised motivations from the off, Destiny’s plot was a forgettable, confusing mess, with plot threads left hanging, foes whose motivation was barely more than “space zombie”, and voice acting which took an all-star cast (Peter Dinklage, Nathan Fillion and Bill Nighy all play a role) and couldn’t eke a memorable line from any of them. Rumours of a wholesale rewrite months before release, stripping the majority of the plot out and shoving it in a companion “grimoire” app, were never confirmed, but lapped up by a player-base eager for some explanation as to how the developer could misstep so spectacularly.And yet.A year on, I am still playing Destiny. Because for all that it gets wrong – and it gets so much wrong – it remains a phenomenally-executed game, offering moments of pure joy I’ve seen very rarely in any game before and since. Through two expansion packs, Bungie has ironed out some of the flaws present in the original game, retooling the hoarding instinct at the game’s heart to something more productive while steadily introducing more and better matchmaking to help those players (like me) who find it hard to pull a group together at short notice. I love it, but I’d taken to habitually describing it as “my favourite bad game of the year”.Well, finally Destiny’s actually good.Its latest expansion, The Taken King, comprehensively fixes the game’s most glaring flaws from the bottom-up. Even Peter Dinklage is stripped out, with everything – including pre-existing dialogue – now voiced by veteran videogame voice actor Nolan North. A new quest mechanic links together previously disparate missions into a coherent thread, boosted further by actually-interesting cutscenes, a first for the game. Nathan Fillion gets the chance to wisecrack, and it’s briefly like Firefly was never cancelled.The game’s story picks up where the second expansion, House of Wolves, left off. Following the death of Crota, leader of the Hive (read: space-zombies), his daddy Oryx is out for revenge. He arrives in a dreadnought, blows a whole in one of saturn’s moons, and sits there daring the Guardians, last saviours of humanity, to come for him.And come you do. The game’s new story missions provide a compelling core to the game, seeing you break into the Dreadnought, explore the area, and take on Oryx himself. While the first two mini-expansions to the game were criticised for being little more than remixes of existing content, this one is all new: the Dreadnought feels worthy of becoming the game’s fifth major location, and the Taken, the new race that fights for Oryx, are welcome as a fresh face.When they were initially revealed, there was concern that the Taken might be little more than reskinned versions of past foes: in the lore of the game, Oryx “takes” creatures from other races, infuses them with his power, and puts them back in the world to fight for him. But in practice, they feel more than different enough from their past selves to justify their inclusion. Where Hive Thralls sprint towards the player, Taken Thralls lumber slowly, before teleporting to a whole new position in seconds; where Cabal Phalanxes hide behind their shields, shooting over the top, Taken Phalanxes gain a weapon capable of firing you backwards at speed.But as with the base game, it’s when the story ends that the real Destiny begins. This time, that’s even more explicit: upon claiming the reward for finishing the last mission, a number of quests immediately open up, pushing the player towards the new strikes, encouraging them to revisit old areas to battle the Taken there, and reminding them that the Crucible, where player-versus-player combat congregates, is still there.Sadly, also like the base game, the progression mechanic falls apart just before the end. Although the game caps out at level 40, a new “light level” measures the quality of your gear. Raising that to 280 is relatively trivial, involving earning the newest late-game currency (“legendary marks”) and buying gear from the vendors. But to run the newest raid, King’s Fall, requires a light level of 290, only achievable so far through lucky drops or the once-a-week special “nightfall” strikes.It makes sense that the raids are limited to the highest level players, demanding strict teamwork and a deep understanding of the game’s mechanics. But if the King’s Fall comes anywhere near the quality of the Vault of Glass raid from the original (and I’ve not yet been able to play it for myself, so it remains an open question), it’s a crying shame that the vast majority of Destiny’s players will never load it up.Even so, The Taken King is the first time since launch that it’s been possible to say to new players that now is the time to start playing Destiny. The flaws have been ironed out, and the future’s bright.However, there’s one final sticking point. The “Legendary Edition” of Destiny costs £40 new, and contains the base game, as well as all three expansion packs published to date. The digital download of the Taken King costs … £40 new. And contains just the download.The discrepancy isn’t quite as bad in the US, where the download costs $40 (£26), but it’s also not just a case of rip-off Britain. Someone who’s been playing Destiny since day one will have paid around $100 or £100, depending on where they are, for the content that now functions as an effective demo. Worse, if they paid that and decide not to buy the Taken King, the base game has had contentremovedin the runup to the expansion: high level strike playlists, as well as a number of side quests and other activities, are now only available to those with the latest expansion.As a result, it’s best to think of Destiny as mimicking the subscription model of a game like World of Warcraft, but through the medium of overpriced expansion packs rather than a monthly subscription fee. It changes the calculus somewhat, pushing players to pick between going all-in or not playing it at all. There’s not really such a thing as a casual Destiny player; or at least, not for long. But that’s fine by me. I’ve got more aliens to shoot in the face.
A bug in Google’s Chrome browser causes it to crash when clicking on or mousing over a 16-character text string placed on a web page.Clicking on or mousing over the phrase “http://a/%%30%30” (without the quote marks) when it is a link, or entering the string into the address bar and pressing Enter, causes either the current Chrome tab to crash or the whole browser, taking any work currently in progress with it.The simple web URL bug wasdiscovered by Andris Atteka, a security researcher from Latvia, andreported to Googleon 18 September. Placing null characters, in this case %%30%30 or similar at the end of the URL causes Chrome to instantly choke through a series of attempts to rationalise the web address.The bug affects the current release version of Chrome on Windows and OS X, but does not affect Chrome on Android devices in the Guardian’s testing, which instead simply fails to load the URL. Severalreports indicatethat the bug affects Android Web view – the version of Chrome that operates as part of Android to provide third-party apps such as Twitter, Facebook and others with an integrated web browser.Chromium developersfixed the issuein the latest revision of the open-source base for Google’s Chrome today, but the fix will take time to migrate through the developer and beta builds to the most popular “stable” version of Chrome considered a full release.While Chrome can recover lost tabs on restarting, any text or other work entered into boxes that has not been saved will likely be lost.The bug, with a sting of text being able to cause a crash, is reminiscent of theiPhone “Effective Power” bugfound earlier this year which could be used to crash iPhones by sending a message.iOS bug lets anyone crash your iPhone with a text message
Alan Partridge himself may as well have penned the marketing bumph for this, the 23rd annual edition of EA’s football series. Promises of – in the publisher’s words – “confidence in defending”, “control in midfield”, and “moments of magic” intimate a return to Fifa’s early-2000s nadir, where back-of-box buzz phrases overshadowed the on-pitch action. As such, it’s a relief to report that thesePartridgisms, while cringeworthy, are not without justification. There is substance behind the slogans.The Fifa series has enjoyed a rejuvenation since the leap to this generation of machines, but all too often matches in Fifas 14 and 15 were dominated by players with elite pace and power attributes. Mercifully, thanks to the above tweaks – “confidence in defending” in particular – that’s no longer the case. Centre backs mark snugly, constantly buffeting and tugging at even the strongest forwards. Full-backs track properly and look to step in front of onrushing wingers before they can reach top speed, while defensive midfielders break on to under-hit opposition passes, always seeking to spring a deadly counterattack.Pace and power are still as important as any other attribute, but timing – bursting past a full-back at the right instant, or shrugging off a central defender just as a crossed ball meets your striker’s forehead – is now critical in using them correctly. Nowhere is this better showcased than in the newly introduced women’s matches. Without the Olympian velocity of a Cristiano Ronaldo or Yaya Toure’s adamantine strength, finesse is imperative – that means recycling possession among midfielders and full-backs until a tantalising defensive gap offers a through-ball opportunity, or an out-of-position opponent provides a brief window in which to cross.The addition of the women’s game isn’t just cosmetic – the matches demand a different tactical approachPhotograph: Electronic ArtsFor your first 10, 20, 30 games with either sex, creating chances – let alone scoring goals – feels almost impossible. Results read like an essay written in binary. Then everything clicks, and you realise it’s exactly as virtual football should be; challenging your brain’s ability to unpick an organised opponent, rather than your index finger’s RT-holding endurance.As a result, this version of Fifa lacks the usual immediacy, and some of those seeking the end-to-end goal bonanzas of previous years won’t have the patience to persevere. More fool them. After a few days with the game, its more deliberate build-up play becomes second nature, and it’s then that you’re really able to drink in Fifa 16’s other little simulation improvements.Players adjust their bodies while making slide tackles or blocks in order to get just a toe or a knee to the ball, rather than ignoring it once locked into an animation. Keepers are more human – rushing from the area to clear overhit through balls and adopting better angles at shots from out wide, but also flapping at crosses and sometimes out-jumped by taller forwards. Referees use vanishing spray at free kicks which, like in real life, stays on the turf for a few minutes afterwards. In isolation none of these adjustments constitute a selling point, yet together they again bring the series one step closer to what you see on Sky Sports of a Sunday afternoon.Wales is a fun team to play as, thanks largely to this man. However, highly-skilled star players are meeting more resistance from defenders this yearPhotograph: Electronic ArtsBrain drainThe downside to the more cerebral action is that it slightly diminishes tactical variety. An array of possible formations make themselves available, yet from English Premier League to Colombian Liga Dimayor, it often feels like neat passing triangles are the only viable play style.For instance, Bournemouth carry a perfect strength-and-speed tandem in Glenn Murray and Callum Wilson, yet deploying a long-ball policy over a series of games – even with the former set as a target man, and Wilson instructed to run in behind – garners few chances and zero goals. Few will truly care given the passing game improvements, but having to turn Plymouth Argyle into a Devonian Barcelona (“Paella? We only sell pasties out this way, my lover!”) does feel at odds with the reality EA craves.Bournemouth offer both pace and power, but also showcase some of the game’s tactical limitationsPhotograph: Electronic ArtsWith the main focus on simulation rather than structure this year, career mode has to settle for a few refinements instead of a full overhaul. Pre-season tournaments are a welcome improvement on meaningless friendlies, and weekly training drills for up to five squad members provide a smart means of expediting player growth. Further fleshing out the world are additional mid-match discussions from Martin Tyler and Alan Smith, such as analysis of transfers made elsewhere in your league.Scouting remains an addictive time sink, although one which eschews believability as you drop down the divisions – my best talent spotter repeatedly recommended Wayne Rooney, Christian Eriksen and Gylfi Sigurdsson. For Leyton Orient.Got, got, needStrides are being made within Fifa Ultimate Team, after a 12 month period in which EA was lambasted for meddling with its card-collecting, dream-team-building mode. Web and companion apps return although they require a (thankfully simple) verification process before use, and price ranges are much wider than those so heavily criticised last year.The new Ultimate Team draft mode, enabling the construction of an all-star squad for four games, also delivers a refreshing break from the mode’s typical early grind. It’s all very moreish for now, but could change again once the people who peddle in-game currency for real cash determine how to exploit the system. Prepare for a winter of Mourinho-style tinkering.And what of the old debate pitting Fifa against old rivalPES? As demonstrated by unending schoolyard squabbles on social media, it’s an almost redundant debate – both games are edging back towards peak form, yet neither is likely to coax ardent fans of one series into switching sides.What isn’t in doubt is that EA’s game offers the superior package. Ultimate Team, career mode, online seasons, female players, dozens of leagues and hundreds of teams all with weekly line-up updates, bespoke overlays for Premier League and Bundesliga matches … the feature list goes on. While on-pitch matters between these two old foes are too close to call, Fifa’s breathtaking scope secures yet another silver pot for an already heaving trophy cabinet.Electronic Arts; PC/PS3/PS4/Xbox 360/Xbox One (version tested)/Wii; £45; 3+
It’s Tuesday.
The influential and controversial message board4chanhas been sold to Japanese web entrepreneur-turned-magazine editor Hiroyuko Nishimura for an undisclosed sum, it was announced today.Nishimura, who was recently appointed editor of Variety Japan, was the founder of 2channel, the wildly popular Japanese image-board on which 4chan was originally modelled when it was started in 2003. 4chan quickly overshadowed its Japanese-language cousin in influence, if not in raw traffic, however, to become one of the most influential – and one of the most controversial – websites.Related:4chan founder 'Moot' bids farewell: 'This is it for me. This is goodbye'Revelling in its reputation as the filthy, sweaty engine-room of the internet, 4chan – and especially the /b/ (random) board, the site’s first board – was the originator and hub of a vast amount of internet subculture including “LOLcats” and the practice of “Rickrolling”, in which an unsuspecting user is tricked into clicking on a link which takes them to the YouTube video of Rick Astley’sNever Gonna Give You Up– a practice which re-booted Astley’s career.4chan is also largely credited with being where the online hacktivist collective Anonymous originated, and it was at the center of the nude celebrity photo leak known as “the fappening” in 2014.Today, it claims 22 million unique users every month and a million new posts every day.In January 4chan’s founder, Chris Poole – who goes by the username Moot –announcedhe was stepping down as administrator of the site, and in a news post on Monday he announced the sale of the site to Nishimura. He said that he and Nishimura were “fast friends” who had bonded “over our shared passion for creating and managing online communities”.“He is one of few individuals with a deep understanding of what it means to provide a digital home for tens of millions of people for more than a decade. There is nobody more qualified than Hiroyuki to lead 4chan, and I can’t think of a person better suited for the task,” Poole’s statement continued.“4chan sits on the eve of two great milestones – its 2 billionth post and 12th birthday. It has been a great privilege to serve as 4chan’s founder and steward for almost twelve years, and I can’t wait to see what lays in store under Hiroyuki’s experienced leadership,” Poole concluded.
Facebook acted like the US’s National Security Agency, spying without authority on European users, lawyers representing the Belgian data protection authority said on Monday.In opening arguments in a closely watched case being brought against the social network company, Frederic Debussere, representing the Belgian privacy commission (BPC), referred to NSA whistleblower EdwardSnowden’s revelationsabout surreptitious mass surveillance by the spy agency.“When it became known that the NSA was spying on people all around the world, everybody was upset. This actor [Facebook] is doing the very same thing, albeit in a different way,” he said.TheBPC brought a lawsuit against Facebookafter accusing it of “trampling” over Belgian and European privacy law. In areportandan opinionthe BPC detailed Facebook’s alleged breaches, including the tracking of non-users and logged-out Facebook users for advertising purposes.The BPC is threatening Facebook with fine of €250,000 ($280,213) a day for failing to respond to its demands.Cookie use in disputeFacebook has repeatedly denied the claims, saying that the data and conclusions in the BPC’s Facebook privacy report are false.A Facebook spokesperson said: “We will show the court how this technology protects people from spam, malware, and other attacks, that our practices are consistent with EU law and with those of the most popular Belgian websites.”Facebook has also repeatedly stated that its European operations and practices are audited and governed by the Irish data protection agency, for the company’s European headquarters are situated in Dublin, Ireland.Paul Lefebvre, representing Facebook, said: “How could Facebook be subject to Belgian law if the management of data gathering is being done by Facebook Ireland and its 900 employees in that country?”‘Don’t be intimidated’The case is being watched intently by the rest of Europe where data protection regulators across the region, including the Netherlands, have also begun to question Facebook’s privacy practices.“Don’t be intimidated by Facebook,” said Debussere. “They will argue our demands cannot be implemented in Belgium alone. Our demands can be perfectly implemented just in this country.”Facebook said: “We’ve repeatedly offered to help resolve the Belgian data protection authority’s concerns, but it instead took Facebook to court claiming we do things we don’t do. The Belgian data protection authority conceded its original case and is now trying to stop Facebook from using security technology because they misunderstand it.”President of the Belgian commission Willem Debeuckelaeresaid in Maythat Facebook’s treating of users’ private lives “without respect needed tackling” and that it was a “make or break time”.“We remain open to discussing these issues directly with Belgian Data Protection Authority as a better option than doing this through unnecessary litigation,” said a Facebook spokesperson.Facebook’s new opt-out for tracking ads is not enough, says privacy expertVienna court orders Facebook response on ‘Facebook v Europe’ privacy case
First it was Twitter, the desktop client of whichwent downfor over an hour last week, (that’s almost a year in Twitter time). Then it wasAmazon Web Services, which glitched and took with it the likes of Netflix, Medium and Buffer over the weekend. Today,Skype has lost connection, scuppering those wishing to talk to long-distance other halves or interviewing for that job on a different continent.What is happening? Why is the internet breaking? And isn’t this all a bitPaper magazine November 2014?Admittedly these blips in service haven’t been all-encompassing – Skype’s web client appears to still be functioning, but app users are “unable to change their status, start Skype calls or see their contacts”. Meanwhile, when Twitter.com went down, users could still tweet via third party clients, such as Hootsuite and Tweetdeck and the app, just not from the desktop web.Amazon Web Services’ issues were slightly more severe, however, restricting restricting users’ ability to Netflix and chill. Not good. Many key internet services all dropping off in the space of a week is not ideal, given how integral a part of our lives these platforms have become.Remember when we were all terrified that the internetwould fill up(possibly with cat gifs) and there would be no space left? Not to mention the panic that surrounded the Millennium, orY2K, Bug.We are aware of an issue affecting Skype status at the moment, and are working on a quick fix:http://t.co/ymSzmrgEX0pic.twitter.com/8LoqqL0hh7&mdash; Skype Support  (@SkypeSupport)September 21, 2015These possible, internet-ending scenarios strike fear into our hearts because they offer a glimpse at what life would be like without surfing lunchtime news, the dopamine hit from social-media notifications and YouTube blooper reels.(Although, imagine a life without trolls sliding into your mentions to land a death wish at 11am on a Monday morning …; imagine a life with much lessfomo, and where a prospective partner wouldn’t Google you before your first meeting).Twitter is back up and working, as readers will probably be aware, given the fine tweets of last night (the brilliant Viola Davisbecoming the first woman of colour to win the Emmy for best actress in a drama; the less heartwarming#piggatetrending topic).Amazon Web Services is also back in the game. Skype has released a statement on its blog and taken to social media to apologise for the inconvenience, and to reassure users that the issue is being fixed. Let’s hope so, because there are people out there who need to talk face-to-face with holiday flings that would have best been left in the past.
Google’s appeal against the global enforcement of “right to be forgotten” removals has been rejected by the French data regulator.The Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL)ordered Googlein May to apply RTBF removals not only to the company’s European domains such as google.co.uk or google.fr, but to the search engine’s global domain google.com.Google filed an informalappeal in Julyagainst the order to the president of CNIL, Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, claiming that it would impede the public’s right to information, was a form of censorship and “risksserious chilling effects on the web”.Falque-Pierrotin has rejected the appeal, saying that once a delisting has been accepted under the RTBF ruling it must be applied across all extensions of the search engine and that not doing so allows the ruling to easily be circumvented.CNIL said in a statement: “Contrary to what Google has stated, this decision does not show any willingness on the part of the CNIL to apply French law extraterritorially. It simply requests full observance of European legislation by non European players offering their services in Europe.”The rejection of the appeal means that Google now must comply with the order and remove the tens of thousands of delistings from its google.com and other non-European domains for named searches.Google has no legal possibility to appeal the order at this stage under French law.CNIL will likely begin to apply sanctions including the possibility of a fine in the region of €300,000 against Google, should the company refuse to comply with the order. Under incoming European regulation the fine could increase to between 2% and 5% of global operating costs.Google can then appeal the decision and the fine with the supreme court for administrative justice the Conseil d’Etat.A Google spokesman said: “We’ve worked hard to implement the ‘right to be forgotten’ ruling thoughtfully and comprehensively in Europe, and we’ll continue to do so. But as a matter of principle, we respectfully disagree with the idea that one national data protection authority can assert global authority to control the content that people can access around the world.”The order is breaking new ground in making the subsidiary, Google France, liable for the activities of its parent company – in this case Google Inc. Should the French regulator succeed, it is likely to have knock-on effects in the application of RTBF rulings.•Google ordered to remove links to ‘right to be forgotten’ removal stories•Right to be forgotten: Swiss cheese internet, or database of ruin?•EU to Google: expand ‘right to be forgotten’ to Google.com
It’s Monday!
Point, shoot and share: smartphones have sparked an explosion in photography. According to tech analyst Mary Meeker’s annual internet trends research,more than 500m photoswere uploaded and shared every day in early 2013.That’s startling enough, but a year later, Meeker claimedthe daily total had risen to 1.8bn. She did not update the figure in her2015 report, but it’s reasonable to expect another sharp increase given the growth in both handsets, and the popularity of apps for photo sharing.The big apps for mobile photography are well known: Facebook, Snapchat and Instagram, with Yahoo’s Flickr getting a long-overdue mobile relaunch in late 2012 to try to compete with these (now more popular) upstarts.Meanwhile, the default camera apps from Android, Apple and Microsoft continue to improve with every software update. But all these are complemented by a rising swell of apps for shooting, editing and sharing. Ten of the best follow.Facetune.Facetune(£2.99)Android / iOS / Windows PhoneIt would be unkind to label Facetune as merely an app for touching up your selfies: it’s good for that, certainly, but it’s also an excellent editing tool for any people shots you take – yes, other people. Eyes, skin, noses and even smiles – try to avoidusing this in a tone-deaf way– there’s plenty to experiment with.VSCO Cam.VSCO Cam(Free + IAP)Android / iOSWhen you talk to people who are serious about their mobile photography, VSCO Cam often comes up early in the conversation. Yes, it has filters like most social photo (SoPho?No.) apps, but its editing tools pack more power than the herd. VSCO Cam also has its own community of photographers to share images with and take inspiration from: something in itself that should improve your shots.EyeEm.EyeEm(Free)Android / iOS / Windows PhoneAt its basic level, EyeEm is another photo-editing app with filters and other tools to spruce up your shots. Its most interesting feature is its “market” though: a place for you to upload your best photography and (hopefully) make some money if it’s bought by brands or media publishers. Like VSCO Cam, its community of photographers provides plenty of inspiration for your own photos.Do Camera by IFTTT.Do Camera by IFTTT(Free)Android / iOSThis is one of a mini-suite of apps from internet service IFTTT. Like the others, it is based around “recipes” to automate the tasks you might want to do with your photos. For example, one recipe might take a photo and automatically upload it to Evernote for later reference; another might email a photo to a particular contact; and another might post to Twitter or Tumblr without having to open their apps.Pixelmator.Pixelmator(£3.99)iOSThere are Photoshop-branded apps available for tablets and smartphones, but a growing number of iOS users swear by Pixelmator as an alternative. It’s available for Mac computers too, but it’s the iOS version that shines: it blends powerful features with an intuitive interface, whether you’re editing photos semi-professionally, tarting up shots to share with friends, or just creating memes using its text tools.Camera51.Camera51(Free)Android / iOSMany of the apps here focus on editing photographs to make them better after the event. Camera51 is more about helping you shoot them as best you can in the first place. It’ll advise you on framing and composition; warn you about objects that might get in the way, and can even help ensure your group selfies don’t disappoint.Afterlight.Afterlight(£0.79 + IAP)Android / iOS / Windows PhoneIf it’s ultra-quick editing you’re after, Afterlight is definitely worth downloading: it’s as good for tidying up a shot in a couple of taps as it is exploring some of its filters and textures for more polish. Textures? Yes, this takes some cues from traditional print photography in its tools for digitally weathering your final pics.Infiltr.Infiltr – Infinite Filters(£1.49)iOSThe name makes Infiltr’s standout feature clear: rather than a narrow selection of filters chosen by its developer, it gets you to create your own by swiping on the screen before taking a shot, promising more than 5m combinations. Even if you only find a few of them useful, the choice is refreshing.Google Photos.Google Photos(Free)Android / iOSThe thought of uploading all their photos to Google’s servers and having them made “searchable” will give some people the willies – and that’s fair enough. Others will be less spooked by the idea, and will appreciate this slick service from Google offering up to 15GB of storage. iOS users struggling with their iCloud limits may be among its keenest adopters.Photo Editor by Aviary.Layout from Instagram(Free)Android / iOSFinally, this spin-off from Instagram is a useful tool in its own right for grouping several shots into a neat collage. It’s simple to choose up to nine photos from your camera roll, pick a layout and then zoom and swap images until the collage is just right, before sharing it on Instagram or Facebook, or saving it to upload to other social services.Mobile photography is a hugely personal thing in terms of the apps that work for you. So what have we missed here? All recommendations are welcome: apps for shooting, editing, sharing or storing. The comments section is open for your thoughts.•Ten of the best interactive book apps•Ten of the best back-to-school apps for kids•Ten of the best football apps and games
Mad Max(Xbox One, PS4, PC, Warner Bros, cert 18, out now)★★★FromFury Roadto the middle of the road: this adaptation does nothing wrong but equally, nothing to stand out, which is a disappointment given its source material.Across a parched sea bed roars a battered muscle car, driven by the Road Warrior himself. Armed with shotgun and harpoon, Max fights his way through the apocalyptic landscape of mutants and madmen in a game that wants to do a lot of things – third-person brawling, sandbox exploration, car combat – and does them functionally, inoffensively. Everything under the hood hums along, but it all just lacks horsepower. It’s strange to feel bored by fist fights and car chases.So this version of the future feels curiously like a box-ticking exercise from the present: “Popular games have RPG-style upgrade systems and an open world, so we’ll do that.” While the bleached vistas of the nuclear wasteland have a stark beauty and there are some fun voice-acting moments, the appeal fades amid repetitive and shallow gameplay while driving through those same vistas over and over.PH3D Gunstar Heroes: a joy on the 3DS.3D Gunstar Heroes(3DS, Sega, cert: 7, out now)★★★★★Treasure’s bold 1993 debut served as a manifesto for its game-design philosophy – layered mechanics, relentless action, astonishing set-piece boss rushes and beautifully stylised art direction. Now more than two decades on,Gunstar Heroesshines as brilliantly as ever. On release it blew Mega Drive gamers away with creative 3D special effects that made the hardware sing, and all of which fit the 3DS perfectly.To those unfamiliar with its legacy,Gunstar Heroesis an intense run-and-gun action game in the vein of Konami’sContra(the developer from which many of Treasure’s staff migrated).The simple jump/shoot/weapon control scheme governs a huge array of attack options, including jump-in attacks, slides, tackles, throws and of course, the diverse arsenal of 14 weapon combinations. The seven levels are bursting with ideas (everything from a shmup stage to a boss-riddled dice-rolling board game) and the action never lets up. This is a perfect remastering of an essential, landmark title.RHForza Motorsport 6 benefits from amazingly realistic water effects.Forza Motorsport 6(Xbox One, Microsoft, cert: 3, out now)★★★★Not wanting to be in any danger of a stall on the grid,Forza 6has the hammer down, in numbers, from the off. There are more than 250 more cars and 12 more tracks thanForza 5offered, while the blistering, high-definition 60 frames per second visuals have been retained, as has motorsport-loving developer Turn 10’s huge attention to detail throughout.Showcase events offer high-end cars and novel challenges to spice up the career progression while race mods add more subtle fine-tuning for specific events. Variable assists ensure that the game is both accessible for newcomers and rewarding for experts.Most crucially the driving delivers a realistic and enjoyable challenge. Still impressive is the tactile feedback of rubber and road through the Xbox One controller’s rumble triggers. Wet and night races (new to this franchise) increase the race variety with extraordinarily realistic water pooling in puddles, triggering panicked hydroplaning if not avoided. The AI still has some kinks, not consistently delivering human-like opponents, but it is a minor niggle for a title that absolutely shines in the increasingly crowded field of great racing games.AR
A recent study by market research firm Nielsen claimed that the average person uses 27 apps a month, which sounds like very few considering that Apple and Google’s app stores both have more than 1m apps available. The key, of course, is that the 27 apps can be almost entirely different, depending who you ask.Some apps do have mass audiences: Facebook and Twitter in the social networking category; WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and Snapchat for messaging; Google Maps for getting around; Spotify for music; YouTube for video; Kindle for reading ebooks; Instagram for photo-sharing; and so on.Beyond these 900lb gorillas of the apps world, though, there is a wide selection of software that can improve your smartphone’s capabilities: often replacing the default apps that come preloaded on it, from email and calendar apps to mapping and music.One of the important trends in this area is apps working better together, whether through partnerships between them – pretty much every fitness-tracking app works with a range of complementary services – or by features in the smartphone software from Apple and Google making it easier to move tasks and content between different apps on your device.A trend that’s in its earlier stages is the growth of companion apps for smartwatches, usually designed to take two or three key tasks from the main app to your wrist, to avoid you getting your smartphone out of your pocket. Look for Apple Watch offshoots for iPhone apps on the App Store, and separate Android Wear versions for Android apps on Google Play.App developers also have a growing awareness of issues around privacy, from messaging apps such as Telegram that make encryption one of their key features, to controversies like recent criticism of an update to Spotify’s privacy policy, which was (wrongly, as it turned out) seen as opening the door for its app to root through users’ photos and listen to their conversations.App makers have to be sensitive to these concerns as apps continue to be big business. In 2014,Apple paid out $10bn(£6.5bn) to developers of iOS apps, while Google paid out $7bn (£4.5bn) to developers of Android apps.That money includes upfront payments and in-app purchases, but not advertising – a big money-spinner for companies like Facebook, which made $7.5bn (£4.9bn) from mobile ads in 2014 alone.For anyone relatively inexperienced in smartphones and apps, this roundup offers a good starting point to improve your handset: even if you don’t find 27 of them useful, several will have a meaningful effect on your daily life. Meanwhile, even smartphone veterans may find some apps in here that demand a slot on their homescreens.The Rightmove app takes the stress out of house-hunting.Photograph: Yui Mok/PALifestyle/healthMoodnotesiOS (£2.99)Moodnotes is a digital diary for tracking your moods, from low to high. It prompts you to explain your feelings to help spot triggers for low moments, and provides tips on how to avoid the “thinking traps” that may cause them.Clue – Period TrackeriOS / AndroidPart of the trend for quantifying yourself, Clue focuses on the fertility cycle. Use it to track throughout the month, whether your goal is conception or simply understanding your cycle’s pattern better.MyFitnessPaliOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)This is one of the simplest ways to quickly log your calories, setting a daily target to suit whatever your current fitness plan is. It works well with other health apps too, from Fitbit to Runkeeper.RightmoveiOS / Android / Windows PhoneHouse-hunting can be dispiriting, but at least the apps for browsing homes are good. Since you’ll be checking Rightmove morning, noon and night, it’s good that it’s so quick and easy to use.Sleep Better with RuntasticiOS / AndroidMore quantification, this time of night habits. Installed on your smartphone at your bedside, it measures your sleeping patterns, while its alarm aims to wake you at the best time within your cycle – avoiding morning grumps.BumbleiOSThis aims for a more female-friendly spin on dating. Browse and swipe right like Tinder, but if the woman doesn’t chat for 24 hours, the connection disappears. For same-sex couples, either has to act to stay connected.Peak – Brain TrainingiOS / Android (Free + IAP)Remember when Nintendo’sDr Kawashima’s Brain Trainingwas a craze? Peak is doing a similar thing on smartphones and tablets, with dozens of mini-games designed to test thinking skills and track your improvement over time.Zombies, Run!iOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)Zombies, Run! has the most creative method of getting you jogging: a horde of (virtual) undead chasing you. A proper story from Naomi Alderman keeps your interest high.UK Bus Checker is a fast way to check arrivals and plan journeys.Photograph: Getty ImagesTravelCitymapperiOS / AndroidFrom tubes and trains to taxis and buses, Citymapper suggests several routes, each with a projected time, with alerts on weather, strikes and other issues. In the UK, it works in London, Manchester and Birmingham.UK Bus CheckeriOS / Android / Windows PhoneThere are dozens of bus-checking apps, but this is the pick of the bunch. Covering more than 300,000 bus stops in the UK, it’s a fast way to check arrivals, or plan your journeys.Hotel TonightiOS / Android / Windows PhoneA growing number of people are choosing not to book accommodation but to pitch up and use this app on the day. Its speed and simplicity play into that: a few taps and you’re all booked up.Yahoo WeatheriOS / AndroidThe weather might be grim but at least the forecast looks pretty in this app. Yahoo’s weather tool isn’t just nice-looking though: there’s plenty of detail to dig into as you browse ahead for daily and hourly forecasts.Duolingo: Learn LanguagesiOS / Android / Windows PhoneOf the many language-learning apps, this is one of the simplest, but also most effective. Its bite-sized lessons are a fun way to get up to speed in Spanish, French, German and other languages.ViewRanger GPSiOS / Android (Free + IAP)If your holiday involves walking or cycling, this is an excellent companion. It taps Ordnance Survey maps and trail guides for detailed routes to pedal or wander along, and is particularly good for holidays within the UK.Hopper – Airfare PredictionsiOS / AndroidThe fluctuating prices of airlines are beyond the ken of most passengers, which is exactly their point. Hopper gives bargain-hunters an advantage again: analysing prices and trying to predict when they will be cheapest.WifiMapperiOS / AndroidFrequent travellers know all about the search for a Wi-Fi hotspot when abroad – with a free one being the dream. WifiMapper has a database of more than 500m hotspots around the world, and will guide you to them.HERE MapsiOS / Android / Windows PhoneGoogle and Apple have their respective Maps apps, but Nokia’s HERE has plenty of fans. Its key features include storing maps offline, and its inclusion of public transport and restaurant/shop data.Microsoft TranslatoriOS / Android / Windows PhoneThis handy companion will translate words and phrases while you’re abroad, with support for 50 languages and the option to have things read out or displayed on screen for you to try the pronunciation. It also works on smartwatches for even faster access.Identify constellations, planets and satellites with Star Walk 2.Photograph: AlamyEntertainmentMixRadioiOS / Android / Windows PhoneMuch of the chatter about streaming playlists focuses on Spotify and Apple Music. MixRadio might be the curveball alternative though: its themed playlists are a match for its high-profile rivals.Songkick ConcertsiOS / AndroidSongkick picks up your tastes by scanning your music collection or Spotify profile, then pings you when tickets go on sale for gigs by your favourite artists. Dangerous for your wallet, but wonderful for your ears.TuneIn RadioiOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)TuneIn has a database of more than 100,000 stations streaming online, including all the key UK channels. A premium subscription adds audiobooks and ad-free stations, too.GoodreadsiOS / AndroidGoodreads is a well-established community of bookworms recommending books. You can write your own reviews, check those of friends and – most useful – scan barcodes in shops to check reviews before buying.PocketiOS / Android (Free + IAP)Pocket is the best in the “read it later” category of apps, which help you collect articles from a range of sources throughout the day, and save them for a time that suits you. Sensible social features help you share with friends too.Star Walk 2iOS / Android (£2.29)The best entertainment is often distinctly un-digital: staring at the night sky, for example. But Star Walk 2 is a discreet companion for your stargazing, helping you identify constellations, planets and satellites.Magic PianoiOS / Android (Free + IAP)A welcome app for anyone who ever dreamed of tinkling a piano, but lacks the skills. Magic Piano helps you play along with a range of songs, play with other people over the net, and learn a few tricks to help with the real thing.VesseliOS / Android (Free + IAP)YouTube is a spawning ground for a new generation of video stars, but Vessel is pitching itself as the app for their superfans. Get early access to videos from popular YouTubers, and discover shows that you’ll love.Meet Flipboard – video.Social/MediaFlipboardiOS / Android / Windows PhoneApple’s soon-to-launch News app has been hailed as a “Flipboard killer”, but Flipboard’s features make it hard to kill. It turns your favourite topics and sites into a flippable digital magazine, bringing in social feeds too.PeriscopeiOS / AndroidTwitter’s live-streaming video app seemed a bit of a novelty when it launched but it’s starting to find its place, from celebrities broadcasting directly to fans to journalists reporting live from the scenes of breaking news stories.Telegram MessengeriOS / Android / Windows PhoneA big theme of messaging apps in 2015 is security, with more adopting encryption technology to keep your chats safe. Telegram’s appeal goes beyond its self-destructing “secret chats”: it’s well-designed and compares well with WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger.Pocket CastsiOS / Android / Windows PhoneReal-life whodunnit podcastSerialsparked renewed interest in the spoken-word genre, and Pocket Casts is one of the best ways to browse, download and listen to podcasts on your smartphone. A wide catalogue and sleek interface impress.VSCO CamiOS / Android (Free + IAP)Built-in camera apps have improved in leaps and bounds, but VSCO Cam remains a connoisseur’s choice for mobile photography. Excellent shooting and editing tools, plus plenty of filters to try out.FireChatiOS / AndroidFireChat seems like magic until you have the technology explained to you: it’s a messaging app that works without 3G or Wi-Fi, using a network created by the devices around you. Great for a group travelling, as well as public demonstrations and sports/music events.Google PhotosiOS / AndroidEven iOS users see the appeal in Google’s photography cloud service, which uploads your snaps to its servers and makes them searchable and shareable with friends and family. Useful if you start running out of phone space.FeedlyiOS / AndroidRSS feeds haven’t always been the most user-friendly way to keep tabs on digital news – at least, not for mainstream internet users. Feedly walks the line well between an accessible interface and features for more experienced users to drill into their feeds.EyeEm – Photo Filter CameraiOS / Android / Windows PhoneOn one level, EyeEm is yet another app for taking photos then applying stylish filters. But you can also add your best shots to its market – and maybe end up selling them to media and brands.PinterestiOS / AndroidFacebook and Twitter hog the social media attention, but Pinterest, where people “pin” products, places and ideas, has stealthily become a visual way to research holidays and purchases, building your own collections as you go.David and Gareth from The Office could have used some productivity apps…Photograph: BBCProductivitySlackiOS / Android / Windows PhoneSlack is a messaging service for your work spanning desktop and mobile. It’s a quick way to ping colleagues. When used well, its biggest benefit is reducing your email inbox clutter.TrelloiOS / AndroidIf Slack is for messaging, Trello is more about project management – the two work well together – using “boards” and “cards” to break down projects and divide tasks between co-workers. The apps provide a quick way to make edits or additions.Sunrise CalendariOS / AndroidMicrosoft liked this calendar app so much they bought the company, rebranding it as “an Outlook app” in the process. It works with Google Calendar and Apple’s iCloud too: pulling your diary dates into a clean and clear design.WunderlistiOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)Microsoft bought Wunderlist too this year. This to-do list app takes some beating: from individual tasks to complicated projects, it’s easy to divide, conquer and neatly tick everything off.PushbulletiOS / AndroidPushbullet can be hard to explain, but once you’ve installed it, you’ll see what the fuss is about: it pings files and links between your own devices, or to friends. It’s also a good hub for replying to social messages and texts.IF by IFTTTiOS / AndroidIFTTT is a wonderful way to connect all your other apps and automate the tasks that go between them. From uploading your social photos to Dropbox to saving stories from news sites, it’s useful in hundreds of small ways.SwiftKey KeyboardiOS / Android (Free + IAP)One of the best apps for replacing your smartphone’s default keyboard, due to its ability to learn your writing style for more accurate auto-corrections. Emoji, a range of themes and translation on the fly are also impressive.iA WriteriOS / Android (£7.99)As word processors go, it looks minimalist, but that’s the point: its interface gets out of the way to let you focus on writing. Designers dribble over the typography, but it’s the efficiency as a writing tool that shines.MailboxiOS / AndroidCurrently the best tool for reaching (or at least approaching) Inbox Zero. You swipe emails out of your inbox, including making some return later at a time of your choice. For now, it works with Gmail and iCloud email.Scanner Pro 6 by ReaddleiOS (£2.29 + IAP)This does the job of a physical scanner well: whether you’re having to print and sign PDF documents before returning them digitally, or simply keeping digital copies of documents and receipts, it’s the best option.DropboxiOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)Your Google, Apple or Microsoft phone will have a cloud-storage service attached. But Dropbox makes for an excellent alternative, whether you’re storing photos, documents or music.1PasswordiOS / Android (Free + IAP)We all (hopefully) know not to stick notes with passwords over our computers. But if remembering passwords is proving challenging, try 1Password. It stores all your details, encrypted, so you can login safely and quickly.NumerousiOS / AndroidThis neat, figures-focused app can be used for work or personal life – or both. It keeps track of any important numbers, from your social followers or exchange rates to your steps or a countdown to a significant date.StreaksiOS (£0.79)Part productivity and part health app, this aims to help you “form good habits” by choosing up to six tasks you want to perform every day, then marking them off to help your motivation. It’ll even remind you about them.
Price: £45,750Top speed: 137mph0-62mph: 7.4 secondsMPG: 49.6The date 1959 is stamped into the metal tongue of every seatbelt on the newVolvo XC90. It’s the year Volvo invented the device and, in an act of almost unheard-of corporate altruism, left the patent open so other manufacturers could fit seatbelts in their cars. The Swedish firm should be in the running for a Nobel peace prize for the uncountable road deaths that single act has averted.Safety is always top of the list at Volvo. The company has stated that no one will die in any of its cars by 2020 – and that’s not all that far away. But if the all-new XC90 is anything to go by, Volvo is on target to succeed. The luxurious SUV is bristling with the sort of hyper-aware safety kit that makes you think it must have ESP, and it’s all encased in a virtually uncrushable shark cage of passive protection. Sit in the glossy new car and it beeps and twitches around you – its cameras tracking and reacting to events you aren’t even aware of. You’ll be surprised to see its front end isn’t actually a big wet nose with long, twitching whiskers.Inside story: the cabin is light and airy but the real show pleaser is the new ‘portrait’ infortainment screen.I drove it to Brittany at the end of the summer packed to the gunnels with kids and kit. We drove almost 1,500 miles and I spent 33 hours and 12 minutes at the wheel (I love those trip computers). As I basked in the car’s incredible comfort, my smugness score was off the chart knowing I was also pretty much immortal that week. Sadly Volvo hasn’t yet turned its attention to dentistry and with my first bite of breakfast baguette one of my teeth fell out leaving me needing a new crown.The XC90 is the Volvo Mothership. It’s adored by school-run mums across the country. They’ll be pleased to hear this seven-seater has plenty of room in all three rows. The second set of seats flip forward simply, and it’s incredibly easy to jump in and out.This is the first car built by Volvo under its new Chinese owners,Geely. It’s only available as a two-litre, four-cylinder engine, in either diesel (225hp D5) or petrol (320hp T6). The diesel I tested was very economical for such a big car. When cruising it was smooth and silent, but to get you going you do need a fairly heavy foot and there was often an irritating delay as you waited for the power to arrive.Seventh heaven: the three rows of seats are arranged in theatre style so even the back row gets a view out of the front.Inside, you’ll find a serene, light-filled cabin. It’s all brilliantly put together and exudes a sense of enduring quality. Owners 10 and 15 years down the road will enjoy the luxury detailing as much as the lucky first buyer. The crowning glory is the tablet control system, labelled Sensus. It looks like a regular iPad except placed on its side. It’s incredibly intuitive, and you can control everything with a swipe of your fingers. I loved its 360-degree reversing camera. Part camera, part computer game, it gave you a perfect bird’s-eye view to help you slip this big beast into the tightest of spots with barely a whimper.Playing safe is rarely sexy, but Volvo’s XC90 is definitely one streetwise good-ass mother lover.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
Britain desperately needs to persuade hundreds of thousands of women to take up engineering to help the country exploit new technologies that could transform our lives. Failure would damage the na tion’s capacity to meet the challenges of the future, the new president of theInstitution of Engineering and Technology (IET), Naomi Climer, warned last week.Climer, the first female president of the IET, the world’s largest engineering institution, told theObserverthat Britain was facing a serious shortfall in engineers. Figures suggest that the country will need to recruit almost two million over the coming decade, she said. Advances in robotics, software design, renewable energy, materials and many other fields now offer to bring major improvements to Britain – but will need the problem-solving skills of engineers to make the best use of them. However, at the same time the nation is facing a serious shortfall in numbers entering the profession.“In the past, most professions – including medicine and engineering – were predominately male domains,” said Climer. “Today many have been transformed and employ large numbers of women. For example, jobs in medicine are now divided fairly evenly between the sexes. By contrast, engineering has remained stubbornly stuck in the past.Men still hold down 94% of jobs. That is simply not acceptable. Indeed, it is harmful. We cannot hope to recruit the numbers of engineers we need in the near future if we are effectively excluding half the population from taking part.”Climer – the former head of Sony’s Media Cloud Services – said parents and teachers were still discouraging children from considering professions in engineering by depicting it as drab or dirty. “What so many young people don’t realise is that engineering will give you work wherever you want: in the office or out of doors; on your own or as part of a team; working with computers or without them. You could work with food, chemicals, machines, electronics, bridges or railways or design software. It is an amazing range. Young people need to be made aware of that.”Climer qualified with a degree in chemistry from Imperial College London, but became an engineer in 1987 because the BBC was encouraging women to join the profession. In 2000 she moved to ITVdigital as director of technical operations before moving to Sony Europe in 2002.The crucial point, added Climer, is that new technology is now offering society a chance to adopt all sorts of devices that could transform lives: apps that could help visually handicapped people make use of public transport or robots that could help the elderly and the infirm, for example.“Many of these innovations could be of great help to society and women are particularly good at thinking about the needs of others, so they will bring a very valuable dimension to the field.“In any case, the more mixed is the membership of any team – whether that is in terms of gender or age or class – the better it is at coming up with solutions to problems, and engineers are by definition problem-solvers. So again it makes it important to get as many women involved as possible.”How Britain can encourage more women to become engineers is not a straightforward business, she said. “There is no single solution. However, for a start, we need to make it clear just how widespread the problem is: major companies should publish precise figures about the exact proportion of women they have in their workforces. That might at least getting them thinking about where they are going wrong.”
The latest smartphone from Sony has the fastest camera available on a smartphone and promises a two-day battery, but does it deliver?After the high ofthe Xperia Z3and its great battery life, Sony’s follow-up the Z3+ suffered badly from overheating issues. Skipping the number four, the Xperia Z5 has a lot to prove.This review was conducted using a near-final prototype. Although unlikely, some aspects may be different to the device that goes on sale.Minimalist designSony’s simple, minimalist design will be familiar to anyone who has looked at any of the company’s other phones from the last three years.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTo say Sony is iterative on design would be an understatement. The Z5 looks just like the various Sony flagships from the last two or three years.All glass, back and front, held together by a band of metal with plastic corners that are meant to absorb the energy of a drop to the floor and help the screen not shatter.The frosted glass back both looks and feels nice, while the phone is reassuringly solid in the hand. The device is waterproof, so trips into the pond won’t matter too much, but the USB port and headphones port are both exposed so there’s no need to mess with fiddly doors. Wireless charging, which you would think would be perfect for something like this, is disappointedly absent.The 5.2in LCD display is great. Vibrant, colourful, bright and with good viewing angles. It isn’t quite as eye-popping as some rival OLED screensfrom Samsungor as pixel perfect as higher resolutionLG’s 2K LCD, but most will be more than satisfied with the screen.The phone is slightly thicker than high-end rivals from Apple and Samsung at 7.3mm thick, but is easy to slip into a pocket or to hold, particularly compared to larger phablets with screens over 5.5in.The front-facing speakers are decent, for small phone speakers, and make it easier to watch videos in stereo without blocking the speaker with your hands.The Xperia Z5 is relatively easy to hold for a smartphone with a screen larger than 5in.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5.2in 1080p LCD (424ppi)Processor:octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:32GB; microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop”Camera:23MP rear camera, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4 and GPSDimensions:146 x 72 x 7.3 mmWeight:154gNot quite as hotThe Xperia logo is etched into the metal sides.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 contains Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 810, which has been responsible for causing overheating issues in not only Sony’s previous Z3+ but in other Android flagship devices.The Z5 does get warm, but not enough to cause issues in my testing. It was warmest when downloading music for offline playback, not when playing a graphically intensive game.The phone doesn’t seem to suffer from slow down when it gets hot and while it isn’t the fastest smartphone available – that would be theSamsung Galaxy S6– the Xperia Z5 performs well. It doesn’t quite have the same zip as some other top-end Android smartphones.I found battery life a little disappointing. Without using any of Sony’s battery saving modes the Xperia Z5 only lasted an average of 34 hours 30 minutes between charges, using it as a primary device with hundreds of push emails, notifications three hours of browsing and two hours of listening to music via Bluetooth headphones per day.Compared to the day’s battery most smartphones provide, over 34 hours is good, but it’s a far cry from the up to two-days battery Sony is claiming. It’s possible battery life may get better in production models.Sony’s Stamina mode, which provides a whitelist of apps while disabling others when the screen is off, works well and brings the battery life closer to 48 hours in my testing.Despite estimates, Stamina mode made the smartphone last for around 48 hours with regular use.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianI noticed that the camera impacted the battery life considerably, running the battery almost flat in under 18 hours shooting around 40 photos at a wedding.Small, useful changesThe additional quick settings and control over what appears in the status bar are just some of the useful additions to the standard Android experience that Sony makes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony customises the standard Android 5.1 Lollipop experience with small modifications. The version installed on the Xperia Z5 is Sony’s lightest touch yet, and while it looks a little aesthetically different it will be familiar to anyone who has used Android in the past.Sony makes some useful additions, including more customisable quick settings toggles in the notifications shade, some task automation, such as turning on the Wi-Fi when you get home, and theme support to change the look of the software.Most of Sony’s apps, including the Music app work well enough, but can be ignored if you already use alternatives including Google’s or something like Spotify.CameraThe camera app is one of the best on the market with plenty of features.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Z5 has Sony’s first new camera sensor in two years and increases the resolution to 23-megapixels from the 21 available on previous smartphones.The megapixel count allows the phone to produce 8-megapixel images with a 5-times digital zoom without losing detail, or oversample without zooming, which helps to remove noise and artefacts.Sony’s camera app is excellent with great automatic modes and enough manual settings to keep most happy. Photos look great, with good detail and colour accuracy in middling and good light. Low light performance is OK, but not best in class. Focusing was very fast, but sometimes struggled in lowlight situations. I found the flash was particularly ineffective.The front-facing camera produces acceptable, if not spectacular, selfies – often looking a bit soft. This is flattering for most people, but diminishes detail in the photo.Video recorded using Sony’s Steadyshot is smooth, removing camera shake and the jarring motion of bad dancing. The camera can record 4K video and doesn’t overheat, but at 300MB per minute you will need a large SD card for capturing anything in length.Fingerprint scannerThe fingerprint sensor under the power button is excellent.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony has fitted a fingerprint scanner under the power button on the side of the device, which is excellent. It isn’t as fast as Huawei’s sensor, but it recognised my thumb 99% of the time without issue, and has yet to fail to recognise my left index finger.Having it under the power button on the side is the most convenient place I have come across for fingerprint sensor placement, and means there’s no risk of dropping the device.PriceThe Sony Xperia Z5 is available for pre-order in black, white, gold and green, costing £550, which makes it similarly priced toSamsung Galaxy S6and slightly cheaper than Apple’s iPhone 6S.VerdictThe Xperia Z5 is a great flagship smartphone, and arguably the best Sony smartphone yet. The slightly more squared-off design compared to the Z3 makes it look a little more generic, but the frosted glass on the back is considerably more attractive.The best parts about the Z5 are the fingerprint sensor and the camera, but competitors including Apple and Samsung have equally good systems.It’s difficult to stand out in the crowded high-end smartphone market, and not quite making two-days of battery is disappointing. The Z5 is good, it’s just not quite the best.Pros:waterproof, good camera, microSD card slot, great fingerprint scannerCons:doesn’t live up to battery expectations, no wireless charging, not the snappiest, weak camera flash, can get quite warmOther reviewsSony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality cameraLG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive cameraSamsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killerOnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship killer’?
They say the compact crossover is a crowded market, but that’s only in the sense that any market loosely defined (futures, greeting cards, animal fats) looks crowded. What exactly is the Mazda CX-3? The thing that is larger than the Mazda 2, or the thing that is smaller than the SUV? It’s the latter, of course, because everyone loves the word “SUV”, but it isn’t large enough, least of all in the boot capacity, to warrant the term, even if it technically skims it.The upside is that it looks neat and sharp. They are funny, Mazda, full of high design concepts: “Kodo” is the unified look across the styles. The CX-3 meets it by being aggressive yet sleek around the nose, tidy through the body, sheered off neatly at the back. Skyactiv is the technology, which they illustrate with a video that pits a CX-3 against a greyhound. It is weird nobody pointed out that most cars are faster than dogs.Anyway, because it is attractive on the outside, and on the inside has leatherette seating with red piping, and because its variant is “Sport Nav diesel”, you expect a thrill. At 10.1 seconds to do 0-62mph, its getaway speed is tasty; it feels much more alive than theDacia Duster, the other big beast (popularity-wise) in this class. Sometimes nippy cars don’t accelerate well in the middle gears, but this was pleasant in all of them, and cruised well. Someone I am acquainted with by marriage complained that the fascia on the doors was the wrong height to lean your elbow on and get a tan on your arm, but otherwise, both driver and passenger position were comfortable.In the cabin, things were spacious and there were likable features; for some reason, the leather-effect stick shift area really pleased me. The touchscreen multimedia system is good on paper but lacks finesse, claiming mid-journey that satnav hadn’t been installed after all. The intuition quotient was high, though: there wasn’t anything I couldn’t guess, except where the seventh speaker was. (Nice to have so many of these, by the way. It got pretty loud, which I like in a car, especially when I don’t know where I’m going.)The ride is a bit bouncy and unpredictable – enough to make you think more about suspense than suspension. It’s a bit unfair to talk about primary ride when you take a car to a festival, but it was even a bit of a prima donna when it came to a seam in the tarmac. Melodrama was the only dramatic thing about it; it was sometimes admirable for its competence, but not showstopping.Mazda CX-3: in numbersPrice£22,435Top speed110mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption70.6 mpgCO2emissions105g/km (diesel)Cool rating6/10Eco rating8/10
The maker of Peace, a bestselling ad blocker for iPhones, has pulled the app just days after its launch saying the app’s success “just doesn’t feel good”.Marco Arment, co-founder of Tumblr and creator of the Instapaper reading app, launched Peace on 16 September.The $2.99 app became the bestselling app in Apple’s iTunes store almost overnight.Peace takes advantage of iOS 9, Apple’s newly updated mobile software, to filter out mobile ads and tracking on other apps and websites. Mobile advertising is the fastest growing sector of the ad business and seen by most publishers as vital to their future finances.But mobile ads face mounting controversy with their use of “tracking” to follow users and lack of clarity over how people’s personal information is shared.Web advertising and behavioral tracking are “out of control”, Arment wrote when he launched the app. “They’re unacceptably creepy, bloated, annoying, and insecure, and they’re getting worse at an alarming pace.”Ad and tracker abuse is an even bigger issue on mobile than on a desktop, he said, where ads are much larger and harder to dismiss, trackers are harder to detect and they slow down page loads, drain battery power and waste cellular data. They are also “increasingly used as vectors for malware, exploits and fraud”.Critics were quick to highlight that Arment was profiting from an app that blocked others from making money on mobile.the irony of charging for an ad blocker is too much for me I might die overnight see you later&mdash; matt (@mattbuchanan)September 17, 2015And after witnessing the success of the app Arment concluded that the damage to ad-supported content that would have been affected by the ad blocker was too much.“Achieving this much success with Peace just doesn’t feel good, which I didn’t anticipate, but probably should have,”he wroteon Friday.“Ad blockers come with an important asterisk: while they do benefit a ton of people in major ways, they also hurt some, including many who don’t deserve the hit. Peace required that all ads be treated the same – all-or-nothing enforcement for decisions that aren’t black and white ... If we’re going to effect positive change overall, a more nuanced, complex approach is required than what I can bring in a simple iOS app.”Arment offered people who have downloaded the app a refund and suggested alternatives, Purify and Crystal, which are both currently bestsellers too. The app will still work for those that have downloaded it but will not be updated.“Ad-blocking is a kind of war – a first-world, low-stakes, both-sides-are-fortunate-to-have-this-kind-of-problem war, but a war nonetheless, with damage hitting both sides. I see war in theTao Te Ching sense: it should be avoided when possible; when that isn’t possible, war should be entered solemnly, not celebrated,” he wrote.“Even though I’m ‘winning’, I’ve enjoyed none of it. That’s why I’m withdrawing from the market,” wrote Arment. “It’s simply not worth it. I’m incredibly fortunate to be able to turn away an opportunity like this, and I don’t begrudge anyone else who wants to try it. I’m just not built for this business.”
Wednesday’s launch of iOS 9 introduced fully-native mobile adblocking to millions of users for the first time, and they voted with their feet. One specific ad-blocker, Peace, a $2.99/£2.29 app developed by Instapaper creator Marco Arment, is the number one paid app in the UK, US, Australia and Canada, while two others, Crystal and Purify, are in the top-ten in a number of countries.But there’s a lot of confusion over what the blockers can and can’t do, how to enable them, and what Apple’s role is in the whole thing.The big change in the latest version of iOS 9 is the introduction of “content-blocking extensions” in Safari, the browser that ships with the mobile operating system. But although Apple has opened the floodgates to the extensions, it hasn’t done anything directly to block ads on new iPhones.Unless a user actively downloads a new app, such as Peace, Crystal or Purify, they will still see just the same adverts as they always had done.Indeed, Apple has been careful not to specifywhichcontent the extensions are used to block. It doesn’t refer to its new tools as “ad” blocking, but just “content” blocking, and explains to the developers that the feature gives “extensions a fast and efficient way to block cookies, images, resources, pop-ups, and other content”.When explaining the benefits of blocking content, Apple has focused on two specific aspects: speed, and privacy. Both are only tangentially related to adverts, instead being a function of the technology that underpins modern “programmatic” advert sales, which is how the vast majority of web ads are sold.When a browser loads up a web page, the advertising company – such as Google, through their DoubleClick subsidiary – looks at the user, and attempts to match them to a pre-existing profile. What other sites have they visited? Where does their IP address suggest they are? What device are they using? Once it has answers to those questions, it looks through bids advertisers have made to sell ads to that particular type of user, selects the highest bid, and pushes that advert to the web page.This all happens in the time it takes a page to load, but it can also increase the time it takes for the page to load. The code for it all must be loaded with the page, and it’s not lightweight. Many websites have multiple ad networks, as well as share buttons from social networks such as Twitter and Facebook, and their own internal analytics, all of which can add several megabytes.Blocking some of that content can markedly speed up loading times, as well as prevent the ad network from properly identifying demographic data about the visitor. Of course, the fact that one of the ad networks is Apple’s chief competitor is a nice side effect for the company.But the majority of content blockers available on the market position themselves firmly as advertising blockers, going further than just blocking the tracking scripts into actively seeking out the adverts themselves. That’s led to some dismay from publishers who deliberately sought out more ethical adverts, such as those from boutique ad network the Deck,only to find those have been blocked as well.Some, such as 1Blocker, go further than simple adblocking and allow users to block other content, such as sharing buttons, custom web fonts and Disqus comments.The technology which powers it all is firmly focused on performance. Traditional desktop adblockers work by loading a huge list of all ad servers into the computer’s memory and then running the entire content of the website through the filter, removing anything that matches. That can be comprehensive, but also incredibly resource-heavy.By contrast, the mobile adblocking uses a small list (although “small” is relative, and word from Apple is that it caps out at 50,000 entries), which is then loaded directly into the browser. The same engine that renders the page handles the blocking, allowing it to prune adverts at the source. While developers of the old type of adblocking software initiallyexpressed concernsthat their lists wouldn’t be suitable for the new format, those fears seem to have been misplaced.But in the long run, the format might turn out to be harder to use as a pure adblocker than it appears the moment. The other big difference between desktop adblockers and the new mobile breed is whether the list is updated in real time, and users of the iOS content blockers may find the databases are rapidly out of date.The most aggressive advertisers could view that as a sign to start an arms race, employing increasing permutations of their server names to avoid their content being blocked. But large stable organisations will find little to gain from the diminishing returns such an approach would offer, and may be put off by its similarity to the tactics malware authors are forced to employ to bypass anti-virus software.Whether they block ads, sharing buttons or just “content”, the blockers are here to stay.
Armies of robots are already here – they’re mostly just very small.As robotics advances, scientists continue to take cues from the natural world, whether it’s by building robots out of material from animals, likecloned rat muscleorjellyfish matter, or building them in imitation ofdogsorcats. And now, those scientists are learning to simulate intelligence by imitating a swarm.“Swarm robotics”, beyond being one of the scariest terms outside of a Terminator film, is the name roboticists give to robots that can coordinate behavior between multiple bodies, acting as a group. Thomas Schmickl of the Artificial Life Laboratory at the University of Graz in Austria, points out that robots as complex as humans or even dogs are a long way off, but the possibility in the insect world for simple animals to behave in ingenious ways as a group can provide some insight into how to simulate intelligence.Schmickl’s current crop of robots work mostly underwater – his swarm of as many as 20 swimming robots,all named Jeff, imitates a shoal of fish. With the EU-supported Collective Cognitive Robots project, he hopes to develop not just hardware but algorithms and other software to make group behavior smarter.“[M]onolithic, non-scaling technology is currentlyhitting the walleverywhere,” Schmickl said. He points out that computers now often have multiple central processing units, and says that swarms are not necessarily armies of robot bugs. “[W]e talk about the ‘internet of things’ – that might also be perceived as another kind of swarm.”Schmickl mentioned the Philae lander, which touched down on a comet only to fail at its attempt to drill into the surface and collect samples. “Imagine we had done that with five or 10 smaller, cheaper probes,” he said. “Not only would the risk of a total failure be much lower, you could collect data from different places.”The US military has come to much the same conclusion with respect to combat missions. Swarm robotics has become not just viable but a cornerstone of coming drones – unmanned aerial vehicles, in military parlance – like the navy’s Locust (Low-Cost UAV Swarming Technology).In terms of bug behavior,cyborg cockroacheshave been on the open market for a few months now (wannabe-mad scientists can purchase a DIY kit from a few different companies, though all require that the user supply his or her own roaches). Now, though, scientists are working to make flexible, durable parts from living material – recently muscle tissue from rats and even biosynthetic tissue from jellyfish have been used to make parts for robots.Chris Atkeson, professor at the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, said that often natural sensors are superior to what people can build, and animals’ abilities to smell, feel and hear may become a larger part of robotic science. One could argue, said Atkeson, that they are “analog computers in some sense”.Atkeson points to the Ames test, in which “bacteria are used to test the mutagenic potential of chemical compounds”, in his words. Bacteria are spread on agar with a little food and a chemical that may or may not cause mutation; when the food runs out, the only way bacteria remain is if the chemical has allowed them to mutate. “This would be an extremely complex computation to be done with computers,” Atkeson said.
You may not have heard of Roseberry Topping, Guisborough woods or Cleveland Hills – areas of Yorkshire in the UK – but very shortly it will become much, much easier to visit them. In fact, you won’t even have to step outside.The North York Moors and the 109-mile stretch of Cleveland Way are currently being mapped with Google Street View cameras thanks to a team of trekking volunteers.The team, led by Jonathan Steele, is taking it in turns to wear a backpack with a mapping camera loaned to them by Google. The route will stretch from Helmsley, across the Moors and on to Saltburn, before looping back through the National Park to the picturesque Filey coastline.Filey, on the Yorkshire coast – soon to be seen on Google Street View.Photograph: AlamyMalcolm Hodgson, the National Trails Officer toldGazetteLivethat: “There are numerous spectacular and beautiful locations along the Cleveland Way and the Trekker allows us to showcase them to the world in the same way that people use Google Street View.”To celebrate Teesside being put on the map – literally – we take a look at seven other locations and experiences tapped by Google Street View.1. Walking with elephants, Kenya’s Samburu ParkTeaming up with charity Save the Elephant, Google offers the chance toroam with the animalsin Samburu National Reserve, Kenya. Google’s camera-loaded cars mapped the area back in February 2015, driving along a 165km road. Elephants, zebras and leopards can all be spotted during the virtual journey.“We hope that by bringing Street View to Samburu, we will inspire people around the world to gain a deeper appreciation for elephants,” Google Kenya’s Farzana Khubchandanisaid. Think that elephants are all the same? Pff. David Daballen, head of operations at Save the Elephant,wrotethat he recognised more than 600 of the elephants on Google’s Street View.2. Climbing El Capitan, YosemiteBefore Yosemite was an Appleoperating system, it was a stunning Californian national park (no, really, kids!) And since June 2015,thanks to Google, it’s been explorable from the comfort of one’s home. What’s more, users can experience what it is like to climb the 3,000 feet of El Capitan mountain, thanks to cameras that tracked Lynn Hill, Alex Honnold and Tommy Caldwell during their 19 day exertion.3. Strolling through Marseille by nightPossibly the mostromantic project Google has ever undertaken, the Night Walk in Marseille was made in collaboration with advertising agency72andsunnyand digital producersMedia Monk.Narrated by the artist “Christoph”, users explore a district of the city described as the “heart of the urban savannah”. Embedded videos tell stories of how street art was produced, as traffic noise hums in the background.4. Liwa desert, by camelEver wanted to be a camel? Whohasn’t wanted to be a camel? Thanks to Raffia, the 10-year-old camel whocarried a cameraacross the Liwa Desert, United Arab Emirates, in 2014, you can experience just that. Because of Raffia, viewers can go on a trip through Liwa’s rolling dunes, oasis and scuttling sands.Two other locations in UAE are available in fully glory on Google Street View:the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosquein Abu Dhabi and theBurj Khalifain Dubai.5. Inside NasaGround control to Major Tom – it’s now possible to visit Nasa without even scraping a C in physics. The Google Street View team hasmappedmany parts of the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, including the top of launch pad 39A and three different firing rooms.When the collaboration launched in 2012, Lisa Malone, director of the centre’s public affairs, said Google now offered “a behind-the-scenes look at the Kennedy Space Center’s unique facilities that launched humans to the moon and space shuttles to low Earth orbit.” Which is a lot of bragging in one sentence, if you ask me.The Kennedy Space Center, which opened its doors to Google in 2012.Photograph: Google6. On the water in VeniceVenice: it’s the scene of many a grand romance – and some that are slightly morally dubious (cough, Thomas Mann, cough). As of November 2013, it is also one of the locations for Google’s treks.Explorethe archipelago by its canals, cross its famous Bridge of Sighs and visit Piazza San Marco. You might not be able to bring back a Venetian mask souvenir, but at least you won’t have to pay €20 for an ice-cream.7. Swimming with seals, Galápagos IslandsFancy hanging out with seals, sea lions and giant tortoises? Well Google has you covered, because back in 2013 the team trekked to the Galápagos Islands in conjunction with the Charles Darwin Foundation, and covered the animal populations found there. Googlereturned for 10 dayslate last year to revisit its giant tortoise conservation program.“We’re hoping that, by bringing Street View there, people will be able to appreciate the efforts that are going on to preserve the islands for the future,”saidRaleigh Seamster, project leader of Google Earth Outreach.“These are places you can’t drive to, can’t visit, and we’re bringing them across the world.”You can find more of Google Street View trekshere, including explorations of Angkor Wat and the pyramids of Giza, as well as the Grand Canyon and the Amazon basin.
Drones have a bad reputation. The first we heard of them, they were flying unmanned missions to kill not necessarily the right targets in the name of freedom. Next, they were going to replace Amazon delivery drivers, severing permanently the company’s relationship with human beings.This week, Nigel Wilson, 42, was fined £1,800 for flying a drone dangerously close to sports grounds and Buckingham Palace . It also emerged that drones were being used to fly contraband drugs into prisons. (“It’s complicated,” a prison governor tells me off the record. “The drugs are often legal. And the drones are legal. The only illegal thing they’ve done is fly over a prison.”)But amid all the stories, the people you haven’t met are the dronesters.Disregarding the military, there are three categories of people using drones – commercial, hobbyists and consumers – says Adam Sculthorp, 37, a droning professional. “You’ve got your commercial operators; we are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), and hold what’s known as permission for aerial work. Then you’ve got your hobbyist – if you go back four or five years, you couldn’t just go to Maplin and buy a drone. You had to build it. So there was a very high skill level … And now there’s been a huge explosion of people who we would term consumer.”It’s a world turned upside down, in which the commercial lot either started as, or are not as good as, hobbyists. “It’s caught a lot of people off guard,” says Angus Benson-Blair, the 44-year-old chairman of Arpas, the trade body for the remotely piloted world. “In particular, the likes of Boeing, I think they thought they’d be starting the industry off – and it’s actually coming from the hobby world.”The geeks, finally, have reclaimed a word; hobbyist means expert in this field. Professional means “probably started as a hobbyist”.The gateway drone-drug, for most, is a mini remote-controlled helicopter that you buy someone as a gift when you’ve exhausted all their needs and wants. “My wife bought me a little indoor helicopter for my birthday,” says Benson-Blair, “and it kept growing and having babies.”Tom Patterson, 29, who works with Sculthorp, had the same trajectory. “I got to the point where I would either spend a horrific amount of money on an even better helicopter, or looked into the drone side of things,” he says. “So I looked into the whole DIY kit, buying the controller circuit boards and the motors and started fiddling around. I’d say it was a progression from Lego. And they’re quite easy to fly, it wasn’t because they were fun to fly, it was because they were fun to build.”Benson-Blair used to be a tank commander in the army; I don’t know if that’s really relevant to his intense interest in remotely piloted flights, but it feels relevant. He is, technically, the safest drone operator in the UK; or at least, he’s the only person with a license to fly an aircraft of up to 20kg within 10 metres of the public. “Because of my hobby days, I’ve got a very in-depth knowledge: because of my bespoke drone and my flying skills, I put a very detailed safety case to the CAA.”Are they as geeky as you? “They are much more geeky than me, and there were three of them.”The rules around drone operation seem both detailed and slightly ad hoc – the height you can go, for instance, is measured in feet, where the radius from habitation is in metres. There are rules about weather (you can’t fly them in the rain, or above certain wind speeds); and rules about how far from your drone you’re allowed to be. “We’ve got aircraft that are 2 metres in diameter – and at 500 metres away, that would be a pinprick,” says Sculthorp.Commercial flyers, who grow more numerous all the time – there were 200 licenses a year ago and 1,200 now – are plainly aware of this, while the hobbyists are probably right this minute figuring out ways to make things even safer – for instance, by introducing spare engines for emergencies (the amount of redundancy in the system is what gives them confidence in it, apparently). But consumers, like the riders of “Boris bikes”, are not necessarily doing anything wrong, they’re just making it look more dangerous than it is.“My gut feeling,” said Benson-Blair, “is that the consumer market has peaked. I think they’ve realised that there’s only so much fun you can have by sticking a camera up in the air when you don’t know what you’re doing.”
Facebook has rolled out a new tool that allows users to choose whether tracking data from ‘Like’ buttons and other social elements is used to serve them ads, but privacy experts say the move does not go far enough.The new privacy tool allows users to opt-out of behavioural advertising, which uses tracking tools that monitor where users go and what they see on the web.Facebook previously pointed users who wanted to opt out of behavioural advertising to third-party choice sites such as the Digital Advertising Alliance, as well as opt-out mechanisms within its iOS and Android apps.Stephen Deadman, global deputy chief privacy officerfor Facebook said: “We’re introducing an additional way for people to turn off this kind of advertising from the ad settings page right on Facebook. If you choose to use this tool, it will become the master control for online interest-based advertising across all of your devices and browsers where you use Facebook.”Brendan Van Alsenoy, author of a Belgium data protection report into Facebook and a legal researcher at the KU Leuven Centre for IT &amp; IP Law, said: “This new setting is a very modest step in the right direction. But the net result for privacy is limited.”The use of tracking information for behavioural ads is still an opt-out process, rather than opt-in with explicit consent, warned Van Alsenoy.“The ‘new’ setting only determines whether or not Facebook will use its tracking data for ad purposes. Regardless of the setting, Facebook will still collect the same information about your visits to external sites containing Facebook social plug-ins. Facebook only promises to no longer use this information for the purposes of interest-based advertising,” Van Alsenoy added.Privacy fight across EuropeAreport commissioned by the Belgian data protection authorityclaimed that Facebook used long-term cookies to track users, as well as non-users of Facebook, when browsing the open web, using its social plugins such as the Like button, which is placed on 13m sites, including health and government sites.The social network disputed the claims, saying that the report did not understand Facebook’s use of data.The Belgian data protection authority latertook Facebook to courtover its alleged “trampling” over Belgian and European privacy law, specifically around its lack of explicit consent from non-users for tracking. Initial arguments in the case are expected to be heard Monday.This week Facebook begandisplaying cookie placement warningsto non-users who visit the social network at the behest of the Irish data protection authority, which audits Facebook’s privacy practices. The site has beenaccused of preempting the opening argumentsof the Belgian lawsuit.Tracking and the use of behavioural data has been thrown into the spotlight, first by privacy implications highlighted across Europe, and now by the advent of content blockers within Apple’s latestiOS 9 operating systemfor iPhone and iPad.The use of adblockers, which prevent tracking code within websites and from third-parties from operating, hasrisen dramatically on mobile platformswithin the last two days.On the desktop, however, “users concerned about Facebook tracking should continue to use tools such as Privacy Badger, Ghostery or Disconnect”, according to Van Alsenoy.Facebook event read receipts ruin your excuse to never go outZuckerberg: one in seven people on the planet used Facebook on MondayFacebook rescinds internship from student who exposed app privacy flaws

Twitter has introduced the ability for some users to create polls within its mobile app and desktop site during a significant feature trial.The polling feature, which takes the form of a two-option choice, has been rolled out to Twitter staffers and certain – but not all – verified accounts.The feature works natively and is embedded into the tweet itself. It is not compatible with third-party apps or clients such asHootsuiteorTweetdeck.Twitter has released a standard statement confirming the experiment but not elaborating on whether polls will be introduced for all users or permanently.All users can participate in a poll, but just a few can create them. At the moment, it appears the polls have a lifespan of 24 hours, and tweeters are informed of how long is left to vote, and how many people have voted – as well as the results in percentage.For those who have access to the feature, a poll can be created by clicking on a small piechart in the right hand corner when drafting a tweet.Who&#39;s got the new Twitter Poll feature then?pic.twitter.com/jQiE4ejYzO&mdash; Matt (@MattNavarra)September 24, 2015@fredwilsonto all who asked how i created that poll, i went to the tweet field on twitter&#39;s web client, selected poll, and wrote the tweet&mdash; Fred Wilson (@fredwilson)September 24, 2015So far, reaction has been mostly positive, and the polls have proved to be good for brand engagement and follower interaction with many people participating and a high level of retweets.Cool use of@twitter&#39;s new poll feature from the@RAIDERS: Letting fans vote for the content they want.#smsportspic.twitter.com/AunmpZJjnc&mdash; Jessica Smith (@WarJessEagle)September 25, 2015New Twitter poll feature makes for some great#fanengagementas seen on@ESPNNFLpic.twitter.com/yKX2RqsAeq&mdash; WePlay (@WePlayCo)September 25, 2015Questions have ranged from the practical to the banal to the meta to the absurd:Are you about to go to bed?#TestingTwitterPolls&mdash; Raheel Khursheed (@Raheelk)September 24, 2015can u see this twitter poll&mdash; ಠ_ಠ (@MikeIsaac)September 24, 2015Would you rather travel 100 years into the...&mdash; Ryan Hoover (@rrhoover)September 25, 2015The complaints about polls so far focus on the lack of third-party integration and the rather more pressing concern that in timelines and embedded tweets (see above) polls only show up as a text question without the interactive element. In a situation as with the last tweet embeddedabove, this can even render the tweet nonsensical. Here’s how that tweet looks on the Twitter mobile and desktop apps:However, given that the feature is on trial, it is to be expected that these issues would be ironed out if given a full release.Twitter has built in poll support now? Tweetdeck pls add this&mdash; Sleepy (@SleepyJirachi)September 25, 2015Today in Twitter: create a poll product, give no indication at all that a tweet is using it.pic.twitter.com/jYMDHXjPbx&mdash; Benedict Evans (@BenedictEvans)September 24, 2015Aaaand of course the Twitter poll thing can&#39;t be seen in either Tweetdeck or the official Twitter for Mac client#figures&mdash; Mathew Ingram (@mathewi)September 24, 2015Perhaps the most important impact Twitter polls will have is as follows:The new Twitter poll feature will turn &quot;RT for A, Fav for B&quot; tweets obsolete.&mdash; Pangeran (@pangeransiahaan)September 25, 2015This isn’t the first time Twitter has experimented with polls. In 2014, users were given the chance tovote on Oscars favouritesvia a poll provided by Poptip, but that function was only available on the mobile app. Twitter’sown @support accounthas also utilised polls to receive user feedback before now.@tmcmill81they have played with Twitter cards for polls for years. Still no official open access card for all to use.&mdash; Matt (@MattNavarra)August 17, 2015The new feature could really boost engagement, and fits with the online media trend of publications offering readers’ polls. It could even be used to gauge public opinion on certain issues, whether that be politics or entertainment events, such as reality TV shows or, as already mentioned, the Oscars.Some, however, have posited that a proliferation of polls could become annoying.So, what do you make of the Twitter’s polls?Do you:a) Like them?b) Think they’re a waste of time?
From the outside, it looks like an enormous grey warehouse. Inside, there is a hint of the movie Bladerunner: long cavernous corridors, spinning computer servers with flashing blue lights and the hum of giant fans. There is also a long perimeter fence. Is its job to thwart corporate spies? No – it keeps out the moose.Related:Data centre emissions rival air travel as digital demand soarsWelcome tothe Node Pole, a hi-tech hub in Luleå, northern Sweden, and the site of Facebook’s first datacentre outside the US. The warehouse opened in 2013 and is set amid a green pine forest, lakes and an archipelago. The Arctic Circle is just down the road. A second centre next door is due to be completed later this year.Facebook has four giant datacentres in the US,its newest at Fort Worth in Texas. The construction of the Swedish data halls is in response to the huge amounts of electronic data being generated around the world, at a rate that doubles roughly every 18 months.In Facebook’s case, this means 350m photographs a day, 4.5bn likes and 10bn messages. The chances are that if you upload a selfie in London, or post a status update in Paris, your data will be stored in Luleå, home to migrating reindeer and the northern lights. Pull up a 2008 photo and it will be conjured from a server here too, with data storage now a multi-billion dollar industry.According to Facebook, its Luleå warehouse is themost energy efficient computing facilityever built. It is cold in the Node Pole: winter averages -20C (-4F). Freezing air from outside is pumped into the building. It acts as a natural coolant, with hot air generated by the servers circulating out. Walls of axial fans keep temperatures constant.The location was also chosen for its electricity supply. A century ago, Sweden began building hydroelectric dams for its steel, iron ore and pulp and paper industries. These have declined – though Luleå’s waterfront steel mill is still in business – leaving the northern region, Norrland, with a power surplus. Facebook’s datacentre uses as much energy as the steel plant.Related:Inside Facebook's Swedish datacentre – a visual tourAccording to Tom Furlong, Facebook’s vice president of infrastructure, the company has done a heck of a good job with energy efficiency. The goal, he says, is to run its datacentres on 50% clean and renewable energy by 2018. What about funnelling heat into a swimming pool? Furlong said Facebook thought about the idea but decided it was uneconomic.The Luleå warehouse is vast, 300 metres wide by 100 metres long, and the size of four football fields, with three protruding square diesel generators, in the unlikely event the grid fails. Furlong said: “Architecturally, these are big buildings. They are not the Shard in London or Freedom Tower in New York, but as buildings put up for a purpose they are pretty darned good.”Inside, the warehouse mixes Sweden with California. There is a six-sided snowflake with Facebook’s logo in the middle; colourful paintings of reindeer hang in reception; a blue graffitied Facebook covers a large wall above a bank of screens. Clocks give the time at the other data hubs in North Carolina, Iowa and Oregon. Most of the 150 employees are locals, and a team of cleaners trundle constantly around the complex.Ville Sjögren, 28, the lead technician, says: “It’s exciting here. We’re at the front edge of technology. You get to see new stuff.” Sjögren was repairing a broken server on row 28B, holding a new memory stick. The servers – housed in endless black racks – were made using theopen compute project, an initiative where tech companies share the designs of their datacentre products.The site manager, Joel Kjellgren, said Luleå had proved a great location. During the winter he sometimes skiied to work; one Facebook employee turned up on a snowmobile. Staff went ice-fishing together. Kjellgren says: “Two weeks ago, I was biking home and there was a northern lights display. I stopped my bike and took a photo. You get really clear, crisp winters.”The computer servers are housed in endless black racks with twinkling blue lights. Photography by David Levene for the GuardianThe arrival of Facebook has put Luleå on the map. A delegation from the town flew to California in 2009 to meet with Silicon Valley executives. Matz Engman, the CEO of Luleå business and economic development, said that for the next two years, he lived on US west coast time – a nine-hour difference – as he lobbied to make the Node Pole a reality.The marketing slogan was the work of a canny PR firm in Stockholm. Such was the secrecy involved that Engman used a codename to discuss the Facebook warehouse: Project Gold. The town also pitched the fact that Sweden isone of the most secure and stable places in the world. Its last formal war was in 1814; seismic activity is extremely low.Still, the Facebook project almost fell through. One local environmentalist said the new datacentre would damage birdlife, including the rare three-toed Swedish woodpecker that nests nearby. The Social Democrat-run municipality dismissed his objection. The town beat off competition from a rival in mid-Sweden and another in Norway. Facebook spent hundreds of millions of dollars on the building. Five other companies have now set up datacentres nearby.The datacentre in Luleå, northern Sweden, is Facebook’s first outside the US.Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianEngman says: “This is a completely different city. It’s given us a tremendous sense of pride and self-belief. This should never have happened here.” Facebook’s co-founder, Mark Zuckerberg, has yet to drop by. But in 2012, he used the website tolike a giant thumbs up built from ice and erected in a park.The photo went viral, attracting 1,000 likes a minute, and flooding Luleå’s normally sleepy civic webpages with global traffic.Facebook has also transformed the town’s sensibility. Traditionally, northern Sweden is known for its gritty working class and laconic residents who say little and sometimes breathe loudly to signify yes. In the past, the cultural traffic has all been in one direction: from the sparsely populated north to the milder south, with its greater job opportunities.The entrance to Facebook’s datacentre, where the interior design mixes Sweden with California.Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianNow, the flow is in the other direction. The numbers applying for computer science courses at Luleå’s technical university have gone up, according to Peter Peter Parnes, a professor there whose own company was bought by Google. There are also new hotels and restaurants in Luleå’s small centre, including a fancy grillhouse where for 400 Swedish krona you can eat moose. (It was delicious, more tender than you might expect).Outside the datacentre, meanwhile, is a single bike adorned with the Facebook logo. Given the long, dark winters and sub-zero temperatures, would it not make sense to have a Facebook snowmobile instead? Zuckerberg would surely like that too. Kjellgren replies: “I’ve had numerous requests for a branded Facebook snowmobile. We do get two metres of snow. I’m thinking about it.”Luke Harding flew to Luleå as a guest of Facebook
Remember a time before Twitter? Before Facebook? The internet used to be a completely different place.Onthis week’s episode of Updog, a podcast about the internet, we talk about things we used to get up to on the internet: from angsty LiveJournal blogs and Harry Potter fanfiction towhether or not the stairs in your house are protectedorthe Narwhal bacons at midnight.Related:What are your memories from the internet? Your GuardianWitness contributionsAnd now, we’d like to hear from you: when you were younger, what did you used to get up to on the internet? Do you understand how One Direction fans feel because you too were part of a fandom? Were you a Myspace celebrity? Or are we just not going far enough back into internet history to cover your internet past?Whatever web community you were a part of, we’d like to know about it. We’ll use the best stories in a future episode of Updog. Share your stories with GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue button. You can also use the Guardian app, just search for “GuardianWitness assignments.”Want to follow future episodes of Updog? Good! You can follow us on Twitter @Updogcastand new episodes are posted every week on Fridays.GuardianWitness is the home of reader content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication.
The now-yearly queue for the new iPhone release was back again, but outside Apple’s Covent Garden store – the biggest in Europe – the mass of people queuing for the just released iPhone 6S wasn’t quite as big as last year.Some die-hard fans queued overnight to be the first few to get their hands on thenew iPhone 6S or 6S Plus, of course. Front of the queue was 29-year-old Sam Shaikh, from Stratford, who had camped outside the store “since 8.30pm on Monday night” and had been the first in line for theiPhone 6 last year.But the metal barriers erected in the cobbled streets in front of the store were not full to bursting, as they were last year and the year before. The scene in London was described by onlookers as “a lot less hectic”.Queue at the Covent Garden Apple Store. Security guard says it seems they were expecting more people.#iphone6sLivepic.twitter.com/EMV5jrK0On&mdash; Liza Hearon (@hello_liza)September 25, 2015Estimates put the queue at around 400 people strong by the time the doors opened at 8am; an impressive number for any launch butfar short of the 1,000 or so that queued last year.Does that mean the appeal of the iPhone 6S was just not big enough to drag as many people onto the streets overnight as last year’s iPhone?Tick, tockThe iPhone 6S is the “tock” in Apple’s two-year “tick, tock” update cycle. Once every two years – the “tick” year – the design of the smartphone changes making it look like a new phone. In the alternate, “tock” year the outside stays the same while Apple upgrades the internal components. The iPhone 6 was the tick with a larger screen, the iPhone 6S is the tock.The new iPhone 6S and larger 6S Plus have a new pressure sensitive “3D Touch” screen, improved camera, quicker fingerprint scanner and faster processor, but they essentially look the same as last year’s models – save for a new pink colour.Early reviews were positive, but revealed that Apple had failed to address a major pain point for consumers: short battery life.New iphone day. Whisper it, but they might not have needed the barrier.pic.twitter.com/fjlgkUhYq1&mdash; Janine Gibson (@janinegibson)September 25, 2015Smaller queues could show a couple of things. First that buyers might not be quite as eager this time around. Apple claims the new iPhone is looking set to beat the 10m sold of last year’s iPhone 6 with the first few days.Perhaps queuing overnight has lost the allure it once had when that was the only way to guarantee being one of the first in the country to buy one. But queueing is not the only way to buy one and hasn’t been for several years, leaving only the die-hard fans or those looking to flip the devices and sell them for a profit.Apple opens up pre-orders on its online store several days after announcing its smartphones. Typically pre-order delivery times quickly increase. This year, however, Apple either had enough stock in place to deliver many more new iPhones to buyers on launch day or the demand was not quite as big. Only in the last week has the delivery time increased to one-to-two weeks.Hive of activity...ish. It&#39;s no iPhone 4, is it? ;-)pic.twitter.com/ZqJhEoF6Yv&mdash; Dan Grabham (@dangrabham)September 25, 2015Buyers can also reserve and iPhone for purchase in store, like many other shops offering “click and collect”, which means there isn’t quite such the urgency to rush to the shops.Whatever the reason, and we won’t know until Apple reveals sales numbers, the queues are not as massive and the streets in front of various Apple stores around the country are not quite as clogged as they once were.Apple iPhone 6S and 6S Plus review roundup: stronger, faster, heavieriOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?Why Apple shouldn’t be selling a 16GB iPhone 6S or 6S Plus
Soma is a horror game that should try to act less like a horror game. Taking place in a remote underwater research facility, it plays on fears of the deep sea, of drowning and darkness and the disturbing alien lifeforms that dwell down there – all a welcome change from the mansions and asylums that tend to haunt horror titles. But the sea is rarely a threat – the ocean floor is often just a beautiful corridor between the underwater bases in which you experience more traditional horror gaming fare: ie running away from monsters. The thing is, this game is horrifying enough without them.Soma is essentially an existential nightmare about personal identity. “Soma” is Greek for “body”, as in “psychosomatic”, but the question Soma asks is whether identity can continue through psychology alone.Early in the game, the player character comes across a robot that’s convinced it’s human, specifically that it’s the person whose memories occupy its robotic brain. Whether or not you believe that psychological continuity ensures personal identity, to progress you have to disable the robot, potentially killing a person who’s aware of your actions. As in The Swapper, in which you solve puzzles by creating clones of your character that you then kill, the interactivity makes this philosophical exploration far more impactful than the same topic considered in a book or a film.If at times the point is hammered home a little too strongly by Simon, the protagonist, wondering aloud to himself or to guide Catherine, the personality of the characters makes up for it. Simon’s reactions are admirably authentic, sometimes overwhelmed but mostly determined and with a sense of humour that might sound inappropriate but seems a realistic survival mechanism. Catherine is rational, reassuring, but with her own interests beyond those of the player character. Their relationship threads through the story and holds it together in a way that pure environmental storytelling might not.That said, the world of Soma is absolutely full of detail. Each underwater base tells a different part of the story. Interaction with some objects will trigger audio clips of past conversations, a standard for exploratory games that’s actually given a reasonable explanation in this one. But you also get a lot of information just by looking around, from big scenes like a bloody corpse with a drill in its hand to smaller touches like a game of hangman with the answer “quantum mechanics”.There are plenty of notes and log entries to read, and an explorative player can piece together a surprising amount of detail given that in many horror stories fear comes from the unknownPhotograph: FrictionalImportant items need to be discovered and collected, but there’s also a third way to interact with the world. Like Amnesia: Dark Descent, Soma is a tactile game. You don’t click to open a door but click and hold then drag the mouse to push or pull. Finding a voice recorder feels like more of an achievement, the audio clip more of a narrative reward, when you physically yanked open a drawer to see it. This system is also used to solve puzzles, as you pick up and drag a cable to plug it in elsewhere, or throw something heavy at a window to shatter it.The detailed environments and methods of interaction make Soma feel at times like a “walking simulator”, but progress from area to area is much more involved than in the likes of Gone Home or Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture. While some tasks are familiar, like moving a battery from socket to socket to open doors (a process obviously designed to allow the time needed for the concurrent conversation between Catherine and Simon), others are unique. At one point, Simon has to do some programming, enabling and disabling components of a program without enough memory for all of them when each relies on the inclusion of others.Sometimes it’s unclear what exactly you’re supposed to do next, but you can’t stray too far off course and a bit of wandering around will eventually lead you to the necessary action. Occasional confusion is an acceptable trade off for the welcome variety in your tasks, which reinforces the strength of the narrative and maintains interest throughout the 10 or so hours of play.Naturally, the end goal is to escape, but what stands in your way is the game’s one slightly disappointing adherence to horror norms. The monsters. Each new area is inhabited by a roving unkillable beastie so you must perform each task while staying hidden.Frictional Games has a history with this kind of horror, and on a basic level it works: crouching in a corner while a mutated silhouette in the doorway scans the shadows is tense. But the first time a monster gets you, the effect is immediately lessened. One hit won’t kill; instead, the player character will awaken in the same spot with a limp and a blur to his vision that makes the world look like it’s been RGB split in After Effects. If you’re hit again before you can heal you’ll die. Disturbingly, you heal through interaction with flesh-like orifices scattered around the environment. Initially, you just have to touch them but with time, you need to insert a finger, then a fist, prompting violent contractions. Some players will find this much more disturbing than the monsters.While it’s a shock the first time something rushes towards you and the screen goes black, the fear soon gives way to frustration. More frustrating though is the fact that these monster jump scares seem so unnecessary – it’s as if the developer threw them in after worrying that they were deviating too far from horror game conventions. There’s a narrative explanation for their presence, but its resolution is unsatisfactory. The tension would have been increased if their existence remained hinted at for most of the adventure, rather than resorting to regimented sections of hide and seek.With such interesting interactions above and beyond the continual exploration and discovery, these monster sections just feel totally unnecessary. Worse than that, their existence makes other parts of the game seem duller: because you have to carry out tasks in a rush before you’re spotted and repeat them if you’re hit, those evocative environments are often reduced to mere mazes.Soma tells an affective tale and carries the horror genre a few steps forward. Had Frictional shown the courage to shake off tradition entirely, it could have carried it further still.Frictional; PC(version tested)/PS4; £23; Pegi: 16+
“A 25 year old man that acts like a hyperactive adolescent on speed – no thanks … I hope his camera falls on his foot and his toe goes septic … Some arsehole talking shit while playing games … an annoying bell-end … He’s absolutely obnoxious … basically the Pitbull of YouTube; nobody knows anyone that likes them, but inexplicably they’re huge … I feel old.”PewDiePie certainly divides opinion: those are all real comments posted on Guardian articles about the YouTube star Felix Kjellberg over the past 18 months. Yet he has plenty of fans too:39.5 million subscribers to his channel, where his gaming videos have been watched more than 10.2bn times.It’s those fans who Kjellberg’s new mobile game – PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist – is aimed at. Yet a fair few of those critics would enjoy it if they gave it a try: this is a carefully crafted touchscreen platformer that knows its gaming history, and which shuns in-app purchases in favour of an emphasis on player skills.The game itself sees PewDiePie and (once unlocked) a number of his fellow YouTube stars setting off on a quest to defeat a barrel king and his barrel army, although you’ll encounter falling killer whales, flying unicorns, dinosaurs and exploding cows along the way.The YouTubers include fellow gamers Markiplier, JackSepticEye and Kjellberg’s real-life partner Marzia, who provide their own voices for the intermissions between the levels.PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist.The feel is retro with 8-bit-style graphics and a chiptune soundtrack, and there are plenty of references to games and YouTube culture, from Minecraft Endermen and a snowbound Donkey Kong to an achievement earned for killing 301 enemies – “301+” being the number that YouTube’s view-counter famously used to get stuck on shortly after new videos went live.The controls involve a floating, virtual analog-stick wherever your left thumb touches the screen, and jumping triggered by a tap of your right thumb on the other side. On-screen buttons trigger special attacks and defences bought within the game’s “Pants” (ie shop) section.This is where Brofist eschews the freemium mechanics that now dominate mobile gaming. The game costs £3.99 up front with no in-app purchases, so to buy new characters and upgrades, you have to earn the in-game “Brocoins” currency purely by collecting them within the game.The upgrades appear as you discover them within the game, with early examples including a crab that heals three of your life hearts; the ability to slow down time; and a farting pug attack – PewDiePie and Marzia’s pet dogs are present and correct, fans will be pleased to know.Downsides? Touchscreen platform controls are one of the most difficult mechanics to nail in mobile gaming, and while Legend of the Brofist does a very good job, there’s still the occasional frustration missing a jump; accidentally tapping a power-up activation button; or realising that your left thumb is obscuring your view.The game’s difficulty is also worth noting: it has three difficulty levels, and even the “easy” one is pretty hard. That said, the punishing higher levels, plus the inclusion of features like spikes that kill you instantly and the challenge of leaping between moving platforms with touchscreen controls, will be a selling point for many gamers.Plus, they should make for some good Let’s Play videos in the coming weeks, as will the game’s “survival arena” mode for competing against friends.If you see PewDiePie as an annoying bell-end who deserves a sceptic toe, you’re unlikely to shell out £3.99 on his game – even if its quality means you’d probably enjoy it much more than you do his videos.Equally, if you’re one of his fans, this is £3.99 well spent, with plenty of potential for replayability using the different characters and power-ups, as well as taking on the higher difficulty levels.For everyone else, the most encouraging thing here is that one of the world’s most popular YouTubers could have simply cashed in on his fame by taking a big cheque for a derivative freemium title – but didn’t.The resulting game is much better than that – and thankfully, alotmore fun than listening to a Pitbull record.PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist costs £3.99for Androidandfor iOS.•YouTube star CaptainSparklez starts crafting mobile games
If you’ve been using Facebook recently, it may be time to ask for a raise. According to newfigures from market-research website eMarketer, you’ve made the company over 20% more this year than you did in 2014.The average Facebook user now generates $12.76 in advertising revenue every year, according to the analytics firm, up from $10.03 the year before. That figure is expected to rise still further, to $17.50 in 2017.If you don’t use Facebook, you may be earning Twitter money instead. The company makes $7.75 per user, up from $5.48 last year, and its average revenue per user (ARPU) is expected to almost double over the next few years, to $12.56 in 2017.Where you are matters an awful lot to how valuable you are to social networks, however. Break down the difference between Americans and the rest of the world, and it becomes immediately obvious why the US receives the bulk of the attention from Facebook and Twitter. While one Facebook user outside the US will make the site $7.71 this year, an American on the same site will earn it a whopping $48.76. A similar discrepancy exists for Twitter: ARPU is $3.51 everywhere but America, and $24.48 there.Where will that extra money come from? Two places: advertisers paying more to sell products on social networks, and social networks working out more ways to show you adverts. It may seem like Facebook and Twitter have reached saturation point on the number of adverts they display, but with both sites constantly developing new products, there will always be new places to put ads.As for advertisers paying more, that too can come for two reasons: supply and demand. As the opportunities for advertising directly to consumers shrink, with the death of print, the decline of broadcast media, and the rise ofadblockers. Conversely, social networks are offering better and better deals to advertisers. The more information a site has on a specific user, the more valuable the ad space on their screen, and new and innovative styles of adverts also encourage advertisers to spend more (see, for instance, video adverts on both Facebook and Twitter for one example).Of course, Facebook doesn’t actually pay you for all the money you make it. But some have argued that it should:musician and internet theorist Jaron Lanier arguesthat for every piece of data we hand over to “spy agencies”, as he calls Facebook and Google, we should be compensated.“The reason that monetising information is crucial, is that it’s the only path that creates moderation. People talk about rights and regulation. My concern is that those things can never keep up with computer programmers. Programmers move faster than the law. But monetising will do it,”he told Channel 4 in 2013.
I use Corel VideoStudio extensively and want to buy a faster system to run it. My current HP Envy has an Intel Core i7-3630QM. New HPs have an i7-5500U. My confusion is that when I search for a comparison on the internet, I am told the 3630 is better than the 5500 as it has more cores.GraemeThe internet is correct. Your old Intel Core i7-3630QM is a very fast processor, by laptop standards, and it is a lot faster than the new i7-5500U. The fashion for thin laptops is crippling performance.Thin laptops require chips that run at low voltages and don’t generate much heat. The Core i7-3630QM runs at 45W, whereas the i7-5500U (U for Ultra-low voltage) runs at only 15W. The latest Core M chips run at 4.5W, so they work without cooling fans.The internet is also right about cores. It’s relatively simple to run video processes in parallel streams, though this depends on the software and drivers exploiting parallelism. Most Intel chips also use hyper-threading, where each core runs two threads (processes). The i7-5500U has two cores/four threads whereas the i7-3630QM has four cores/eight threads. If all the threads are used, the i7-3630QM could be twice as quick.Clock speed and cache memory also make a difference. Generally, a chip with a higher clock speed will run faster, so your current processor has a very slight edge. The i7-3630QM runs at 2.4GHz, with a burst mode that can reach 3.4GHz for short periods. The i7-5500U also runs at 2.4GHz, but the burst mode is limited to 3.0GHz.Burst mode generates extra heat, so it’s not much of an advantage. The processors in thin laptops tend to get hot, and when they do, their performance is throttled until they cool down. Processors in thin laptops can’t run four or eight threads at burst speed for the amount of time needed to render a movie.Getting data to the CPU is another bottleneck, so processors use memory caches to keep stocks of data handy. Again, the Core i7-3630QM wins: it has a megabyte of Level 2 cache and 6MB of Level 3 cache. The i7-5500U has only 512K and 4MB respectively.Intel does make chips that should outperform your third-generation i7. These include theCore i7-4980HQ, used in the HP 450 and other laptops, such as the quad-core version of theApple MacBook Pro Retina. However, it’s barely faster – 2.8GHz, same cache – and, at 47W, even hotter.CPU Bosssays it’s “too close to call”. An i7-4980HQ probably adds around £500/$500 to the price of a laptop, so it’s not a worthwhile improvement on what you have now.If you want a big increase in processor speed, you might have to switch to a desktop tower that can support a hot processor. The current ultimate is the 12-core Intel Xeon E5-2697 v2, which runs at 130W. Check the top 30 at Notebookcheck’sComparison of Mobile Processors (CPU Benchmarks)for some alternatives. However, I notice the 2011-vintage IntelCore i7-3960X Extreme Edition(6 cores, 15MB cache), in fifth place, still knocks spots off almost all modern processors.Graphics mattersExtra speed comes from adding a GPU or Graphics Processing Unit, but the fashion for thin laptops has hit those as well. A few laptops still have them, but the vast majority don’t: GPUs use too much power, run too hot, and cost too much.Instead, most of today’s laptops use “integrated graphics”, where the GPU is included with the CPU, and shares its slow memory. Processors with Intel Integrated Graphics are fine for most purposes, but dedicated cards are better for games and serious graphics processing.If you have an HP Envy dv6, you’re probably using the Intel HD Graphics 4000 GPU integrated with the Core i7-3630QM. (HP sold a version of the dv6 with a slowish NvidiaGeForceGT 630M graphics card – you may have one – butyou can’t upgrade the graphics card without changing the motherboard.) You therefore need to find a laptop with a faster graphics card that is compatible with Corel VideoStudio.Alas, I have no idea which laptop graphics cards run Corel VideoStudio best, and I can’t find any useful information of the sort you can get for Adobe Premier, which works best withQuadrocards.However, you can compare the performance of yourHD Graphics 4000 with alternatives such as the GeForce GT 750Mat the Game Debate website. I’ve picked the GT 750M because it’s used in the previously-mentioned MacBook Pro, Dell and other serious laptops.Other considerationsIf you have an HP Envy dv6, it has a 5400RPM hard drive, which could be a bottleneck. For video processing, it’s better to have a 7200RPM drive. Obviously SSDs (solid-state drives) are even faster, but they tend to be too small or too expensive for video.Either way, the best option is to have two (or more!) drives: one for the operating system, video editor and caches and the other for reading and writing video files.Due to the problem of overheating and throttling, mentioned above, anactive coolerwould be a useful accessory. Try one with your HP Envy 15.You should also be usinga 64-bit version of Corel VideoStudio, such as Pro or Ultimate X7, Pro X8 Ultimate orPro X8.5. Earlier releases were 32-bit. If you have to buy a new copy, consider tryingSony Movie Studio 13 Platinumfor 30 days (free).Possible laptopsThe new Dell XPS 15 (9530, 2015) looks roughly equivalent to the MacBook Pro Retina. The cheapest model has a fast Core i7-4712HQ, 16GB of memory, a GeForce GT 750M graphics card with 2GB of GDDR5 memory, a 32GB SSD and a terabyte hard drive. The 4K Ultra HD screen has a resolution of 3840 x 2160 pixels, though a Full HD version (1920 x 1080) would probably be better for your purposes. Unfortunately, I can only find this onDell’s US website for $2,199.99, though there’s a similar laptop for £1,811.16 onAmazon.co.uk. Maybe the US versions will appear in theUK….A cheaper option would be anAsus N550JK-CM604Hwith a Core i7-4720HQ, 12GB of memory, and GeForce GTX 850M graphics card for £720. Swapping the 5400RPM terabyte hard drive for a 7200RPM 750GB model would bump the price up to £814.80. SSD drives are available at extra cost. In fact, this website has a number ofAsus and MSI Prestigemodels you could consider.I’ve ignored the HP Envy 15 laptops because of their Core i7-5500U processors, but you might consider HP’sOmen 15gaming laptop. This has a Core i7-4710HQ, 16GB of memory, GeForce GTX 860M graphics with 4GB of GDDR5 memory, and a 256GB SSD for £1,399.There are many other gaming laptops from the Asus ROG (Republic of Gamers), MSI and Dell Alienware ranges, but Gigabyte offers some cheap options. For example, you could get aGigabyte P35Wwith a Core i7-4710HQ, 8GB of memory, GeForce GTX 870M, 128GB SSD and 1TB hard drive for £1,099. AP15Fwith a GeForce GTX 950M but without the SSD costs £799.99. Shop around for prices.But I can’t really recommend any particular model, I’m just trying to indicate possible directions.It would be easier if someone benchmarked Corel VideoStudio on a range of GeForce GT, GTX,Quadroand ATI Radeon graphics cards to find the best, because I don’t know. And, unfortunately, the graphics card will be the main factor in whether a new laptop performs significantly better than your old one.Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
It’s Friday!
To deal with the sickly sweet elephant in the room: no, Candy Crush Saga isn’t included. Not for reasons of snobbery, but rather because surelyanyonewith an interest in playing puzzle games on their phone will know about it by now.Candy Crush Saga’s popularity shows the appetite for small-screen puzzling, though, so what else is available on your smartphone or tablet to stretch your brains?Here are ten of the best games – all available for both Android and iOS with a few also on Windows Phone – to get your grey cells fizzing. The links for each platform lead to the app stores, while “IAP” indicates in-app purchases.Monument Valley (£2.99 + IAP)iOS/Android/Windows PhoneMonument Valley isn’t the longest mobile game you’ll play, but it’s one of the most beautiful. You guide a princess called Ida through a succession of physics-challenging levels, twisting the scenery to clear her way. With no time limits, the pace is relaxing, but the sense of achievement is huge.Monument Valley.Triple Town (Free + IAP)iOS/AndroidOne of the oldest games on this list, but still one of the best puzzlers you can play on a smartphone or tablet. Triple Town involves building a town by matching trees and houses to make bigger versions. It’s wonderfully (if sometimes work and sleep-cripplingly) addictive, with decidedly unaggressive in-app purchases.Triple Town.Threes! (Free - £2.30)iOS/Android/Windows PhoneThrees! is simple at its core: slide numbered cards into one another to add them up, carrying on for as long as you can before filling the on-screen board. It’s as addictive as Triple Town: you’ll keep wanting one more go, with just enough of a maths element to persuade you you’re not wasting your life. Possibly.Threes!The Room Two (£1.99)iOS/AndroidThis is the second game in developer Fireproof Studios’ series – with a third coming soon – and it’s brilliant. This “physical puzzler wrapped in a mystery game” sees you twisting and prodding on-screen items to solve a cryptic tale. The graphics are top-notch, and the puzzles are genuinely challenging.The Room Two.Framed (£1.79)iOS/AndroidIf there’s a theme in this roundup, it’s the reminder that the puzzle genre is more than just swapping coloured objects on grids. Framed, for example, sees you switching comic-strip panels to progress in the game, with visuals to match. Oh, and a jazzy soundtrack that complements the action perfectly.Framed.Lara Croft Go (£3.99 + IAP)iOS/Android/Windows PhoneThe Tomb Raider games always had a big puzzling element to them. Lara Croft Go makes it the focus: a cleverly-designed turn-based adventure with a range of taxing puzzles to solve. And if you’re not a huge fan of Lara, do try this game’s predecessorHitman Go, which took a similarly-polished approach to the Hitman franchise.Lara Croft Go.Spider: Rite of the Shrouded Moon (£3.99)iOS/AndroidThis is the sequel to the just-as-marvellous Spider: The Secret of Bryce Manor. Like that game, you play a spider exploring an empty mansion, solving puzzles including spinning your webs to catch insects. The joy here isn’t just in the puzzles, but in the storyline that reveals itself as you progress: a proper work of craft.Spider: Rite of the Shrouded Moon.Dots: A Game About Connecting (Free + IAP)iOS/AndroidThis might have the best claim at being the smartphone gaming era’s Tetris – not a phrase to be used lightly. Dots has you tracing lines (and, if you’re lucky, boxes) through coloured dots to make them disappear, with a beautifully-weighted system of power-ups and a choice of timed, move-limited or endless modes.Dots.Best Fiends (Free + IAP)iOS/AndroidThere’s been a rush of games where you match things at the bottom of the screen to kill enemies at the top, from Puzzle Quest to Puzzle &amp; Dragons. Best Fiends is the best of them all, though: from its slug and bug characters to the balance of its gameplay. It also walks the line well between testing your brain and demanding your wallet, unlike some of its peers.Best Fiends.Blek (£2.49)iOS/AndroidMore line-tracing and coloured circles here, but Blek is one of the most original mobile puzzlers available. Your job is to connect the circles while avoiding black holes, but the fun here comes in finding your own routes rather than seeking the sole solution to any given level. A minimalist masterpiece.Blek.Photograph: PRWeeding down a longlist of great puzzle games to just 10 was a hard task. Triple Town’s follow-upAlphabearwas unlucky to miss out, for example: if you love word games, it’s fabulous.Also narrowly missing the cut – while remaining excellent – wereScribblenauts Remix,SpellTower,Trainyard,You Must Build A Boat,ShadowmaticandThe Trace, which are all well worth a look.Finally, brand new as this roundup was being written wasSPL-Tby Simogo, the developer of the wonderful narrative games Year Walk, Device 6 and The Sailor’s Dream. I’m still getting to grips with its box-splitting intricacies, but it looks like a keeper too.What are your recommendations? The comments section is open for your suggestions.•The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPad
An outage briefly forced Facebook offline on Thursday. The issue affected all platforms from around 5.30pm UK time.A message posted onFacebook’s platform status pageread: “We’re working with our core infrastructure teams to identify the issue and will update you when we have more information.” By 6pm in London the site appeared to be accessible again.According to the Amazon-owned web metrics firm Alexa, Facebook is the world’s second largest website, behind Google. Facebook says it averaged 968 million daily active users in June.With Facebook down, some users went to Twitter to discuss the outage.How am I supposed to know what my friends’ babies are wearing today?#facebookdown&mdash; KevinFranck (@KevinFranck)September 24, 2015Perhaps, Facebook is down so they can add the dislike button.#FacebookDownpic.twitter.com/vewy75lFHf&mdash; Simon Ostler (@SimonOstler)September 24, 2015Productivity across the world has just increased exponentially#FacebookDown&mdash; Giles Tanner (@gilestanner)September 24, 2015Either@facebookis down or Mark Zuckerberg just set everything to PRIVATE.#FacebookDown&mdash; Take Samarth (@IamStake)September 24, 2015Free at last, Free at last, Thank God almighty we are free at last.#FacebookDownpic.twitter.com/bIawTBWOVz&mdash; Julie Rasmussen (@JulieRasmussen)September 24, 2015And millions of people across the world just did this for the first time in years.#FacebookDownpic.twitter.com/VEEalkcqE3&mdash; Dan Speerin (@danspeerin)September 24, 2015Facebook isnt working which now means I have to *whispers* talk to people *gasps* *faints*#facebookdown&mdash; sasha cooper (@Sasha_Rose_)September 24, 2015A Facebook spokesman has not responded to a request for comment.
For the last two years a supersonic car has taken shape in an ordinary-looking unit on an industrial estate near Bristol, a joinery on one side, a plumbers’ merchant on the other.On Friday, the car,Bloodhound SSC, will be unveiled for the first time in the much more glitzy surroundings of Canary Wharf in east London.Over two days, more than 8,000 members of the public will view the car, which is designed to reach 1,000mph and help inspire a generation of youngsters to take up – or at least take an interest in – science and engineering.“It’s a really exciting time in the project,” said chief engineer, Mark Chapman. “Many of us have lived and breathed this project for eight years now but to see the car put together like this is something else. It looks stunning. We can’t wait for people to see it and tell us what they think.”The car will be tested on a runway in Cornwall next Easter when it is expected to reach a (relatively) modest 200mph. The team will then deploy to South Africa to begin high-speed testing with a target of reaching 800mph – thus breaking the current world land-speed record of 763mph. The plan is then to return to the UK, review the data and travel back to South Africa in 2017 with the aim of reaching 1,000 mph.The cockpit inside the Bloodhound SSC features a sophisticated digital dashboard, designed by the driver, RAF fighter pilot Andy Green.Photograph: Will Oliver/EPACarbon fibre panels have been partially removed on one side of Bloodhound for the next couple of days to show the technology inside the car.Bloodhound has three power systems: a Rolls-Royce EJ200 jet from an RAF Eurofighter Typhoon, a cluster of Nammo hybrid rockets and a 550bhp supercharged Jaguar V8 engine. Between them they generate thrust equivalent to 180 Formula One cars.When it is finally unleashed on the Hakskeen Pan, Northern Cape, South Africa, where a team of locals has shifted 15,800 tonnes of stones by hand to create the perfect test track, Bloodhound will go from zero to 1,000mph in 55 seconds and back to zero again in a further 65 seconds, covering 12 miles.For now, visitors are being invited to look inside the finished cockpit: a huge and complex monocoque (single piece shell) crafted from multiple layers of carbon fibre to produce what the designers believe is the strongest safety cell ever fitted to a racing car.Inside there is a sophisticated digital dashboard, designed by the driver, RAF fighter pilot Andy Green, as well as manual backups for the major controls.The car has three separate braking systems, seven fire extinguishers and 500 sensors, twice as many as an F1 car, so engineers will know exactly how it is performing during each high-speed run.Bloodhound will go from zero to 1,000mph in 55 seconds.Photograph: Stefan MarjoramIt has been created by a team of Formula 1 and aerospace experts with assistance from the army’s Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers and technicians from the RAF’s 71 Squadron who built the tailfin. In all more than 350 companies and universities have been involved.Given the VWemissions rigging scandalthis week, the Bloodhound team is quietly pleased that their power systems are not made by the German manufacturer. But Chapman said a major aim of the project was to inspire future generations to be interested in science, technology, engineering and mathematics - and be able to ask the awkward questions of the likes of VW. “One of the points is to help make sure people can question manufacturers and politicians about issues like emissions andHS2.”Before the car even turns a wheel, more than 100,000 children in the UK alone have had lessons connected to Bloodhound or attended events related to the car. Universities involved with the project have seen record numbers apply to study engineering.Such is the level of interest that the free public appearance at Canary Wharf quickly became fully booked.Project director, Richard Noble, said: “Public interest in the project is incredible. With the car now built and the track in South Africa prepared our focus is on racing in 2016.”
Users complaining that their iPhones have slowed down after updating to the latest iOS 9 software may not be imagining it.The new iOS 9 operating system works on models from 2011’s iPhone 4s onwards, with the company claiming that more than 50% of iOS users had already installed the update within a week of its release.However,some usersof Apple’sofficial discussion forumsare alreadycriticising the impact on their older handsets.Videos fromvloggers iAppleBytesdirectly comparing the latest iOS 9.0.1 software to iOS 8.4.1 running on an iPhone 4S, 5 and 5S have also demonstrated a noticeable amount of slowdown with the new update.iOS 9 compared to iOS 8 on an iPhone 4S.The smartphones take longer to start up, camera performance is slower, as is launching apps and switching between them.Some actions take a very similar amount of time, particularly on the newer iPhones. The performance of Apple’s virtual assistant Siri actually seems to be slightly faster, although some users within Apple’s forums havedisabled Siri’s new app prediction featuresin an attempt to speed up the rest of the phone.The issue of new software slowing down older phones is familiar to smartphone owners. New features demand more resources from the device, and can therefore slow down normal operations and affect battery life.iOS 9 compared to iOS 8 on an iPhone 5.Some updates – Google’s Android Lollipop in 2014 for example – focus on performance and optimisation, and can actually improve the speed of the smartphone or tablet they are installed on.This does not appear to be the case with iOS 9, although in other ways, it has been one of the smoothest annual updates for Apple’s devices.On its release in 2014, iOS 8 caused issues for people upgrading because it demanded a 5GB of free of space meaning many had to delete music, apps and photos from their devices just to install the update.Apple corrected the issue with iOS 9 requiring under 1.5GB of space, and providing support for smaller applications, but its impact on the speed of older devices is evident.While some users will try and avoid updating to the latest version of iOS, it could put them at risk of security vulnerabilities and will eventually stop being supported by the latest apps, making an upgrade inevitable at some point.iOS 9 compared to iOS 8 on an iPhone 5S.•iOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?
Facebook users watch more than 4bn videos a day on the social network. Soon, they’ll be able to watch some of them in 360 degrees.The company has begun supporting videos that allow viewers to pan round the scene in a full circle, six months afterYouTube added a similar featureto its service.“To create 360 videos, a special set of cameras is used to record all 360 degrees of a scene simultaneously. This means that when the video is playing on Facebook, you can choose what angle you want to see it from,”explained engineering director Maher Saba.On Facebook’s website, viewers will use their mouse to control the video view, while on mobile devices they will either swipe their finger on the touchscreen or physically turn around.Facebook enlisted some prominent partners for its launch, including Star Wars, Discovery, GoPro, Vice, Saturday Night Live and basketball star LeBron James.Facebook’s demonstration of 360 videos on its service.The exact launch date for the videos remains vague, with Facebook only confirming that its web and Android users will be able to watch them “soon”, with iOS support following “in the coming months”.Even so, the fact that both YouTube and Facebook are now supporting 360-degree videos is a shot in the arm for the nascent industry of virtual reality (VR) filmmakers, as they look for an audience beyond the tiny number of people who own VR headsets.“Virtual reality now is mobile-first. We’re uploading these in 360 to YouTube, and I’m sure Facebook is going to have an in-app player as well,”VR producer Bryn Mooser told the Guardianin August, as his company released its 360-degreeWelcome to Aleppofilm, shot in Syria.“When Facebook is able to show 360-video, anybody with a mobile phone will be able to watch it by moving the phone around them... Headsets aren’t going to be the way it goes: it’s just your phone.”Facebook has a strong interest in headsets too: in 2014 itpaid $2bn for headset developer Oculus VR, whose first commercial Oculus Rift headset will launch in early 2016.•How virtual reality porn could bring about world peace
The adblocking debate might just have been solved with the launch of the Ethical Adblocker.Adverts suck, and many people would prefer not to see them. But the economics of the internet are such that adverts are also the effective payment for reading free content online (such as this article here).And so, while blocking ads may make the experience of browsing the web better, it is also morally dubious, lying somewhere on the same spectrum as piracy and theft.But coder and artist Darius Kazemi may have found the solution. He’s invented the Ethical Ad Blocker. The download, he writes, “is a Chrome extension that, when it detects advertising on a website, blocks the entire website.“This way, the user doesn’t experience ads, but they also don’t leech free content. Everybody wins!”Sure enough, visiting an ad-supported website like the Guardian with the Ethical Ad Blocker turned on protects users from seeing adverts, being tracked by advertising, and accidentally reading any content on the site. Instead, an error message pops up:The ethical adblocker in action.Photograph: Tiny SubversionsOf course, it’s fair to say that Kazemi may not be entirely serious about the whole prospect. The artist, who is most famous for his Twitter bots such as @twoheadlines,tweeted pondering one final addition to the site: gigantic red uppercase text reading “please don’t take this literally”.•Hear Darius Kazemi discussing his twitterbots on the Guardian’s Tech Weekly podcast
Felix “PewDiePie” Kjellberg built his audience of 39 million YouTube subscribers by playing games. Now he’s releasing his own mobile game: Legend of the Brofist.Releasedfor Androidandfor iOS, the game stars a pixellated version of Kjellberg as well as fellow YouTube gamers including JackSepticEye, Markiplier and Marzia.The game bucks the dominant trend of “free-to-play” mobile games that make their money by selling virtual items and currency. PewDiePie’s game costs £3.99 upfront with no in-app purchases.It is part of Kjellberg’s expansion beyond YouTube, which includes his first book – This Book Loves You – to be released by Penguin Random House in October.In both cases, the bet is that PewDiePie’s online audience, who have watched his YouTube videos more than 10bn times, will be keen to buy other products bearing his name. Even before these deals, heearned $7.4m in 2014from his videos and related sponsorships.KSI’s app is a spin-off from his book.PewDiePie’s new game has been released in the same week as another app from a prominent YouTube gamer-turned-author: Olajide “KSI” Olatunji.KSI: I Am A... has been releasedfor Androidandfor iOSas a £1.49 download, although in this case it is a spin-off from his book of the same name, published by Hachette.Related:YouTube Minecraft star CaptainSparklez starts crafting mobile gamesThe app promises exclusive videos triggered by pointing the smartphone’s camera at images in the book; a football mini-game; and the first chapter of the book for fans who have yet to buy it.Olatunji has two channels on YouTube: his main channel has 10.6 million subscribers and just under 2bn video views, while his second has 3.8 million subscribers and 500m views.YouTubers are hot property in the publishing industry, keen to repeat the sales success of books from online stars like Zoella and Alfie Deyes. Another YouTube gamer, Joseph “Stampy” Garrett, is releasing his first book through Egmont in October.PewDiePie’s move into mobile gaming has parallels too. YouTuber Jordan “CaptainSparklez” Maronco-founded his own mobile games studioearlier in 2015, releasing a free-to-play game called Fortress Fury in May.
On 9 September 2014, in a converted multiplex cinema in Bellevue Washington, a team of over 200 people launched a brand new kind of video game. They had spent four years preparing for this moment; among their ranks were some of the most experienced software engineers in the industry. But they had no idea what would happen next.Months later, David “Deej” Dague, the community manager at Bungie Software looks puzzled when asked about that night. “I’m not sure I have any memories of the first two weeks after launch,” he says, sitting in the darkened entrance hall to the company’s vast office, surrounded by cabinets hosting dozens of awards. “All I know is, the game was pretty stable.”That game, of course, was Destiny, an online sci-fi adventure set in Earth’s distant future. Combining the fast-paced action of a first-person shooter (FPS) with the in-depth progression systems of a massively multiplayer role-playing game (MMORPG), the title effectively sought to unite two very different audiences: gamers who just wanted to shoot at stuff and gamers who liked to build characters, explore worlds and level up to access increasingly potent equipment.Certainly, these two genres have been borrowing ideas from each other for years. Shooters such as Call of Duty and Borderlands have taken the exhaustive character progression and loot-collecting concepts of the role-playing sector, while RPGs like Mass Effect and Fallout have in turn become more dynamic and action-orientated. But with Destiny, Bungie wanted to bring all of this into a seamless experience where players could easily migrate from hit-and-run “strike” missions to demanding co-operative raids and arena-based competitive shoot-outs. And it wanted all this to happen online, without any sort of server partitioning between different play types.The preparations were exhaustive. Years before launch, Bungie built a large in-house user testing laboratory where it hosted dozens of volunteer gamers, watching how they played, even monitoring their eye movements to help design the onscreen displays. “We knew Destiny would have a much more complex UI than any game we’d ever made before,” says head of user research John Hopson. “A lot of shooter players have never experienced mechanics like gear and talent points. If they weren’t using those elements during play-testing we needed to know why: was it because they’d seen them and didn’t care, or was it that they hadn’t noticed them at all. By analysing where they looked on screen we could say, OK, yes they read the help window and closed it – it just wasn’t telling them what they needed to know.”At his Game Developers Conference talk earlier this year Bungie head of research John Hopson talked about the company’s extensive user-testing. Players were invited into the studio and given a simple button-input system to show how they felt at different points in a game.Photograph: John HopsonOn the technical side, there was a simple aim: avoid the sort of total infrastructure collapse that had plagued other big online releases likeSimCityand Battlefield 4. For Destiny, a game selling itself as a new type of connected experience, that would be a disaster. Bungie built a state-of-the-art data operations centre (DOC), a control room filled with screens showing stats and metrics from the vast global server infrastructure that would run the game. The company employed a 24-hour hit squad of systems engineers, capable of reacting to server shutdowns and overloads whenever and wherever they happened.Reportedly, some of the staff had previously worked on the Large Hadron Collider project at Cern.According to Bungie, over a million players hit the game on day one. The traffic was managed through a server bunker in Las Vegas, as well as rented data centres all over the world. It held up. However, what the studio quickly realised was, this was just the beginning. “The DOC did incredibly well to respond to that demand,” says Dague. “But the real learning happened afterwards, in the months that followed, when we were able to identify how players felt about the story arc, the narrative of their own character, the end game content, and about approaching the rank cap. We had to prove to players that we understand our own game, that we played it, that we knew who they were and what was important to them.”Peter Parson, Bungie’s chief operating officer, concurs. “Certainly, on the positive side, people were playing the game; and the way they were playing – the core investment loop – was really smooth. But there were questions about the story ...”Indeed, many players felt the story was fragmented and unclear. What was the vastTravellersatellite that was protecting humanity? What was the dark enemy that had followed it across the cosmos? Why were alien races attacking Earth? There were rumours a lot of content had been cut in the run up to launch so that the team could concentrate on other technical challenges. “We’d tried to do something different,” says Parsons. “The story wasn’t about a fictional character you’d created, it was about you and your journey as a player, your own personal narrative. But we definitely didn’t get that right.”Accessing new weapons and armour is a key element of Destiny, but the game originally failed to make the progression system clear.Photograph: BungieAnother problem was the unclear character progression at the end of the story missions. Suddenly, players had to start collecting exotic armour that added a value named Light – but it wasn’t clear how to find it, or how this related to levelling up. “What we really did not do a good job of was sending players off to the end game,” says Parsons. “It wasn’t just the raids, it was starting to use the bounties, doing the high-level strikes – that’s something we learned a lot about. The community really helped, not just by providing feedback, but by assisting other players across that bridge.”Bungie knew it had to react – but a video-game studio with over 200 staff is like an oil tanker: it doesn’t turn fastBungie knew it had to react – but a video-game studio with over 200 staff, in a huge variety of disciplines, is like an oil tanker: it doesn’t turn fast. To cope with the constant influx of feedback from players, the company totally restructured its development team. While small dedicated groups were tasked with designing each of the incoming expansion packs, a large new “live team” was formed – a group of 20 or so senior staff with a specific focus on listening to and implementing player feedback.“They’re the operations team,” explains Parsons. “They manage and monitor the game around the clock to ensure we’re always up and running, and making the experience better. Although the group is usually about 20 people, they flex much larger when we’re getting ready to ship new content or need the support of extra engineers. We also allow the group to tap in to other specialists across the studio, providing everything from bug fixes to new content. We’re continually pulling people into that vortex, then pushing them back out. The fun part of that is even if someone’s working on something that’s far down the road, they can feel part of the process along the way.”Alongside the Live team, Bungie has also organised a handful of its most senior team leaders into a special triage unit. This is effectively a sort of development tribunal: when bugs or gameplay problems are encountered, they decide what gets fixed first. “At any given point in time there are thousands of things in the world of Destiny that we’d like to make better but there are only so many resources,” says Parsons. “That team is constantly deciding what are we going to fix and what are we not going to fix – it has it’s fingers on everything in the game world. It’s all about managing development priorities, and they’re constantly changing. They’re free to bring in other team leaders to bring them up to speed. It’s not uncommon to get an invitation from triage to come up and explain what it is your trying to fix and why it shouldn’t be pushed to a later date.”Hopson and his user research team soon became heavily involved in this process, analysing the live data and using it to guide decisions. “Mostly what we do is prioritise,” he says. “Very few things that fans suggest are bad ideas - it’s usually, that’s awesome we should do that, but is it more important than the 50 other things we wish we could get into the game? If three million people are having a problem then yes we should fix that now, but if it’s 500 people that need the fix? The design team have to set priorities.”There have been occasions, for example, where a particular weapon has appeared over-powered, and the immediate goal is to work out how many people are being affected. One example involved the Vex Mythoclast, an exotic fusion rifle. “In its heyday, people were posting videos on youtube just completely dominating the crucible,” says Hopson. “So we asked, okay, how bad is this? How many people are actually running around with this thing? And we found that there were only 600 people with this gun. We didn’t have to panic and do a next day patch - we could leave it a little bit.”“We also look at which weapons people actually use. There are some we thought would be really popular but weren’t. I mean, I don’t think anyone thought that the No Land Beyond sniper rifle would besuperpopular but we had a role for that weapon and people didn’t pick up on it in the way we planned. A lot of it is analysing the live data. We’re saying, okay, how are people actually playing? Destiny is a really complex game there are a lot of different ways to do it. Players have certainly surprised us in a bunch of ways -the loot cavebeing the most prominent example. We never thought people would just sit there doing that.”But Bungie isn’t totally indulging players with however they want to play: it has a plan for them. As the game was being developed, the company worked out that player retention was going to depend on getting as many newcomers as possible to try all the different experiences from co-op strikes to single-player patrols to competitive multiplayer death matches. In his GDC talk on user research earlier this year Hopson, who has a PhD in behavioural psychology, talked about the buffet effect – a phenomenon in which people will eat more if they are presented with greater variety. Destiny, with its array of game types and events, is the digital equivalent. For the game to remain successful, goes the thinking, it needs ‘omnivores’ – players who’ll try a bit of everything.Right now, Destiny does allow people to have preferences for co-op gameplay (strikes, raids, etc) or competitive (The crucible) – but to unlock the best new kit, they have to occasionally switch over. To make sure no one was being alienated by this structure, Hopson formulated 15 different types of Destiny participant, based on phases of the player lifecycle and different types of preferred engagement. The team then began to compare proposed new features against those profiles to work out how they’d be affected.“You do a bunch of analysis,” says Hopson. “You say, okay, how does each player type engage with the game and what can we do for them? We’ve actually been amazingly successful in creating omnivores – pretty much anyone who gets to level 20 or beyond is playing like an omnivore. Even when we talk about someone as being a raider – raiding still ends up being only 40% of their time so they’re spending a lot of time in patrol or PvsP - even when we talk about PvP people, they’re spending a lot of time in raids to get the gear they need to do well in the Crucible. So the game design is working amazingly well in terms of encouraging omnivores.”DestinyAccording to Parsons, Bungie also looked to seduce shooter fanatics by making Destiny’s more in-depth, grind-heavy gameplay work within their usual timeframes. The team knew that people who like to play Call of Duty online for an hour, level up once or twice and then log off, may be intimidated by an RPG that was going to demand hours of their time in order to complete epic missions and progress. So the team designed the short Strike and Patrol missions, which both provide plenty of loot potential, so that the game could be played for an hour in an evening. As Parsons explains, “If you provide people with multiple ways to engage with the universe – even if the core mechanic is just building and growing your guardian - they can have a rewarding experience. People say that for a console game Destiny is very grindy, but you can get a reward in less than an hour by knocking off a couple of bounties.”Destiny also makes clever use of what psychologists call variable-ratio reinforcement schedules. Whenever a quest is completed, there’s a chance that a boss will drop valuableexotic armour or weapons, but it’s never certain. Indeed, in the current form of Destiny, every single piece of gear you’ve earned by the time you run your first raid will have come though a double stack of randomised rewards: first, you have repeatedly killed high-level bosses waiting for them to drop a legendary engram (random chance), then you will have repeatedly decrypted that engram waiting for an item of a high-enough level to take on the raid; or you will have taken a low-level legendary item, and then used high-level rare items (which are also dropped randomly) to “infuse” it and boost its level.However complex the system, the hope is always that the next drop will be the big one – it’s this variable schedule that compels players. In this sense, Destiny has been darkly compared to a slot machine, and the analogy is pretty accurate: both tap into that “the next one is the big one” compulsion loop. At the same time Bungie has learned from the ‘appointment gaming’ phenomenon we saw in the social space. Facebook titles like Farmville succeeded because they were designed to allow players to keep dropping in and finding new stuff to do. Destiny mimics this with its daily and weekly challenges, as well as having vendor characters who’ll often arrive unexpectedly in the world with rare goods to sell.“We planned these calendar rituals,” says Parsons. “If you type ‘where is’ into a Google search, [the name of a vendor] Xur comes up as the third or fourth search. These rituals of ‘I can’t wait for the next Iron Banner tournament’ or ‘what will Xur have when he comes back?’, even the more regular public events – people look forward to the surprises.”The Taken are the new antagonists from the latest Destiny expansion, The Taken KingPhotograph: ActivisionWhat the team seems very keen to stress however, is that everyone at Bungie is a player of Destiny, not just a developer. “I see people playing this game every single night,” says Dague. “They are as deeply invested as the people who bought the product – that’s a wonderful thing. We have our own email debates that rage over our server about what Destiny is or what it should be or what we need to do to fully realise the potential. Everybody at Bungie has an opinion about Destiny – if they don’t they shouldn’t be here.”According to Parsons, the studio has its own elite team of Destiny players, called the Tiger Corps, who will dive straight into new updates and expansions as soon as they’re on the company intranet, and start testing them. “They’re on the frontline because they act and react as an even more sensitive and opinionated version of our larger community,” he says. “We actively challenge them to provide feedback and, man, they do not hold back.”A year after launch, the latest expansion,The Taken King, is out and getting good reviews. People are saying that this is what Destiny should always have been. The progression system has been ironed out, it’s clearer, it’s more logical, and it’s easier to get into co-op gaming sessions. But the thing is, it’s taken a year of experience to get here. “I don’t think I can stress how much of a shock to the system this has been to Bungie,” says Hopson. “I mean, we used to take pride in the fact that our games didn’t require updates – it was lesser studios that did that. We were shipping these perfect shiny things that were perfectly balanced.“Destiny is just not that kind of game and we really didn’t know what the reception was going to be. We’d worked really hard, we were proud of it, but last summer there was a lot of tension, a lot of worry. Is anyone going to play? The answer, clearly, was yes.”Destiny forsaken: the three stages that Bungie lost playersHead of research John Hopson has spent the year analysing player data. Here he explains the points where people tended to leave the game during the first 12 months, and why.Almost immediately:“The first place we lose people is right away. There’s a certain number of people who rent the game or borrow it from a friend - they play a few levels and it just wasn’t the experience they were looking for, that’s cool – not every game is for every player.Level 18-21:“There are people who finish the story and never make that jump to the mid-game. They never quite realise that they need to be running strikes and upgrading their gear by collecting Light, they just don’t step into that section of the game.”“We knew that was going to be a problem – we tried to make the transition as smooth as we could, but we did lose a few people there. It was a bad problem by our standards, it was a rough patch, but we were only losing something like 4% of the players – by the general standards of video games, that’s not a whole lot. We learned that we were too abrupt in that transition.”Level 26-28:“These are the people who never quite tap into a social group in order to take on that hard endgame content: all of that requires you to have friends or people you can call on. You could get to level 27 totally solo and then you sort of hit a wall where you suddenly needed friends to be playing as well. One of my favourite things that came out of the community was all the solutions for finding groups - the Destiny LFGs, the Hundred – all these wonderful systems for matching you with other players.”
Apple has updated the operating system of its first smartwatch with native apps, added complications and a few interface tweaks.On the face of it, watchOS 2 changes very little. Fundamentally the Apple Watch looks, behaves and lasts as long as it did when it launched.There are a few new watchfaces and some new colours for the originals, including a more eye-catching multicolour mode for the Modular watchface.The London time-lapse watchface.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAll of the new watchfaces are picture- or video-based, including six time-lapse faces depicting cityscapes in Hong Kong, Mack Lake, Paris, New York, Shanghai and London. They display a video showing 24 hours from a fixed location – across the Thames from the Houses of Parliament in London’s case.A particular photo or album of photos taken from the Photos app on the iPhone can also be used, with a basic digital clock in the right-hand corner.All the new watchfaces move away from the light-text-on-a-black-background rubric Apple used for the initial set of faces and end up emphasising the small size of the Apple Watch’s screen compared to its body.More complicationsThird-party apps can add little widgets called ‘complications’ on to the watchface. Here Dark Sky displays rain coming soon and Citymapper displays the estimated time of arrival for a planned journey.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMore interesting are the third-party “complications”. Apps such as Dark Sky can insert a small weather-information widget right on the watchface. The number of apps is limited at the moment, but a good example is Citymapper, which puts the estimated time of arrival of any planned journey in a complication.The complications also act as buttons to quickly launch the app, rather than having to hunt for them in the app grid, swipe through a glance or ask Siri.The nightstand mode, which displays the time, date, charge state and next alarm in a green hue reminiscent of monochrome LCD alarm clocks. It works well given the Apple Watch has to be charged over night – but no change there to battery life.The time is displayed when the screen or buttons are touched, while hitting the side button turns the alarm off or the crown to snooze. It works better on a phone as an alarm clock.Moving forwardThe digital crown will scroll forwards or backwards in time, showing events including within some third-party apps and complications.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTurning the digital crown on compatible watchfaces now moves forwards or backwards in time. On the modular watchface, for instance, it will scroll through upcoming calendar events, the weather or other interactive elements. That includes new third-party complications such as Dark Sky, which lists the temperature forecast at that particular time.Other watchfaces, such as Astronomy or Solar, will run through their animations when the dial is turned, while you can make Mickey dance by moving his hands backwards and forwards. It’s the little things.The Mickey Mouse watchface moves as you twist the digital crown.Beyond amusing animations, I found it quicker to dive into the dedicated app to view my upcoming appointments or weather than it was to turn the crown.Siri does more, from launching glances to starting workouts, but it still feels awkward talking into a watch. Users can also reply to more messages with emojis, dictation and canned responses. Wi-Fi calling is also built-in, which means you don’t need a phone to place a call if being Dick Tracey is your thing and your mobile phone provider supports it – currently EE and Vodafone in the UK.Apple has also added activation lock for if the smartwatch ever gets stolen – a feature the iPhone has had for a while and was conspicuously missing when the Apple Watch launched.All about the appsThe biggest change has yet to be realised. Apple now allows apps to run directly on the Watch, rather than relying on the iPhone to do all the processing.At the moment, for most apps that means running a little faster. We’re not talking leagues faster – I still routinely got the loading screen while the app attempted to pull data from the iPhone – but at least a little.As with the iPhone and iPad, apps are likely to provide the killer feature for the Apple Watch and now they can do more.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianDevelopers can do more now, including accessing the sensors and various hardware features of the Watch, so I suspect that will open the door to much better, more function apps in the future.Most of my niggles with the Apple Watch are still there. The user interface is still inconsistent. For example, you can force touch to clear multiple notifications, but not a single one. Glances are still not actually glanceable, and some third-party ones take a while to load data. And it is still not obvious when you should force touch, when you should swipe left or right, or when you simply have to scroll to the bottom to get stuff done.Apple has fixed one of my original complaints of the Watch, however. One press of the digital crown now takes you back to the watchface from the app grid, rather than centring and then requiring another press.VerdictIt doesn’t cost anything, brings a bunch of security fixes, activation lock and unlocks greater app possibilities, so I don’t know why you would not install watchOS on an Apple Watch if you have one.Yes, the Apple Watch is better with watchOS 2, and arguably should have shipped with it out of the box, but none of the new features are revolutionary. The Pebble, for instance, does time travel better and most other smartwatches have a night clock-style mode.Maybe a killer feature will emerge once developers get their hooks into the hardware, but for now the Apple Watch is still not the best smartwatch out there.Pros:potential for more powerful apps, quicker to get back to the watchface, third-party complications, improved Siri, nightstand mode, Wi-Fi callingCons:the update took hours, inconsistencies not ironed out, apps can still take a while to load or pull dataOther reviewsApple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated softwareAndroid Wear 5.1 review: simple, useful and the best – for now
Instagram, with its Kardashian selfies, retro filters and endless stream of images of meals, has reached 400 million active users, the company has announced. Facebook’s photo and video-sharing app has added 100 million users in the last nine months, with three-quarters now based outside the US.“While milestones like this are important, what really excites us is the way that visual communication makes the world feel a little bit smaller to every one of us,” the company said in a blog post, revealing that its fastest-growing countries include Brazil, Japan and Indonesia.Instagram launched in October 2010, and eyebrows were raised throughout the technology industry 18 months later whenFacebook agreed to pay $1bn for the app, which at the time had 30 million registered users. Instagram has been allowed to continue running as a separate company, and it has since flourished. It reached 100 million active users in February 2013, 200 million in March 2014, and then 300 million last December.In terms of active mobile users, Instagram still lags behind its parent company’s 1.3 billion, as well as Facebook-owned apps WhatsApp (900m) and Facebook Messenger (700m). But it remains ahead of Twitter’s 316 million monthly active users.Another rival, Snapchat, claims 100 million daily active users, but has not published a monthly figure that is directly comparable with Instagram. But it is these two apps that are building the biggest, most engaged audiences among teenagers and twentysomethings. Instagram recently announced that it has 14 million users in the UK and research firm GlobalWebIndex estimates that 38.4% of them are between 16-24.“Instagram remains one of the fastest-growing networks in the UK, with a younger user base than any of the other major networks,” said Jason Mander of GlobalWebIndex. “Given that Facebook itself has lost a little of its appeal among young demographics, Instagram’s continuing success among this age group is great news for Mark Zuckerberg.”What Instagram and Snapchat have in common is their emphasis on photos and videos rather than text, even though Facebook and Twitter have been working hard to improve their photography and video-sharing features.“Pictures are being used for talking. So when you see your children taking a zillion photos of things that you would never take a picture of, it’s because they’re using photographs to talk,” said Snapchat’s chief executive, Evan Spiegel, in a recent video posted online to explain the app to parents.“Both teens and kids are a very aspirational audience and images are a much more powerful – or at least immediate – channel for that sentiment to flow compared with one hundred and forty text characters,” said Dylan Collins, chief executive of children’s digital media firm SuperAwesome. He predicted that the growth of Instagram and Snapchat may be one of the biggest threats to the future of Twitter, which is “barely on the radar” of most teenagers.“I suspect that Twitter really doesn’t appreciate how important it is to engage the younger audience with their product. The kids’ market will kill the future of your product if you don’t make it relevant for them,” he said. “Facebook have been strategically light-years ahead in this respect with their Instagram and WhatsApp acquisitions. It’s entirely possible that the death of Twitter actually started a couple of years ago without the company even realising.”Instagram has become a haven for celebrities and public figures. Kim Kardashian posted her infamous #BreakTheInternet nude shot from her Instagram account, although more recently she wasissued with a warning letter by the US regulator the FDAfor posting a “false or misleading” Instagram post promoting the morning-sickness drug Diclegis.Many of the most popular Instagram accounts belong to musicians such as Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and Justin Bieber. Instagram has also created its own stars, who have followers in the millions – andcan earn six-figure salaries from commercial endorsements, where they are paid to publish posts featuring particular products or services.“Companies have realised that one photo on the Instagram account of someone with over 100,000 followers is reaching more people directly than any traditional ad campaign,” said US Instagrammer Liz Eswein in November 2014, as she revealed that she charged brands $1 per like under her sponsored photos.With 400 million users, Instagram’s current challenge is to make money for itself from this huge audience. The company started accepting its first paid advertisements in the US in 2013, before expanding to the UK in September 2014 with brands including Waitrose and Channel 4.Research firm eMarketer predicts that Instagram’s global advertising revenues will be $600m this year, rising to $1.48bn in 2016 and $2.81bn in 2017.
Smartwatch pioneer Pebble has unveiled a new round model, which the company claims is the world’s thinnest and lightest, beating Apple, Samsung and Motorola.The Pebble Time Round is a new version of itshighly-rated Time smartwatch, which eschews the square design for a circular one and is just 7.5mm thin and 28g in weight – the downside to that being it only offers two days of battery life between charges where the previous watch lasted a week.The original crowdfundedPebble TimesmashedKickstarter records in Februaryand shipped in May, weighing in at 42.5g and 9.5mm thick.Apple’s Watch, released in April, is 10.5mm thick and weighs 40g at its lightest.One button on the left and three buttons on the right-hand side control the watch.Photograph: PebbleThe colour epaper screen is always on and always readable, including in direct light or the dark thanks to an LED backlight. It connects to both the iPhone and Android devices, displaying notifications, controlling music and other smartphone features remotely and running Pebble apps, of which there are more than 6,500 availableEric Migicovsky, chief executive and co-founder of Pebble said: “It’s the first smartwatch that looks like a classic wristwatch and furthers our mission to create useful technology that blends into your everyday life, not the other way around.”The Time Round comes in three colours and with either a 14mm or 20mm band. Unlike the Time orthe Time Steel, which lasts up to 150 hours per charge, the Round’s battery only lasts up to two days – but charges in 30 minutes as opposed to the Time Steel’s two hours.It will be available in the US from November costing from $249 (£163), with a UK release coming later this year and Europe in 2016.With traditional watchmakerssuch as Swatch, Fossil andMontblancmaking smartwatches, Samsung releasing its sixth smartwatch, and a batch of new, second-generation Android Wear watches on the way, the smartwatch industry is striving for attention.Apple’s introduction of its first smartwatchshone a spotlight on the device category, but the question of what a smartwatch is actually good for and why would anyone other than geeks buy them has yet to be answered.Pebble Time Steel: metal body and 150-hour battery life is how all smartwatches should bePebble Time review: the simple but effective answer to Apple WatchPebble Time review: better on Android than iPhone
The news that Apple was opening the iOS app-store to ad blockers for mobile devices created a storm in publishing circles, which meant that we heard a lot about them, because publishers publish things that are important to publishing.Whatever happens with ad-blocking for iOS, the reality is that ad blocking has grown more prevalent, year after year, since the web’s beginning, and shows no sign of slowing. It’s only a matter of time until a major browser ships with ad blocking turned on by default. It’s also only a matter of time until one of the big-data brokerages fed by the advertising ecosystem has its own privacy Valdez and leaks toxic, immortal, compromising information all over the web at unimaginable scale, making the Ashley Madison dump and the Office of Personnel Management breach look minor by comparison.At root is an intrinsically toxic relationship between the three parties to the advertising ecosystem: advertisers, publishers and readers. Advertisers buy publishers’ inventory to sell things to readers, but publishers sell inventory to advertisers because they want money, not because they want to help sell products. Readers want to read what the publishers are publishing. A tiny fraction of readers want to buy what the advertisers are selling, and this microscopic minority subsidises the whole operation.It’s easy to see the way this plays out for the worse. Unscrupulous publishers have made a practice of defrauding advertisers, spoofing the number of times their ads are shown in order to make more money from the same amount of readers. Advertisers have leaned on publishers to make ads more obtrusive – first with pop-up ads, then, after blockers became standard, with roll-downs, interrupters, pop-unders, ads that scroll with the page (eating your CPU in the process), and the whole parade of mutated attention-economy market-failures that fill your browser every day. Readers respond by installing ad-blockers, meaning that fewer readers are counted by the advertisers, meaning that the publishers get paid less and have to allow advertisers to serve more obtrustive ads in order to keep the money flowing.The mistrust between advertisers and publishers has given rise to a fourth entity in this ecosystem: ad counters. These are companies that generously offer to independently count the number of times the publishers serve the advertisers’ ads – all the advertiser needs to do is tell the publisher to put the ad-counters’ “beacons” on their pages. Of course, ad counters aren’t charitable operations: they give away this independent counting function because it lets them gather titanic amounts of information about browsing habits. When you use Ghostery or Privacy Badger to examine a page and discover that a dozen (or dozens!) of companies are tracking your visit there, that’s this dynamic at play.Ad counters are really data brokers and they’re incredibly profitable. The data is sold to marketers, to governments, and to consumer-research institutions. The only reason that data can be economically captured and aggregated is because advertisers don’t trust publishers, and insist on allowing ad counters/data brokers to act as trusted third parties to count ad-views.The boom in ad-blocking technology is driven by three factors: annoyance at the content of ads; annoyance at the effect of ads in slowing computers to a crawl and worries about privacy. Advertisers and publishers can do something about the first two. In the early history of the web, pop-up ads climbed to a kind of terrible apogee before collapsing catastrophically because of audience pushback. Given enough pushback, advertisers will figure out ways to make their ads less obnoxious and less processor-intensive.But the privacy concerns – always a minority issue, now a growing worry – are not so easy to address. Ashley Madison and the Office of Personnel Management weren’t the big leak-quake: they were the tremors that warned of the coming tsunami. Every day, every week, every month, there will be a mounting drumbeat of privacy disasters. By this time next year, it’s very likely that someone you know will have suffered real, catastrophic harm due to privacy breaches. Maybe it’ll be you.Privacy-minded ad-blocking is only going to increase from here on in, because we have already shot past peak indifference to surveillance.Here’s the dirty secret of ad blocking: it only works because advertisers don’t trust publishers. If stickyeyeballcontent.com serves ads from its own server, from stickyeyeball.com/images/, then any blocker that prevents those images from loading will also prevent the images that accompany the stories you want to read from loading, too. It’s not hard for publishers to serve their own ads, it’s just hard to get advertisers to believe that those ads have been counted accurately.The answer isn’t complicated, it’s just hard. Arrive at a technical, economic and/or legal means by which publishers can be trusted to serve ads themselves, without the ad counters interposing themselves in the mix.One possible solution that gets us most of the way there: a foundation-funded charitable trust, subject to reliable third party audits, that will count ads for anyone, anywhere, without collecting or retaining any personal information. Rather than having ad blockers review advertisers’ practices to decide which ads to block and which ones to pass, they could simply pass any ad that was counted by this “fair trade” trusted third party. Some advertisers won’t pay as much to reach audiences that can only be targeted by which sites they read (or possibly where they are physically located), but in a privacy-conscious future, it’s not a choice between targeting or not targeting ads. It’s a choice between reaching readers or not reaching readers, full stop.A more elegant solution would be to find a way for publishers and advertisers to deal with one another directly, without any need for a trusted third party. That’s a much harder problem, though: if you don’t trust someone, you also shouldn’t trust anything that their computer tells you. Random audits and secret shoppers get you some assurance, but they’re clunky and inelegant.A single, trusted third party is much more attainable. It has its own pitfalls; a hacker for a government or criminal enterprise could learn a lot about the whole world by comprimising such an entity. It would also be a litigation target –anyone who disliked any ad-supported website would militate to have his adversary struck from the list of trackable publishers, depriving the enemy of income to fight back with.If it were a matter of business-as-usual or something as weird as a charitable web-tracker, I’d bet on business-as-usual. But the one thing I’m sure of is that business-as-usual isn’t an option, and it never will be again.
It’s Wednesday!
The novelty of the awkwardly named toys-to-life genre has well and truly passed. When Skylanders first appeared four years ago, the idea of unlocking characters and levels by placing toys on a “portal” peripheral was fresh and interesting. Now we’re on the fifth instalment and Activision has Disney Infinity, Nintendo Amiibos and Lego Dimensions to compete with. The emphasis now is on finding new gimmicks to keep things fresh.This year the theme is racing and with that a new line of air, land and sea vehicles have been added to the Skylanders ecosystem. This not only brings driving missions and a new racing mode but finally adds proper articulated toys along with the static collectable figurines. Kids can play with the cars even when they’re not on the console.The plot is the same old nonsense: series nemesis Kaos has another plan to invade the Skylands, this time using a new weapon that swallows the sky itself. From here, it’s a colourful action adventure with a tethered two-player co-operative scheme allowing you to play with a friend either online or locally. The challenge is never particularly complex, but this remains part of the charm. Waves of fantastical enemies are encountered through each level, and dispatching them requires the strategic combination of ranged and melee attacks.The environments themselves really come to life this year. They’ve always looked good, but now bristle with hidden areas, treasures and bonuses. Visual tricks hide secret areas for all but the most inquisitive on their first play, giving rise to multiple passes before everything is discovered.Familiar on-foot platform brawling is punctuated by the impressive driving sequences. The starter pack includes Hot Streak, one of the cars that grants access to the land sections. To access the air and sea zones you need to purchase more vehicles (£14.99 each). Additionally some sections are tied to a particular elemental type meaning that to access all of the areas you will need to purchase nine variants.The game features land, sea and air vehicles, all with their own custom features. They’re more powerful when used with their companion figuresThe three types of vehicular zones are impressive and distinct. They each offer specific abilities relating to the environment – including diving underwater to find hidden paths in the sea sections and barrel rolling to safety in the airborne zones. The land areas are most enjoyable, combining Mario Kart style races along with open arena boss battles. This could feel like a gimmick, but Skylanders Superchargers expertly works this year’s toy furrow with deep customisation and upgrades.The vehicles also have a paired Skylander driver. Use them together and you get a special supercharged enhancement. Tricking out each vehicle with their stat-enhancing modifications grows into a compelling part of the experience. In co-operative mode this really comes to life with one player driving and the other looking after weapons, reminiscent of the often overlooked Mario Kart Double Dash. For parents and children, this works fabulously with both players needing to coordinate efforts to succeed.Throughout the game, Skylanders offers new features and ideas, perhaps conscious that it needs to go the extra mile with strong commercial competition from Lego Dimensions and Disney Infinity this year. Beyond the on-foot and driving novelty, other gameplay mechanics are tweaked to keep things fresh. Whether this is adjusting gravity or adding the ability to shrink or grow characters, there is a sense of fun and freedom to the whole game.There is also a stand alone online kart racer mode with single races, time trials and boss challenges. This is available in all versions of the game, although it forms the meat of the Wii and 3DS experiences as they don’t include the main adventure. Additional packs can also be purchased to unlock more boss battles and circuits.The racing is breakneck paced with the usual range of power-ups and upgrades. Here though you are using vehicles that have been modified as part of the campaign game so a back and forth develops between the two modes. On Wii, Wii U and 3DS the starter pack includes a novel Nintendo crossover. This collaboration brings Bowser and Donkey Kong into the Skylanders universe complete with their own figurines and related vehicles.It all adds up to a wide-ranging package – and quite a hefty financial outlay if you get sucked in to collecting too many characters. Sure, you can complete the game with just the Starter Pack, as well as using all your old characters. You can even opt to reuse your old Portal via the downloadable version of the game, keeping costs down. But if you’re the parent of a Skylanders completist, this is not going to be cheap.Superchargers is, though, the most fully featured Skylanders offering to date. The combination of new modes, online play and backwards compatibility is unparalleled in this sector. It seems competition really is a good thing.Activision; Wii/Wii U/PS4 (version tested)/PS3/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £55;Pegi rating: 7+
Sony’s latest update to its “no compromise” smaller flagship smartphone proves size really isn’t everything with three-day battery, top-spec features and a great camera.While the rest of the market has been stretching phone screen sizes, Sony has been offering smaller “Compact” phones since 2013 fitting the same processor and camera from its larger flagship phones into a more manageable size.TheXperia Z3 Compactwas an excellent phone with over two-days battery life. The Xperia Z5 Compact promises something very similar.This review was conducted using a near-final prototype. Although unlikely, some aspects may be different to the device that goes on sale.Minimalist and one-handableThe frosted glass back is protected by a small lip to the plastic sides that keeps it off the deck when placed flat on its back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony’s minimalist design has reached its natural conclusion with the Z5 Compact. Some will like it, others will not.The plain plastic sides and glass front and back feel and look basic – a step back compared to last year’s model. The phone is also relatively chunky for a flagship smartphone at 8.9mm thick. Its larger 5.2in brotherthe Xperia Z5is 1.6mm thinner andits predecessor was just 8.6mm thick, but it is markedly thinner than the 11.6mmMotorola Moto G.Its size makes it feel really nice in the hand. With a reassuringly solid build, easy to reach power button and front-facing speakers that aren’t blocked by hands: there’s no doubt this is one of the easiest smartphones to use.Call quality is excellent but the volume buttons are quite low down on the right-hand edge making them relatively difficult to reach while holding the Z5 Compact in a secure grip.The 4.6in screen has relatively low resolution at 720p with a pixel density of 319 pixels per inch (ppi). It is colourful and bright, but not quite as pin-sharp as some rivals with much higher pixel densities in excess of 400 or500ppi.The Z5 Compact is waterproof to IP68 standards, but still has an exposed headphones port and microUSB port, meaning there’s no need to struggle with fiddly doors during normal use.The Z5 Compact’s plastic sides and a frosted glass back look a little plain.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:4.6in 720p LCD (319ppi)Processor:octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:32GB; microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop”Camera:23MP rear camera, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4 and GPSDimensions:127 x 65 x 8.9 mmWeight:138gSmall frame, full-specced hardwareThe Xperia Z5 Compact had an impressive three-day battery life without activating power saving modes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 Compact has the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 processor as the Z5 and performs similarly. I did not experience any undue heat issues, and the Z5 Compact seemed cooler overall than its bigger brother.It wasn’t the fastest feeling Android smartphone I have tested this year, but it was no slouch either. It runs games, image editing software and data-heavy Evernote notes without issue. Only having 2GB of RAM compared to 3GB within the 5.2in Xperia Z5 is not noticeable in daily use.But what’s really unusual about the Compact is its battery life: it is exceptional. Using it as my primary device, receiving hundreds of push notifications, emails, listening to music via Bluetooth, browsing for a couple of hours and a quick spot of gaming, the Z5 Compact lasted an average of 72.5 hours during my testing without applying any battery saving modes.Sony claims up to two days battery life but,unlike the larger Xperia Z5, the Z5 Compact over-delivers. With the excellent Stamina mode enabled I suspect it would last closer to four days between charges.Sony’s AndroidCustomisable quick settings within the notification shade are just one of the useful, small additions Sony makes to the standard Android experience.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 Compact runs the same software as the Xperia Z5 - a customised version of Google’s Android 5.1 Lollipop.Sony’s music, movies and album apps are all solid, but can be ignored for Google Photos or similar apps if preferred. High resolution audio playback, digital noise cancelling and access to Sony’s PlayStation Remote Play – all hallmarks of Sony’s recent smartphones – are present.Users wishing to take advantage of noise cancelling or hi-res music will have to buy the right earphones, although some may come bundled in the box depending on the deal.For more information on the software seethe Xperia Z5 review.CameraThe camera app on the Sony Xperia Z5 Compact is one of the best in the business.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 Compacts camera is the same one as fitted to the rest of the Z5 range, and it is great. Autofocus is very fast, images are captured with good detail, video stabilisation is fantastic and a dedicated two-stage camera button is very welcome.It performs better than average in low-light conditions compared to the high-end competition, although, like the Xperia Z5, the flash is basically not worth using.The selfie camera produces solid shots in good lighting, but loses detail in in-door lighting conditions. The photos look good zoomed out, but noise is apparent when viewed at full resolution.Fingerprint sensorThe fingerprint sensor under the power button on the side of the phone is excellent.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe fingerprint scanner hidden under the home button is one of the best in the business. During my testing only once did it fail to recognise my thumb print when trying to unlock the phone. I must have unlocked the phone hundreds of times.It cannot be used for some third-party apps such as Evernote or LastPass just yet, but that will likely change when fingerprint support becomes standard in Android 6 Marshmallow.PriceThe Sony Xperia Z5 Compact is available for pre-order in black, white, yellow and pink costing £450. For comparison, the4.7in iPhone 6S costs £539and theSamsung 5.1in Galaxy S6currently costs around £400.VerdictThe Sony Xperia Z5 Compact is the best smaller Android smartphone of the year and arguably the best smaller smartphone currently available.The camera is great, the phone is powerful. It’s waterproof and the battery life of three or more days between charges is fantastic. The design will not be to everyone’s liking – it could be thinner and the screen could be of higher resolution, but they are trade-offs worth making.Pros:three+ day battery life, great camera, microSD card slot, fast, useful software additions, PlayStation Remote PlayCons:relatively low resolution screen, no wireless charging, selfies soft on detail, chunky design, volume buttons difficult to reach when on a callA door seals off the microSD card slot and nano Sim slot.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviewsSony Xperia Z3 compact review: best small Android phone and iPhone 6 competitorSony Xperia Z5 review: good but not exceptionalSamsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killerMotorola Moto G (3rd Gen) review: the best budget smartphone just got better
Google has been challenged about its approach to advertisers after a study claimed that the company has been charging advertisers for YouTube views even when it thinks that the advert was viewed by a robot, rather than a human.A group of European researchers behindthe studycarried out an experiment in which they uploaded videos to YouTube and then bought YouTube adverts targeting those videos. They also created bots, software that runs automated tasks over the internet, to view the videos.While the bots “viewed” two of the videos 150 times, YouTube’s public view counter only listed 25 of the views after apparently correctly identifying the rest as fake.However, Google’s AdWords advertising platform charged for 91 views, according to the study.Google was reported to have said that it was contacting the researchers – from NEC Labs Europe, Charles III University of Madrid, the IMDEA Networks Institute and the Polytechnic University of Turin – to discuss their findings further.The company added: “We take invalid traffic very seriously and have invested significantly in the technology and team that keep this out of our systems. The vast majority of invalid traffic is filtered from our systems before advertisers are ever charged.”The researchers’ paper says that while substantial effort has been devoted to understanding fraudulent activity in traditional online advertising such as search and banner ads, more recent forms such as video ads have received little attention.It adds that while YouTube’s system for detecting fake views significantly outperforms others, it may still be susceptible to simple attacks.“Furthermore, we find that YouTube penalises its users’ public and monetised view counters differently, with the former being more aggressive,” it states.“In practice, this means that views identified as fake and discounted from the public view counter are still monetised. We speculate that even though YouTube’s policy puts in lots of effort to compensate users after an attack is discovered, this practice places the burden of the risk on the advertisers, who pay to get their ads displayed.”
Apple’s new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus smartphones land in customers hands on Friday, but a select bunch of reviewers have been given early access.The Guardian is not one of those picked by Apple to receive a sample of the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus ahead of its release, and will publish a review after buying one at the same time as consumers.In the meantime, here is a quick roundup of the general opinion on Apple’s latest.Review: Apple’s iPhone 6s And 6s Plus Go ‘Tick’ - Tech CrunchMatthew Panzarino sees quite an uptickin performance of this year’s iPhone over the iPhone 6, in its“tick-tock” upgrade cycle:In our tests, there was a 56.5% increase in Geekbench benchmark scores from the iPhone 6 Plus to the iPhone 6s Plus. That follows a 97% increase from the iPhone 5 to the iPhone 5s.In comparison, there was only a 24.9% increase from the iPhone 5s to the iPhone 6.In terms of performance, the ‘tock’ years are really kicking the ‘tick’ years in the butt.iPhone 6S review: Apple’s 3D Touch screen and camera improvements make the best better - Digital SpyDespite the iPhone 6S being thicker and heavier than its predecessor,Matt Hill found it wasn’t noticeable.No need to grumble, this is still slim by any standard, with the phone’s increased portliness barely noticeable and the added 14g giving the phone a more reassuring heft. Easily the most well constructed handset on the market - despite increased competition from the likes of the Samsung Galaxy S6 and HTC One M9 - the iPhone 6S’s cool-to-the-touch metal body and softly curved edges make the phone look and feel great.iPhone 6S review: Apple presses forward - The VergeNilay Patelloves the new pressure-sensitive “3D Touch” screenbut admits that it’s not exactly a novel concept, even if it’s a new implementation:On the home screen, app icons can show quick actions when you push them. Pushing on a calendar entry shows you more information about it, and pushing on a map pin lets you jump straight to directions. Pushing on a message in Mail opens a preview that you can slide to either side to delete or archive, and pushing harder opens the message. It’s the same in Safari: pushing lightly on a link opens a preview, and pushing slightly harder actually opens the page.It’s not some insane lightning bolt of inspiration; Google is doing something very similar with Material Design and Microsoft has been sliding things all over the screen since someone was drunk enough to approve the name ‘Windows Phone 7 Series’. But 3D Touch [is] by far the most aggressive and interesting step in this direction anyone has ever taken.iPhone 6s Review: A Slightly Better iPhone 6 - The Wall Street JournalThe camera’s better, the processor is faster and it has a new screen, butthe battery life of the iPhone is still poor, according to Joanna Stern:Let’s get this out of the way first. The No. 1 thing people want in a smartphone is better battery life. And the iPhone 6s doesn’t deliver that.The 4.7-inch 6s will get you through the day, but you’ll struggle to make it til bedtime with moderate to heavy use. And it seemed to drain even faster than my 6 when I used the new processor-intensive camera features like Live Photos. The bigger 5.5-inch 6s Plus lasted longer and is the best choice if you’re a heavy user and want some juice left over at the end of the day.I Used The Crap Out Of The New iPhone 6S And This Is What Happened - BuzzFeed LifeWriting for BuzzFeed Life (not BuzzFeed News, that’s below) Nicole Nguyen found Apple’s marketinga little distasteful:The marketing slogan for the 6S is “The only thing that’s changed is everything,” which is funny because that’s, well, not true. Take a look at the hardware. It’s impossible to tell the difference between the 6S and 6 iPhones, save for a tinyyy [sic] ant-sized “S” on the rear and slightly more heft (the 6S phones are one ounce heavier). They’re fraternal twins that basically look like identical twins.What is different are the few, significant internal improvements, one of which is what I think will entice people (namely, me) to upgrade. 3D Touch is the 6S’s killer feature. But it depends on what apps decide to support it.Yet Another iPhone 6s Review - BuzzFeed NewsJohn Paczkowski found images shot by the 12-megapixelcamera were generally better, as you would expect.The photos I’ve taken with the new 12 megapixel rear camera on the iPhone 6s look a little bit better than the ones I’ve taken with the 8 megapixel one on the iPhone 6 — and even my not-at-all-a-photographer’s eye can see that.Apple says this is because of “improved local tone mapping” and an “advanced pixel technology” called Focus Pixels. It probably is. I don’t care. What matters is that pictures of my daughters look warmer, sharper, more detailed, whatever. And they look equally good when I blow them up.iPhone 6S Plus review: Is bigger better? - Pocket-LintStuart Miles says the optical stabilisation and phase detection autofocus make the new 12-megapixel upgrade to the iPhone’s camera a winner, butLive Photos are a mixed bag for now.A lot of Live Photos we’ve shot have footage of us hastily dropping the camera after taking the shot. Another frustration is that audio is automatically recorded, which at times is lovely - a child’s giggle for example - but not so great when you’ve got the same child screaming in the background.All that extra video adds to their size too, meaning a Live Photo is worth around two still photos in terms of space. While you can offload some of that to Apple’s iCloud Drive service (at a yearly subscription) a 16GB iPhone 6S Plus isn’t going to stretch as far as it used to (compounding the argument for a 32GB minimum model).iPhone 6S Review: Come for the New Features, Stay for the Screaming Speed - BloombergSpeed isat the heart of the new iPhones for Sam Grobart, including the new and improved fingerprint scanner:The Touch ID sensor is instantaneous: By the time you’ve pressed the home button to wake up the phone, you’ve already authenticated yourself and are on the home screen.iPhone 6s review: built for success - The TelegraphAccording to Rhiannon Williams, the always-listening “Hey Siri” featureneeds a bit of work learning to ignore everyone but you:Thanks to the integrated A9, Siri is now always on, waiting to be activated by the command “Hey Siri”. This is attuned to your voice when you first set Siri up during the iPhone activation process, which means Siri is supposed to be able to pick out your voice alone from within a crowded room. I did find that a woman of a similar age and voice range to myself was able to activate Siri from a distance by speaking a command, so maybe this is a feature which needs a bit of refining.iPhone 6s Plus review: more battery, better camera and a bigger screen mean new phone could win you round to huge phones - The IndependentAnd of that Rose Gold colour, apparently it’s difficult to photograph andlooks better in real life, says David Phelan.The rose gold, by the way, looks better in the flesh than in photos, thanks to a colour that is understated and warm rather than out-and-out pink.iPhone 6S review - Tech RadarGareth Beavis sees the upgrade as a no-brainer if money is no object, but it’s amuch more difficult call for most people.It’s still one of, if not the, most expensive flagship phones on the market, and as such needs to impress in every way, which the iPhone 6S doesn’t quite do. The iPhone 6 remains on sale at a lower price, and the difference between it and Apple’s latest phone is negligible.•iOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?
The number of deaths in 2015 related to the practice of taking selfies has risen to 12 after a 66-year-old Japanese tourist, Hideto Ueda,died when collapsingand falling down stairs posing at the Taj Mahal in India. His travelling companion survived, but suffered a broken leg.TheBBCcites an eyewitness, Sagar Singh, as saying Ueda fell when taking a picture at the mausoleum’s Royal Gate.The incident now takes the death toll of officially recorded selfie-related deaths to 12. Previous incidents this year include a man who wasgored to deathtaking a picture during a bull run in a Spanish town, and two men who accidentallyblew themselves upin the Russian Ural mountains when posing with a live grenade. The picture was discovered saved to the camera roll on one of the men’s phones.Other selfie related deaths this year in Russia alone include a 21-year-old woman in Moscow who shot herself in the head while pointing a 9mm pistol at her temple, another whoreportedly fell from a bridgeand ateenager in Ryazan who diedwhen coming into contact with live wires while snapping a portrait near to railway tracks.In July, Russian authorities issued aselfie safety campaignafter “hundreds” more injuries were reported. The interior ministry’s initiative included a leaflet, video and a website.“Unfortunately we have noted recently that the number of accidents caused by lovers of self-photography is constantly increasing,” a government aide said at the time. “Since the beginning of the year we are talking about some hundred cases of injuries for sure.”The advice handed out by the Russian interior ministry, discouraging risky selfies.Photograph: Russian interior ministryIn May,a Singaporean tourist diedwhen falling from cliffs off the coast of Bali attempting to take a picture. And earlier this month, a 19-year-old from Houston, Texas,shot himself in the throatwhen framing a shot; a similar fate to that of a Mexican whoposed with a gun when drunk.Mashable reportsthat the 2015 death toll so far caused by selfies gone wrong is now higher than that for shark attacks, which is recorded at eight.More and more people are putting themselves into dangerous situations in a bid to get the most sensational or outrageous pictures to share on social media. In particular, pictures with animals, or taken at great heights, or posing with weapons, are widespread.Selfies with bears evencaused the closureof apark in Denver, Canada, after visitors would not stop getting close to the animals in order to take photographs.“The current situation is not conducive for the safety of our visitors or the well-being of the wildlife,” said the park manager of the site. “We’ve actually seen people using selfie sticks to try and get as close to the bears as possible – sometimes within ten feet of wild bears.”And in an echo of the man gored to death at the bull run in Villaseca de la Sagra, a woman from Mississippiwas attacked by a Bison, but survived, in Yellowstone National Park after turning her back on the animal to take a picture with herself in the frame.Others who do not intentionally put themselves in danger can befall injury by simply not paying attention to their surroundings when focusing on getting the perfect shot. Take, for instance,this woman, who narrowly avoided being hit on the head with a baseball when snapping a picture at a stadium.Or the 32-year-old who died in a car crash on an American highway minutes aftertaking a selfie and posting it to Facebookwhile enjoying Pharrell Williams’ hit song, Happy, in her vehicle.This Danish fighter pilottook a selfie while launching a missilefrom his F-16 aircraft, which probably isn’t the type of thing one should be doing when flying a plane and firing a missile. Rather than focusing on, you know, flying a plane and firing a missile.People putting themselves at risk for likes and shares and favourites on social media is not limited to selfie-taking. Viral trends have includedplanking(lying in a prone position in unusual locations) andtomb-stoning– jumping from cliffs into the sea – to film and photograph.Perhaps in growing recognition of the risks involved in creating a shocking viral picture, more creative and sensible types have started mocking up pictures in Photoshop instead. Including this humorous one featuring a cat chased by dogs, entitled “the last selfie”.A mock-up of a cat selfie, chased by dogs. Because internet.Photograph: ScreengrabThere’s no doubt humour to be found in outrageous and daring selfies. The two girls escorted from a baseball field after aninvasion mid-match to take a vinewas an impressive example of chutzpah. There’s also beauty to be found in extraordinary selfies, such as thosetaken from space.But as a society we need to get a grip on the real value of attempting an unusual selfie in situations which could, by even the most rudimentary observation or assessment, be deemed potentially harmful. If two teens blown up on a mountainside leaving behind a tragic, meaningless .png file isn’t a solid enough wake-up call, I don’t know what is.•‘A selfie with a weapon kills’: Russia launches campaign urging photo safety
It was a year ago when Destiny hit consoles, promising a new era of super-connected online shooting. The first new series from Halo developer Bungie since 2001, it combined the meaty gunplay and polished exterior of that series with the deeply satisfying loot-gathering of a game like Diablo. On top of all that was a smattering of World of Warcraft-style massively-multiplayer content such as raids and public events.Those first few weeks flying around in space with your AI “Ghost” buddy in tow were glorious, even ifPeter Dinklage’s deliveryas the sidekick was so bad that simple adjectives like “bored” and “wooden” fail to do it justice. But as the novelty wore off, so too did the shine. For something so clearly standing on the shoulders of giants, there was a bizarre failure to learn the lessons of the past.Where World of Warcraft has spent the best part of a decade iterating and improvingMMOmechanics, Destiny seemed intent on reinventing them from scratch. The game launched with almost no matchmaking functionality for any serious play, requiring players to put themselves into teams of three to six friends manually. Bungie insisted on treating co-operative and competitive play the same for balancing purposes, ensuring that weapons were frequently bizarrely overpowered or completely useless. Earning high-level loot, explicitly required to participate in the game’s high-point, the Vault of Glass raid, was an exercise in frustration and destructive psychological loops to the extent that players chose to stand outside a cave shooting low-level enemies for hours on end to earn rewards, rather than play the game “as intended”. Those are problems World of Warcraft experienced at launch, too – over a decade ago.Worse, Bungie had seemingly forgotten its own history. Where Halo’s sprawling space opera presented an engrossing world with memorable characters and fully-realised motivations from the off, Destiny’s plot was a forgettable, confusing mess, with plot threads left hanging, foes whose motivation was barely more than “space zombie”, and voice acting which took an all-star cast (Peter Dinklage, Nathan Fillion and Bill Nighy all play a role) and couldn’t eke a memorable line from any of them. Rumours of a wholesale rewrite months before release, stripping the majority of the plot out and shoving it in a companion “grimoire” app, were never confirmed, but lapped up by a player-base eager for some explanation as to how the developer could misstep so spectacularly.And yet.A year on, I am still playing Destiny. Because for all that it gets wrong – and it gets so much wrong – it remains a phenomenally-executed game, offering moments of pure joy I’ve seen very rarely in any game before and since. Through two expansion packs, Bungie has ironed out some of the flaws present in the original game, retooling the hoarding instinct at the game’s heart to something more productive while steadily introducing more and better matchmaking to help those players (like me) who find it hard to pull a group together at short notice. I love it, but I’d taken to habitually describing it as “my favourite bad game of the year”.Well, finally Destiny’s actually good.Its latest expansion, The Taken King, comprehensively fixes the game’s most glaring flaws from the bottom-up. Even Peter Dinklage is stripped out, with everything – including pre-existing dialogue – now voiced by veteran videogame voice actor Nolan North. A new quest mechanic links together previously disparate missions into a coherent thread, boosted further by actually-interesting cutscenes, a first for the game. Nathan Fillion gets the chance to wisecrack, and it’s briefly like Firefly was never cancelled.The game’s story picks up where the second expansion, House of Wolves, left off. Following the death of Crota, leader of the Hive (read: space-zombies), his daddy Oryx is out for revenge. He arrives in a dreadnought, blows a whole in one of saturn’s moons, and sits there daring the Guardians, last saviours of humanity, to come for him.And come you do. The game’s new story missions provide a compelling core to the game, seeing you break into the Dreadnought, explore the area, and take on Oryx himself. While the first two mini-expansions to the game were criticised for being little more than remixes of existing content, this one is all new: the Dreadnought feels worthy of becoming the game’s fifth major location, and the Taken, the new race that fights for Oryx, are welcome as a fresh face.When they were initially revealed, there was concern that the Taken might be little more than reskinned versions of past foes: in the lore of the game, Oryx “takes” creatures from other races, infuses them with his power, and puts them back in the world to fight for him. But in practice, they feel more than different enough from their past selves to justify their inclusion. Where Hive Thralls sprint towards the player, Taken Thralls lumber slowly, before teleporting to a whole new position in seconds; where Cabal Phalanxes hide behind their shields, shooting over the top, Taken Phalanxes gain a weapon capable of firing you backwards at speed.But as with the base game, it’s when the story ends that the real Destiny begins. This time, that’s even more explicit: upon claiming the reward for finishing the last mission, a number of quests immediately open up, pushing the player towards the new strikes, encouraging them to revisit old areas to battle the Taken there, and reminding them that the Crucible, where player-versus-player combat congregates, is still there.Sadly, also like the base game, the progression mechanic falls apart just before the end. Although the game caps out at level 40, a new “light level” measures the quality of your gear. Raising that to 280 is relatively trivial, involving earning the newest late-game currency (“legendary marks”) and buying gear from the vendors. But to run the newest raid, King’s Fall, requires a light level of 290, only achievable so far through lucky drops or the once-a-week special “nightfall” strikes.It makes sense that the raids are limited to the highest level players, demanding strict teamwork and a deep understanding of the game’s mechanics. But if the King’s Fall comes anywhere near the quality of the Vault of Glass raid from the original (and I’ve not yet been able to play it for myself, so it remains an open question), it’s a crying shame that the vast majority of Destiny’s players will never load it up.Even so, The Taken King is the first time since launch that it’s been possible to say to new players that now is the time to start playing Destiny. The flaws have been ironed out, and the future’s bright.However, there’s one final sticking point. The “Legendary Edition” of Destiny costs £40 new, and contains the base game, as well as all three expansion packs published to date. The digital download of the Taken King costs … £40 new. And contains just the download.The discrepancy isn’t quite as bad in the US, where the download costs $40 (£26), but it’s also not just a case of rip-off Britain. Someone who’s been playing Destiny since day one will have paid around $100 or £100, depending on where they are, for the content that now functions as an effective demo. Worse, if they paid that and decide not to buy the Taken King, the base game has had contentremovedin the runup to the expansion: high level strike playlists, as well as a number of side quests and other activities, are now only available to those with the latest expansion.As a result, it’s best to think of Destiny as mimicking the subscription model of a game like World of Warcraft, but through the medium of overpriced expansion packs rather than a monthly subscription fee. It changes the calculus somewhat, pushing players to pick between going all-in or not playing it at all. There’s not really such a thing as a casual Destiny player; or at least, not for long. But that’s fine by me. I’ve got more aliens to shoot in the face.
A bug in Google’s Chrome browser causes it to crash when clicking on or mousing over a 16-character text string placed on a web page.Clicking on or mousing over the phrase “http://a/%%30%30” (without the quote marks) when it is a link, or entering the string into the address bar and pressing Enter, causes either the current Chrome tab to crash or the whole browser, taking any work currently in progress with it.The simple web URL bug wasdiscovered by Andris Atteka, a security researcher from Latvia, andreported to Googleon 18 September. Placing null characters, in this case %%30%30 or similar at the end of the URL causes Chrome to instantly choke through a series of attempts to rationalise the web address.The bug affects the current release version of Chrome on Windows and OS X, but does not affect Chrome on Android devices in the Guardian’s testing, which instead simply fails to load the URL. Severalreports indicatethat the bug affects Android Web view – the version of Chrome that operates as part of Android to provide third-party apps such as Twitter, Facebook and others with an integrated web browser.Chromium developersfixed the issuein the latest revision of the open-source base for Google’s Chrome today, but the fix will take time to migrate through the developer and beta builds to the most popular “stable” version of Chrome considered a full release.While Chrome can recover lost tabs on restarting, any text or other work entered into boxes that has not been saved will likely be lost.The bug, with a sting of text being able to cause a crash, is reminiscent of theiPhone “Effective Power” bugfound earlier this year which could be used to crash iPhones by sending a message.iOS bug lets anyone crash your iPhone with a text message
Alan Partridge himself may as well have penned the marketing bumph for this, the 23rd annual edition of EA’s football series. Promises of – in the publisher’s words – “confidence in defending”, “control in midfield”, and “moments of magic” intimate a return to Fifa’s early-2000s nadir, where back-of-box buzz phrases overshadowed the on-pitch action. As such, it’s a relief to report that thesePartridgisms, while cringeworthy, are not without justification. There is substance behind the slogans.The Fifa series has enjoyed a rejuvenation since the leap to this generation of machines, but all too often matches in Fifas 14 and 15 were dominated by players with elite pace and power attributes. Mercifully, thanks to the above tweaks – “confidence in defending” in particular – that’s no longer the case. Centre backs mark snugly, constantly buffeting and tugging at even the strongest forwards. Full-backs track properly and look to step in front of onrushing wingers before they can reach top speed, while defensive midfielders break on to under-hit opposition passes, always seeking to spring a deadly counterattack.Pace and power are still as important as any other attribute, but timing – bursting past a full-back at the right instant, or shrugging off a central defender just as a crossed ball meets your striker’s forehead – is now critical in using them correctly. Nowhere is this better showcased than in the newly introduced women’s matches. Without the Olympian velocity of a Cristiano Ronaldo or Yaya Toure’s adamantine strength, finesse is imperative – that means recycling possession among midfielders and full-backs until a tantalising defensive gap offers a through-ball opportunity, or an out-of-position opponent provides a brief window in which to cross.The addition of the women’s game isn’t just cosmetic – the matches demand a different tactical approachPhotograph: Electronic ArtsFor your first 10, 20, 30 games with either sex, creating chances – let alone scoring goals – feels almost impossible. Results read like an essay written in binary. Then everything clicks, and you realise it’s exactly as virtual football should be; challenging your brain’s ability to unpick an organised opponent, rather than your index finger’s RT-holding endurance.As a result, this version of Fifa lacks the usual immediacy, and some of those seeking the end-to-end goal bonanzas of previous years won’t have the patience to persevere. More fool them. After a few days with the game, its more deliberate build-up play becomes second nature, and it’s then that you’re really able to drink in Fifa 16’s other little simulation improvements.Players adjust their bodies while making slide tackles or blocks in order to get just a toe or a knee to the ball, rather than ignoring it once locked into an animation. Keepers are more human – rushing from the area to clear overhit through balls and adopting better angles at shots from out wide, but also flapping at crosses and sometimes out-jumped by taller forwards. Referees use vanishing spray at free kicks which, like in real life, stays on the turf for a few minutes afterwards. In isolation none of these adjustments constitute a selling point, yet together they again bring the series one step closer to what you see on Sky Sports of a Sunday afternoon.Wales is a fun team to play as, thanks largely to this man. However, highly-skilled star players are meeting more resistance from defenders this yearPhotograph: Electronic ArtsBrain drainThe downside to the more cerebral action is that it slightly diminishes tactical variety. An array of possible formations make themselves available, yet from English Premier League to Colombian Liga Dimayor, it often feels like neat passing triangles are the only viable play style.For instance, Bournemouth carry a perfect strength-and-speed tandem in Glenn Murray and Callum Wilson, yet deploying a long-ball policy over a series of games – even with the former set as a target man, and Wilson instructed to run in behind – garners few chances and zero goals. Few will truly care given the passing game improvements, but having to turn Plymouth Argyle into a Devonian Barcelona (“Paella? We only sell pasties out this way, my lover!”) does feel at odds with the reality EA craves.Bournemouth offer both pace and power, but also showcase some of the game’s tactical limitationsPhotograph: Electronic ArtsWith the main focus on simulation rather than structure this year, career mode has to settle for a few refinements instead of a full overhaul. Pre-season tournaments are a welcome improvement on meaningless friendlies, and weekly training drills for up to five squad members provide a smart means of expediting player growth. Further fleshing out the world are additional mid-match discussions from Martin Tyler and Alan Smith, such as analysis of transfers made elsewhere in your league.Scouting remains an addictive time sink, although one which eschews believability as you drop down the divisions – my best talent spotter repeatedly recommended Wayne Rooney, Christian Eriksen and Gylfi Sigurdsson. For Leyton Orient.Got, got, needStrides are being made within Fifa Ultimate Team, after a 12 month period in which EA was lambasted for meddling with its card-collecting, dream-team-building mode. Web and companion apps return although they require a (thankfully simple) verification process before use, and price ranges are much wider than those so heavily criticised last year.The new Ultimate Team draft mode, enabling the construction of an all-star squad for four games, also delivers a refreshing break from the mode’s typical early grind. It’s all very moreish for now, but could change again once the people who peddle in-game currency for real cash determine how to exploit the system. Prepare for a winter of Mourinho-style tinkering.And what of the old debate pitting Fifa against old rivalPES? As demonstrated by unending schoolyard squabbles on social media, it’s an almost redundant debate – both games are edging back towards peak form, yet neither is likely to coax ardent fans of one series into switching sides.What isn’t in doubt is that EA’s game offers the superior package. Ultimate Team, career mode, online seasons, female players, dozens of leagues and hundreds of teams all with weekly line-up updates, bespoke overlays for Premier League and Bundesliga matches … the feature list goes on. While on-pitch matters between these two old foes are too close to call, Fifa’s breathtaking scope secures yet another silver pot for an already heaving trophy cabinet.Electronic Arts; PC/PS3/PS4/Xbox 360/Xbox One (version tested)/Wii; £45; 3+
It’s Tuesday.
The influential and controversial message board4chanhas been sold to Japanese web entrepreneur-turned-magazine editor Hiroyuko Nishimura for an undisclosed sum, it was announced today.Nishimura, who was recently appointed editor of Variety Japan, was the founder of 2channel, the wildly popular Japanese image-board on which 4chan was originally modelled when it was started in 2003. 4chan quickly overshadowed its Japanese-language cousin in influence, if not in raw traffic, however, to become one of the most influential – and one of the most controversial – websites.Related:4chan founder 'Moot' bids farewell: 'This is it for me. This is goodbye'Revelling in its reputation as the filthy, sweaty engine-room of the internet, 4chan – and especially the /b/ (random) board, the site’s first board – was the originator and hub of a vast amount of internet subculture including “LOLcats” and the practice of “Rickrolling”, in which an unsuspecting user is tricked into clicking on a link which takes them to the YouTube video of Rick Astley’sNever Gonna Give You Up– a practice which re-booted Astley’s career.4chan is also largely credited with being where the online hacktivist collective Anonymous originated, and it was at the center of the nude celebrity photo leak known as “the fappening” in 2014.Today, it claims 22 million unique users every month and a million new posts every day.In January 4chan’s founder, Chris Poole – who goes by the username Moot –announcedhe was stepping down as administrator of the site, and in a news post on Monday he announced the sale of the site to Nishimura. He said that he and Nishimura were “fast friends” who had bonded “over our shared passion for creating and managing online communities”.“He is one of few individuals with a deep understanding of what it means to provide a digital home for tens of millions of people for more than a decade. There is nobody more qualified than Hiroyuki to lead 4chan, and I can’t think of a person better suited for the task,” Poole’s statement continued.“4chan sits on the eve of two great milestones – its 2 billionth post and 12th birthday. It has been a great privilege to serve as 4chan’s founder and steward for almost twelve years, and I can’t wait to see what lays in store under Hiroyuki’s experienced leadership,” Poole concluded.
Facebook acted like the US’s National Security Agency, spying without authority on European users, lawyers representing the Belgian data protection authority said on Monday.In opening arguments in a closely watched case being brought against the social network company, Frederic Debussere, representing the Belgian privacy commission (BPC), referred to NSA whistleblower EdwardSnowden’s revelationsabout surreptitious mass surveillance by the spy agency.“When it became known that the NSA was spying on people all around the world, everybody was upset. This actor [Facebook] is doing the very same thing, albeit in a different way,” he said.TheBPC brought a lawsuit against Facebookafter accusing it of “trampling” over Belgian and European privacy law. In areportandan opinionthe BPC detailed Facebook’s alleged breaches, including the tracking of non-users and logged-out Facebook users for advertising purposes.The BPC is threatening Facebook with fine of €250,000 ($280,213) a day for failing to respond to its demands.Cookie use in disputeFacebook has repeatedly denied the claims, saying that the data and conclusions in the BPC’s Facebook privacy report are false.A Facebook spokesperson said: “We will show the court how this technology protects people from spam, malware, and other attacks, that our practices are consistent with EU law and with those of the most popular Belgian websites.”Facebook has also repeatedly stated that its European operations and practices are audited and governed by the Irish data protection agency, for the company’s European headquarters are situated in Dublin, Ireland.Paul Lefebvre, representing Facebook, said: “How could Facebook be subject to Belgian law if the management of data gathering is being done by Facebook Ireland and its 900 employees in that country?”‘Don’t be intimidated’The case is being watched intently by the rest of Europe where data protection regulators across the region, including the Netherlands, have also begun to question Facebook’s privacy practices.“Don’t be intimidated by Facebook,” said Debussere. “They will argue our demands cannot be implemented in Belgium alone. Our demands can be perfectly implemented just in this country.”Facebook said: “We’ve repeatedly offered to help resolve the Belgian data protection authority’s concerns, but it instead took Facebook to court claiming we do things we don’t do. The Belgian data protection authority conceded its original case and is now trying to stop Facebook from using security technology because they misunderstand it.”President of the Belgian commission Willem Debeuckelaeresaid in Maythat Facebook’s treating of users’ private lives “without respect needed tackling” and that it was a “make or break time”.“We remain open to discussing these issues directly with Belgian Data Protection Authority as a better option than doing this through unnecessary litigation,” said a Facebook spokesperson.Facebook’s new opt-out for tracking ads is not enough, says privacy expertVienna court orders Facebook response on ‘Facebook v Europe’ privacy case
First it was Twitter, the desktop client of whichwent downfor over an hour last week, (that’s almost a year in Twitter time). Then it wasAmazon Web Services, which glitched and took with it the likes of Netflix, Medium and Buffer over the weekend. Today,Skype has lost connection, scuppering those wishing to talk to long-distance other halves or interviewing for that job on a different continent.What is happening? Why is the internet breaking? And isn’t this all a bitPaper magazine November 2014?Admittedly these blips in service haven’t been all-encompassing – Skype’s web client appears to still be functioning, but app users are “unable to change their status, start Skype calls or see their contacts”. Meanwhile, when Twitter.com went down, users could still tweet via third party clients, such as Hootsuite and Tweetdeck and the app, just not from the desktop web.Amazon Web Services’ issues were slightly more severe, however, restricting restricting users’ ability to Netflix and chill. Not good. Many key internet services all dropping off in the space of a week is not ideal, given how integral a part of our lives these platforms have become.Remember when we were all terrified that the internetwould fill up(possibly with cat gifs) and there would be no space left? Not to mention the panic that surrounded the Millennium, orY2K, Bug.We are aware of an issue affecting Skype status at the moment, and are working on a quick fix:http://t.co/ymSzmrgEX0pic.twitter.com/8LoqqL0hh7&mdash; Skype Support  (@SkypeSupport)September 21, 2015These possible, internet-ending scenarios strike fear into our hearts because they offer a glimpse at what life would be like without surfing lunchtime news, the dopamine hit from social-media notifications and YouTube blooper reels.(Although, imagine a life without trolls sliding into your mentions to land a death wish at 11am on a Monday morning …; imagine a life with much lessfomo, and where a prospective partner wouldn’t Google you before your first meeting).Twitter is back up and working, as readers will probably be aware, given the fine tweets of last night (the brilliant Viola Davisbecoming the first woman of colour to win the Emmy for best actress in a drama; the less heartwarming#piggatetrending topic).Amazon Web Services is also back in the game. Skype has released a statement on its blog and taken to social media to apologise for the inconvenience, and to reassure users that the issue is being fixed. Let’s hope so, because there are people out there who need to talk face-to-face with holiday flings that would have best been left in the past.
Google’s appeal against the global enforcement of “right to be forgotten” removals has been rejected by the French data regulator.The Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL)ordered Googlein May to apply RTBF removals not only to the company’s European domains such as google.co.uk or google.fr, but to the search engine’s global domain google.com.Google filed an informalappeal in Julyagainst the order to the president of CNIL, Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, claiming that it would impede the public’s right to information, was a form of censorship and “risksserious chilling effects on the web”.Falque-Pierrotin has rejected the appeal, saying that once a delisting has been accepted under the RTBF ruling it must be applied across all extensions of the search engine and that not doing so allows the ruling to easily be circumvented.CNIL said in a statement: “Contrary to what Google has stated, this decision does not show any willingness on the part of the CNIL to apply French law extraterritorially. It simply requests full observance of European legislation by non European players offering their services in Europe.”The rejection of the appeal means that Google now must comply with the order and remove the tens of thousands of delistings from its google.com and other non-European domains for named searches.Google has no legal possibility to appeal the order at this stage under French law.CNIL will likely begin to apply sanctions including the possibility of a fine in the region of €300,000 against Google, should the company refuse to comply with the order. Under incoming European regulation the fine could increase to between 2% and 5% of global operating costs.Google can then appeal the decision and the fine with the supreme court for administrative justice the Conseil d’Etat.A Google spokesman said: “We’ve worked hard to implement the ‘right to be forgotten’ ruling thoughtfully and comprehensively in Europe, and we’ll continue to do so. But as a matter of principle, we respectfully disagree with the idea that one national data protection authority can assert global authority to control the content that people can access around the world.”The order is breaking new ground in making the subsidiary, Google France, liable for the activities of its parent company – in this case Google Inc. Should the French regulator succeed, it is likely to have knock-on effects in the application of RTBF rulings.•Google ordered to remove links to ‘right to be forgotten’ removal stories•Right to be forgotten: Swiss cheese internet, or database of ruin?•EU to Google: expand ‘right to be forgotten’ to Google.com
It’s Monday!
Point, shoot and share: smartphones have sparked an explosion in photography. According to tech analyst Mary Meeker’s annual internet trends research,more than 500m photoswere uploaded and shared every day in early 2013.That’s startling enough, but a year later, Meeker claimedthe daily total had risen to 1.8bn. She did not update the figure in her2015 report, but it’s reasonable to expect another sharp increase given the growth in both handsets, and the popularity of apps for photo sharing.The big apps for mobile photography are well known: Facebook, Snapchat and Instagram, with Yahoo’s Flickr getting a long-overdue mobile relaunch in late 2012 to try to compete with these (now more popular) upstarts.Meanwhile, the default camera apps from Android, Apple and Microsoft continue to improve with every software update. But all these are complemented by a rising swell of apps for shooting, editing and sharing. Ten of the best follow.Facetune.Facetune(£2.99)Android / iOS / Windows PhoneIt would be unkind to label Facetune as merely an app for touching up your selfies: it’s good for that, certainly, but it’s also an excellent editing tool for any people shots you take – yes, other people. Eyes, skin, noses and even smiles – try to avoidusing this in a tone-deaf way– there’s plenty to experiment with.VSCO Cam.VSCO Cam(Free + IAP)Android / iOSWhen you talk to people who are serious about their mobile photography, VSCO Cam often comes up early in the conversation. Yes, it has filters like most social photo (SoPho?No.) apps, but its editing tools pack more power than the herd. VSCO Cam also has its own community of photographers to share images with and take inspiration from: something in itself that should improve your shots.EyeEm.EyeEm(Free)Android / iOS / Windows PhoneAt its basic level, EyeEm is another photo-editing app with filters and other tools to spruce up your shots. Its most interesting feature is its “market” though: a place for you to upload your best photography and (hopefully) make some money if it’s bought by brands or media publishers. Like VSCO Cam, its community of photographers provides plenty of inspiration for your own photos.Do Camera by IFTTT.Do Camera by IFTTT(Free)Android / iOSThis is one of a mini-suite of apps from internet service IFTTT. Like the others, it is based around “recipes” to automate the tasks you might want to do with your photos. For example, one recipe might take a photo and automatically upload it to Evernote for later reference; another might email a photo to a particular contact; and another might post to Twitter or Tumblr without having to open their apps.Pixelmator.Pixelmator(£3.99)iOSThere are Photoshop-branded apps available for tablets and smartphones, but a growing number of iOS users swear by Pixelmator as an alternative. It’s available for Mac computers too, but it’s the iOS version that shines: it blends powerful features with an intuitive interface, whether you’re editing photos semi-professionally, tarting up shots to share with friends, or just creating memes using its text tools.Camera51.Camera51(Free)Android / iOSMany of the apps here focus on editing photographs to make them better after the event. Camera51 is more about helping you shoot them as best you can in the first place. It’ll advise you on framing and composition; warn you about objects that might get in the way, and can even help ensure your group selfies don’t disappoint.Afterlight.Afterlight(£0.79 + IAP)Android / iOS / Windows PhoneIf it’s ultra-quick editing you’re after, Afterlight is definitely worth downloading: it’s as good for tidying up a shot in a couple of taps as it is exploring some of its filters and textures for more polish. Textures? Yes, this takes some cues from traditional print photography in its tools for digitally weathering your final pics.Infiltr.Infiltr – Infinite Filters(£1.49)iOSThe name makes Infiltr’s standout feature clear: rather than a narrow selection of filters chosen by its developer, it gets you to create your own by swiping on the screen before taking a shot, promising more than 5m combinations. Even if you only find a few of them useful, the choice is refreshing.Google Photos.Google Photos(Free)Android / iOSThe thought of uploading all their photos to Google’s servers and having them made “searchable” will give some people the willies – and that’s fair enough. Others will be less spooked by the idea, and will appreciate this slick service from Google offering up to 15GB of storage. iOS users struggling with their iCloud limits may be among its keenest adopters.Photo Editor by Aviary.Layout from Instagram(Free)Android / iOSFinally, this spin-off from Instagram is a useful tool in its own right for grouping several shots into a neat collage. It’s simple to choose up to nine photos from your camera roll, pick a layout and then zoom and swap images until the collage is just right, before sharing it on Instagram or Facebook, or saving it to upload to other social services.Mobile photography is a hugely personal thing in terms of the apps that work for you. So what have we missed here? All recommendations are welcome: apps for shooting, editing, sharing or storing. The comments section is open for your thoughts.•Ten of the best interactive book apps•Ten of the best back-to-school apps for kids•Ten of the best football apps and games
Mad Max(Xbox One, PS4, PC, Warner Bros, cert 18, out now)★★★FromFury Roadto the middle of the road: this adaptation does nothing wrong but equally, nothing to stand out, which is a disappointment given its source material.Across a parched sea bed roars a battered muscle car, driven by the Road Warrior himself. Armed with shotgun and harpoon, Max fights his way through the apocalyptic landscape of mutants and madmen in a game that wants to do a lot of things – third-person brawling, sandbox exploration, car combat – and does them functionally, inoffensively. Everything under the hood hums along, but it all just lacks horsepower. It’s strange to feel bored by fist fights and car chases.So this version of the future feels curiously like a box-ticking exercise from the present: “Popular games have RPG-style upgrade systems and an open world, so we’ll do that.” While the bleached vistas of the nuclear wasteland have a stark beauty and there are some fun voice-acting moments, the appeal fades amid repetitive and shallow gameplay while driving through those same vistas over and over.PH3D Gunstar Heroes: a joy on the 3DS.3D Gunstar Heroes(3DS, Sega, cert: 7, out now)★★★★★Treasure’s bold 1993 debut served as a manifesto for its game-design philosophy – layered mechanics, relentless action, astonishing set-piece boss rushes and beautifully stylised art direction. Now more than two decades on,Gunstar Heroesshines as brilliantly as ever. On release it blew Mega Drive gamers away with creative 3D special effects that made the hardware sing, and all of which fit the 3DS perfectly.To those unfamiliar with its legacy,Gunstar Heroesis an intense run-and-gun action game in the vein of Konami’sContra(the developer from which many of Treasure’s staff migrated).The simple jump/shoot/weapon control scheme governs a huge array of attack options, including jump-in attacks, slides, tackles, throws and of course, the diverse arsenal of 14 weapon combinations. The seven levels are bursting with ideas (everything from a shmup stage to a boss-riddled dice-rolling board game) and the action never lets up. This is a perfect remastering of an essential, landmark title.RHForza Motorsport 6 benefits from amazingly realistic water effects.Forza Motorsport 6(Xbox One, Microsoft, cert: 3, out now)★★★★Not wanting to be in any danger of a stall on the grid,Forza 6has the hammer down, in numbers, from the off. There are more than 250 more cars and 12 more tracks thanForza 5offered, while the blistering, high-definition 60 frames per second visuals have been retained, as has motorsport-loving developer Turn 10’s huge attention to detail throughout.Showcase events offer high-end cars and novel challenges to spice up the career progression while race mods add more subtle fine-tuning for specific events. Variable assists ensure that the game is both accessible for newcomers and rewarding for experts.Most crucially the driving delivers a realistic and enjoyable challenge. Still impressive is the tactile feedback of rubber and road through the Xbox One controller’s rumble triggers. Wet and night races (new to this franchise) increase the race variety with extraordinarily realistic water pooling in puddles, triggering panicked hydroplaning if not avoided. The AI still has some kinks, not consistently delivering human-like opponents, but it is a minor niggle for a title that absolutely shines in the increasingly crowded field of great racing games.AR
A recent study by market research firm Nielsen claimed that the average person uses 27 apps a month, which sounds like very few considering that Apple and Google’s app stores both have more than 1m apps available. The key, of course, is that the 27 apps can be almost entirely different, depending who you ask.Some apps do have mass audiences: Facebook and Twitter in the social networking category; WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and Snapchat for messaging; Google Maps for getting around; Spotify for music; YouTube for video; Kindle for reading ebooks; Instagram for photo-sharing; and so on.Beyond these 900lb gorillas of the apps world, though, there is a wide selection of software that can improve your smartphone’s capabilities: often replacing the default apps that come preloaded on it, from email and calendar apps to mapping and music.One of the important trends in this area is apps working better together, whether through partnerships between them – pretty much every fitness-tracking app works with a range of complementary services – or by features in the smartphone software from Apple and Google making it easier to move tasks and content between different apps on your device.A trend that’s in its earlier stages is the growth of companion apps for smartwatches, usually designed to take two or three key tasks from the main app to your wrist, to avoid you getting your smartphone out of your pocket. Look for Apple Watch offshoots for iPhone apps on the App Store, and separate Android Wear versions for Android apps on Google Play.App developers also have a growing awareness of issues around privacy, from messaging apps such as Telegram that make encryption one of their key features, to controversies like recent criticism of an update to Spotify’s privacy policy, which was (wrongly, as it turned out) seen as opening the door for its app to root through users’ photos and listen to their conversations.App makers have to be sensitive to these concerns as apps continue to be big business. In 2014,Apple paid out $10bn(£6.5bn) to developers of iOS apps, while Google paid out $7bn (£4.5bn) to developers of Android apps.That money includes upfront payments and in-app purchases, but not advertising – a big money-spinner for companies like Facebook, which made $7.5bn (£4.9bn) from mobile ads in 2014 alone.For anyone relatively inexperienced in smartphones and apps, this roundup offers a good starting point to improve your handset: even if you don’t find 27 of them useful, several will have a meaningful effect on your daily life. Meanwhile, even smartphone veterans may find some apps in here that demand a slot on their homescreens.The Rightmove app takes the stress out of house-hunting.Photograph: Yui Mok/PALifestyle/healthMoodnotesiOS (£2.99)Moodnotes is a digital diary for tracking your moods, from low to high. It prompts you to explain your feelings to help spot triggers for low moments, and provides tips on how to avoid the “thinking traps” that may cause them.Clue – Period TrackeriOS / AndroidPart of the trend for quantifying yourself, Clue focuses on the fertility cycle. Use it to track throughout the month, whether your goal is conception or simply understanding your cycle’s pattern better.MyFitnessPaliOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)This is one of the simplest ways to quickly log your calories, setting a daily target to suit whatever your current fitness plan is. It works well with other health apps too, from Fitbit to Runkeeper.RightmoveiOS / Android / Windows PhoneHouse-hunting can be dispiriting, but at least the apps for browsing homes are good. Since you’ll be checking Rightmove morning, noon and night, it’s good that it’s so quick and easy to use.Sleep Better with RuntasticiOS / AndroidMore quantification, this time of night habits. Installed on your smartphone at your bedside, it measures your sleeping patterns, while its alarm aims to wake you at the best time within your cycle – avoiding morning grumps.BumbleiOSThis aims for a more female-friendly spin on dating. Browse and swipe right like Tinder, but if the woman doesn’t chat for 24 hours, the connection disappears. For same-sex couples, either has to act to stay connected.Peak – Brain TrainingiOS / Android (Free + IAP)Remember when Nintendo’sDr Kawashima’s Brain Trainingwas a craze? Peak is doing a similar thing on smartphones and tablets, with dozens of mini-games designed to test thinking skills and track your improvement over time.Zombies, Run!iOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)Zombies, Run! has the most creative method of getting you jogging: a horde of (virtual) undead chasing you. A proper story from Naomi Alderman keeps your interest high.UK Bus Checker is a fast way to check arrivals and plan journeys.Photograph: Getty ImagesTravelCitymapperiOS / AndroidFrom tubes and trains to taxis and buses, Citymapper suggests several routes, each with a projected time, with alerts on weather, strikes and other issues. In the UK, it works in London, Manchester and Birmingham.UK Bus CheckeriOS / Android / Windows PhoneThere are dozens of bus-checking apps, but this is the pick of the bunch. Covering more than 300,000 bus stops in the UK, it’s a fast way to check arrivals, or plan your journeys.Hotel TonightiOS / Android / Windows PhoneA growing number of people are choosing not to book accommodation but to pitch up and use this app on the day. Its speed and simplicity play into that: a few taps and you’re all booked up.Yahoo WeatheriOS / AndroidThe weather might be grim but at least the forecast looks pretty in this app. Yahoo’s weather tool isn’t just nice-looking though: there’s plenty of detail to dig into as you browse ahead for daily and hourly forecasts.Duolingo: Learn LanguagesiOS / Android / Windows PhoneOf the many language-learning apps, this is one of the simplest, but also most effective. Its bite-sized lessons are a fun way to get up to speed in Spanish, French, German and other languages.ViewRanger GPSiOS / Android (Free + IAP)If your holiday involves walking or cycling, this is an excellent companion. It taps Ordnance Survey maps and trail guides for detailed routes to pedal or wander along, and is particularly good for holidays within the UK.Hopper – Airfare PredictionsiOS / AndroidThe fluctuating prices of airlines are beyond the ken of most passengers, which is exactly their point. Hopper gives bargain-hunters an advantage again: analysing prices and trying to predict when they will be cheapest.WifiMapperiOS / AndroidFrequent travellers know all about the search for a Wi-Fi hotspot when abroad – with a free one being the dream. WifiMapper has a database of more than 500m hotspots around the world, and will guide you to them.HERE MapsiOS / Android / Windows PhoneGoogle and Apple have their respective Maps apps, but Nokia’s HERE has plenty of fans. Its key features include storing maps offline, and its inclusion of public transport and restaurant/shop data.Microsoft TranslatoriOS / Android / Windows PhoneThis handy companion will translate words and phrases while you’re abroad, with support for 50 languages and the option to have things read out or displayed on screen for you to try the pronunciation. It also works on smartwatches for even faster access.Identify constellations, planets and satellites with Star Walk 2.Photograph: AlamyEntertainmentMixRadioiOS / Android / Windows PhoneMuch of the chatter about streaming playlists focuses on Spotify and Apple Music. MixRadio might be the curveball alternative though: its themed playlists are a match for its high-profile rivals.Songkick ConcertsiOS / AndroidSongkick picks up your tastes by scanning your music collection or Spotify profile, then pings you when tickets go on sale for gigs by your favourite artists. Dangerous for your wallet, but wonderful for your ears.TuneIn RadioiOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)TuneIn has a database of more than 100,000 stations streaming online, including all the key UK channels. A premium subscription adds audiobooks and ad-free stations, too.GoodreadsiOS / AndroidGoodreads is a well-established community of bookworms recommending books. You can write your own reviews, check those of friends and – most useful – scan barcodes in shops to check reviews before buying.PocketiOS / Android (Free + IAP)Pocket is the best in the “read it later” category of apps, which help you collect articles from a range of sources throughout the day, and save them for a time that suits you. Sensible social features help you share with friends too.Star Walk 2iOS / Android (£2.29)The best entertainment is often distinctly un-digital: staring at the night sky, for example. But Star Walk 2 is a discreet companion for your stargazing, helping you identify constellations, planets and satellites.Magic PianoiOS / Android (Free + IAP)A welcome app for anyone who ever dreamed of tinkling a piano, but lacks the skills. Magic Piano helps you play along with a range of songs, play with other people over the net, and learn a few tricks to help with the real thing.VesseliOS / Android (Free + IAP)YouTube is a spawning ground for a new generation of video stars, but Vessel is pitching itself as the app for their superfans. Get early access to videos from popular YouTubers, and discover shows that you’ll love.Meet Flipboard – video.Social/MediaFlipboardiOS / Android / Windows PhoneApple’s soon-to-launch News app has been hailed as a “Flipboard killer”, but Flipboard’s features make it hard to kill. It turns your favourite topics and sites into a flippable digital magazine, bringing in social feeds too.PeriscopeiOS / AndroidTwitter’s live-streaming video app seemed a bit of a novelty when it launched but it’s starting to find its place, from celebrities broadcasting directly to fans to journalists reporting live from the scenes of breaking news stories.Telegram MessengeriOS / Android / Windows PhoneA big theme of messaging apps in 2015 is security, with more adopting encryption technology to keep your chats safe. Telegram’s appeal goes beyond its self-destructing “secret chats”: it’s well-designed and compares well with WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger.Pocket CastsiOS / Android / Windows PhoneReal-life whodunnit podcastSerialsparked renewed interest in the spoken-word genre, and Pocket Casts is one of the best ways to browse, download and listen to podcasts on your smartphone. A wide catalogue and sleek interface impress.VSCO CamiOS / Android (Free + IAP)Built-in camera apps have improved in leaps and bounds, but VSCO Cam remains a connoisseur’s choice for mobile photography. Excellent shooting and editing tools, plus plenty of filters to try out.FireChatiOS / AndroidFireChat seems like magic until you have the technology explained to you: it’s a messaging app that works without 3G or Wi-Fi, using a network created by the devices around you. Great for a group travelling, as well as public demonstrations and sports/music events.Google PhotosiOS / AndroidEven iOS users see the appeal in Google’s photography cloud service, which uploads your snaps to its servers and makes them searchable and shareable with friends and family. Useful if you start running out of phone space.FeedlyiOS / AndroidRSS feeds haven’t always been the most user-friendly way to keep tabs on digital news – at least, not for mainstream internet users. Feedly walks the line well between an accessible interface and features for more experienced users to drill into their feeds.EyeEm – Photo Filter CameraiOS / Android / Windows PhoneOn one level, EyeEm is yet another app for taking photos then applying stylish filters. But you can also add your best shots to its market – and maybe end up selling them to media and brands.PinterestiOS / AndroidFacebook and Twitter hog the social media attention, but Pinterest, where people “pin” products, places and ideas, has stealthily become a visual way to research holidays and purchases, building your own collections as you go.David and Gareth from The Office could have used some productivity apps…Photograph: BBCProductivitySlackiOS / Android / Windows PhoneSlack is a messaging service for your work spanning desktop and mobile. It’s a quick way to ping colleagues. When used well, its biggest benefit is reducing your email inbox clutter.TrelloiOS / AndroidIf Slack is for messaging, Trello is more about project management – the two work well together – using “boards” and “cards” to break down projects and divide tasks between co-workers. The apps provide a quick way to make edits or additions.Sunrise CalendariOS / AndroidMicrosoft liked this calendar app so much they bought the company, rebranding it as “an Outlook app” in the process. It works with Google Calendar and Apple’s iCloud too: pulling your diary dates into a clean and clear design.WunderlistiOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)Microsoft bought Wunderlist too this year. This to-do list app takes some beating: from individual tasks to complicated projects, it’s easy to divide, conquer and neatly tick everything off.PushbulletiOS / AndroidPushbullet can be hard to explain, but once you’ve installed it, you’ll see what the fuss is about: it pings files and links between your own devices, or to friends. It’s also a good hub for replying to social messages and texts.IF by IFTTTiOS / AndroidIFTTT is a wonderful way to connect all your other apps and automate the tasks that go between them. From uploading your social photos to Dropbox to saving stories from news sites, it’s useful in hundreds of small ways.SwiftKey KeyboardiOS / Android (Free + IAP)One of the best apps for replacing your smartphone’s default keyboard, due to its ability to learn your writing style for more accurate auto-corrections. Emoji, a range of themes and translation on the fly are also impressive.iA WriteriOS / Android (£7.99)As word processors go, it looks minimalist, but that’s the point: its interface gets out of the way to let you focus on writing. Designers dribble over the typography, but it’s the efficiency as a writing tool that shines.MailboxiOS / AndroidCurrently the best tool for reaching (or at least approaching) Inbox Zero. You swipe emails out of your inbox, including making some return later at a time of your choice. For now, it works with Gmail and iCloud email.Scanner Pro 6 by ReaddleiOS (£2.29 + IAP)This does the job of a physical scanner well: whether you’re having to print and sign PDF documents before returning them digitally, or simply keeping digital copies of documents and receipts, it’s the best option.DropboxiOS / Android / Windows Phone (Free + IAP)Your Google, Apple or Microsoft phone will have a cloud-storage service attached. But Dropbox makes for an excellent alternative, whether you’re storing photos, documents or music.1PasswordiOS / Android (Free + IAP)We all (hopefully) know not to stick notes with passwords over our computers. But if remembering passwords is proving challenging, try 1Password. It stores all your details, encrypted, so you can login safely and quickly.NumerousiOS / AndroidThis neat, figures-focused app can be used for work or personal life – or both. It keeps track of any important numbers, from your social followers or exchange rates to your steps or a countdown to a significant date.StreaksiOS (£0.79)Part productivity and part health app, this aims to help you “form good habits” by choosing up to six tasks you want to perform every day, then marking them off to help your motivation. It’ll even remind you about them.
Price: £45,750Top speed: 137mph0-62mph: 7.4 secondsMPG: 49.6The date 1959 is stamped into the metal tongue of every seatbelt on the newVolvo XC90. It’s the year Volvo invented the device and, in an act of almost unheard-of corporate altruism, left the patent open so other manufacturers could fit seatbelts in their cars. The Swedish firm should be in the running for a Nobel peace prize for the uncountable road deaths that single act has averted.Safety is always top of the list at Volvo. The company has stated that no one will die in any of its cars by 2020 – and that’s not all that far away. But if the all-new XC90 is anything to go by, Volvo is on target to succeed. The luxurious SUV is bristling with the sort of hyper-aware safety kit that makes you think it must have ESP, and it’s all encased in a virtually uncrushable shark cage of passive protection. Sit in the glossy new car and it beeps and twitches around you – its cameras tracking and reacting to events you aren’t even aware of. You’ll be surprised to see its front end isn’t actually a big wet nose with long, twitching whiskers.Inside story: the cabin is light and airy but the real show pleaser is the new ‘portrait’ infortainment screen.I drove it to Brittany at the end of the summer packed to the gunnels with kids and kit. We drove almost 1,500 miles and I spent 33 hours and 12 minutes at the wheel (I love those trip computers). As I basked in the car’s incredible comfort, my smugness score was off the chart knowing I was also pretty much immortal that week. Sadly Volvo hasn’t yet turned its attention to dentistry and with my first bite of breakfast baguette one of my teeth fell out leaving me needing a new crown.The XC90 is the Volvo Mothership. It’s adored by school-run mums across the country. They’ll be pleased to hear this seven-seater has plenty of room in all three rows. The second set of seats flip forward simply, and it’s incredibly easy to jump in and out.This is the first car built by Volvo under its new Chinese owners,Geely. It’s only available as a two-litre, four-cylinder engine, in either diesel (225hp D5) or petrol (320hp T6). The diesel I tested was very economical for such a big car. When cruising it was smooth and silent, but to get you going you do need a fairly heavy foot and there was often an irritating delay as you waited for the power to arrive.Seventh heaven: the three rows of seats are arranged in theatre style so even the back row gets a view out of the front.Inside, you’ll find a serene, light-filled cabin. It’s all brilliantly put together and exudes a sense of enduring quality. Owners 10 and 15 years down the road will enjoy the luxury detailing as much as the lucky first buyer. The crowning glory is the tablet control system, labelled Sensus. It looks like a regular iPad except placed on its side. It’s incredibly intuitive, and you can control everything with a swipe of your fingers. I loved its 360-degree reversing camera. Part camera, part computer game, it gave you a perfect bird’s-eye view to help you slip this big beast into the tightest of spots with barely a whimper.Playing safe is rarely sexy, but Volvo’s XC90 is definitely one streetwise good-ass mother lover.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
Britain desperately needs to persuade hundreds of thousands of women to take up engineering to help the country exploit new technologies that could transform our lives. Failure would damage the na tion’s capacity to meet the challenges of the future, the new president of theInstitution of Engineering and Technology (IET), Naomi Climer, warned last week.Climer, the first female president of the IET, the world’s largest engineering institution, told theObserverthat Britain was facing a serious shortfall in engineers. Figures suggest that the country will need to recruit almost two million over the coming decade, she said. Advances in robotics, software design, renewable energy, materials and many other fields now offer to bring major improvements to Britain – but will need the problem-solving skills of engineers to make the best use of them. However, at the same time the nation is facing a serious shortfall in numbers entering the profession.“In the past, most professions – including medicine and engineering – were predominately male domains,” said Climer. “Today many have been transformed and employ large numbers of women. For example, jobs in medicine are now divided fairly evenly between the sexes. By contrast, engineering has remained stubbornly stuck in the past.Men still hold down 94% of jobs. That is simply not acceptable. Indeed, it is harmful. We cannot hope to recruit the numbers of engineers we need in the near future if we are effectively excluding half the population from taking part.”Climer – the former head of Sony’s Media Cloud Services – said parents and teachers were still discouraging children from considering professions in engineering by depicting it as drab or dirty. “What so many young people don’t realise is that engineering will give you work wherever you want: in the office or out of doors; on your own or as part of a team; working with computers or without them. You could work with food, chemicals, machines, electronics, bridges or railways or design software. It is an amazing range. Young people need to be made aware of that.”Climer qualified with a degree in chemistry from Imperial College London, but became an engineer in 1987 because the BBC was encouraging women to join the profession. In 2000 she moved to ITVdigital as director of technical operations before moving to Sony Europe in 2002.The crucial point, added Climer, is that new technology is now offering society a chance to adopt all sorts of devices that could transform lives: apps that could help visually handicapped people make use of public transport or robots that could help the elderly and the infirm, for example.“Many of these innovations could be of great help to society and women are particularly good at thinking about the needs of others, so they will bring a very valuable dimension to the field.“In any case, the more mixed is the membership of any team – whether that is in terms of gender or age or class – the better it is at coming up with solutions to problems, and engineers are by definition problem-solvers. So again it makes it important to get as many women involved as possible.”How Britain can encourage more women to become engineers is not a straightforward business, she said. “There is no single solution. However, for a start, we need to make it clear just how widespread the problem is: major companies should publish precise figures about the exact proportion of women they have in their workforces. That might at least getting them thinking about where they are going wrong.”
The latest smartphone from Sony has the fastest camera available on a smartphone and promises a two-day battery, but does it deliver?After the high ofthe Xperia Z3and its great battery life, Sony’s follow-up the Z3+ suffered badly from overheating issues. Skipping the number four, the Xperia Z5 has a lot to prove.This review was conducted using a near-final prototype. Although unlikely, some aspects may be different to the device that goes on sale.Minimalist designSony’s simple, minimalist design will be familiar to anyone who has looked at any of the company’s other phones from the last three years.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTo say Sony is iterative on design would be an understatement. The Z5 looks just like the various Sony flagships from the last two or three years.All glass, back and front, held together by a band of metal with plastic corners that are meant to absorb the energy of a drop to the floor and help the screen not shatter.The frosted glass back both looks and feels nice, while the phone is reassuringly solid in the hand. The device is waterproof, so trips into the pond won’t matter too much, but the USB port and headphones port are both exposed so there’s no need to mess with fiddly doors. Wireless charging, which you would think would be perfect for something like this, is disappointedly absent.The 5.2in LCD display is great. Vibrant, colourful, bright and with good viewing angles. It isn’t quite as eye-popping as some rival OLED screensfrom Samsungor as pixel perfect as higher resolutionLG’s 2K LCD, but most will be more than satisfied with the screen.The phone is slightly thicker than high-end rivals from Apple and Samsung at 7.3mm thick, but is easy to slip into a pocket or to hold, particularly compared to larger phablets with screens over 5.5in.The front-facing speakers are decent, for small phone speakers, and make it easier to watch videos in stereo without blocking the speaker with your hands.The Xperia Z5 is relatively easy to hold for a smartphone with a screen larger than 5in.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5.2in 1080p LCD (424ppi)Processor:octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:32GB; microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop”Camera:23MP rear camera, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4 and GPSDimensions:146 x 72 x 7.3 mmWeight:154gNot quite as hotThe Xperia logo is etched into the metal sides.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z5 contains Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 810, which has been responsible for causing overheating issues in not only Sony’s previous Z3+ but in other Android flagship devices.The Z5 does get warm, but not enough to cause issues in my testing. It was warmest when downloading music for offline playback, not when playing a graphically intensive game.The phone doesn’t seem to suffer from slow down when it gets hot and while it isn’t the fastest smartphone available – that would be theSamsung Galaxy S6– the Xperia Z5 performs well. It doesn’t quite have the same zip as some other top-end Android smartphones.I found battery life a little disappointing. Without using any of Sony’s battery saving modes the Xperia Z5 only lasted an average of 34 hours 30 minutes between charges, using it as a primary device with hundreds of push emails, notifications three hours of browsing and two hours of listening to music via Bluetooth headphones per day.Compared to the day’s battery most smartphones provide, over 34 hours is good, but it’s a far cry from the up to two-days battery Sony is claiming. It’s possible battery life may get better in production models.Sony’s Stamina mode, which provides a whitelist of apps while disabling others when the screen is off, works well and brings the battery life closer to 48 hours in my testing.Despite estimates, Stamina mode made the smartphone last for around 48 hours with regular use.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianI noticed that the camera impacted the battery life considerably, running the battery almost flat in under 18 hours shooting around 40 photos at a wedding.Small, useful changesThe additional quick settings and control over what appears in the status bar are just some of the useful additions to the standard Android experience that Sony makes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony customises the standard Android 5.1 Lollipop experience with small modifications. The version installed on the Xperia Z5 is Sony’s lightest touch yet, and while it looks a little aesthetically different it will be familiar to anyone who has used Android in the past.Sony makes some useful additions, including more customisable quick settings toggles in the notifications shade, some task automation, such as turning on the Wi-Fi when you get home, and theme support to change the look of the software.Most of Sony’s apps, including the Music app work well enough, but can be ignored if you already use alternatives including Google’s or something like Spotify.CameraThe camera app is one of the best on the market with plenty of features.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Z5 has Sony’s first new camera sensor in two years and increases the resolution to 23-megapixels from the 21 available on previous smartphones.The megapixel count allows the phone to produce 8-megapixel images with a 5-times digital zoom without losing detail, or oversample without zooming, which helps to remove noise and artefacts.Sony’s camera app is excellent with great automatic modes and enough manual settings to keep most happy. Photos look great, with good detail and colour accuracy in middling and good light. Low light performance is OK, but not best in class. Focusing was very fast, but sometimes struggled in lowlight situations. I found the flash was particularly ineffective.The front-facing camera produces acceptable, if not spectacular, selfies – often looking a bit soft. This is flattering for most people, but diminishes detail in the photo.Video recorded using Sony’s Steadyshot is smooth, removing camera shake and the jarring motion of bad dancing. The camera can record 4K video and doesn’t overheat, but at 300MB per minute you will need a large SD card for capturing anything in length.Fingerprint scannerThe fingerprint sensor under the power button is excellent.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony has fitted a fingerprint scanner under the power button on the side of the device, which is excellent. It isn’t as fast as Huawei’s sensor, but it recognised my thumb 99% of the time without issue, and has yet to fail to recognise my left index finger.Having it under the power button on the side is the most convenient place I have come across for fingerprint sensor placement, and means there’s no risk of dropping the device.PriceThe Sony Xperia Z5 is available for pre-order in black, white, gold and green, costing £550, which makes it similarly priced toSamsung Galaxy S6and slightly cheaper than Apple’s iPhone 6S.VerdictThe Xperia Z5 is a great flagship smartphone, and arguably the best Sony smartphone yet. The slightly more squared-off design compared to the Z3 makes it look a little more generic, but the frosted glass on the back is considerably more attractive.The best parts about the Z5 are the fingerprint sensor and the camera, but competitors including Apple and Samsung have equally good systems.It’s difficult to stand out in the crowded high-end smartphone market, and not quite making two-days of battery is disappointing. The Z5 is good, it’s just not quite the best.Pros:waterproof, good camera, microSD card slot, great fingerprint scannerCons:doesn’t live up to battery expectations, no wireless charging, not the snappiest, weak camera flash, can get quite warmOther reviewsSony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality cameraLG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive cameraSamsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killerOnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship killer’?
They say the compact crossover is a crowded market, but that’s only in the sense that any market loosely defined (futures, greeting cards, animal fats) looks crowded. What exactly is the Mazda CX-3? The thing that is larger than the Mazda 2, or the thing that is smaller than the SUV? It’s the latter, of course, because everyone loves the word “SUV”, but it isn’t large enough, least of all in the boot capacity, to warrant the term, even if it technically skims it.The upside is that it looks neat and sharp. They are funny, Mazda, full of high design concepts: “Kodo” is the unified look across the styles. The CX-3 meets it by being aggressive yet sleek around the nose, tidy through the body, sheered off neatly at the back. Skyactiv is the technology, which they illustrate with a video that pits a CX-3 against a greyhound. It is weird nobody pointed out that most cars are faster than dogs.Anyway, because it is attractive on the outside, and on the inside has leatherette seating with red piping, and because its variant is “Sport Nav diesel”, you expect a thrill. At 10.1 seconds to do 0-62mph, its getaway speed is tasty; it feels much more alive than theDacia Duster, the other big beast (popularity-wise) in this class. Sometimes nippy cars don’t accelerate well in the middle gears, but this was pleasant in all of them, and cruised well. Someone I am acquainted with by marriage complained that the fascia on the doors was the wrong height to lean your elbow on and get a tan on your arm, but otherwise, both driver and passenger position were comfortable.In the cabin, things were spacious and there were likable features; for some reason, the leather-effect stick shift area really pleased me. The touchscreen multimedia system is good on paper but lacks finesse, claiming mid-journey that satnav hadn’t been installed after all. The intuition quotient was high, though: there wasn’t anything I couldn’t guess, except where the seventh speaker was. (Nice to have so many of these, by the way. It got pretty loud, which I like in a car, especially when I don’t know where I’m going.)The ride is a bit bouncy and unpredictable – enough to make you think more about suspense than suspension. It’s a bit unfair to talk about primary ride when you take a car to a festival, but it was even a bit of a prima donna when it came to a seam in the tarmac. Melodrama was the only dramatic thing about it; it was sometimes admirable for its competence, but not showstopping.Mazda CX-3: in numbersPrice£22,435Top speed110mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption70.6 mpgCO2emissions105g/km (diesel)Cool rating6/10Eco rating8/10
The maker of Peace, a bestselling ad blocker for iPhones, has pulled the app just days after its launch saying the app’s success “just doesn’t feel good”.Marco Arment, co-founder of Tumblr and creator of the Instapaper reading app, launched Peace on 16 September.The $2.99 app became the bestselling app in Apple’s iTunes store almost overnight.Peace takes advantage of iOS 9, Apple’s newly updated mobile software, to filter out mobile ads and tracking on other apps and websites. Mobile advertising is the fastest growing sector of the ad business and seen by most publishers as vital to their future finances.But mobile ads face mounting controversy with their use of “tracking” to follow users and lack of clarity over how people’s personal information is shared.Web advertising and behavioral tracking are “out of control”, Arment wrote when he launched the app. “They’re unacceptably creepy, bloated, annoying, and insecure, and they’re getting worse at an alarming pace.”Ad and tracker abuse is an even bigger issue on mobile than on a desktop, he said, where ads are much larger and harder to dismiss, trackers are harder to detect and they slow down page loads, drain battery power and waste cellular data. They are also “increasingly used as vectors for malware, exploits and fraud”.Critics were quick to highlight that Arment was profiting from an app that blocked others from making money on mobile.the irony of charging for an ad blocker is too much for me I might die overnight see you later&mdash; matt (@mattbuchanan)September 17, 2015And after witnessing the success of the app Arment concluded that the damage to ad-supported content that would have been affected by the ad blocker was too much.“Achieving this much success with Peace just doesn’t feel good, which I didn’t anticipate, but probably should have,”he wroteon Friday.“Ad blockers come with an important asterisk: while they do benefit a ton of people in major ways, they also hurt some, including many who don’t deserve the hit. Peace required that all ads be treated the same – all-or-nothing enforcement for decisions that aren’t black and white ... If we’re going to effect positive change overall, a more nuanced, complex approach is required than what I can bring in a simple iOS app.”Arment offered people who have downloaded the app a refund and suggested alternatives, Purify and Crystal, which are both currently bestsellers too. The app will still work for those that have downloaded it but will not be updated.“Ad-blocking is a kind of war – a first-world, low-stakes, both-sides-are-fortunate-to-have-this-kind-of-problem war, but a war nonetheless, with damage hitting both sides. I see war in theTao Te Ching sense: it should be avoided when possible; when that isn’t possible, war should be entered solemnly, not celebrated,” he wrote.“Even though I’m ‘winning’, I’ve enjoyed none of it. That’s why I’m withdrawing from the market,” wrote Arment. “It’s simply not worth it. I’m incredibly fortunate to be able to turn away an opportunity like this, and I don’t begrudge anyone else who wants to try it. I’m just not built for this business.”
Wednesday’s launch of iOS 9 introduced fully-native mobile adblocking to millions of users for the first time, and they voted with their feet. One specific ad-blocker, Peace, a $2.99/£2.29 app developed by Instapaper creator Marco Arment, is the number one paid app in the UK, US, Australia and Canada, while two others, Crystal and Purify, are in the top-ten in a number of countries.But there’s a lot of confusion over what the blockers can and can’t do, how to enable them, and what Apple’s role is in the whole thing.The big change in the latest version of iOS 9 is the introduction of “content-blocking extensions” in Safari, the browser that ships with the mobile operating system. But although Apple has opened the floodgates to the extensions, it hasn’t done anything directly to block ads on new iPhones.Unless a user actively downloads a new app, such as Peace, Crystal or Purify, they will still see just the same adverts as they always had done.Indeed, Apple has been careful not to specifywhichcontent the extensions are used to block. It doesn’t refer to its new tools as “ad” blocking, but just “content” blocking, and explains to the developers that the feature gives “extensions a fast and efficient way to block cookies, images, resources, pop-ups, and other content”.When explaining the benefits of blocking content, Apple has focused on two specific aspects: speed, and privacy. Both are only tangentially related to adverts, instead being a function of the technology that underpins modern “programmatic” advert sales, which is how the vast majority of web ads are sold.When a browser loads up a web page, the advertising company – such as Google, through their DoubleClick subsidiary – looks at the user, and attempts to match them to a pre-existing profile. What other sites have they visited? Where does their IP address suggest they are? What device are they using? Once it has answers to those questions, it looks through bids advertisers have made to sell ads to that particular type of user, selects the highest bid, and pushes that advert to the web page.This all happens in the time it takes a page to load, but it can also increase the time it takes for the page to load. The code for it all must be loaded with the page, and it’s not lightweight. Many websites have multiple ad networks, as well as share buttons from social networks such as Twitter and Facebook, and their own internal analytics, all of which can add several megabytes.Blocking some of that content can markedly speed up loading times, as well as prevent the ad network from properly identifying demographic data about the visitor. Of course, the fact that one of the ad networks is Apple’s chief competitor is a nice side effect for the company.But the majority of content blockers available on the market position themselves firmly as advertising blockers, going further than just blocking the tracking scripts into actively seeking out the adverts themselves. That’s led to some dismay from publishers who deliberately sought out more ethical adverts, such as those from boutique ad network the Deck,only to find those have been blocked as well.Some, such as 1Blocker, go further than simple adblocking and allow users to block other content, such as sharing buttons, custom web fonts and Disqus comments.The technology which powers it all is firmly focused on performance. Traditional desktop adblockers work by loading a huge list of all ad servers into the computer’s memory and then running the entire content of the website through the filter, removing anything that matches. That can be comprehensive, but also incredibly resource-heavy.By contrast, the mobile adblocking uses a small list (although “small” is relative, and word from Apple is that it caps out at 50,000 entries), which is then loaded directly into the browser. The same engine that renders the page handles the blocking, allowing it to prune adverts at the source. While developers of the old type of adblocking software initiallyexpressed concernsthat their lists wouldn’t be suitable for the new format, those fears seem to have been misplaced.But in the long run, the format might turn out to be harder to use as a pure adblocker than it appears the moment. The other big difference between desktop adblockers and the new mobile breed is whether the list is updated in real time, and users of the iOS content blockers may find the databases are rapidly out of date.The most aggressive advertisers could view that as a sign to start an arms race, employing increasing permutations of their server names to avoid their content being blocked. But large stable organisations will find little to gain from the diminishing returns such an approach would offer, and may be put off by its similarity to the tactics malware authors are forced to employ to bypass anti-virus software.Whether they block ads, sharing buttons or just “content”, the blockers are here to stay.
Armies of robots are already here – they’re mostly just very small.As robotics advances, scientists continue to take cues from the natural world, whether it’s by building robots out of material from animals, likecloned rat muscleorjellyfish matter, or building them in imitation ofdogsorcats. And now, those scientists are learning to simulate intelligence by imitating a swarm.“Swarm robotics”, beyond being one of the scariest terms outside of a Terminator film, is the name roboticists give to robots that can coordinate behavior between multiple bodies, acting as a group. Thomas Schmickl of the Artificial Life Laboratory at the University of Graz in Austria, points out that robots as complex as humans or even dogs are a long way off, but the possibility in the insect world for simple animals to behave in ingenious ways as a group can provide some insight into how to simulate intelligence.Schmickl’s current crop of robots work mostly underwater – his swarm of as many as 20 swimming robots,all named Jeff, imitates a shoal of fish. With the EU-supported Collective Cognitive Robots project, he hopes to develop not just hardware but algorithms and other software to make group behavior smarter.“[M]onolithic, non-scaling technology is currentlyhitting the walleverywhere,” Schmickl said. He points out that computers now often have multiple central processing units, and says that swarms are not necessarily armies of robot bugs. “[W]e talk about the ‘internet of things’ – that might also be perceived as another kind of swarm.”Schmickl mentioned the Philae lander, which touched down on a comet only to fail at its attempt to drill into the surface and collect samples. “Imagine we had done that with five or 10 smaller, cheaper probes,” he said. “Not only would the risk of a total failure be much lower, you could collect data from different places.”The US military has come to much the same conclusion with respect to combat missions. Swarm robotics has become not just viable but a cornerstone of coming drones – unmanned aerial vehicles, in military parlance – like the navy’s Locust (Low-Cost UAV Swarming Technology).In terms of bug behavior,cyborg cockroacheshave been on the open market for a few months now (wannabe-mad scientists can purchase a DIY kit from a few different companies, though all require that the user supply his or her own roaches). Now, though, scientists are working to make flexible, durable parts from living material – recently muscle tissue from rats and even biosynthetic tissue from jellyfish have been used to make parts for robots.Chris Atkeson, professor at the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, said that often natural sensors are superior to what people can build, and animals’ abilities to smell, feel and hear may become a larger part of robotic science. One could argue, said Atkeson, that they are “analog computers in some sense”.Atkeson points to the Ames test, in which “bacteria are used to test the mutagenic potential of chemical compounds”, in his words. Bacteria are spread on agar with a little food and a chemical that may or may not cause mutation; when the food runs out, the only way bacteria remain is if the chemical has allowed them to mutate. “This would be an extremely complex computation to be done with computers,” Atkeson said.
You may not have heard of Roseberry Topping, Guisborough woods or Cleveland Hills – areas of Yorkshire in the UK – but very shortly it will become much, much easier to visit them. In fact, you won’t even have to step outside.The North York Moors and the 109-mile stretch of Cleveland Way are currently being mapped with Google Street View cameras thanks to a team of trekking volunteers.The team, led by Jonathan Steele, is taking it in turns to wear a backpack with a mapping camera loaned to them by Google. The route will stretch from Helmsley, across the Moors and on to Saltburn, before looping back through the National Park to the picturesque Filey coastline.Filey, on the Yorkshire coast – soon to be seen on Google Street View.Photograph: AlamyMalcolm Hodgson, the National Trails Officer toldGazetteLivethat: “There are numerous spectacular and beautiful locations along the Cleveland Way and the Trekker allows us to showcase them to the world in the same way that people use Google Street View.”To celebrate Teesside being put on the map – literally – we take a look at seven other locations and experiences tapped by Google Street View.1. Walking with elephants, Kenya’s Samburu ParkTeaming up with charity Save the Elephant, Google offers the chance toroam with the animalsin Samburu National Reserve, Kenya. Google’s camera-loaded cars mapped the area back in February 2015, driving along a 165km road. Elephants, zebras and leopards can all be spotted during the virtual journey.“We hope that by bringing Street View to Samburu, we will inspire people around the world to gain a deeper appreciation for elephants,” Google Kenya’s Farzana Khubchandanisaid. Think that elephants are all the same? Pff. David Daballen, head of operations at Save the Elephant,wrotethat he recognised more than 600 of the elephants on Google’s Street View.2. Climbing El Capitan, YosemiteBefore Yosemite was an Appleoperating system, it was a stunning Californian national park (no, really, kids!) And since June 2015,thanks to Google, it’s been explorable from the comfort of one’s home. What’s more, users can experience what it is like to climb the 3,000 feet of El Capitan mountain, thanks to cameras that tracked Lynn Hill, Alex Honnold and Tommy Caldwell during their 19 day exertion.3. Strolling through Marseille by nightPossibly the mostromantic project Google has ever undertaken, the Night Walk in Marseille was made in collaboration with advertising agency72andsunnyand digital producersMedia Monk.Narrated by the artist “Christoph”, users explore a district of the city described as the “heart of the urban savannah”. Embedded videos tell stories of how street art was produced, as traffic noise hums in the background.4. Liwa desert, by camelEver wanted to be a camel? Whohasn’t wanted to be a camel? Thanks to Raffia, the 10-year-old camel whocarried a cameraacross the Liwa Desert, United Arab Emirates, in 2014, you can experience just that. Because of Raffia, viewers can go on a trip through Liwa’s rolling dunes, oasis and scuttling sands.Two other locations in UAE are available in fully glory on Google Street View:the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosquein Abu Dhabi and theBurj Khalifain Dubai.5. Inside NasaGround control to Major Tom – it’s now possible to visit Nasa without even scraping a C in physics. The Google Street View team hasmappedmany parts of the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, including the top of launch pad 39A and three different firing rooms.When the collaboration launched in 2012, Lisa Malone, director of the centre’s public affairs, said Google now offered “a behind-the-scenes look at the Kennedy Space Center’s unique facilities that launched humans to the moon and space shuttles to low Earth orbit.” Which is a lot of bragging in one sentence, if you ask me.The Kennedy Space Center, which opened its doors to Google in 2012.Photograph: Google6. On the water in VeniceVenice: it’s the scene of many a grand romance – and some that are slightly morally dubious (cough, Thomas Mann, cough). As of November 2013, it is also one of the locations for Google’s treks.Explorethe archipelago by its canals, cross its famous Bridge of Sighs and visit Piazza San Marco. You might not be able to bring back a Venetian mask souvenir, but at least you won’t have to pay €20 for an ice-cream.7. Swimming with seals, Galápagos IslandsFancy hanging out with seals, sea lions and giant tortoises? Well Google has you covered, because back in 2013 the team trekked to the Galápagos Islands in conjunction with the Charles Darwin Foundation, and covered the animal populations found there. Googlereturned for 10 dayslate last year to revisit its giant tortoise conservation program.“We’re hoping that, by bringing Street View there, people will be able to appreciate the efforts that are going on to preserve the islands for the future,”saidRaleigh Seamster, project leader of Google Earth Outreach.“These are places you can’t drive to, can’t visit, and we’re bringing them across the world.”You can find more of Google Street View trekshere, including explorations of Angkor Wat and the pyramids of Giza, as well as the Grand Canyon and the Amazon basin.
Drones have a bad reputation. The first we heard of them, they were flying unmanned missions to kill not necessarily the right targets in the name of freedom. Next, they were going to replace Amazon delivery drivers, severing permanently the company’s relationship with human beings.This week, Nigel Wilson, 42, was fined £1,800 for flying a drone dangerously close to sports grounds and Buckingham Palace . It also emerged that drones were being used to fly contraband drugs into prisons. (“It’s complicated,” a prison governor tells me off the record. “The drugs are often legal. And the drones are legal. The only illegal thing they’ve done is fly over a prison.”)But amid all the stories, the people you haven’t met are the dronesters.Disregarding the military, there are three categories of people using drones – commercial, hobbyists and consumers – says Adam Sculthorp, 37, a droning professional. “You’ve got your commercial operators; we are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), and hold what’s known as permission for aerial work. Then you’ve got your hobbyist – if you go back four or five years, you couldn’t just go to Maplin and buy a drone. You had to build it. So there was a very high skill level … And now there’s been a huge explosion of people who we would term consumer.”It’s a world turned upside down, in which the commercial lot either started as, or are not as good as, hobbyists. “It’s caught a lot of people off guard,” says Angus Benson-Blair, the 44-year-old chairman of Arpas, the trade body for the remotely piloted world. “In particular, the likes of Boeing, I think they thought they’d be starting the industry off – and it’s actually coming from the hobby world.”The geeks, finally, have reclaimed a word; hobbyist means expert in this field. Professional means “probably started as a hobbyist”.The gateway drone-drug, for most, is a mini remote-controlled helicopter that you buy someone as a gift when you’ve exhausted all their needs and wants. “My wife bought me a little indoor helicopter for my birthday,” says Benson-Blair, “and it kept growing and having babies.”Tom Patterson, 29, who works with Sculthorp, had the same trajectory. “I got to the point where I would either spend a horrific amount of money on an even better helicopter, or looked into the drone side of things,” he says. “So I looked into the whole DIY kit, buying the controller circuit boards and the motors and started fiddling around. I’d say it was a progression from Lego. And they’re quite easy to fly, it wasn’t because they were fun to fly, it was because they were fun to build.”Benson-Blair used to be a tank commander in the army; I don’t know if that’s really relevant to his intense interest in remotely piloted flights, but it feels relevant. He is, technically, the safest drone operator in the UK; or at least, he’s the only person with a license to fly an aircraft of up to 20kg within 10 metres of the public. “Because of my hobby days, I’ve got a very in-depth knowledge: because of my bespoke drone and my flying skills, I put a very detailed safety case to the CAA.”Are they as geeky as you? “They are much more geeky than me, and there were three of them.”The rules around drone operation seem both detailed and slightly ad hoc – the height you can go, for instance, is measured in feet, where the radius from habitation is in metres. There are rules about weather (you can’t fly them in the rain, or above certain wind speeds); and rules about how far from your drone you’re allowed to be. “We’ve got aircraft that are 2 metres in diameter – and at 500 metres away, that would be a pinprick,” says Sculthorp.Commercial flyers, who grow more numerous all the time – there were 200 licenses a year ago and 1,200 now – are plainly aware of this, while the hobbyists are probably right this minute figuring out ways to make things even safer – for instance, by introducing spare engines for emergencies (the amount of redundancy in the system is what gives them confidence in it, apparently). But consumers, like the riders of “Boris bikes”, are not necessarily doing anything wrong, they’re just making it look more dangerous than it is.“My gut feeling,” said Benson-Blair, “is that the consumer market has peaked. I think they’ve realised that there’s only so much fun you can have by sticking a camera up in the air when you don’t know what you’re doing.”
Facebook has rolled out a new tool that allows users to choose whether tracking data from ‘Like’ buttons and other social elements is used to serve them ads, but privacy experts say the move does not go far enough.The new privacy tool allows users to opt-out of behavioural advertising, which uses tracking tools that monitor where users go and what they see on the web.Facebook previously pointed users who wanted to opt out of behavioural advertising to third-party choice sites such as the Digital Advertising Alliance, as well as opt-out mechanisms within its iOS and Android apps.Stephen Deadman, global deputy chief privacy officerfor Facebook said: “We’re introducing an additional way for people to turn off this kind of advertising from the ad settings page right on Facebook. If you choose to use this tool, it will become the master control for online interest-based advertising across all of your devices and browsers where you use Facebook.”Brendan Van Alsenoy, author of a Belgium data protection report into Facebook and a legal researcher at the KU Leuven Centre for IT &amp; IP Law, said: “This new setting is a very modest step in the right direction. But the net result for privacy is limited.”The use of tracking information for behavioural ads is still an opt-out process, rather than opt-in with explicit consent, warned Van Alsenoy.“The ‘new’ setting only determines whether or not Facebook will use its tracking data for ad purposes. Regardless of the setting, Facebook will still collect the same information about your visits to external sites containing Facebook social plug-ins. Facebook only promises to no longer use this information for the purposes of interest-based advertising,” Van Alsenoy added.Privacy fight across EuropeAreport commissioned by the Belgian data protection authorityclaimed that Facebook used long-term cookies to track users, as well as non-users of Facebook, when browsing the open web, using its social plugins such as the Like button, which is placed on 13m sites, including health and government sites.The social network disputed the claims, saying that the report did not understand Facebook’s use of data.The Belgian data protection authority latertook Facebook to courtover its alleged “trampling” over Belgian and European privacy law, specifically around its lack of explicit consent from non-users for tracking. Initial arguments in the case are expected to be heard Monday.This week Facebook begandisplaying cookie placement warningsto non-users who visit the social network at the behest of the Irish data protection authority, which audits Facebook’s privacy practices. The site has beenaccused of preempting the opening argumentsof the Belgian lawsuit.Tracking and the use of behavioural data has been thrown into the spotlight, first by privacy implications highlighted across Europe, and now by the advent of content blockers within Apple’s latestiOS 9 operating systemfor iPhone and iPad.The use of adblockers, which prevent tracking code within websites and from third-parties from operating, hasrisen dramatically on mobile platformswithin the last two days.On the desktop, however, “users concerned about Facebook tracking should continue to use tools such as Privacy Badger, Ghostery or Disconnect”, according to Van Alsenoy.Facebook event read receipts ruin your excuse to never go outZuckerberg: one in seven people on the planet used Facebook on MondayFacebook rescinds internship from student who exposed app privacy flaws
