Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's now over a month since the hubbub and interest sparked by the iPhone. Which means it's, oohforeveruntil the thing actually launches.In the meantime, however, everyone and your dad is probably saying that there are plenty of good smartphones on the market. Or they're quickly trying to build their own. It's in this spirit that I've decided to roundup the contenders that are already out there in a little segment I like to call "It's not the iPhone but..."The firstvictimcontender: Research in Motion'sBlackberry Pearl.£££From freeThe blurbDespite a relatively limited customer base, Blackberry's brand has managed to punch way above its weight in recent years: it's the number one name in mobile email and still the hallmark of most soulless executives who want to affect that "I'm too busy for this" look.The Pearl, released last year, is Research In Motion's attempt to take the Blackberry into the mainstream - "It's a pity just to use it for work", boasts the slogan. It's certainly got the looks; a sleek and shiny phone body which weighs in at just 88 grams, while the traditional scroll-wheel been dumped in favour of a white trackball (the eponymous "pearl").The statsIt's a quad band GSM/GPRS number, that supports up to 10 email accounts. It's got a 2.5 inch 260x240 screen and has a 1.3 megapixel camera with 5x digital zoom. On top of the usual gamut of bells and whistles it has an integrated web browser, microSD slot, IM support (Yahoo Messenger and Google Talk). And there's multimedia support for MP3, AVI, MP4, MOV, AAC and more.The testThe Pearl definitely hits the spot between mainstream consumer and light business user. It is a great little email device, and accounts are easy to set up. But it's not always brilliant for writing on: the screen is not big and, in particular, Blackberry's insistence on the SureType keyboard - a fugly halfway house between the SMS layout and a Qwerty keyboard - seems based on stubbornness. Expect to take some time before you learn to type quickly.The functions all worked pretty well, and the size was a definite bonus compared to some of the heavyweight competitors out there. But while it did pretty much everything we asked, the pearly trackball on our model started playing up a little after continuous use, which proved very awkward. And, of course, there's no 3G support or complex applications - making it the dumbest smartphone around.Thumbs upLooks sweet, almost like an ordinary phone, and is a cinch to set up. Existing Blackberry users may enjoy looking less like a lifeless gimp.Thumbs downGood for reading email, but not much else... lack of 3G support disappointing and keyboard awkward.
James "Titanic" Cameron (that's the closest I get to a Valentine's inspired romantic allusion) continues to push the boundary between computer game technologies and film with his 2009 filmAvatar. Machinima makerPaul Marinodraws our attention to the technology behind the film, which is set to start "virtual photography" this April.Does this production fit intothe Machinima definition? Who knows? But itssounding pretty close.Indeed. According to theNYT(reg. req'd),The most important innovation thus far has been a camera, designed by Mr. Cameron and his computer experts, that allows the director to observe the performances of the actors-as-aliens, in the film's virtual environment, as it happens."It's like a big, powerful game engine," he explained. "If I want to fly through space, or change my perspective, I can. I can turn the whole scene into a living miniature and go through it on a 50 to 1 scale. It's pretty exciting."Camerongets it. He's on the board of directors for the virtual world developersMultiversefor goodness sake!
Guardian communications editor Richard Wray is in Barcelona this week for 3GSM - the mobile industry's annual get-together. Thankfully for us, he's reporting back every day for Technology Blog -click herefor his updates.Just about every executive at 3GSM is banging on about how important it is to sell services to consumers rather than trying to flog them technology but there is a real dearth of good service ideas at this year's show.Yes the music industry has been here in force - although they are all jumping on planes this afternoon to get back to attend The Brits - and film has been amply represented by both the Sundance organisers and some of Bollywood's leading lights; but there has been little in the way of innovative service ideas. One notable exception - and it's a British company - is Omego.Putting together mobile phones and children is always going to raise hackles, but accepting that parents are going to want to be able to keep in touch with their kids, and the kids themselves are certainly going to want a phone, raises the question of how to deal with the obvious consequences: kids being mugged for their phones, bullied by text message, running up huge bills and the ever-present danger of undesirable elements calling them up.Omego has come up with an innovative solution to these problems. It has teamed up with Texas-based kids phone maker Enfora to produce a walkie talkie-like handset with two buttons and a Blackberry-style rocker wheel likely to appeal to pre-teens but which - to be honest - no mugger would want to steal. The phone is "controlled" through a website which parents access using a password. They can use the site to set the numbers which can call and text the phone and set the numbers which the phone itself can call and text.Should the handset be stolen - or lost - it will only ever be able to call these programmed numbers, making it effectively worthless to anyone else.The phone can even be programmed through the website to switch off at certain times - such as during lessons - so it does not create a distraction.Parents can also keep an eye on their child's phone bill online, set monthly spending limits and top-up the phone if necessary.Omego hopes to launch in the UK in time for the next school year. It plans to charge a £2.99 monthly subscription for the website functions, while call charges will depend on which network a customer is on. Several High Street retailers are understood to be very interested in stocking the phone.Omego is backed by Andrew Wolfson, a member of the family which founded Great Universal Stores at the turn of the last century, so is not short of a bob or two.
One Newly Asked Question (below) is"Would Steve Ballmer or Bill Gates have written Thoughts on Music?"And the answer is, pretty obviously, no. Steve Jobs may have a cult following but I've heard Gates say more than once: "we're only plumbers". In other words, Microsoft's job is to provide the infrastructure support that enables its partners to do what they need to do to make money (which is how Microsoft makes money). Quite often that means "protect bits".There'sa good interview at Gizmodowhere Gates is asked if he thinks DRM is "helping people protect their money" eg in the record industry. He replies: "That's whattheythink."Gizmodo:That's what the artists think, you're saying?Gates:Yes. There are artists who want the software to remind people of rights boundaries. Are those authors wrong or right? That's up to them. We don't take a position on that. What we want is to have as much content as possible available. And available in the most convenient, easy-to-use form.So Microsoft's job is to make content available, while enabling rights holders (not Microsoft) to control the terms on which their content is made available. Gates says later:We have your interests totally in mind, but that includes having... if there's content that can only be there if it's rights protected, we want to be able to have that content available to you. And so all we're doing... in no sense are we hurting you, because if they're willing to make the content available openly, believe me, that's always the most wonderful thing. It's the simplest.Gates also points out that the issue is not really about music. What about "like if there's a medical record that has somebody's AIDS status in it," should that be protected or should it be available to everyone? Gates claims: "It's not different. It's identical technology. It's the same bits!"The DRM we put into these systems is used to protect medical records, and it's used to protect things people want to protect. And so it's hard for me to say, 'No, because it might be used for media for a way in some people don't like, I won't put it in there for medical records.' This is a platform that people can use in any way that they choose.So, for example, if Sony requires HDCP to protect Blu-ray movies, Microsoft has a choice: it can support HDCP and enable users to play Blu-ray movies, or refuse to put it in, so users cannot (legally) play Blu-ray movies. (Apple obviously has the same options -- which is presumably why Apple is strangely quiet about adding HDCP support to OS X, even though it's been on the Blu-ray board for ages.)Now, that doesn't mean either Gates or Microsoft supports Sony's decisions on Blu-ray: in fact, Microsoft opposed them, and campaigned for "managed copy" and other features. (Clearly it is in Microsoft's best interests for users to be able to play a Blu-ray movie on a PC and watch it on a TV via an Xbox 360, for example.) But in the end it boils down to: Do we provide the plumbing or not? Microsoft's view is that that's its job.When it comes down to Gates's personal views, he clearly doesn't think DRM, as currently implemented in the music industry, is good for users. His advice, in an interview with bloggers, was"People should just buy a CD and rip it."(That's my advice too, and I gave it before Bill did.)
While Microsoft offerseven more DRM - now for mobiles!- the now full-time blog-supported John Gruber, over at Daring Fireball, who mostly observes the Apple ecosystem, has an interesting post calledCommand, Option, Controlin which he makes a couple of interesting points.Noting thatthere have long been outspoken critics of DRM. Yes, there have long been some publishers and music stores selling unencumbered DRM-free downloadable audio files... But, clearly, what Jobs was writing about wasn't just music downloads in general, but, rather, music downloads from artists belonging to the four major music companies. ... It's one thing when a peace activist calls for an end to nuclear weapon testing; it's something else when the leader of a country that has nuclear weapons does so.What's interesting, he points out, is that - so unusually in any modern debate involving PCs - Microsoft doesn't matter in the music DRM debate:Microsoft is a paper tiger in this realm. Their music DRM is only relevant to anyone who has bought one of their music players — which is to say a decided minority of the market. Their Windows monopoly has not allowed them to establish a de facto industry standard here, like it has so many times in the past. The most popular DRM-encoded music format for Windows users is FairPlay; the most popular music player for Windows users is the iPod.Gruber argues thatToo much Microsoft on the brain can lead you to view Apple — or any other company — through Redmond-tinted glasses. Microsoft's history is rife with instances of lock-in as an important technical goal and core business strategy, often to theirlegaldetriment. Or in Microsoft's own parlance:embrace, extend, extinguish.That's never been Apple's strategy. Apple's defining corporate desires are maximizing their control while minimizing their dependencies. If the tables were turned and Microsoft's and Apple's positions were reversed regarding music DRM market share, we certainly wouldn't have seen a 'We'd be better off if we just got rid of music DRM' open letter from Steve Ballmer.Which, one must agree, is a killer point. No matter what Steve Jobs's ream aim was on this (and Jack will have something to say in this Thursday's technology supplement), Apple has surely started something which, I suspect, can only end up with more - irresistible? -pressure on it to sell non-copy-protected, non-rights-managed music through the iTunes Store.Gruber's piece is a lot longer, and takes in a little light slapping for Paul Thurrott (who deserves it) and Paul Kedrosky, who wrote an opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal (which personally I often find is a good indicator to being wrong..). Have a read.
Just a couple of little titbits currently being devoured by online pundits. First, Sony's UK head of sales Kevin Jowett has resigned. Apparently, he's off to persue other interests outside of the industry - but you have to wonder if those 'other interests' could have waited five weeks - perhaps tilafterthe company's key European launch. MCV hasquoted a shocked retailer: "The timing is absolutely incredible. Kevin is going just as Sony is talking to everyone about terms and arranging pre-orders and in-store marketing campaigns."More juicy perhaps, is the comment made on a blog named FreeRepublic.com, by EA employee Dr. Andrew Garrett: "My opinion - get the 360 and/or the Wii. Skip the PS3 unless there's a big change in the near future." You can read his full posthere. Naturally, anti-Sony zealots are spinning this as 'EA says skip PS3', which means Dr Garrett is probably in a whole heap of trouble.That's the problem with the modern videogame industry and the web - the two are utterly incompatible...Blog culture is all about uncensored exposition, about the personal over the corporate. The videogame industry is obsessively secretive. It is almost impossible to get a developer to talk to you about games these days - unless they're pushing their own of course. And even then both your questions and their answers have to be vetted by the publisher's PR department. Information is controlled, opinion, where possible, is obliterated. It is possibly the same in all industries.Thing is, the people who make games, are often - no, almost always - active online citizens. They're on forums and tech sites, they're opinionated, they share information. But publishers certainly don't want them to be. This clash of cultures might not be quite as profound as the one between musicians and record labels, but it is there. It is important.Strange stories then. They mean nothing, really. Just personal little events caught in the pre-launch crossfire of rumour and insidious speculation. Two blokes, going about their lives... suddenly fodder for the anti-PlayStation generation.
I'm already on my second 360, with the first conking out a few months ago. And it looks like I'm not the only one.GamesIndustry.bizare reporting that tonight's Watchdog episode will focus on potential problems with the original batch of 360's and customer complaints about excessive repair bills. Did you buy an Xbox360 at launch? Is it still working?
I'm not at3GSM, the big mobile phone event taking place this week in Barcelona. Instead, I'm sitting at home waiting for kindly PR souls to email me from the Catalan capital with their annoucements.Here's what's turned up so far...Gluhas announced that it's working on a tie-in with the forthcoming Transformers movie. "Players battle as OPTIMUS PRIME across multiple levels and transform from vehicle to robot with special weapons capabilities. Enlist the help of the other AUTOBOTS in the race to fine the ALLSPARK - the true source of power for all the TRANSFORMERS," says the press release, which strangely shouts all the copyrighted names. Glu is also showing Sonic Jump, a sort of vertical scrolling take on the original 2D Sonic platformers.The company has also signed a deal with Atari to convert Centipede and other classic coin-ops, and with Codemasters to work on new mobile versions of Colin McRae Rally, Operation Flashpoint, TOCA Race Driver and LMA Manager. Brian Lara Cricket will be the first title - it's due out next month.Hands-On has announced that it'll be bringing hit Korean mobile MMOROG, Hero's Lore 2, to Europe:"Hero's Lore 2 is a network-based mobile, role-playing game consisting of over 200 characters, 100 different map scenarios and over 1,000 community guilds. Due to the viral interactivity and community nature of the game, once it launched it quickly spread among mobile subscribers. Since its launch in November 2006, over 1.5 million network battles have taken place every week and an average of more than 25,000 passionate gamers play every day."The company has also penned a deal with the social networking site,FunkySexyCool, to bring its sort of mobile MySpace-lite experience to Europe. It's all about creating profiles, sending messages to other users and voting on sexy singletons.In more massively-multiplayer news, a new developer namedlbxgamesis touting a couple of titles at the show, including an MMORPG. The weirdl-titled,OGame, already has 3m subscribers in its current incarnation a a PC online title. "Players must fight to conquer and rule the galaxy. The new mobile client allows players play anywhere - direct from their mobile," says the press release, briefly. There's also Armoured Forces, "an advanced single and multi-player turn-based strategy game featuring massive, armored mechanoid fighters and a huge number of weapons and units."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Samsung Electronics raised the stakes in the battle for mobile phone customers on Tuesday, unveiling the world's thinnest handset.The U100, which is part of the South Korean company's Ultra Edition II range, is a mere 5.9mm thick - or thin depending on how you look at it.It is one millimetre thinner than its nearest rival - also made by Samsung - that was revealed last summer.The phone, which was launched at the 3GSM World Congress mobile phone show in Barcelona, is an attempt by Samsung to claw back market share after a disappointing performance in last year when the company lost out to rivals including a resurgent SonyEricsson.Geesung Choi, head of Samsung's networks business said the new phones will appeal to "business users, fashion-conscious consumers and multimedia enthusiasts" alike.The U100, which will be available this spring, has a three mega-pixel camera - a higher spec than the one in Apple's iPhone - plus the ability to store music. Also announced at the show by Samsung were the U600 and U700, which come in at 10.9mm and 12.1mm - which also include cameras. Samsung also announced three multimedia phones, the F700, F520 and F510 - all out later this year - which have large colour displays and TV capabilities.Inspired by the success of the iPod Nano, mobile phone makers have been battling to produce even thinner phones. Last week Sony Ericsson unveiled a new 3G Walkman handset - the W880 - which is just under 1cm thick.The Walkman range capitalises on the fame of Sony's original personal music players, but other handset makers who do not have such well-known names in their stable, are looking to do deals with brands.LG, for instance, used the 3GSM conference to showcase its Prada phone, which was announced last year.The touchscreen phone looks remarkably similar to the iPhone. Something which LG's head of mobile development, Woo-Young Kwak, reckons is no coincidence.&#183;Emailbusiness.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk
Guardian communications editorRichard Wrayis in Barcelona this week for 3GSM - the mobile industry's annual get-together. Thankfully for us, he's reporting back every day for Technology Blog -click herefor his updates.A refreshing piece of honesty on the second day of the 3GSM conference in Barcelona fromNaguib Sawiris, head of Orascom - the mobile operator which owns Wind in Italy and Mobilink in Pakistan.Having sat through opening speeches from GSM Association chief executive Rob Conway, Orange boss Sanjiv Ahuja and Vodafone's Arun Sarin (which included the usual cobblers about "giving customers a rich experience" and liberating the world through the power of mobile communications), Mr Sawiris took the stage to announce he's in it for the money."I'm the largest shareholder in my company so I am very interested in the money," he added. "Wherever I smell money I go," he added.As a shareholder in Hutchison Telecommunications International, which just sold its stake in Indian operator Hutch to Vodafone for $11.1bn (£5.6bn) he turned to Mr Sarin - who was on the podium after giving his keynote address - and said "we are grateful for your money".Mr Sarin pulled a face as though he was chewing a wasp.He then turned to Mr Ahuja, pointing out that Orange may well have 100m subscribers in 23 countries but "we have will have 100m subscribers in six markets, which makes my job easier than his".He went on to say that having operations in lots of markets creates a massive distraction for management.He then shocked the audience of senior telecoms executives with a characteristically blunt assessment of the firms acquisition of Wind, saying he wanted to axe a few thousand jobs but the unions would not have any of it. Instead he canned the management..."I looked at the company, I looked at the management and I said 'if they are making these kind of numbers with this management what if I take over'. Greece was more difficult because the management were good so we were disappointed by that fact."
At GSM,Microsoft has announced PlayReady, which is basically a version of its PlaysForSure DRM digital rights management system for mobile phones. (Just what you wanted, right?) Now you can have copy-protected ring-tones! One key "feature" is that users will be able to register a number of devices and transfer their legally-DRMed material -- mainly music and videos -- between them. Of course, this would work perfectly well if you just left the DRM off in the first place....
Take this as completely anecdotal, but I'd be interested to hear everyone else's experience. At a local games shop there's a notice suggesting people pre-order their PS3 before March2923 [durr; thanks Hartley], when.. you know.So how's business, I asked the bloke behind the counter? What sort of interest is there in the PS3 compared to the Xbox 360 and Wii?Very low, he replied: with, what, six weeks to go before the launch, half their pre-allocation had not been taken up. (Of course you could go glass-half-full and say half had been.) That compared to pretty much all taken up for the Xbox 360 a year ago, and huge over-demand for the Wii before last Christmas.So what sort of ratio of demand was there between the PS3, Wii and Xbox 360? Demand for the Wii was more than 10x greater than for the PS3, he said, and had been about 5x that of the Xbox. And he personally didn't thinkanyof the PS3 launch games were worth the bother. "Sony has been promising this for two years and people have just got bored with it," he suggested.So what'syourexperience? What do the people behind the counter at your local games shop (or even you, if you are the person behind the counter) say about demand for the PS3?
It's not a great news week for Google, which hasnot only been accused of encouraging piracybut now faces the latest twist in its fight with Belgian news publishers.A court in Belgium this morning ruled that Google News must stop reproducing articles, because they can be read even when the articles have disappeared behind a paywall. Here's whatReuters has to say:The case was brought by Copiepresse, which manages copyrights for Belgium's French- and German-language newspapers and has also demanded that the French division of Internet portal Yahoo (YHOO.O: Quote, Profile, Research) stop displaying Belgian press reports.Copiepresse argues that versions of news articles stored on Google can be seen on its service even after the articles are no longer freely accessible on a newspaper's Website.Personally, I think the Belgian newspapers are foolish and short-sighted for pursuing this - and I can't understand why they've gone through the courts (surely a robots.txt file would suffice, if they want Google to stop indexing their paywalled content).I hate paywalls, and I hate news executives who don't realise the internet has changed their game. It's as if they'd been banning their papers from being sold on certain newsstands because people can read the headlines from the street. In cases like this, the only long-term victims are likely to be the newspapers themselves.
Back in the day, before 3D virtual worldSecond Lifehit 500,000 accounts (current account volume over 3m), there was a lot of speculation about how marketers could monetize the multiplicity of identity which 3D virtual worlds appear to offer. A seminal article fromHarvard Business Review(reg. required) opened up the floodgates (our coveragehere) and convinced a whole heck of a lot of people to take the plunge. I remember, because it was at that point people stopped thinking I lived on a different planet and started believing me when I told them there was money to be made in them thar virtual hills.At the centre of this debate has been how to market to the online identity, or avatar, which by all accounts (some of informed, others not) represents a kind of possible self which the offline person (perhaps consciously, perhaps subconsciously) views as who she or he could be in an ideal world. A kind of personalised, 3DRorschachwhich marketing people could harvest for their own ends. Ew.It's not a huge leap to see that the desired self (represented by the avatar in this case) is exactly the same aspirational self marketers have been representing throughout the years of advertising. This is why it's not a huge surprise that it's primarily been so-called lifestyle brands (clothing, fashion, cars) that have entered the virtual world.But now that there have been many high-profile companies jumping on the virtual-world-as-social-marketing wagon (many of whom have offered little if anything back to the community and therefore have been total, miserable failures), what's the current thinking of avatars as entities to be advertised to?I'm sadly unable to take part in next month'sSouth by Southwest Interactiveconference (PhD beckons), where this topic will be put to a panel of experts. Thankfully,Tony Walsh, who's moderating the panel onbrand advice in the virtual world, has been kind enough to post up some of his research leading up to the event. A really good resource for anyone interested in the topic.
Steven Berlin Johnson, author ofEverything Bad is Good For You, hasdecided that Nintendo's Wii is great for him and his family. Which isn't bad. In fact he's delighted.In Five Thoughts On The Nintendo Wii, he says thatPlaying Wii Sports Tennis for the first time was the most revelatory, breakthrough gaming experience I've had since I first saw Myst in the mid 90s. It's truly one of those transformations where you immediately think: this whole medium is capable of something radically different from what we've expected of it to date.Here's the brief on Everything Bad is Good For You (How Today's Popular Culture Is Actually Making Us Smarter): SBJ "takes on one of the most widely held preconceptions of the postmodern world - the belief that video games, television shows, and other forms of popular entertainment are detrimental to Americans' cognitive and moral development. Everything Good builds a case to the contrary that is engaging, thorough, and ultimately convincing.""The heart of Johnson's argument is something called the Sleeper Curve--a universe of popular entertainment that trends, intellectually speaking, ever upward, so that today's pop-culture consumer has to do more "cognitive work"--making snap decisions and coming up with long-term strategies in role-playing video games, for example, or mastering new virtual environments on the Internet-- than ever before."Got that? So he's not some videogame newbie. In fact he's in favour. And now he's found the Wii, and thinks it's a breakthrough like Myst.He continues:Others may disagree, but from my perspective, Wii Tennis is so much better than all the other Wii Sports games that part of me wonders whether the controller interface is in fact uniquely suited for tennis games, and will prove to be a disappointment elsewhere. (I'm sure it will be wonderful for golf, actually - I just have higher expectations for golf sims than the Wii Sports version.) Wii Bowling, to its credit, probably sets some kind of record for being the closest approximation of a real-world sport in the history of games. Other than the weight of the ball itself, there's basically no difference between bowling in real life and bowling on the Wii. Not being a huge fan of bowling personally, I consider this to be both good and bad news.Personally, I'd say that the golf is pretty good (though I'm getting very, very bored with its 9-hole course; is nobody working on a decent golf sim for the Wii with more courses?). I'm as bad at the bowling in Wii as real life.SBJ:Part of the beauty of Wii Tennis is what they left out. It's absolutely crucial to the game that you don't control the players' movements, that they just chase the balls on their own. If you'd added player-controlled movement, the learning curve would have been much more steep. Same goes for letting a single player control both onscreen players in a doubles match without actively switching between them. By removing those variables, they made a game where it's fun to play the second you pick up the controller...His final thought is the one that's probably most important: that Wii (Sports) "trades the onscreen complexity of goals and objectives and puzzles for the physical, haptic complexity of bodily movement."That might sound bad, but it's good. He notes how he has a shot that he's not quite sure how he produces: "In a traditional game, I'd know exactly what I was doing: hitting the B button, say, while holding down the right trigger. Instead, my expertise with the shot has evolved through the physical trial-and-error of swinging the controller, experimenting with different gestures and timings. And that's ultimately what's so amazing about the device. Games for years have borrowed the structures and rules -- as well as the imagery -- of athletic competition, but the Wii adds something genuinely new to the mix, something we'd ignored so long we stopped noticing that it was missing: athleticism itself."Anyone else feeling more athletic since their Wii moved in?
Guardian communications editor Richard Wray is in Barcelona this week for 3GSM - the mobile industry's annual get-together. Thankfully for us, he's reporting back every day for Technology Blog -click herefor his updates.For the telecoms press pack much of the first day of 3GSM was spent chasing Indian mobile executives for reaction to Vodafone's swoop on India's fourth largest mobile operator Hutchison-Essar. The GSM Association's own press conference to announce plans to take mobile payment services to developing countries was hijacked as Sunil Mittal, head of Vodafone's current Indian partner Bharti Airtel was present. (for his reaction see the story in the Business section).Generally delegates to the conference felt that Vodafone's move to grab a slice of a rapidly growing market is the right thing to do, although the company will have its work cut out making a serious return on its investment.And finally, to see Google's head of mobile Deep Nishar for a quick update on the Mountain View giant's mobile plans.Unlike last year when mobile operator after mobile operator was announcing a tie-up with the company, Google has been relatively quiet this year, excepting a deal with Vodafone to bring its maps application to mobile users.The company is continuing to test out the potential of mobile search. It is running trial services with over a dozen operators but so far has only launched properly in Japan. That said, Mr Nishar did have one interesting anecdote which highlights the potential importance of the mobile internet in countries where fixed line networks are never going to reach past major metropolitan areas.One of his colleagues, who was on safari in Kenya and wearing a Google T-shirt, was accosted by a local shop owner who said he was a massive fan of the company's news service. Mr Nishar's co-worker pointed out that he could now get the service on a mobile phone to which the shop owner replied "Err, how else would I get it?".
Guardian communications editor Richard Wray is in Barcelona this week for 3GSM - the mobile industry's annual get-together. Thankfully for us, he's reporting back every day for Technology Blog -click herefor his updates.Nokia got the 3GSM World Congress in Barcelona off to a typically jargon-fuelled start, unveiling some new phones, banging on about enterprise solutions - at which point I nearly nodded off - and taking the chance to have a pop at the iPhone.Chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo told a packed house that he welcomed the iPhone but suggested it was merely following Nokia?s lead in producing a phone that does more than make calls and send texts."What Apple has done is definitely a great illustration of the fact that multi-purpose converged devices are taking share from single-purpose devices," he said. "I think Apple's entry into the marketplace is going to stimulate the market a lot."With one eye on the coverage that Steve Jobs got last month he added rather snootily that "What we need to see is Apple turning mindshare into market share".Nokia also took the opportunity to plug its mobile TV solution - a pared-down version of the broadcast signal called DVB-H - as it revealed a new handset, the N77, designed to bring the service to the masses.Unveiling the candy-bar phone, Nokia showed a corporate video one can only hope is not going to be the bedrock upon which it will build its advertising campaign. It centred around two football fans - one watching TV at home with the air of a man who has not had a girlfriend for years - the other one sliding a rather expensive looking set of Bose noise cancelling headphones over his trendy be-gelled hairdo and wandering around town. Why he suddenly decided to go out was unclear.It's also worth noting that the town into which he walked - which had the air of one of those generic European cities which have trams and trendy young women who think it's wonderful to have some tech-laden youth thrust a camera phone at them rather than giving him a withering "what a loser" look; the sort of washed-out metropolis you see on those dire T-Mobile Flext ads - was surprisingly devoid of traffic, except a fleeting glimpse of tram; which explains why he did not get run over, especially as his headphones would have blocked out the hooting of irate drivers. He also did not walk into a lamppost while squinting at the small screen on his phone.Anyway, one question raised during the press conference was why Nokia is putting so much effort into mobilising TV when people seem to be switching off linear broadcasting in favour of on-demand content - and shows pinched off the internet. The answer given by Jonas Geust, Nokia's head of multimedia was that on-demand content is 'complimentary' to mobile TV. That may go someway to explaining why Nokia also announced a tie-up with YouTube - hasn't everyone? - to bring video clips to mobiles.DVB-H is going head to head, of course, with a competing technology from US chip design firm Qualcomm called MediaFLO. Nokia's executives made sure that every time they mentioned DVB-H they said "an open platform" in the same breath.That's a not very subtle dig at Qualcomm - with whom Nokia is locked in an increasingly acrimonious legal dispute over the technology behind 3G services - who Nokia want everyone to think is trying to stitch up the market.The mobile phone operators, always looking to keep the world's largest handset maker onside, have jumped on the DVB-H bandwagon (though American mobile phone network AT&amp;T Wireless/Cingular announced that it will be using the Qualcomm system for a mobile TV service later this year).But content owners are not so partisan. Sky, for instance, seems rather enamoured of the MediaFLO system and released the results of the second of its UK trials to coincide with the first day of 3GSM. If the results are correct, MediaFLO can push out twice as many channels as DVB-H over the same distance from a mast, or go twice as far with the same number of channels. That means operators can either offer more choice, or spend less money cluttering up cities with yet more mobile phone masts. (Seeherefor the results).
The PS3 marketing blitz has begun - yes, buy a PS3, register it before 500,000 other people in Europe and grab yourself a free copy of Casino Royale on Blu-ray. Tempted? Well, if you own a 1080p TV then it's a no-brainer, but even for everyone else it makes for a nice added extra. Obviously this all part of Sony's attempt to tell us that the PS3 is much more than "just" a games machine - just as well seeing as the launch games are so average - but this is one special offer worth taking up.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
A group of British entrepreneurs who made millions in the dotcom era are taking on the might of Apple and its eagerly awaited iPhone with a new mobile music service which gives fans access to more than 1m tracks for just &pound;1.99 a week.And users will not need to pay the hundreds of pounds that Apple is expected to charge for the iPhone as the service works on three-quarters of existing mobile phones.MusicStation will launch in the UK in the spring, with Orange and Vodafone expected to be the first to offer the service to customers. It has been four years in development, with its creators Omnifone hammering out deals with all the major music labels, scores of handset manufacturers and over 20 mobile phone companies who together service nearly 700 million customers in 40 countries."Our goal is that all the major European territories will have at least one operator offering MusicStation by the time of the iPhone launch in November," according to Omniphone's chief executive Rob Lewis.Based in the former Island Records studios in west London, where artists such as Bob Marley once recorded, Omnifone is the brainchild of four British entrepreneurs. Rather than follow the traditional route of looking to bank managers and City investors for funds to develop the business, they have used the collective fortune they made during the dotcom era to bankroll the company.Mr Lewis, for instance, made an estimated &#163;55m selling his Cromwell Media company in 2000. A non-executive director of West End private members' club Century, a well-known hang-out for media types, Mr Lewis sold the internet software business in early 2000 just as the bubble was about to burst.His fellow Cromwell directors - Philip Sant and Mark Knight - also helped found Omnifone alongside chairman Jim Feeney, who worked with the team on Cromwell's sale for a staggering &#163;850m. Mr Sant - Omniphone's chief operating officer - and Mr Knight - its chief architect - were the technical brains behind another of Mr Lewis' successes, Silicon.com. They built the IT platform that supported the technology news site which was eventually sold to American digital media giant CNET Networks.MusicStation, which will be unveiled today at the mobile phone industry's annual shindig the 3GSM conference in Barcelona, is aimed squarely at seeing off the competitive threat posed by Apple's iPhone. For the mobile industry, desperate to increase revenues in saturated markets such as Western Europe, the iPhone seems to work mostly in Apple boss Steve Jobs' favour. There is no need to use a mobile network to download music, MusicStation can be slotted into the phone just like an iPod.For the handset manufacturers they risk losing market share, while music publishers fear it is yet another example of the continuing strength of Apple in the digital music market.The stronger Apple gets, the more it is able to dictate terms. Just last week Steve Jobs called on the music labels to remove copyright protection on tracks, something which the labels fear will lead to rampant piracy. They would rather Apple opened up iTunes so its tracks can be played on any device."The iPhone is clearly a very sexy device," admits Mr Lewis. "But it's quite a scary proposition not only for the mobile phone networks and the (handset) manufacturers who have spent billions building up capacity, but for the music industry which is already rather concerned about Apple's iPod being the player that is dominant in the industry."But the opportunity presented by using a mobile phone as a music device is huge. There are a lot more mobile phones in the world than there are digital music players. Since it was unveiled in late 2001, about 88m iPods, which in the UK outsells any other MP3 player by a factor of two to one, have been sold. In contrast, there are already well over two billion mobile phone users worldwide and analysts estimate nearly 500m new handsets will be sold this year alone.There are also more mobile phones than computers and internet connnections worldwide, meaning that for many people a standalone digital music player is not an option. Omnifone, for instance, has struck a deal with South African network Vodacom to roll out the service in parts of Africa. Users are also billed through their mobile contract - or pre-pay card - rather than a credit card, which also widens its potential reach.So far, the mobile music market has been dominated by ringtones, their better quality equivalent "realtones" and ringback tones - where a piece of music is played to a caller before the phone is answered - rather than downloads of fulll tracks. All five UK networks - 3, O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone - are offering mobile music services. Usage and revenues, however, are still low. The mobile phone operators have found it hard to come up with easy-to-use services, and consumers have often found themselves being charged a lot more than they expected to actually download the tracks they have bought.There is also the issue of moving music between a phone and a PC, which is fraught with technical problems because of the copyright software bound into the tracks. As a result some operators - such as 3 and Vodafone - have created a dual download service that puts the track on a mobile and sends a copy via the internet to a user's computer.Most of these services, however, demand a high-specification phone, the sort which is usually only available if a customer signs a monthly contract, so they are often out of the reach of the youth market. The MusicStation service, however, will work on most phones that are already available.Essentially MusicStation is a subscription music service, rather like Napster. For &#163;1.99 a week, users have access to well over a million songs and can download and listen to as many as they want.The service is unashamedly iPod-esque, even down to the colouring - white.Playlists, Artists and Genres are all there just like on an iPod. Users can search for an artist, find a track or album and download it then play it, put it in a playlist and rate it. Users can download as many tracks as their mobile phone can hold and once it is full - which could be anything from just a few songs for a cheap pre-pay handset to hundreds for a top of the range Nokia - the software deletes songs that are not played very often.The service also uses the connected capabilities of the phone, allowing users to publish their best playlists, search through other people's lists, read charts of what other people are listening to and receive news and ticket updates about their favourite bands. MusicStation also looks at what a users has been listening too and recommends other things they might like."We wanted this to have the look and feel of an iPod but with certain features that can only be offered when you can connect the device over the air," said Mr Lewis.The downsides of the service are that users cannot move their existing music collection from CD over to MusicStation, and if they stop paying every week their music collection vanishes. Anyone cancelling their subscription can store their music collection and playlists on the network and return to them some other time, but all tracks downloaded onto a phone will be locked. Omnifone are obviously hoping that the price of the service will drag in customers. It compares with T-Mobile's music jukebox, for instance, which charges &#163;1.50 a track and Vodafone's music service at 99p a song. Both also have a much smaller library than MusicStation.While the subscription element of the service is going to take some customer education, it obviously plays into the hands of the music industry that lives in fear of having its intellectual property stolen."MusicStation is one of the most consumer friendly and secure platforms we have seen," said Rob Wells, senior vice president of digital music at Universal. "The worldwide potential of the platform and its ability to make music instantly accessible to consumers via their mobile phone is enormous."In fact, the music companies only get paid for music actually listened to, not for music downloaded onto a phone. So the service also offers them a way to make money out of artists' back catalogues."MusicStation will enable inexpensive total access to the world's music by almost anyone with a mobile phone," reckons Guy Fletcher, director of the Performing Right Society, "truly an important part of the digital revolution".Whether the world's mobile phone users will agree, remains to be seen.&#183;Emailbusiness.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk
You may have already been hit by the newsbouncing around the blogosphere: a lucky ARG player has won a £100,000 prize for finding the mysterious Cube from the gamePerplex City. TheForestry Commissionis relieved; loot-hungry gamers have been terrorising their ecological and archaeological sites in an attempt to unearth the geocache in the Northamptonshire woods.From the press release:Mr. Andy Darley beat 50,000 competitors from 92 different countries to be declared the winner in the global entertainment phenomenon. ... Mr. Darley explained that after the most recent live event the Cube's location was narrowed to somewhere on the Jurassic Way, an 80 mile footpath in Northamptonshire. "I went there on the Thursday, just thrilled to be involved, but I still never imagined that I'd find the Cube. On Friday, I went there at 4am - and it takes a lot to get me out of bed at 4am."£100,000 apparently.We hope to have an interview with the winner shortly.
A while ago I posted about the incredible abstract shooterThe Design, set on a kind of animating design document. Well, this is just as fascinating and appears to be by the same chap, Cactus.Clean Asia, is another graphically minimalist blaster, using the swarming enemy patterns of a later GigaWing level, over a backdrop of sparse retro-techno outlines. Gametrailers.com has an amazingvideo.Indie shooters are the new indie music.
Causing unseemly excitement across the globe, German game siteEvo-Xhas posted screenshots of Halo 3, apparently taken on a digital camera by a naughty alpha tester. The site very quickly imploded under the sheer deluge of hits, but not before US gamers managed to mirror the images across the web. Destructoidhas them allas doesMyGen. It looks like Evo-X has now removed the shots; a Google translation of the site (sorry German was never my strongpoint) hints at pressure - or at least expected pressure - from Bungie. Hmm, the words, stable door, horse and bolted spring to mind.They're pretty boring anyway.
InThe Wizards of Buzz, The Wall Street Journal has published an article about Digg-style sites and the people who lead the digging. It says:To find the key influencers, The Wall Street Journal analyzed more than 25,000 submissions across six major sites. With the help of Dapper, a company that designs software to track information published on the Web, this analysis sifted through snapshots of the sites' home pages every 30 minutes over three weeks. The data included which users posted the submissions and the number of votes each received from fellow users. We then contacted scores of individual users to find which ones are tracked by the wider community.As a result, it has been able to back up the story with details of 20 influencers, and most include a mug-shot. So if you're a fan of dirtyfratboy (Henry Wang), fatmike (Blake Reitzammer), Fedquip (Jeff Hoard) or whoever, you can now enjoy their 15 minutes of fame.
The Guardian's Jemima Kiss has beenlive blogging the WeMdia conferencein Miami on our Media blog, andMark Glaser has commentedon the conference at PBS's Mediashift.In his second long post,Informal Conversations Trump Pomp of Panels, Glaser says:I couldn't take it much longer, and finally got up to basically restate what I had blogged about yesterday, complaining that the unspoken context of this conference was Big Media trying to regain the control they had lost."What no one wants to admit is that the mainstream media has lost power and lost control to the people," I said. "And Big Media is here to try to figure out how to exploit or make money off of citizen media. I'm not saying that they can't be part of this new world, but they need to engage it in an authentic way."In an update, he quotesa post by Richard Sambrook, director of BBC Global News, who said "it sounded like Groundhog Day at We Media, noting that the same old arguments were still coming up about old media not getting it, and bloggers complaining." Sambrook wrote:Enough of conferences going over the same ground, enough of bloggers (several of whom make their living from consulting with big organisations) saying big media doesn't "get it" and only they have insight, enough of big media publicly agonising over how to respond to the huge disruption the internet has brought. Enough of the fallacy of thinking there is some kind of power struggle going on. It's about integration, not subsititution...Same again next year?
Audi Q7&pound;37,330 to &pound;48,625Miles per gallon:27Seats:7Good for:Road hogsBad for:Tree hugsAudi is renowned as a builder of minimal, exceptionally capable cars with an aura of self-discipline which has kept buyers faithful for years. But with the Q7, Audi's first off-road four-wheel-drive vehicle, the mask of composed restraint has slipped and the saw-toothed madman that has clearly lurked in Audi's basement all these years has torn himself from his fetters. The Q7 is a full-on, pumped-up, bulging-eyed grey monster; an incredible hulk that's ripped its way through the marque's unflappable exterior.Where do you start with a car like this? Vast, whale-like, bloated ... it's the Lurch of the hard shoulder, a gas-guzzling Zeppelin that's taken to the air just as every responsible driver on the planet is at last coming down to earth. The Q7 weighs in at more than two tonnes and is over 16ft long. The bonnet is so expansive it feels as if you are pushing half a tennis court around in front of you. It fits as snugly into a parking space as a mobster's corpse into a chalk outline.The car comes with two engine options: the petrol-driven 4.2-litre V8 and the diesel-powered 3-litre V6 - the marginally more economical of the two. But during an admittedly congested week, I managed only 16 miles to the gallon. The published combined figure for the diesel is 27mpg, but bear in mind that this is a diesel - a seven-seat Ford Galaxy will do 45 miles to a gallon of diesel. Clearly those who buy SUVs couldn't give a monkey's about petrol consumption, but responsible makers such as Audi need to protect these people from themselves. It's stating the obvious to say the Q7 is aimed primarily at the American market. I looked up a couple of US websites and found this offering from one car reviewer: 'Passers-by not only want to know what it is, but also whether it has the grunt to keep up with the other civilian tanks from Detroit ...' Let's just see what the new 'green' George Bush has to say about these 'tanks'.I wasn't so much worried about grunt as whether I could manoeuvre its bulk around the wilds of suburbia. To drive a Q7 makes you feel as self-conscious as a fat man in Speedos. And as you tentatively squeeze through gaps in the traffic, the words camel and needle come to mind. I know the car wasn't made for these conditions, but that, sadly, is exactly where it will be driven. Should you be lucky enough to find some open road, the V8 fires you to 62mph in seven seconds - which for a vehicle of this weight is astonishing. Think outraged rhino.The interior sees Audi back on more familiar territory. Everything is as you would expect. The vast seats are like chairs in a gentleman's club, the surfaces are touch perfect and the electronics, including the multimedia screen system, are a master class in luxury. There are many clever touches, too. There's the rear parking camera, a must for a car of these hulking proportions, and a self-closing boot which you do appreciate when it's raining and your hands are full of luggage. All in all, though, it's time for a new shirt, Dr Banner.&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
Lorcan Burke (Letters, February 5) urges mobile operators to implement controls in order for parents to prevent their children from accessing pornographic Wap sites via a mobile phone.He will be glad to hear that mobile operators did this two years ago and were the first in the world to introduce controls of this kind. O2, Orange, T-Mobile, Virgin Mobile, Vodafone and 3 have all introduced controls which mean that customers must show, by age verification, that they are at least 18 before they can access any adult content sold via Wap.The definition of adult is set by the Independent Mobile Classification Body, consistent with standards in other media. In addition, the mobile operators provide filters for the internet browsing facility to block access to adult sites. These measures have been very effective.Furthermore, in a world where customers enjoy swapping their own generated content between their camera phones, the mobile operators have produced a range of guidance to encourage responsible, appropriate and legal use of phones.Hamish MacLeodChair, Mobile Broadband Groupmobilebroadbandgroup.com
Games newsOriginally conceived in Japan but more popular worldwide than you might imagine, practitioners ofcosplaydress up as popular characters from videogames and manga series. As part of the celebrations around the European launch of the long awaited and lavishly produced Final Fantasy XII, publisher Square are inviting cosplayers to appear as characters from the new game, which is already available in Japan and North America. Three Grand Prize winners get a two-night trip to London and the opportunity to air their hobby in front of a large and presumably highly supportive audience at the launch. To enter, send photographs of yourself dressed as a Final Fantasy XII character toFinalFantasyXII@square-enix-europe.com. Be quick - competition closes this Sunday.
Arthur And The InvisiblesPS2, Atari, &pound;30After his house is threatened with demolition by evil property developers, Arthur turns to the Invisibles, a band of microscopic Gonk-style trolls that live at the bottom of his garden, for help finding a legendary buried treasure. This means switching among Arthur and his silly-haired chums Betameche and Selenia to solve a series of puzzles relying on their extensible catalogue of skills - the puzzles in question almost always involve either standing on a set of hidden platforms to open doors, or stacking blocks into columns. Hindered by poorly thought-through controls as well as its anaemic repertoire of challenges, Arthur And The Invisibles is still better than the majority of games based on films, even if not a patch on the wonderful Lego: Star Wars series. And unlike that perfect piece of Lego-based throwaway wit, this is way too patronisingly simple for grown-up gamers.Marvel Ultimate AllianceWii, Activision, &pound;40Assembling a team of superheroes from a broad roster of Marvel favourites, you take to the streets and more hostile environments, meting out super justice to the armies of henchmen keen to turn themselves in as fist fodder. The Wii version distinguishes itself by letting you fight using actual heroic punching, slashing and shield-throwing gestures, causing your scrum of tiny champions to set about all comers with fists and the odd super power. Or at least that's the noble intention. The pointless reality is that triggering characters' moves is so totally random you must resort to reliable but boring button-mashing instead. The primitive Streets Of Rage-style walk-punch-walk play mechanics do little to add joy, but the diminutive cityscapes and frequent explosions supply pretty things to look at; it has decent voice acting and earning experience is as seductive as it always has been.
The government is planning to link up with the power of consumer and civic movements on the net by offering funding, permitting civil servants to post information on sites, and releasing information currently locked up in Whitehall.Ministers believe web movements are rapidly transforming the power relationship between government and society.The Cabinet Office strategy unit director, David Halpern, has declared that these new phenomena are likely to increase productivity across the economy, partly by driving out inefficient providers, and making consumers more informed.Ministers also believe such movements will help people to make more considered choices on schools, hospitals and universities.The government plans to put more information on the net, including health and safety records of restaurants, and local planning applications.Whitehall officials regard it as inevitable that information-sharing forums will develop to discuss the quality of public sector performance, including individual GPs and teachers, as well as bad garages, rogue builders, and holiday destinations.A two-month review inside the Cabinet Office, including ministers, communicaitons officials, and outside experts such as Tom Steinberg from mysociety, is to be established next week, for the government to consider how to respond.Ministers were shocked when over 750,000 people petioned against road user charging on the Downing Street e-petition website set up late last year. They are discussing whether it is sensible for government to pull back from setting up its own sites if they are going to compete with existing innovative ones, such as netmums.com.They are instead thinking of providing funding for grassroots sites dedicated to information sharing.Sally Russell, director of the six-year-old, highly successful netmums, said: "It is ridiculous that the education department had been planning to set up its own version, Parents direct, duplicating how we can be a voice back to government."Explaining the government's interest, Pat MacFadden, Cabinet Office minister, said: "This is not about technology, but about asking how empowered citizens can drive these services in a way that has not happened before."Polling evidence suggests we have a 20-year phenomeon of people becoming ever more demanding of government, yet ever more disengaged."So we in government have to ask how we can help this movement, work with it, and yet not smother it."We have been decent at putting services out there online, but the challenge now is take it to a new plane so there is a mutual conversation that helps drive choice and standards."We need a more sensible debate on how all this information government holds can be used to empower people, rather than have this stupid caricature of CCTV cameras in every home. We have to ask whether information or data sharing is an aid to empowerment,as I believe, or the next step to the big brother state."But sources say there is a debate inside Whitehall on the extent to which government should fund bottom-up initiatives, or instead launch its own more tightly controlled websites. One concern is that if bodies like Revenue &amp; Customs set up sites, they would be seen to endorse all that appeared on a forum, including advice that was illegal or wrong.One ministerial source said: "There is a new mass movement out there, better educated, more demanding, and we have to see if, in a light-touch way, we can help."
"In a move that could signal a shift in the music industry's antipiracy strategy, EMI Group PLC has been holding talks with several online retailers about the possibility of selling its entire digital music catalog in the unprotected MP3 format, which can be freely copied and played on virtually any device, according to numerous people familiar with the matter," reportsThe Wall Street Journal[paid sub required].The London-based EMI is believed to have held talks with a wide range of online retailers that compete with Apple's iTunes. Those competing retailers include RealNetworks Inc., eMusic.com, MusicNet Inc. and Viacom Inc.'s MTV Networks. People familiar with the matter cautioned that EMI could still abandon the proposed strategy before implementing it. A decision about whether to keep pursuing the idea could come as soon as today.An EMI spokeswoman declined to comment on what she called "speculation."EMI owns The Beatles, of course.AP has a version of the story.It's been suggested in the trade thatSteve Jobs's sudden U-turn on DRMwas prompted by EMI's moves, which started in December. However, according to the WSJ, "a person familiar with the matter said Mr Jobs began work on the essay three weeks ago in response to actions by European agencies to pressure Apple into making its music products work with hardware and online music service made by other companies."
The Xbox 360's lead gameGears of Warwas the big winner at the 10th annual awards presented by theAcademy of Interactive Arts and Sciencesat the 2007 D.I.C.E. (Design, Innovate, Communicate and Entertain) conference in Las Vegas. It was Game of the Year, Console Game of the Year and Action/Adventure Game of the Year, winning eight awards in all.Bethesda'sElder Scrolls IV: Oblivionwon Computer Game of the Year and Role-Playing Game of the Year, while Nintendo'sBrain Agewas Handheld Game of the Year. However, Sony didn't lose in every category: it picked up the awards for Children's Game of the Year and Outstanding Achievement in Original Music Composition forLocoRoco. (Rare'sViva Piñatawasn't short-listed as a kids' game, but won the award for Outstanding Achievement in Character Performance - Female.)The Academy hasa full list of awards and short-lists. There's a quicker list of just the winners onGamesIndustry.biz.
A mother who believes her son's killer was inspired by a violent computer game condemned the launch of its sequel, almost three years to the day after his murder.Giselle Pakeerah's 14-year-old son, Stefan, was stabbed and beaten to death by Warren Leblanc on February 25 2004.Although there was no evidence that Manhunt inspired the attack, the boy's parents believe its brutality was provoked by his killer having played the game. Mrs Pakeerah said yesterday: "I just think it shows how morally irresponsible the industry is. It's abominable timing. It's a very difficult time for me and to have this in the same month is a bit of an insult to Stefan's memory."Mrs Pakeerah has campaigned against violent computer games since her son's murder. Some shops withdrew the 18-certificate game, made by Rockstar, from sale after Stefan's killing and it was banned in countries such as New Zealand.Leicester East MP Keith Vaz, who has backed the Pakeerahs' call for curbs on violent games, told the Leicester Mercury: "It is contempt for those who are trying very hard to ensure something is done to control the violent nature of these games."The original game depicts players hunted down and attacked for the amusement of a rich madman. Players defend themselves with meat cleavers and hammers.LeBlanc, who was 17 at the time, lured the younger boy to a park near Leicester, where he inflicted terrible injuries with a knife and claw hammer.
MondayGenre report, part two: driving gamesKonami brings Revolution to XboxNew N-Gage at GDCTuesdayWii beats PS3 (for now)Get your Mii in 3dDell's handheldManhunt 2 confirmedAction games improve eyesightWednesdayInterview with Tetsuya MizuguchiGame Developers Choice Awards Finalists announcedEA honours its shortsPirates and psychosMicrosoft feeling generousThursdayLet it (virtually) snowPS3 Bundle WatchPirates MMO sets sail in springWhat's the alternative?Phil Harrison at DICEFridayYet more MarioMetal Gear movie confirmed
Sony has confimed that it's working with Konami on a live-action movie version of the Metal Gear series. Konami talked about this a while ago and then Hideo Kojima had to re-assure the whole universe that Uwe Boll would not be involved. The German director of awful game conversions may well still be too busybeating up paunchy American journalists.Hollywood Reporter, via Reuters and Yahoo,providesa plot synopsis of the original Metal Gear Solid,suggesting to Gamasutrathat this might provide the basis of the film. Of course, if the scriptwriters are feeling lazy they should go for MGS 2, which has so many cut-scenes it virtually writes itself.No director or actors have been announced. So what do you reckon?
Recently Jack haswrittenaseriesofarticleswhichcriticiseDAB, and where digital radio is going in the UK (I also did a storyon the problems people have with the sound quality- and we've been taken to task for some of those pieces by defenders of the way DAB has been handled, including Virgin's ever-honourableJames Cridland). [Link updated]But here's a development - the Guardian's media editor, Matt Wells, just pointed me in the direction ofthis press releasefrom the BBC, which says the corporation is going to start very limited trials of Digital Radio Mondiale, a digital successor to non-FM radio.BBC Radio and National Grid Wireless have announced a trial of a new transmission technology which will allow the two organisations to assess the practicality of digital radio services in the medium-wave bands.The trial, which will last for a year, will be centred on Plymouth.From the end of April, the BBC and National Grid Wireless will re-use a current medium-wave frequency in the Plymouth area to broadcast a trial digital service using the digital radio mondiale (DRM) standard. DRM is an emerging technology which has been designed to facilitate digital radio at frequencies below 30 MHz.Admittedly, it's a tiny trial and it's a long way from becoming reality. But could it be the first sign of change?Jack Schofield adds: The BBC has been doing test broadcasts for a while and launched a DRM service broadcasting the BBC World Service to Europe in 2005 (press release here). If you have been listening to DRM 1296 from Orfordness, it's inWikipedia. I was mainly amused by the resistance to using AAC+ compression for DAB when the BBC and others are already using AAC for DRM.
Now here's a thing that the beta testers, and "dogfooders" (the people inside Microsoft who use pre-release software) ought to have caught, one would think: Outlook 2007 takes the most amazing amount of time to download trivial numbers of messages.I noticed this first on Tim Anderson's ITWriting blog, where the discussion beganhere (in November), continuedhere (also in November), and has lately carried onagainandagain(both last month).And it's hit closer to Microsoft's home, where Mini-Microsoft [who'd like the company to be about one-third smaller]has noticed it too:Outlook 2007 seemed to have a few folder-switching hickups against Exchange and I usually had to give it fifteen minutes to settle down when I booted it in the morning, the new features seemed worth it.Then I finally installed my Company Store copy at home and enabled Desktop Search. You'd think I had just sprayed the inside of my poor mega-laptop with saltwater to induce non-stop fritzing. I've learned to meditate while Outlook ruminates over ten incoming POP messages of 69K. Perhaps it takes a few seconds over each incoming message or RSS feed to contribute to solving a Grand Challenge. Or it and Desktop Search have to play 333 iterations of rock-paper-scissors everytime a change has to be written. I don't know. But I feel bad for not dogfooding this home experience sooner and if I could do a six-month tour of duty to get Outlook back to 2003 performance I'd sign up in a flash.For our customers' sake, I hope that I'm the only one and that there is just something funky about my setup..Sorry, Mini, but it ain't just you. We expect that others have noticed this too, but can't separate it from the general blog noise in a search on Technorati or Icerocket; "outlook 2007 slower" is the sort of phrase that gets used about economies, and you'd never believe how many economists they've allowed to have blogs nowadays.Tim (who wrote the recent feature explainingwhy CDs all sound so loud these days) thinks that it's because Outlook 2007 asks for authentication (basically, a spam-prevention measure - my guess is that it's asking whether it should authenticate POP over port 995, as Gmail POP does; that uses SSL - Secure Sockets Layer - for email collection). Authentication is a Good Thing for email, but a Bad Thing when done wrong.As Mini-Microsoft says, "performance is a feature". Yes it is. And non-performance is..Anyway, anyone else out there using Outlook 2007, and what's your experience?
TV services could bring the Internet to its knees, according to aReuters report:"The Web infrastructure, and even Google's (infrastructure) doesn't scale. It's not going to offer the quality of service that consumers expect," Vincent Dureau, Google's head of TV technology, said at the Cable Europe Congress.Google instead offered to work together with cable operators to combine its technology for searching for video and TV footage and its tailored advertising with the cable networks' high-quality delivery of shows.Does that mean putting a sidebar of Google AdWords on your TV set, next to popular movies and TV series? I can't see consumers welcoming that idea... Maybe you'd just get AdWords when you search for things to watch. (Find earthquakes! Buy earthquakes on eBay.)Either way, the majority of Internet traffic is now devoted to file-swapping, so the rest of us are paying for the 1% to 10% who take "unlimited broadband" literally. (SeeWhat does 'unlimited' mean?) And that's going to become even more problematical when the emphasis shifts from the current downgraded quality of most pirate movies (700MB to 1.35GB per film) to real DVD (4GB+) or HD quality (15GB+).It could easily turn out to be another "tragedy of the commons". Is that what we want?Also, of course, there are no copyright payments, DRM restrictions or advertisements with all this "user pirated content", which means there is very little room for commercial download services. As Variety noted recently,Online movies remain a tough sell: all such services have flopped. So far: "the total number of movies sold online is less than Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest sold on its first day of DVD availability."Perhaps that's just as well. Amazon saves a fantastic amount of bandwidth every time it sticks a few sacks of DVDs in the post.
Tomorrow's the weekend, and that means just one thing: it's theFriday Afternoon Question. (Strictly, of course, it means many things - but that's just splitting hairs).Each Friday we're offering you the chance to win a lovely prize/bit of tat in return for the enjoyment of reading your answers to a question randomly dreamt up by our team of dedicated typing monkeys.Last week's winner, on the question of dream operating system features - and no complaints this time, people - was "Fractions" for the straight up and simple "instant booting". Although judging by the amount of time it takes my TV to start showing the picture, I think everyone else is following computers, rather than the other way around. Fractions, we'll be in touch.But that was then, and this is now. And so to this week's question.With the news thatone American politician wants to make it an offence to cross the road while wearing an iPod, there seems only one reasonable topic up for discussion this week.What technology would you ban?I can think of lots of contenders - but after a lot of consideration... no, I'll tell you next time. Right now it's your turn. Fire away!
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Newspaper freebies, eh? Pull-out sections, CDs, DVDs - and of course, our ownwidely lampoonedwallcharts - they just get everywhere.But sometimes they don't getyouanywhere at all. Take this for example: as a good little journalist who was working last weekend, I bought the papers - including the Independent on Sunday, which included a CD as part of its week-long promotion on improving your photography. My girlfriend was excited by the prospect since she (like many of us) wants to be a better photographer.Here's what it said on the sleeve:This CD-Rom is part of the Independent's course 'to improve your photography in seven days'. It contains a 30-day free trial of Adobe Photoshop Elements and photographs that accompany the tutorials published in The Independent next week, from Monday through to Friday.And here's what happened when she stuck the disc in her Apple laptop....That's right, nothing. Or pretty much, anyway. After a few clicks, she was directed to a HTML file which said the following: "Please click on this link to open the Adobe web site's Photoshop Elements for the Mac information. If you sign up, it is also possible to find a 30-day trial of the software on the Adobe site.Photoshop Elements for the Mac info page". And nothing else.Nothing.So, in this case, thereisn'ta free trial on the disc. No, there's the option of going to Adobe's website and finding it yourself. They didn't even bother to link to the trial download!Now, I could go and put the CD into my Windows PC and see what happens - perhaps its only Mac users who are given the finger like this (it wouldn't be a new thing, after all). But right now I don't want to look, because it doesn't matter... the swindle's already taken place.
Super Mario World is lovely, it really it is, but is there anyone who can spell Nintendo who doesn't already own a copy? But if you don't own the SNES or GBA versions then the launch of the game on the Wii's Virtual Console is worth investigating, despite theproblems with the system.Less interesting is the other new VC game, Zelda II: The Adventure of Link. Theblack sheepof the Zelda "franchise", the Adventure of Link was a side scrolling travesty solely for completists only. Even the press release struggles to get excited, with the fact that the game, "featured a brand new adventure", seen as the big selling point. Anyway, as much as I like the Wii I really can't be bothered with the Virtual Console at the moment - SMW may be worth a punt though - with Xbox Live Arcade a far more appealing place to spend your nostalgia dollar.
On Monday, Microsoft will unveil Windows Mobile 6, a new version of its cell phone operating software, though it won't appear on phones until the next quarter. Visually it looks a bit more like Windows Vista, but the main change is that it now includes the "pocket" version of Microsoft Office. Previously this has featured in the PDA version of the same Windows CE operating system.Windows Mobile 6 includes the mobile versions of Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint. It also includes the push-style email and Outlook sync via Microsoft Exchange servers, as introduced with Windows Mobile 5.However, Mobile 6 will also integrate with the Windows Live online services, including Messenger.All this should increase WM6's appeal in the business smartphone market that Microsoft is targeting. However, it's hard to see it having much if any appeal in the very much larger consumer market. "Oh wow, better sync with my Microsoft Exchange Server" can't be top of many wish lists.
Record labels are expected to start stripping copyright protection from their music downloads within the next six months after Apple chief Steve Jobs forced the issue with an open letter to the industry.Mr Jobs called on the big four major music labels - Sony BMG, Universal, EMI and Warner Music - to abandon their policy of requiring Apple and other online music retailers to package downloads in digital rights management (DRM) software that controls the devices that can be used for playback.Apple, under fire from some consumers and record label executives for allowing only the tracks downloaded from its iTunes store to be transferred to its iPod, placed the blame on the big labels. Mr Jobs, on the Apple website, argues that abandoning digital rights management was "clearly the best alternative for consumers" and said Apple would embrace such a move "in a heartbeat".Label executives had privately hoped to force Apple to make both the iPod and iTunes Music Store, which uses its own proprietary format Fairplay, interoperable with other players and online retailers.But Mr Jobs said the only way forward was to remove the technology altogether "because DRMs haven't worked, and may never work, to halt music piracy".Most independent labels already make their music available in the non-restricted MP3 format. EMI has also experimented with DRM-free releases by Lily Allen and Norah Jones. The other major labels refused to comment but privately take a similar line, putting the onus on technology companies to come up with a solution that will make it possible to play downloads on any portable player but also allow them to maintain control.John Kennedy, head of international music industry group IFPI said: "Until now Steve Jobs has not advocated interoperability; perhaps now the door is open to find a combination of interoperability and DRM to have a win/win scenario for Apple, the music industry and the consumer."
HP DV 9092.ENThings are getting very competitive in the desktop replacement market with interesting new multimedia-friendly models from the likes of Sony, Toshiba and others. Now HP is biting back with the DV9000, its top-end laptop range, though given the 17in widescreen, calling the series "laptops" is stretching the point a little. The top-end 9092.EN, which sells for &pound;1,800, is relatively thin and light. HP has also done a good job in cramming in high-end features and making it simple to use. The keys are large and suitably springy while the keypad/mouse combination is very responsive. The quality WXGA+ (1440 x 900) screen is at its best when playing back HD-DVDs, operated via its remote control or by using the buttons sited above the keypad. The laptop also has some good quality Altec Lansing speakers built in, possibly the best I have ever heard from a laptop. Overall, this is an impressive desktop replacement.Creative PlayDock Z500If you have bought an iPod in the past couple of years there's a good chance you have also invested in a mini hi-fi system to go with it. Now Creative has developed the PlayDock Z500, a &pound;100 unit that accompanies its rival to the video iPod, the 30GB Vision: M. It's a smart move too, as the quality and performance of the Z500 makes it a must buy. For starters Creative's audio heritage shows, as the system outputs a hefty 12 watts per channel. Unlike its rivals there's plenty of bass too, courtesy of a 24-watt subwoofer, though personally I'd have preferred a slightly sweeter and more detailed sounding mid-range. It is also a cinch to use with the player slotting in the front of the unit so it can be controlled by the accompanying remote. The unit looks striking, works with the Vision: M's FM radio and can be powered either via the mains or batteries.Toshiba HD-E1Last year Samsung was the first manufacturer to bring high-definition discs to the UK with its Blu-ray player. Now the rival HD-DVD camp strikes back with Toshiba's HD-E1. It is a slim model, and marginally bigger than a standard DVD player. The remote is simple to use and the fact that the menu can be viewed while a film is running makes tweaking the onscreen images a breeze. And future discs will also use this facility, such as showing maps of where the action takes place during a film. The E1's apparent weak point is that its output is limited to 1080i lines, not 1080p (the format which some TV makers are hyping as true HD). The difference though is marginal unless you have a really huge screen. In both its audio and video performance the E1 shone. But is it so much better than existing DVD to merit the &pound;500 price? Well, yes, if you have a big screen and already watch high definition from Sky, you'll see a significant difference in image detail, colour and contrast. But personally, I'd hang on for that price to fall and for the dust to clear in the format war.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Monitor disposalI'm thinking of getting an LCD screen to replace for my old Diamondtron 19in monitor. What's the best way of getting rid of your old CRT?Rich EmmersonJack Schofield replies:The Diamondtron was an excellent monitor and should last a long time. It's worth offering it on eBay or at least recycling it locally via Freecycle (freecycle.org). Otherwise there are not many good ways to dispose of one or two items, as opposed to dozens, unless there's a local recycler like the Electrical Recycling Company Ltd (electricalrecycling.co.uk) in York. The IT For Charities site has a useful list of recycling companies atitforcharities.co.uk. If a monitor is only fit for scrap, your best bet is to contact your local council.Monitors are hazardous waste and you want them recycled by someone like The Mann Company (revision.tv), not used as landfill. If you buy from Dell, it will take your old stuff away - any brand - and recycle it (dell.co.uk). Dell is one of the few PC suppliers that takes recycling seriously, and recycles equipment via ReCom (recom.org.uk). However, things should improve on July 1, when the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive comes into force.Tracking MI5I've just heard that MI5 has started a new service offering to inform people by email of their latest thinking, changes to the level of terrorist threat and so on. Can you suggest a way of accessing the service anonymously?Name withheldJS:MI5 has launched a couple of mailing lists, and you can subscribe by entering a name and email addresshere. The site says you can register anonymously if you wish, and you can use a free web mailbox. However, if MI5 ever gets a clue, it will use RSS instead.Best OfficeI have been using OpenOffice but am having compatibility issues with various people I work with. Is Office 2007 worth getting or is 2003 adequate for a writer/editor?Martin ToselandJS:Office 2007 is better but it is an acquired taste, and it is really up to you whether you want it. From a practical point of view, Office 2000, XP or 2003 will probably do fine, if you download the compatibility pack to handle Office 2007's optional XML file formats (seeoffice.microsoft.com). But Office 2003 will last a while - Microsoft extended support is scheduled until 2014.Battling ctfmonI have removed ctfmon several times from the msconfig startup menu, but it keeps coming back. Is it necessary to run this item in the background? I am using the latest version of Microsoft Office 2007.Deepak MukerjeeJS:Ctfmon is part of Microsoft Office. It is started by the Text Services and Speech applets in the Control Panel, looks after the Microsoft Office Language Bar and handles the Text Input Processor for things like handwriting and speech recognition. It can be removed, but there's no real advantage to removing it. SeeMicrosoft Knowledge Base article 282599for details. However, the ctfmon name has also been used by a few Trojans and viruses such as Delive-A and Raidys, so it's worth checking if you have never run Microsoft Office.Backchat&middot;I recommended AVG Anti-Spyware Free (Ewido) to Margaret Healy-Doyle, who was having problems with Windows Defender. On the Ask Jack blog, Ketlan said: "While it continues to operate as a spyware scanner after the first 30 days on the user's computer, it stops being active - meaning that spyware could end up being installed and remain unobserved until the user chooses to carry out a manual scan. The efficiency of the scan at this belated point could be questioned too, as automatic updates cease at the 30-day point as well." True, but you can update the spyware database manually, and users who value the real-time functions can buy a two-year subscription for $39.95. (&pound;20).
If you slip on an icy pavement this winter and land up in casualty, take heart. The chance of your x-rays turning up when they're needed is probably the best in the NHS's history. Digitally displayed radiological images, using a technology known as Pacs (picture archiving and communications system) are the big success of the &pound;12bn programme to computerise the NHS.Pacs stormed into hospitals because nearly everyone sees advantages. The images are available immediately, anywhere on site, so fewer appointments are cancelled due to films going astray. And there's a tangible business case, too - immediate savings on expensive x-ray films.Unfortunately, at the moment Pacs generally extends only as far as each hospital's no-smoking zone. Five years after the government decided to chuck money at a central initiative to modernise the NHS with information technology, the dream of multimedia records available anywhere remains remote.For some parts of the health service, that dream is more remote than it was five years ago, thanks to the scale of the programme and the furore it has provoked. "Don't panic," says Richard Granger, the NHS's IT boss. "We have spent the past few years putting in the basic pipes while grabbing quick wins such as Pacs." The exciting stuff is now coming together.After many delays, the first basic extracts of medical records are due to be loaded on to the national system this spring. This will be an important step. But the programme has a long, long way to go. In large parts of the country, the process of installing basic hospital systems has ground to a halt because cash-strapped managers see no point. Controversy still surrounds the uploading of sensitive data on to the system. This was stirred further this week by revelations that hospital staff are routinely sharing system logins.Just how far we have to go was revealed a couple of weeks ago by the NHS's new overall boss, David Nicholson. He admitted that if the IT programme is to work, the NHS will have to "own, love and understand" it in a way that it has not done up to now. That means giving local organisations more say in where they go with the programme. And, while turning down calls for a fundamental review, Nicholson suggested that the programme may be doing too much on "far too big a waterfront". This implies that some fundamental rethinking is under way.One important change needs to be made. NHS chiefs must stop answering concerns about confidentiality by citing the present chaotic state of paper medical records. There is a problem today, but there is a big difference between the risk of stumbling over a sensitive record on a trolley and the opportunity that national electronic records present for systematic attack.The answer is not to abandon the dream of electronic records, but to upgrade the emphasis on putting patients in charge. We already own our information; the national IT infrastructure potentially gives us the tools to take charge of it.Unlike Pacs, the IT-informed patient revolution won't be a quick win. Meanwhile, take care on those icy pavements.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I was walking through Trafalgar Square two weeks ago when the National Portrait Gallery exploded in colour. Shapes and patterns lit up its surface, creating a dazzling but confusing spectacle. All around, people captured the multimedia chaos on camera.Within hours, these images were uploaded on to blogs, wikis and websites where thousands of people around the world - who shared their own images from events that happened simultaneously in Berlin, San Francisco, Toronto and Singapore - struggled to decode what it all meant, and whether it had any relationship with a mysterious Microsoft employee named Loki.I'd been witness to a clue in an Alternate Reality Game, or ARG, sponsored by Microsoft to promote Windows Vista. In these cross-media collaborative treasure hunts, clues to an overarching story are hidden in every conceivable medium of distribution. Hundreds of thousands of players work together via digital channels to solve the games' puzzles.Ultimate prizeOver the past six weeks, a hive mind of tens of thousands of early adopters, retired couples, manual labourers, mothers, schoolchildren, college students and commuters from around the world have been scanning newspaper classifieds, watching television ads, analysing websites, making phone calls, sending emails and piecing together clues littered across the international landscape to solve the puzzles in Vanishing Point, a game engineered by 42 Entertainment to build buzz around the Microsoft brand and Vista. The ultimate prize is a trip for one on the Rocketplane XP to what the marketing company describes as "the Ultimate Vista". A tenuous link, perhaps, but enough to get the geek brigade in its thrall.The ARG movement couldn't come at a better time for advertisers, whose awkward grip on interactive marketing has resulted in the explosion of several social software landmines. Big corporations from Sony to Proctor &amp; Gamble have felt consumer ire when their manipulations of Web 2.0 staples such as YouTube, MySpace and blogs have been uncovered as corporate fakes. The situation has become so chronic that the US Federal Trade Commission recently announced that it will investigate social marketing campaigns where links between endorsers and companies aren't disclosed.Marketers are using such tactics because television and print advertising aren't as effective as they have been in the past. "Not only can we easily filter such messages, but we're both more aware of and more sceptical of them," explains Brooke Thompson, a cross-media consultant and game designer. "So they have to reach out in new ways in order to engage consumers and get their messages to spread.""From a marketer's perspective, ARGs rest on the idea that buzz, social interaction and people talking to one another will generate sales," explains Henrik Ornebring, senior lecturer in Television Studies at Roehampton University. But because no one is endorsing a particular product, it gets around the FTC. It also helps that ARGs force a close reading of all media, including TV ads, which have been increasingly falling victim to services like Sky+ and TiVo.ARGs are often associated with commercial products, particularly films, TV series, computer games and other lifestyle accessories, enhancing the stories behind them and providing fodder for fans to discuss in online communities.While the "Who's Loki" premise of Vanishing Point bears little relevance to Vista, there's obvious synergy between Microsoft and an entertainment/advertising format that uses all that interactivity has to offer. Most of the players are the first to go out and buy their products. "We don't have to tell them Vista is coming," says Brian Marr of Microsoft. "Most of them can tell me features I don't know about."So why preach to the converted? In exchange for taking part in an enormous ad campaign, ARG players are offered carefully constructed gameplay. Marr says it's amazing what brands can get out of the cost, "which is surprisingly less than a Super Bowl ad [costing $2.6m (&pound;1.3m) for 30 seconds] for a month of entertaining and exciting content for customers who are key to spreading the information".Vanishing Point's first clue, a puzzle box with a USB thumb drive, was sent to influential technology blogs. "I received a puzzle box from Microsoft over the holidays when I was visiting my in-laws," says Josh Phillips of windowsconnected.com. "That was pretty fascinating because I don't know how they knew I was there." The added element of intrigue and, "being an IT guy, puzzles really appeal to my more inquisitive nature", means that Phillips is an ARG convert. His coverage of Vanishing Point has brought a broader set of individuals to his site than the content would normally bring.While there are precedents to mixed-media treasure hunting, such as Kit Williams' 1979 book Masquerade and correspondent-hunts in 20th-century newspapers, the ARG phenomenon could only have happened in a world where everything from a series of numbers to a lingering shot of a book spine in a television programme inspires frantic speculating by an international online fan community. (What do the lottery numbers in Lost mean, if anything? Why do they recur? Is it because ... and so the discussion begins.) "In a way, it's the first genre that could not be conceived of without the internet," says Ornebring.According to digital pundits and ARG-watchers, the new entertainment medium is at the centre of Web 2.0, inspiring creativity across multiple media, user-generated content and collaborative experiences shaped by a savvy global audience who connect via digital channels.Not all winners"A very key trend which is right at the heart of what ARGs are all about is participatory culture: the convergence of collective media, how they're interconnected and a collective intelligence," explains Michael Smith, CEO of London-based ARG developer Mind Candy. "All three of these elements are popping up all over the place, and ARGs are right at the centre of it."Sure, the final prize may only go to one person, but the social ethos generated by playing together means that everyone feels like a winner. Though Ornebring suggests that there may be a loser: the marketing company. ARGs are much more successful in marketing the phenomenon of ARGs rather than the product they're meant to be selling.To keep the suspension of disbelief, the brand often doesn't get a mention until the very end. By that point, only the most dedicated players are privy to the message. The buzz surrounding the game has done little else than create buzz for the new genre. Unfortunately, as history attests, developers run a danger of alienating their fans if they make the marketing more explicit.The participatory element has led some to believe that the ARG medium need not be commercially motivated. An Ofcom discussion paper released this week uses ARGs as an example of a kind of entertainment a Public Service Publisher could provide (seeGamesblog, 1 February). Smith agrees. "They can be used for positive social ends," he says, "like creating an ARG about fuel. You could get people to plant trees as part of the backstory. There's a wide scope."No one is willing to speculate on the impact of an influx of ARG-based marketing on the entertainment medium or on consumer preferences, but an overall aim is to expand the audience by reducing the barriers to entry. Some propose relying more on video channels, others suggest situating more clues in traditional media sources.The trend is ultimately to continue the so-called "conversations" between producers and consumers in an ARG way. Regardless of the outcome, everyday life has suddenly become a lot more fun.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
