A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamForget digital wallet. Apple wants to turn YOU into an ATM via ad-hoc cash dispensing network &gt;&gt; Unwired ViewWhile Google, wireless carriers, Paypal and everyone else is working to turn your smartphone into a digital wallet, Apple has an even more interesting idea about money exchange.Apple would like to turn you and other people around you with iOS device, into a mobile ATM.The basic idea, described in apatent application"Ad-hoc cash dispensing network" is pretty simple. Create a cash dispensing server at Apple's datacenter, to which iPhones, iPads and Macs can connect via a specialized app. Need some quick cash right now and there's no ATM around? Launch the Cash app, and tell it how much do you need. The app picks up your location, and sends the request for cash to nearby iPhone users. When someone agrees to front you $20, his location is shown to you on the map. You go to that person, pick up the bill and confirm the transaction on your iPhone. $20 plus a small service fee is deducted from your iTunes account and deposited to the guy who gave you the cash.Whaaat? It sounds like a monitored version ofHawala. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Syncing Google services with Windows Phone &gt;&gt; Windows Phone blogYou may have seen arecent announcementfrom Google regarding changes to the Google Sync service used to connect devices to Google services (Google Sync utilizes the Exchange ActiveSync, or EAS, protocol from Microsoft to synchronize email, contacts, and calendar). We're happy to share today that Google will extend their support for new Windows Phone connections via Google Sync until 31 July, 2013.And Windows Phone will add in CalDAV And CardDAV support. Google extends the deadline and gets Microsoft to embrace open standards. That sound? Arms being mutually twisted. (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)Tablet shipments soar to record levels during strong holiday quarter &gt;&gt; IDCApple's iPad once again led the market, and the firm's shipment total of 22.9 million units was exactly in line with IDC's forecast for the period. A strong iPad mini launch, plus availability of the fourth generation full-sized iPad, led to solid 48.1% shipment growth over the same quarter last year. However, strong competition in the market led to Apple's market share declining for a second quarter in a row (down to 43.6% from 46.4% last quarter). Number two vendor Samsung experienced 263% year-on-year growth, shipping nearly 8 million combined Android and Windows 8 tablets during the quarter to grab 15.1% of the market, its same market share total from the previous quarter.The market grew faster than Apple's growth. Now at more than half of PC shipments - 90m to 52.5m. When might the crossover happen?What happens in a modem handshakeVery big graphic by Oona Räisänen showingpreciselywhat used to happen as your 56K modem (remember them?) was trilling and warbling before you "got on the internet". (Younger readers may have tolisten to this sitewhile reading.)Judge, unlike jury, finds Samsung's infringement of Apple's patents was not willful &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsThis post explains Judge Lucy Koh's deliberations on the Apple-Samsung verdict. Compare and contrast with the same rulingas examined by Groklaw.Why Not Windows? &gt;&gt; AAXA blast from the very distant past - 1998 - on why absolutely nobody should buy Windows. Other links on the site include "Vista: Arrogance &amp; Stupidity" and "Novell Screws Up Big - Agreement with Microsoft". (Thanks @beardyweird666 for the link.)Microsoft Surface sales well below shipments, says iSuppli &gt;&gt; CNET NewsSales of Microsoft's first Surface tablet fell well short of the 1 million mark, while return rates were high, IHS iSuppli told CNET.Shipments of the Surface RT device, which debuted last quarter, into the channel were about 1.25m, but sales out of the channel "were significantly lower, maybe on the order of 55 to 60% of that figure," said Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at iSuppli, citing the market research firm's estimates.That would put sales in the range of between roughly 680,000 and 750,000 based on those percentages.That kind of "sales out" percentage is not unusual, however, according to Alexander, adding that she has seen similar percentages with newly introduced Android devices.Shows the important difference between shipments and sales.Mac Pro sales to stop March 1 in EU countries &gt;&gt; MacworldIf you live in a country under the European Union and you were thinking of purchasing a Mac Pro, best not to wait too much longer. Apple told reseller and channel partners Thursday that it would stop all sales of the desktop system on March 1 to comply with new EU regulatory standards.IEC 609501 Amendment 1, which goes into effect March 1, deals with safety and electrical standards as they relate to electrical equipment; unfortunately for EU customers, the Mac Pro does not comply with this standard, due to issues with power provided to its I/O ports and the placement of its fan guards.Then again, might be just what Apple needs to get a new, compliant model out. (Thanks @avro for the link.)PC makers aren't learning from history &gt;&gt; Windows IT ProPaul Thurrott (on 29 Jan, 2013):Windows 8 was also designed to raise the average selling price of a PC to a more profitable range of $600 to $800. Those early Windows 8 tablet devices based on the Atom "Clover Trail" chipset are a netbook in sheep's clothing, but they cost hundreds more than netbooks ever did. However, the theory is that consumers are comfortable paying $650+ for Apple's iPad, so they will perhaps pay as much or more for what is presumably a more full-featured PC.I refuse to believe that Chromebooks make any sense at all for businesses or educational institutions, and that the manageability of Windows RT and Windows 8, combined with still-reasonable pricing, the familiarity of the environments, and the cachet of modern, new tablet form factors, won't just keep Microsoft in the game but will in fact allow the company to continue to set the pace.Gauntlet, consider yourself thrown.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
I know lots of people who disagree about when and whether it's OK to reproduce creative works without permission. There are long, thoughtful debates about how long copyright should last; whether publicly funded works should be treated the same as privately created ones; whether scientific and scholarly works should be freely available; what sort of works qualify as "creative", and, of course, what fair dealing/fair use should and should not allow.But while I know plenty of proud pirates, I don't think I've ever heard of someone standing up for the good, old fashioned plagiarism.Plagiarism and copyright infringement are different things, of course.Shakespeare is not in copyright, but if you try to trick someone into thinking you wrote Romeo and Juliet, you're still a plagiarist.Even the most dedicated copyright enthusiast has to admit that brief quotations are fair dealing, but when you pass off someone else's sentences as your own, you're a plagiarist.Indeed, copyright enforcement is sometimes as odds with plagiarism detection – as when Turnitin, a piece of software that helps teachers catch students who copy others' papers, was sued for violating students' copyrights. The plaintiffs argued that creating a database of student work to which suspect papers would be compared was a violation of their authors' copyright.A US appeals court found this activity constituted fair use. I'm not sure how it would have gone in the UK – our fair dealing is in many ways more restrictive than US fair use.Some of the most egregious forms of plagiarism are perfectly legal. Fans of indie nerd troubadour Jonathan Coulton were infuriated to discover that theFox TV programme Glee had "ripped off" his distinctive arrangement for "Baby Got Back,"which includes new lyrics and sound effects that are unique to Coulton's version. Fox stonewalled, then Glee music producer Alex Anders tweeted: "Some people can't see opportunity when it smacks them in the face." (it seemed clear at the time that Anders was commenting on Coulton, though he later deleted the tweet and claimed it was a comment on an unrelated issue). Close analysis of the two pieces is especially damning, as it sounds and looks as though Fox's version actually uses parts of Coulton's recording, mixed down to cut out the vocals.Copyright experts were quick to explain that Fox's plagiarism was legal – the same rules that allowed Coulton to record his cover of Sir Mix-a-Lot's original "Baby Got Back" also allow Fox to produce a sound-alike version. But it's shoddy, because it is, at heart, a lie.(Coulton got his own back on Fox: he rereleased his own "Baby Got Back" and billed it as a cover of the Glee version, with proceeds to charity – it climbed the iTunes chart while the Fox version was clobbered by angry Coulton fans who gave it one-star reviews)Why does Fox's sin stick in the internet's craw? I think it's becauseFox hasn't just wronged Coulton: they've wronged the public. We have been misled about the origin of a product we're being asked to purchase.This is different from, say, a fake designer handbag that's offered as a cheap knockoff, where there's no intent to fool the purchaser, who understands that a 99% discount on a Vuitton bag means that it's really a "Vuitton" bag.This kind of plagiarism is more like selling horsemeat labelled as beef burgers. Horsemeat can be perfectly harmless, and many people happily eat it, but when you buy beef burgers, you expect that you're getting what you paid for.Plagiarism evokes the same outrage even when the only thing at stake is attention. Users of Reddit hold especial contempt for people who post others' art as their own in order to get "upvotes" and "karma" – intangible, non-redeemable measures of internet applause from strangers.When this happens, a consensus quickly emerges that the culprit is a bad person, that the attention has been misappropriated. The real artist has been wronged – she didn't get the upvotes, attention and good feeling she deserved. But so has anyone who was conned into believing the misattribution, and so missed the chance to discover more works by the real artist.For me, the most interesting thing about plagiarism is that even though it's legal, companies and people who do it get into real trouble for it.Even without a law, doing something that is so universally reviled has genuine, lasting consequences. There's a lesson in there for people looking to find the right balance for internet copyright: a law without public support will be widely flouted, but things that the social consensus rejects out of hand be automatically, widely enforced.
Google has scraped in under the deadline to respond to the European commission's antitrust chief Joaquín Almunia, who is seeking to change the way it presents search results in Europe.It delivered its suggestions on Thursday 31 January, the final day of the period set by Almunia earlier this month for its suggestions to avoid swingeing fines for abusing its search monopoly.Neither Google nor the EC has yet publicised the contents of the proposals, and Google declined to comment. The EC has been investigating Google since November 2010, and in summer 2012 threatened to issue a "Statement of Objection" – the last step before implementing fines of up to 10% of the company's turnover if no compromise could be found.Almunia has stated that Google has a monopoly on search; data from Europe suggests it has more than 90% of search share, compared to about 65% in the US. He has also said that he believes that it is taking unfair advantage of that position: earlier in January he told the Financial Times that "we are still investigating, but my conviction is they are diverting traffic" from rival services through the ordering of search results.He added: "They are monetising this kind of business, the strong position they have in the search market, and this is not only a dominant position, I think – I fear – there is an abuse of dominant position."Google's submission will have to suggest how it could deal with Almunia's concerns. Those relate to the question of whether Google favours its own services over rivals' in search results; the portability of advertising campaigns between search engines; unauthorised "scraping" of content from other sites to present in its own search results, denying those sites traffic; and restrictions on competitors' adverts appearing alongside its own on sites.The Microsoft-backed lobby group Icomp said the proposals were "just the first step" and said they would have to be closely monitored and assessed.The group added: "To be seen as a success, any settlement must … include specific measures to restore competition and allow other parties to compete effectively on a level playing field with Google in the key markets of search and search advertising."• This article was amended on 1 February 2013 because the original said that the EC issued a "Statement of Objection" in summer 2012.
It is a defining moment in modern warfare, when state TV succumbs to the invading army. So it has become with cyberwarfare, as media titans including the BBC, Reuters and the New York Times come under attack from suspected state-sponsored hackers.The elaborate breach of the New York Times's computers by hackers with possible links to the Chinese military, asrevealed on Thursday, is the latest in a spate of cyber-attacks directed at the news media."We've seen a real escalation of attacks that seem to be designed to steal information rather than make money," said internet security expert, Graham Cluley, of research firm Sophos. "The typical news agency may not consider themselves the target for an attack, but in the world we live in this is going on more and more."In the internet age, the websites of newspapers and broadcasters can propel a damaging story across the globe in seconds – quicker than the TV or radio. But they are also a shop window for cyber-intruders, offering a target for sophisticated hackers to find a vulnerability or security hole.Some of the world's biggest and most powerful news organisations have fallen victim to online assaults over the past year.The BBC revealed in March that the communications system of its Farsi-language service in London had been disrupted by a "sustained" attack thattemporarily took out its telephone lines and email access.The attack happened just 48 hours after the BBC boasted of a huge rise in the audience for its Persian TV service – an announcement that will no doubt have irritated state officials in Tehran. BBC sources said the incident was a suspected Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack, which failed to disrupt the broadcaster's on-air output but hindered its internal communications for a matter of days.Other online assaults have silenced mainstream news websites at key moments: the Russian radio station Moscow Echo wastaken offline by an attack by Distributed Denial of Serviceon the day of the country's election in 2011, amid claims of poll violations and arrests.In Octoberhackers gained access to Reuters's systemsat least twice in a fortnight, publishing an article that falsely claimed Saudi Arabia's foreign minister had died. E, proving that even one of the world's most trusted news agencies is not invulnerable to unknown cyber-assailants. But the motives behind some attacks are more grave than others.Cluley, whodocuments security breaches for Sophos, said journalists should take extra precautions to protect sources and confidential information in the digital age. "I know some journalists who use encryption software and other tools and I would recommend that – especially when you're dealing with stories that are potentially life and death, like the New York Times on China."David Garfield, managing director of cyber security at defence firm BAE Systems Detica, said media groups were vulnerable to "bespoke" attacks by hackers with a strategic interest in stealing confidential information."We have investigated intrusions, from similar origins, against media organisations – attacks devised to steal sensitive information such as correspondence around a specific topic of interest between journalists and their sources," he said. "These attacks aim to view the content of conversations, who the sources are, or what the next story angle might be. This type of activity is obviously an acute worry for any news organisation."David Emm, a security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, said the most common attacks on media groups were by lone vigilantes looking to embarrass them, rather than to steal information.He added: "If you look at the increase in targeted attacks on media groups you have different motives. It can be agitation or protest, or some form of information gathering, or just to take them offline."Emm said it was no surprise that news organisations appear to be a target for intelligence agencies, noting that they are "a hub of sensitive information" that is likely to be highly sought-after by authorities with malign intent.In reality, the security experts admit, it is incredibly difficult to catch the culprits of increasingly-sophisticated cyber attacks. Traditional security technology, such as anti-virus software and firewalls, offer little defence to the determined actions of a highly-skilled hacker – particularly when they operate behind the cloak of a rogue state.
Rockstar has finally announced a release date for Grand Theft Auto V, the latest in the company's hugely successful series of gangster adventures. The game will hit Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 consoles on 17 September. Originally, the publisher had mentioned the possibility of a spring release.A messageposted on the company's website states:We know this is about four months later than originally planned and we know that this short delay will come as a disappointment to many of you, but, trust us, it will be worth the extra time. GTAV is a massively ambitious and complex game and it simply needs a little more polish to be of the standard we and, more importantly, you require.Set in the fictional city of Los Santos, a stylised version of Los Angeles, GTA V follows three lead characters as they carry out a series of increasingly audacious heists. The game is the most ambitious project in the long-running series, which has so far sold over 125 million units worldwide. The environment is larger than the previous two titles combined.Alongside the inevitable next installment in the Call of Duty franchise, GTA V is expected to be the biggest video game release of 2013; it is an important title for the industry which has seen retail sales falling over the last year.
Like all the best video games, Tearaway was inspired by messy desks. The team at Media Molecule, the creators of the wonderful LittleBigPlanet titles, were brainstorming ideas for a new project when they noticed their Guildford office was drowning in paper. There were huge piles of the stuff, teetering everywhere, on every work space, from every drawer; it was omnipresent. And being a creative bunch, interested in the possibilities of everyday objects, they started prototyping games set in a papery world. The result is Tearaway.Exhibiting the studio's familiar handicraft charm, the game puts you in control of Iota, a cute delivery boy who must traverse a vast paper world in order to deliver a message to the player. There's a linear story with lots of puzzles to solve and enemies to avoid, but the landscape often opens up into sandbox-style areas where players can explore and experiment. What happens if you clamber up that giant plant, or chuck a screwed-up paper ball into one of those nets? You get time and space to find out.It is also a world of physical forces. Winds will often blow platforms and objects along; there's even an accordion that Iota can pick up and squeeze, sending out a gust of air that affects the world in useful ways. There are glue pathways that allow the character to walk gingerly up walls and over ceilings.  Everything is reactive to you and to Iota.Or, indeed, to you and Atoi. Media Molecule has just revealed that there will be an alternative female lead character (her name is French for 'to you', but also Iota backwards), who can be selected instead. While the game is the same whichever you go for, the body language of the two characters is subtly different, with Atoi more demonstrative to the player. They're both adorable, though, with teeny paper-thin bodies and large envelope heads – a design that evolved over several weeks of prototyping and modelling.This wall of the Media Molecule office is filled with early designs for the character who would go on to become IotaToday, Media Molecule is showing off a new level of the game,Sogport, an isolated sea port, populated by fishermen, and hugely inspired by folk tales and sailor songs. The area is surrounded by a toxic gluey ocean, and the landscape takes in both the fishing village and a dense forest, filled with mythical monsters known as wendigos, that stomp about flailing their paper arms. It turns out these fierce giants love eating pearls so a key element of exploration is ensuring you always have one or two precious stones to lob at monsters.One big theme of the project is, as lead designer Rex Crowle puts it "the mad intersection between the game world and the real world". With Tearaway, the player is more of a benevolent god than a gamer; a distant yet definable presence in the virtual environment. In certain sections, you can press the Vita's rear touch pad to 'tear' through the landscape with your fingers; on screen, graphical representations of your digits pop out, reacting to your movements (these can even be modified to match your own skin tone). You can then herd baddies away from Iota, or move obstacles. Most objects are reactive to touch – if Iota steps on a tuft of grass it collapses to the ground, if the player touches the rear pad when Iota is on a trampoline, it bounces him up to a higher level. I love the way even the ground is made of folded paper and cardboard, crumpling slightly under every footstep.The sense of interplay between reality and the game extends to the game's clever 'trophy' system. After each stage, players are able to download a new paper model to make and display, a physical representation of their journey through the game. "This really completed the loop while we were developing the project," says Crowle. "A lot of the concepts are things that one of us had made on the crafting mat; we'd learn from that and build a version in our editor and then it came alive in Tearaway. And it's kind of cool that later, it will come out of the game and end up back on a crafting mat where it all began."Indeed, everything in the game is about 'feel' and texture rather than merely touch. The world not only looks as though it is crafted from real paper objects, the engine actually renders all shapes in the game as actual craft plans; if you see a house, you'll notice it has little tabs and folds – if it were flattened out, it would look like a paper model, ready to be constructed. Interestingly, there are almost no texture maps; everything is built out of polygons, giving a rich geometric environment.As in LittleBigPlanet, there is customisation, too. Players will be able to take photos and apply them as textures to certain locations and creatures, Iota and Atoi can also be personalised. But in a sense this whole world feels malleable. "I wanted to make something that felt at home in your hands, that was tactile, but also personal to you," says Crowle. "I wanted there to be a relationship between the you inside the game and the you outside. We latched on to paper as a material that bound those things together."The Media Molecule craft table, complete with a papercraft Vita!To accentuate the papery feel, Media Molecule artist, Stefan Kamoda, has written a special plug-in for the commonly used design package 3D Studio Max. "It was a challenge to get the right sort of animation out of the package," he says. "Max is good at doing curves and it's good at doing traditional joints that bends in the middle, but combining those two is quite tough – we've had to write a lot of custom software." The new setup allows the art team to create paper objects that flutter, bend and fold in naturalistic ways, emphasising this sense of a living, handicraft world. The animation cycle is then programmed to miss out every other frame so that there's a slightly juddering stop-frame look.As with LittleBigPlanet, there's a distinct feel, an atmosphere ven, of 70s children's television; the handicraft worlds of Oliver Postgate, the delicate, colourful worlds of Trumpton and Camberwick Green."I think there's a link with Fingermouse," says Crowle. "One of the initial prototypes we made was more about dressing up your finger as a character in the game. We got some interesting stuff out of that but we felt you couldn't play the whole game via the rear touch."Beyond that, is the influence of folk tales, poems and music. The world in Tearaway has its own culture, it's own mythology and, even its own authentic alphabet that players can decipher. This will all be accompanied by a folk soundtrack overseen by audio director Kenny Young, who has been writing his own sailor songs for the game's trailers. Young's approach speaks volumes about Media Molecule and its approach to design – a wonderfully inclusive amalgam of traditional crafts and modern technology. This seems to be a place where games come out of a love of creating stuff rather than a need to produce content. "We haven't nailed down all the gameplay - it's still evolving," admits technical director David Smith while showing me the game. "If you'd looked at a build a week ago you'd have seen quite a few differences to what we have now. We're still experimenting... still having fun."There are very few studios that I come to visit and then leave wishing I could work there. Despite those piles of paper, this is one of them.• Tearaway is launching on the PlayStation Vita in autumn.
The annual gathering of Apple devotees known asMacworldopens in San Francisco on Thursday, but instead of fanfare there is anxiety that the tech giant may be losing its flair for innovation.Doubts about Apple's continued ability to astonish and delight with bold new products hang over the thousands of suppliers, designers and enthusiasts who are more accustomed to celebrating the company."There is real concern Apple will turn into a big, unexciting technology company like IBM and put out iterative products rather than revolutionary products," said Seth Weintraub, a blogger and analyst with9to5mac.com. "It's a valid concern."Steve Jobs, the co-founder who died of pancreatic cancer last year, drove Apple's relentless innovation and perfectionism, said Weintraub. "I don't know that the rest of the crew can do that."Coming in the wake of a diving share price and other bad news, the four-day conference, now known as Macworld/iWorld, will showcase new apps, gadgets and services to industry professionals and ordinary members of the public at the Moscone centre in downtown San Francisco. It will kick off with Hollywood glitz in the form ofAshton Kutcher and the makers of the biopic Jobs,which recently premiered at the Sundance film festival. Kutcher, who was hospitalised after emulating Jobs's fruitarian diet, will discuss the movie with his co-star Josh Gad, who plays Steve Wozniak, Apple's other co-founder.Later on Thursday the rapper, musician and technology investor will.i.am will discuss creativity and gadgets with Intel's futurist Brian David Johnson.Apple, which is based an hour away at Cupertino, stopped participating in the show in 2009, apparently to escape the ritual hype and to control the timing of big announcements. Suppliers and app creators have tried to fill the gap but veterans say the show, which started in 1985, has lost much of its buzz.Apple aficionados worry more about the company itself losing its buzz. Recently it has been making headlines for the wrong reasons. Tuesday's share price languished at $458, a 35% plunge since September which has let Exxon power past Apple as the world's biggest company. The disastrous introduction of a new Maps app triggered the rout.Lukewarm quarterly earnings last week and revelations regarding the use of child labour in China did not help. Investors worry the tablet and phone market is saturated and that there are no zinger new products cooking in the labs at Cupertino.Weintraub said a greater concern than share price, which could prove a confected yo-yo, is the sense of a company tweaking rather than inventing. "Google is doing all these things, every few weeks something new, it's wow, wow, wow. But with Apple it's maybe every few months."Heidi Moore, the Guardian's US finance editor,has warnedthat Apple needs to dazzle but is thinking small and shallow. "For Apple to be cool again," she wrote, "it has to admit that it is in danger of becoming uncool."Optimists note the company remains immensely profitable – it made $54bn in three months and has more than $130bn sitting in hedge funds – and could yet shake up the market with mooted innovations involving TVs, watches and wearable computers.The faithful gathered in San Francisco will spend much of the week speculating about those long-rumoured products and trying out the latest spin-off products. Workers were putting finishing touches on Wednesday night to exhibition booths which will display products and services marrying iOS technology to art, business, design, photography and music."I have to say that this tool is awesome," said Jenna Williamson, part of a team from the company Dreamwalk which has createdJam for iPhone. The app lets you sing an original song into your phone and no matter how squawky or out of tune it is turned seconds later into an "original musical masterpiece". You select the musical style and tempo and the app does the rest, detecting and improving vocal pitch, musical key and song structure. Since its launch two weeks ago it has attracted almost 250,000 users.Another product, the CameraMator, tethers cameras and phone cameras to iPads, providing a clearer image of the subject. It also lets you control a camera from your iPad, should the camera be beyond your reach. "Professional photographers and location producers will find this very useful," said Usman Rashid, an engineer with the Sanho Corporation which developed it.Creators will also give courses in "iPhoneography", showing how you can make art and movies with a phone. "If you're wondering, an iPhoneographer is a person with an iPhone and above average self confidence,"noted one observer.
I want to travel to other countries, buying sim cards for each one. Which phone should I get?KindratyshynDifferent countries use different mobile phone systems, and almost always use more than one waveband. However, GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications, originally Groupe Spécial Mobile) is by far the most common, and has about 85% of the global market.GSM is a second generation (2G) system, because the first generation of mobile phones used analogue systems.GSM was adopted by the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT) and became the standard for Europe.Qualcomm's CDMA– used by Verizon and Sprint – was already running in the USA, but carriers such as AT&amp;T and T-Mobile have now moved to GSM. You can probably get a GSM signal in most if not all US cities.Japan also used its own system, developed by NTT, the national phone company. The NTT DoCoMo standard is not used anywhere else. Today, however, you can use third-generation (3G) GSM in Japan and South Korea.GSM networks run at different wireless frequencies, and almost all countries have two. This led to the popularity of dual-band phones. In Europe, the two bands are 900 and 1800MHz, whereas the USA (and a couple of other countries) use 850 and 1900. Covering all four frequencies requires a quad-band phone.3G is more correctly called UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) and it is supposed to use the 2100 waveband. Not every carrier complies. The American government was already using this frequency, so some carriers resorted to alternatives. For example, Cingular's 3G network uses 850 and 1900, and T-Mobile has used 1900 and 2100. It means some 3G phones will not work with some American 3G networks, which a problem for Apple iPhones.At the moment, many carriers are marketing fourth generation systems, which may use either WiMax or, more commonly, a version of LTE (Long Term Evolution). However, 4G is more of a marketing term than a technical term, and it looks like being an even bigger mess than 3G. It's OK as a local system, if you need the extra speed and are willing to pay the price, but I wouldn't recommend it for roaming.However, I do recommend getting a phone that includes Wi-Fi, so you can use Skype and other internet services from free hot-spots. This is even cheaper than using a local sim.To sum up, you should buy a quad-band GSM phone that supports 3G UMTS 2100 (Band 1) as a minimum. If you compare specifications, you will find some 3G phones also offer UMTS on other bands including what the Americans call Band II (1900), Band IV (1700 or AWS), and Band V (850). Yes, this is crazy.Before you buy a phone for roaming, check the specification very carefully. What looks like the same model phone may be designed for use in a particular country or even by a particular carrier. In fact, it's safer not to buy a carrier-branded phone at all, as these are usually locked to the carrier that has subsidised the selling price. A locked phone won't necessarily work with a different sim card.Sim cardsAll GSM mobiles must have a sim card, and they now come in three different sizes. These are the standard mini-sim (25 x 15mm), the micro-sim (15 x 12mm), and the nano-sim (12.3 x 8.8mm) used in the Apple iPhone 5. (Mini-sims are called sims for short, because nobody remembers the original credit card-sized version.)When buying a phone for roaming, it's much better to go for the standard mini-sim. You should definitely not buy one that uses a nano-sim at the moment. Standard mini-sim cards are instantly available in phone shops and at many airports. You have less chance of getting a micro-sim, and almost no chance of getting a nano-sim.You can use a standard mini-sim in a micro-sim phone by cutting it down, preferably using a punch, but this requires extra effort and is not guaranteed to work. While most carriers will swap a standard sim for a micro-sim, they usually do it by post. This is not much use if you are in a foreign country and need to make calls in a hurry.You can often use a micro-sim card in a phone that takes standard mini-sim cards by slotting it into a small plastic carrier. However, this does not work with phones that have push-in sim slots, such as the Nokia N8 and Samsung Galaxy Note. SeeThe Curse of Micro SIM Adaptersat All About Symbian for photos and gory details.In some phones, the sim is stowed under the battery, so it is inconvenient to change. It usually means you have to re-enter the date and time as well. Slots are handier, and some Nokia phones have an Easy Swap system that allows you to swap sims without turning off the phone.Dual simsSome phones can also take two sims at the same time, so you can have one for work and one for personal use. This would be particularly handy for roaming. There are not many mainstream examples, but theSamsung Galaxy S Duos S7562is a top-brand Android 4 smartphone that should do the job for a reasonable price. Otherwise, China's Huawei is a major mobile phone supplier with alarge selectionof dual-sim mobiles.You could also look at the Free Your Mobile website, which sells more than a dozen models on itsAll dual sim mobile phonespage.Free Your Mobile has a £199.99 Android touch-screen phone that it describes asby far the best selling and performing Android dual sim phone currently on the market, without formally giving it a name. However, it looks like theChinavasion CVFD-M306 (£107.95), which is also widely available as the HDMI Droid.I've not actually seen or tried one, but it's a quad-band 3G phone. You have to take the back off the HDMI Droid to get to the two sims, which sit side by side. At least they are not underneath the battery.There are loads of similar4.3inand3.5inscreen dual-sim phones available from Alibaba.com and thedropshipperswho serve an army of eBay sellers and small traders, as well as some more adventurous consumers.Dropshippers of tech products may be based in Hong Kong, and sell cheap products sourced from mainland China. Quality is not guaranteed, you may not get much if any after-sales service, and the ultimate price can be inflated by customs charges, so "buyer beware". You can pick up bargains; you can also get scammed. If you use Western Union to send money to Shenzhen, I don't see how you could get it back.One final thought. A friend who is a permanent traveller (has a job on a large yacht) says she tries to buy data-only sims for roaming, and then makes phone calls using Skype. There's no point in having dozens of voice numbers that rarely work, is there?
The House of Dyson – the very same who brought us thebagless vacuum cleaner,airblade hand-dryer,and more recently theburn-free heater– is set to unveil their latest invention.Previous announcements have been so hush-hush those involved have had to sign acontractual agreement not to tell their spouse. But the public speculation also fuels the excitement and sense of pride for having a world renowned inventing machine on our doorstep.Here's what we know so far (thanks tostee33below the line):So while our intrepid reporters hang outside Dyson HQ in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, trying to get a glimpse of the secrets which may lie inside, we knew our expert readers would be on the case and keen to help.Tell us what you think James Dyson and his team have got in store – and what invention would you most like to see? Leave a comment in the thread below.
Most companies would struggle when faced with a rapidly declining market share, but not BlackBerry. It may be losing customers to Apple and Samsung all over the place, but it knows exactly how to reel them all back in – by unveiling Alicia Keys asits new creative director.It's a genius move. Nobody understands BlackBerries like Alicia Keys does. In retrospect, it's clear that most of her songs were really about smartphones all along, If I Ain't Got You was about the time she lost her BlackBerry and had to temporarily make do with a substandard Nokia, for example, and Girl On Fire was about the time she made the regrettable decision to buy a Kindle tablet instead of a BlackBerry Playbook. Surely Alicia Keys will lead BlackBerry into a brave new future; a future where all the ringtones sound like generic R&amp;B and Alicia Keys has to be careful not to let anyone photograph her using an iPhone.Will.i.am in his role as Intel's director of creative innovation. Photograph: Bloomberg via Getty ImagesBut BlackBerry isn't the first tech company to draft in a celebrity to beef up its credibility. Three years ago, Lady Gaga was named as thecreative director of Polaroid. She even designed a printer for the company. Admittedly it couldn't have looked any more generic if it tried, and people only buy Polaroids ironically now, but it's the thought that counts. Two years ago, Will.i.am from the Black Eyed Peas was named as thedirector of creative innovation at Intel; a move that suggested a horrible future where one day he'd mumble disinterestedly over a loop of the company's jingle for three minutes and release it as another godawful single.Jessica Alba introduces another important Windows 8 announcement to a room of spellbound tech journos. Photograph: Stephen Lam/Getty ImagesSimilarly, Microsoft draftedJessica Alba in to launch Windows 8last year. This was a step down from what the norm – she wasn't made a creative director of anything, not even of the box that Windows 8 phones came in – but on the plus side she gave the photographers something other than banks of worried-looking tech journalists to take pictures of.Now we just have to wait and see whether Alicia Keys can live up to her creative-directing peers. If she can, who knows, that double concept R&amp;B album about the annoying flashing red light in the corner of her BlackBerry might finally become a reality.It's obvious that this sort of arrangement has a mutual benefit - the companies know that kids will react more strongly to, say, Lady Gaga than a balding divisional conglomerate head, and the celebrities can flatter themselves to think that they're anything other than a last-ditch attempt to save a firm from bankruptcy. It's a win-win for everybody, especially people who enjoy watching Alicia Keys hold a telephone that she doesn't really seem to care about very much.
Thorsten Heins, chief of the now-renamed BlackBerry, launched the BB10 software and Z10 touchscreen handset to a world audience, in a move widely seen as BlackBerry's last roll of the dice: it's this or a slow slide to invisibility. But do reviewers think that it has done enough?Walt Mossberg at the Wall Street JournalMossberg says "BlackBerry reinvents itself to compete with all-touch smartphones":Its user interface is so different that it will seem foreign to longtime BlackBerry users. And the first phone to use it, the Z10, looks much more like its rivals than like traditional BlackBerrys.He points to the lack of a cloud-based ecosystem for storing and sharing files (compared to Google Drive or Apple's iCloud) - though Dropbox is available. But he's a fan of the typing:The Z10 keyboard is the best and fastest out-of-the-box virtual keyboard I've used. Master BlackBerry thumb typists might not find it as fast as the traditional physical keyboard, but, for a one-finger typist like me, it was faster and more accurate than either the native keyboards on the iPhone or Android. This is partly because it features predictive typing. It displays words that are likely to come next right above the rows of letters, and lets you flick these words upward into the text you're composing. It learns what mistakes you typically make in hitting letters, and adjusts. And it learns words and abbreviations you frequently use, even proper names.His conclusion:I believe it has a chance of getting RIM back into the game, if the company can attract a lot more apps.David Pogue at the New York TimesPogue says it's "lovely, fast and efficient, bristling with fresh, useful ideas". He thinks the swipe-up-to-unlock gesture is "fast and cool" and points to the keyboard's predictive word system as a standout feature. BBM with video, BlackBerry Balance (to split personal/work identities), NFC to send photos or songs or URLs to another BB10 owner.He points though to "the usual achilles heel for a new type of smartphone":the apps. Who could catch up with the 750,000 apps available for iPhone or Android? (The BlackBerry Z10 doesn't run older BlackBerry apps.)His conclusion?So then, is the delightful BlackBerry Z10 enough to save its company?Honestly? It could go either way. But this much is clear: BlackBerry is no longer an incompetent mess — and its doom is no longer assured.Joshua Topolsky at The VergeTopolsky wonders if BB10 is "a new life, or life support?" (It feels like he missed – or intentionally avoided – a Star Wars Episode 4 reference there.)The Z10 is a fine, handsome phone. It's well made (in Mexico by the way, and some will be made in Canada), feels solid in your hand, and is inoffensive enough in its design that it won't really shock anyone. On the other hand, it won't necessarily draw a lot of attention either, and if BlackBerry wants to spark some kind of excitement about its new hardware design, this device won't get the job done.. Call quality and audio output were excellent, and data connectivity still "at the top of the game".But he thought the battery life "deeply" disappointing - that it couldn't make it through a workday without a recharge. (Though in that, it's in the same place as most touchscreen phones.) He's unimpressed by the multitasking ("once you get to app nine [being open] your old apps are dismissed unceremoniously." Of the BlackBerry Hub - "a sort of unified inbox for everything" - he thinks "there's a lot about the execution that doesn't work":Compared with how iOS and Android handle notifications, the Z10 felt clunkier and more confusing in some ways. I would rather have a representation of a notification that is abstracted from the actual message, because that allows me to dismiss the transitory notices without having to necessarily deal with the content itself.As for apps …BlackBerry says that it's launching the Z10 and BlackBerry 10 with about 70,000 apps. I know what you're thinking: that's a lot of apps to come with out of the gate. Unfortunately, while testing the device I felt like it was really something like 69,000 really mediocre (or just plain bad) applications.His conclusion (along with a mark of 7/10):The problem with the Z10 is that it doesn't necessarily do anything better than any of its competition. Sure, there are arguments that could be made about how it handles messages or the particulars of its camera, but no one could argue that there's a "killer app" here.Matt Warman at the TelegraphWarman says it'sa phone buckling under expectations"that must surpass every expectation and achieve things that no user even contemplated a mobile phone could do." He zeroes in on BlackBerry Balance, which lets companies using the new BES software split the phone into "personal" and "work" spaces:if you work for a company that isn't terribly forward-thinking, you may soon find they're offering you a new BlackBerry. But if you work for a firm that cares whether you get to work on time and thinks it might be useful that there's a National Rail app with train times on your phone, you may not.He concludes that:It will find its corporate niche, and "too little too late" is too harsh. But it's not quite enough, not quite soon enough.Stuart Miles at Pocket-LintMiles isn't a BlackBerry user, but like everyone, knows BB7's strengths and weaknesses. The Z10 demands to be taken on its own terms:while there isn't any lag in the performance of the gestures, it's not overly fast either.You feel that it says, this is the speed you should be working at, rather than you ever thinking it's going too fast. If that sounds disappointing, it shouldn't. The OS is responsive, but if you've ever used an Android device, you'll know that the ability to scroll through your home screens is slowed only by how fast you can swipe with your finger and that isn't the case here.Like Topolsky, he wasn't impressed by the battery life - "we've struggled to get through till 6pm from an 8am start. It's not helped by the fact that there isn't an easy way to see how much battery you have left aside from a small icon in the top left of the screen. There is no percentage marker, no time indicator, just a guess at how much is left."He points out that the predictive text is powered by the British company SwiftKey - "based on the time we've spent with it so far, we love the keyboard, though suspect Android users will get something equally as powerful in the next iteration of SwiftKey".Overall?we can't help feeling that RIM has done what it has always done: made an amazing smartphone for its customers and no one else. That's fine when RIM ruled the roost and it had lots of customers, but there is nothing overly amazing here that is going to woo back Android or iPhone users who are disgruntled.Those disappointed with the Android experience are likely to go iPhone or Nokia's Window Phone 8. BlackBerry is having to fight a battle on many fronts and we're just not sure this is the device to give them the power to survive that fight.The GuardianAnd to wrap up: theGuardian's video review of the Z10 running BB10- andmy own search for the USP(unique selling point), of which I decided:given the lack of compelling apps, it's not likely to tempt the not-yet-smartphone users, nor to tempt back already defected users.It seems that BlackBerry's uphill struggle - while not yet Sisyphean - is to go on.
Facebook beat Wall Street's expectations on Wednesday, announcing fourth-quarter earnings of $64m (£40.5m) on revenues up 40% to $1.59bn, and announced that mobile revenue had doubled and mobile users exceeded desktop ones. But its shares slid in after-hours trading.The company famously founded in a Harvard dormitory room by Mark Zuckerberg said mobile revenue jumped, bringing in 23% of advertising revenue, compared with 14% in the third quarter.The company could point to a transformation in the profile of its users, with the number accessing the social network from mobile devices each day for the first time exceeding those on desktop machines. Daily active users on mobiles during December hit 680m out of the 1.06bn monthly users, compared with 618m for PCs."In 2012, we connected over a billion people and became a mobile company," said chief executive Zuckerberg.Even the shares' $31.40 closing price was well below the$42 at which the company floated in May. "Mobile revenue was expected to be a little higher," Aaron Kessler, an analyst with Raymond James, told Reuters. He was looking for mobile to account for 25% of total ad revenue. "Overall, solid quarter but maybe high expectations going into the quarter," he said.Google and Facebook are in a race to make money from mobile as more people use smartphones and tablets to connect. Google has had the better of it, able to use its maps and location data from Android smartphones to  target ads. But Facebook is expanding its efforts there. Zuckerberg said after the results came out that the shift to mobile "is challenging for us to navigate … We started off the year with apps that weren't as high-quality as we would have wanted. Today there's no argument. Facebook is a mobile company."He also suggested that the new Graph Search feature – allowing Facebook users find things such as restaurants or airlines that their friends, or friends of friends, like – could "potentially turn into a meaningful business for us", hinting at a challenge to Google.But Brian Wieser, of Pivotal Research Group, said higher mobile revenues brought their own problems: "Growth in mobile ad sales leads to rising expenses, given the inherent complexity and labour involved in managing these operations. It appears that Facebook's stellar fourth-quarter growth in mobile advertising may be proving this, as the company's solid revenue results were partially offset by a falling margin."Benedict Evans, telecoms and technology analyst for Enders Analysis, said of the rapid increase in mobile revenue from quarter to quarter: "There's a pretty clear story there."
Asked repeatedly what the company behind the BlackBerry has learned from the iPhone, its UK managing director struggled to answer. "It's unique," said Stephen Bates, reassuring listenersin a stilted appearance on BBC Radio Five Live. "We have a unique proposition."The USP – unique selling point – is what every technology marketer strives to identify to ensnare the would-be buyer. For the BlackBerry brand, and the new all-touchscreen Z10, and keyboard-toting Q10, there is indeed a USP. But it's very well hidden. And it will cost you.BlackBerry's problem is that it has to court three groups. First there are the existing corporate and consumer users who remain loyal but might be looking at defecting to rival platforms: Google's Android; Apple's iOS; and Microsoft's Windows Phone. Second are those who have already defected, whom it badly needs to win back. And third are the not-yet-smartphone users, the people still carrying around ageing Nokias that do calls and texts, but not the internet. With the touchscreen Z10 and BB10 in general, BlackBerry is really chasing the first two groups. In particular it is trying to reclaim its former status as the most secure and easy way to get the internet – one which has been taken, in many ways, by the iPhone, and to a lesser extent by Android.But "unique"? The Z10 and BB10 are different, certainly, but once you get past the main difference – that you unlock the phone by swiping up, and rather than pressing a real or virtual home button to get to your main screen you swipe up again – you're left with a familiar set-up. There is a grid of icons – just like iOS, Android and Palm – and a People Hub pulling together your texts, emails, Twitter responses, and BlackBerry messenger messages – like Windows Phone. It's not unique so much as reordered. So where is the USP? Buried deep inside, and only if you are working for a company that pays for the new BlackBerry Enterprise Server software. BB10 offers corporate users a feature called BlackBerry Balance. Swipe upwards from the middle of a screen, and you flip from your personal phone – with your Angry Birds and other apps – over to the corporate space, whose content your company decides. You can't copy from one to the other because the firewall is total. It's very neat, and for the properly paranoid corporate IT chiefs it will be the answer to a prayer. The Q10, with its keyboard, will probably fit in nicely again.For the average consumer, though, the Z10 is just another black mirror when locked and just another touchscreen phone when unlocked. The Q10 has a small screen, so won't be such a consumer hit. Lots of apps? Well, quite a few and some of them such as Twitter show the haste with which they're been ported over from Android versions. A big selection of films and music? Yes, but the others have that too. Maps, search, some voice control – yes, yes, yes. None of those is a USP, though. Everyone has them now.I tried the Z10 for about five days ahead of the launch, and generally liked its style – though the upwards swipes can be hard to do accurately. It's tidy, clearly thought out and smooth. But given the lack of compelling apps, it's not likely to tempt the not-yet-smartphone users, nor to tempt back already defected users. That leaves the corporates who are still with it, and the 79 million consumers – it was 80 million until December – around the world who use it. Even on Wednesday I heard of a company that is considering not using BlackBerrys any more because of fears the company might implode during the two-year contract. The challenge for BlackBerry's management is to keep the ship steady. And that challenge is not unique in the smartphone market.• This article was amended on 31 January 2013 because the original referred to the company that makes BlackBerry smartphones as RIM. Research in Motion rebranded itself as BlackBerry on 30 January 2013.
Here we are in Thursday, and tonight I'm hoping to watch a Blu-ray double bill of Cabin in the Woods and The Raid. How about you?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPhilips Exits Consumer Electronics - The Source - WSJPhilips Electronics has drawn a line under its long history as a consumer-electronics company after failing to compete successfully with the likes of Apple, Samsung Electronics and Sony in the fast-moving industry.Philips said Tuesday it has sold the remnants of its once-core business to Japan's Funai Electric Co. as the Dutch group reported a steeper net loss in the fourth quarter, weighed down by a restructuring charge and a fine for price fixing.Philips, which has become primarily a maker of medical equipment and lighting products, has sold the audio, video, multimedia and accessories activities to the Japanese consumer electronics company for the almost token sum of EUR150m ($201.8m) in cash and a brand-license fee.Utterly gobsmacking. Philips, inventor of the compact cassette, co-inventor (with Sony) of the CD, and that's it.Android botnet infects 1M+ phones in China &gt;&gt; threatpostA couple of weeks old, but:Up to a million Android users in China could be part of a large mobile botnet according to research unveiled by Kingsoft Security, a Hong Kong-based security company, this week.The botnet has spread across phones running the Android operating system via Android.Troj.mdk, a Trojan that researchers said exists in upwards of 7,000 applications available in third-party app stores, including the popular Temple Run and Fishing Joy games.According to reports, the strain of malware was discovered in 2011 but recent analysis has shown the botnet has ramped up infection rates and at this point might have infected one million smartphones.Windows 8 failure could set off tech industry chain reaction &gt;&gt; Windows IT ProPaul Thurrott:There hasn't been much talk about this yet, because the reactions are fairly predictable, but I see Windows 8 as Microsoft's Hail Mary pass. If Windows 8 doesn't truly succeed (i.e., it achieves just Vista-level sales and customer engagement), the company might never fully recover. The failure of Windows Vista already knocked the stuffing out of Microsoft, leading to the complete upheaval of the Windows Division, and here they are making a big bet again, far earlier than I ever thought was possible. What if this one doesn't work? What if users don't embrace this weird dual-usage model with both tablet-friendly and traditional UIs? What if the world just passes them by?Intriguing way to set out the alternatives.Ridiculous: 64GB Surface Pro to only include 23GB of usable space &gt;&gt; OwenedOwen Williams:The problem I have with this is that it is blatantly deceptive. Consumers are accustomed to tablets being marketed like the iPad, where if you buy a 64GB iPad, you actually get around that much space. This isn't like the PC market, where a machine ships with 95% usable of a 500GB drive because it's only a drop in the bucket.By advertising a device that has "64GB of storage" but only actually has 23GB, Microsoft is not only setting themselves up to disappoint, they're actively deceiving users. 23GB is only 35% of the total usable space. It's grossly misleading, even if it is a "full PC" product, it's in a category that markets itself very differently.Goodbye Research In Motion, hello BlackBerry &gt;&gt; CITEworldResearch In Motion is changing its name to BlackBerry, a move it hopes will signify a fresh start for the company.The surprise name change, which takes effect immediately, was announced by CEO Thorsten Heins at an event in New York to launch the company's new BlackBerry 10 operating system and smartphones."Our customers use the BlackBerry, our employees work for BlackBerry, and our shareholders are owners of BlackBerry. From today on, we are BlackBerry everywhere in the world," he said at the event, which was broadcast.Compare Apple Computer changing its name to Apple Inc with the launch of the iPhone. Any other tech name changes spring to mind?iPhone users rack up the highest carrier bills &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAccording to new data shared with AllThingsD by Consumer Intelligence Research Partners (CIRP), the average monthly carrier bill of the typical iPhone user is the highest in the smartphone market. iPhone owners spend more on wireless fees than owners of any other handset, be they Android, BlackBerry or Windows Phone.&lt;p: Almost 60% of the iPhone users CIRP polled during October-December 2012 spent more than $100 per month on their wireless plan, with 10% spending $200 or more. Just 6% spent $50 or less; for Android users in that category, the percentage was double. And only 53% of Android users fell into the "over $100 per month" category, with 7% landing in the "over $200 per month" category.The very clear message from this research: Americans spend insane amounts of money on mobile plans.Microsoft's Steve Ballmer does not fear Dropbox or an Office-less IPad &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGood interview on Bloomberg BusinessWeek with Steve Ballmer, including this gem:Q: You guys face the huge challenge of trying to advance a product on which about 1 billion people rely. You want to modernize it, but you don't want to break anything that people need. Partly as a result of this, Microsoft is coming to the cloud late and now going up against a company like Dropbox that already has 100 million users.Ballmer: Well, you've got to remember, 100 million sounds like a pretty small number to me, actually. We've got a lot more Office users. And actually if you even want to go to the cloud, we have a lot of Hotmail and SkyDrive users. I'm not beating on Dropbox. They're a fine little startup and that's great.100 million makes you a little startup? OK. He's then asked about Yammer (6m) which Microsoft bought for $1.2bn. And he also deals with the question of Office for iPad. Well, sort of.Exclusive: Nest has raised another $80M, now shipping 40K+ thermostats a month &gt;&gt; GigaomSmart thermostat startup Nest has closed on a round of $80 million, we've learned, and the funding was done at a post money valuation of $800 million. Google Ventures led the round, and Venrock participated as a new investor, according to our sources. Nest is currently listed on Venrock's site.The company has raised this round to continue its growth; it's now shipping 40,000 to 50,000 of its learning thermostats per month. If the company's growth continues at this current rate, Nest could reach a shipment rate of 1 million thermostats per year by the summer, say our sources. Note, that's shipments, not sales, though the figures are clearly closely related...The thermostat, which costs $250, learns its owner's behavior and uses smart algorithms to shave off 20% to 30% of energy used for heating and cooling.Live: Amazon misses estimates on earnings, revenue and guidance &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAmazon reported revenue and earnings that were below Wall Street's printed expectations, but the stock responded by soaring to an all-time high.(The company's profit margin was modestly higher than expected. And the stock is likely benefitting from some short-covering, as Amazon bears panic and cover their bets).Gotta love Amazon. And the stock market. (The "bears", by the way, would have short-sold stock - having sold a ton at a higher price, and promising to buy it back at a lower price; sell high, buy low, make profit. When the stock didn't fall, they had to buy it anyway to cover their debts from "selling" at the higher price.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Here's something that's never really worked: first-person shooters on handheld consoles. Okay, Resistance: Retribution was okay, and some of the Call of Duty and Medal of Honor titles have just about scraped by on PSP and DS. But nothing really memorable, nothing that stood up as something that added to a series.Killzone: Mercenary is aiming to be different. It wants to exist beside its home console brethren as an equal. "The key challenge was, can we make a true Killzone game on a handheld? Is that possible?" says Hermen Hulst, co-founder of Guerrilla, the Dutch studio behind the benchmark PlayStation shooter series. "You want a console-grade experience but also you want a bespoke game designed for the platform. Mercenary is very high-paced, it's very chaotic. That's what we aimed for. I think that's working out okay!"Set in and around the time period of Killzones 1 and 2, Mercenary follows Arran Danner, an ex-UCN solder now carrying out paid missions for the Phantom Talon Corp. Crucially, he doesn't care what side he works for as long as he gets the cash, so the campaign mode will feature missions where you're fighting alongside the glowy-eyed Helghast – the baddies of the Killzone series. From this standpoint however, Danner will apparently discover some rather uncomfortable truths about this intergalactic war and the alleged good guys, the ISA.The game has been built around the Killzone 3 engine, and it seems few graphical concessions have been made in the change to an ostensibly less powerful platform. "We were quite surprised," says Thomas Jones, the art director at Guerrilla Cambridge where much of the work is being done on Mercenary. "The Vita screen is so sharp and the fidelity is really high. One of the mistakes we made when we started was to down-rez everything too much. We realised, actually, we're going to have to put more polys and textures back in. Obviously we had to take into account the smaller characters, making sure they stand out on the smaller screen, particularly in multiplayer. But the room is there to cram more in."During a demo session for the game, we start out trying the multiplayer. It's a conventional set-up offering six maps and three modes. We're in Guerrilla Warfare mode, which is basically Team Deathmatch. Up to eight players can take part at once, which is definitely enough for the smaller display, but not too few to leave you wandering the locations looking for action. The demo map is Shoreline, a small network of caves and tunnels, opening out onto a cliff edge with narrow walkways and a guard tower.There are lots of little alcoves to hide in, but really this is a circuit-based run-and-gun warzone and its fun, highly competitive stuff. Landscapes have plenty of detail, the framerate feels smooth, and firefights are super-intense, perhaps because the handheld screen makes everything feel more compact and urgent. Whatever, it works.At the outset, players are offered a series of class set-ups – a familiar range of assault, sniper and heavy gunner roles, all customisable. During the action there are also regular care package, sorry, 'Van-Guard' drops, which supply the first player to reach them with a special weapon for a limited time. Among the armoury is the Sky Fury, a targeted air strike, and the Porcupine, a rocket launcher which locks on to targets – you can then tap the screen to take them out. My favourite though is the Mantis, a remote control drone that can sneak up on players and stab them in the neck. Lovely.It's not the only new system that will remind gamers of other titles. Mercenary also introduces Valour cards, effectively large floating playing card icons dropped by each player when they die. The suit represents the player's class and load-outs, while the rank from two to ace represents where they sit on the leaderboards. Picking up a card earns you cash and later there are large bonuses for accruing a complete suit, or a whole pack of 52. Interestingly, the value of multiplayer victories degrades over time so the leaderboards are dynamic, giving more players the chance to be king-of-the-hill for a week or so, rather than allowing one super player to get to the top and stay there. Match stats and heat maps of recent encounters will also be available, and any cash earned in multiplayer can be used in the the campaign – and vice-versa. Guerrilla is also using the Vita Party app to allow friends to quickly find each other and set up online fights.As you'd expect from a console loaded with input options, the controls feel good; certainly good enough for a handheld platform. The two analogue sticks give you the traditional console FPS experience, and while it takes a few matches to get used to the very fine sensitivity, you're soon using the Vita layout like a Dual Shock pounding through landscapes, checking corners, swirling to catch players sneaking up behind.The touchscreen interaction is just right. Getting in close enough for a melee kill brings up an arrow icon on the screen: drag your finger across quickly enough and you'll perform a silent takedown. However, if your intended victim performs the same move quicker, he can parry and counter. It's a bit of a gimmick but it's solidly implemented and not too intrusive.Far better is the use of the rear touchpad to sprint. Double tapping and then keeping a finger on the pad makes your avatar run, and its a seamless experience that frees up the button array for other stuff. The rear pad can also be used to zoom in on your sniper scope, while the tilt controls let you fine tune the aiming; it's a really neat, intuitive option.Elsewhere, the single-player campaign apparently offers around 6-8 hours of gameplay. I tried two missions: Lightning Strike and The Package. In the former, you attack a Helghast ion cannon base and take control of the huge space guns, while the latter has you escorting the son of an important embassador to an extraction point, through waves of enemy troops. I was less convinced by these than by the multiplayer. Robbed of the majesty that comes with a 40-inch display and hi-res textures, the barren wastelands and industrial complexes of the Killzone universe look rather lifeless, and there were too many obvious choke points that had to be cleared of several enemy waves before progress could be made. Also, there was a hacking mini-game. Hacking mini-games are almost universally horrible.There's good stuff though – the AI has been built upon from previous episodes and computer controlled enemies are now really sneaky. They'll flank you, they'll shimmy across the floor to stay out of site, they'll creep up behind you. Piers Jackson, the manager of the Cambridge studio promises a more open structure to many missions. There are glimpses of freedom in Lightning Strike, where larger environments provide a range of alternative routes; Jackson hopes this will lead to more of a sandbox feel with a much more interesting set of foes."One of the features we wanted in Mercenary was the ability to play stealthily, to move through the environment unseen," he explains. "So we've added on systems to the more patrol-orientated gameplay of the enemies: how the AI reacts to bullet fire, to noise in the environment, what happens if they find a corpse, and the search behaviours that come out of that. How they move round the environment to find the player... these are all extensions to the AI system."This unpredictable behaviour adds variety and excitement where the pallid locations and formulaic structure seem to let it down. Still, this is only two missions, and we're yet to scratch the surface of Danners story; certainly The Package hints at some pretty astonishing cyberpunk city environments, with towering buildings and labyrinthine neon-drenched road ways. Plus, there could be some huge surprises to come as we get to see the Helghan side of the conflict.Mercenary then, is already looking impressive. It's fast, it feels robust and it squishes in pretty much everything we expect from a modern shooter. I'm hoping the promise of a very different storyline means we'll get a greater diversity of locations in the campaign, but multiplayer is certainly functioning better than most other handheld shooters.And according to Hulst, this is just the beginning. I ask about the future of the Killzone series, and whether we could perhaps see, say, a Kill Zone 4 that works across console and handheld as a pervasive experience. He doesn't bat the question away quite as quickly as I expected. "From a developer perspective and as a technologist, I think that's hugely exciting. It's also not a trivial undertaking. This game is very much designed as a standalone project, but as a future potential, I'm very open to these ideas. As long as it's done right."But Guerrilla has always been a studio obsessed with the cold hard promise of technology. If it is possible, if it is on PlayStation, it will probably happen here.Killzone: Mercenary is due out on Vita on 17 September in the US and 20 September in the UK.Keith Stuart attended a press trip to Guerrilla's HQ in Amsterdam. Travel and accommodation costs were met by Sony.
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion has been renamed after its most famous product and launched its first true computer phone in a make or break bid to secure its future as an independent company.Amid suggestions it could be a takeover target for rising Chinese PC manufacturer Lenovo, the Canadian company now known as BlackBerry will release its answer to Apple's iPhone in the UK on Thursday. From an event in New York that was beamed to London and six other world cities and attended by RIM's founder Mike Lazaridis and chanteuse Alicia Keys, chief executive Thorsten Heins vowed BlackBerry would "lead the move to mobile computing".In an attempt to turn the tide on the technology revolution that is threatening his company with oblivion, Heins unveiled two handsets – one a pure touchscreen device with no physical keyboard – and the new software interface on which they run. Called BB10, the platform was originally announced in October 2010 but suffered from repeated delays. During that time, BlackBerry's market share collapsed, from 20% three years ago to 3.4% in December, according to researcher Strategy Analytics. More than 90% of smartphones run on either Apple or Android software."Today is not the finish line, it's the starting line," said Heins. "We've seen the industry move from narrow band to broadband, from analogue to digital, and now at RIM we intend to lead the move from mobile communications to mobile computing. We will be a leader in connecting you to your internet of things."The company's shares fell 5% to $15 while he spoke, although progress towards the arrival of BB10 and speculation over a buyout by Lenovo has seen the stock recover from an all time low of just above $6 in September.Sales of personal computers dipped last year for the first time since the dotcom crash, and Lenovo is keen to secure its future by moving into mobile phones, which along with tablets are replacing computers to connect to the internet. BlackBerry's emblematic handset, the keyboard-less Z10, will make its debut in the UK before launching in Canada and other leading markets next month and in the United States in March. It will work on every UK 4G service – the one launched by EE and those coming in May and June from Vodafone, O2 and Three. The second BB10 handset, the Q10, which comes with a keyboard and a touchscreen will be launched later. Crucially, BB10 will have 70,000 apps redesigned to work on the platform. Many popular ones such as Skype, Rovio's Angry Birds games, Facebook, Twitter and even WhatsApp, the rival messenger service to BlackBerry's BBM, are all included.Ebay is conspicuously missing, although a spokesman for the company said its BB10 app would be "coming soon".The reviews from industry watchers were cautious. "Despite a well-designed Blackberry 10 platform, that will certainly attract short-term interest from existing users the company will struggle to appeal to a wider audience and in the long-term will become a niche player in the smartphone market," said Adam Leach at market researcher Ovum.BlackBerry will have to shout loudly to be heard against the multimillion marketing campaign being funded by Microsoft to promote the Windows Phone software used by Nokia and HTC.BB10 faces a double challenge – appealing to consumers who increasingly bring their devices to work and persuading businesses to invest by upgrading their IT systems so that it can run BB10.The company's Business Enterprise Server arm is popular with banks and government departments because it offers secure email by carrying traffic on a network of servers it has built and linked into clients' buildings.It is this network that has also landed the firm in hot water, with a major outage in October 2011 and a number of smaller ones since.BB10's aim is to do away with the "two phones" problem, where customers carry a BlackBerry for work purposes and an Apple or Android phone for private use. Its technology allows company documents, emails and other information to be secured by preventing their transfer into private email accounts, for example.BlackBerry will make its security available to businesses that want to manage devices from other manufacturers, for elements such as pin protection and remote wiping of the contents of lost or stolen phones."We are expecting quite a lot of large corporates to buy small numbers of BB10 devices, get them up and running, test them," said European managing director Stephen Bates. "We see that as a slow burn."Initially, BlackBerry is hoping the bulk of its sales will be to consumers buying their own devices. "We are expecting that market to be very strong."
One of the moments that stood out from theBlackBerry 10 launch– I'm politely trying to forget the chap having his ponytail cut off and Alicia Keys' long-term relationship analogy – was the speed with which BlackBerry's Martyn Mallick moved on from announcing that his company's new OS will have more than 70k apps at launch.Yes, he promised "more apps by far than any first-generation operating system" – 10th, you might argue – but the emphasis quickly shifted to what Mallick described as "top applications"."Yes, we have Skype committed to BlackBerry 10. And yes, we have Amazon Kindle committed to BlackBerry 10. And yes, we have WhatsApp committed to BlackBerry 10. We have SAP committed to BlackBerry 10. And yes, we have Angry Birds committed to BlackBerry 10." he said."We have over 1,000 of those top applications from around the world committed to BlackBerry 10."There was also a swipe at Microsoft: a mention of BlackBerry having more than "46 top applications", which was a reference to Microsoft's claim in October 2012 that its Windows Phone 8 OS had 46 of the top 50 apps on rival platforms (i.e. iOS and Android).But yes, "top applications". A sensible recognition on BlackBerry's part that it's more important to have the high-quality, popular apps that people know than it is to try to get into a how-big-is-your-app-store willy-waving competition with Apple and Google.Most months, I write about 200-240 brand new iOS and Android apps in this blog's Friday roundup posts. That doesn't mean I'm unaware of the fact that many smartphone owners' app lives are focused on 8-10 core apps that they use on a daily or weekly basis.Or, to put it another way: most smartphone owners are blissfully uninterested in the vast majority of the 800k apps apiece on iOS' App Store and Android's Google Play.Now, this isn't to deny that for iOS in particular, quantity does mean quantity of quality – a blizzard of interesting, innovative apps that either don't get ported to other platforms, or take their sweet time making that leap. The long tail of the App Store is stronger than any of its rivals.But for BlackBerry 10 to be credible in the eyes of mainstream consumers, it doesn't need to have 800k apps.It needs those thousand most-famous ones, with the stakes so high for BlackBerry's future prospects, the company is more than happy to make a heavy financial investment in persuading developers, brands, media firms and internet services to support its new OS. Microsoft is the same.Does BlackBerry 10 have a shot at making the rebranded-RIM a smartphone contender again? It's too early to tell.From what I saw at the launch event, the new handsets look slick and snappy, and the OS has at least a few touches to make it more than a mere clone of iOS and Android. Plenty of mobile operators seem to be on board, although talk of three-year contracts in the US is curious to say the least.The jury is still out on BlackBerry's prospects, but for me it's also out on the question of just how big a differentiator apps are going to be in the smartphone wars, going forward – at least for as long as BlackBerry and Microsoft have the resources to keep poaching ports of the most popular apps on iOS and Android.It's possible that Apple will flex its muscles more often to secure iOS exclusives on new apps, while also continuing to flag up that long, strong App Store tail.Also, the next Temple Run, Instagram or WhatsApp remains more likely to appear on iOS first, as it's still the platform perceived as most suitable to release a minimum viable product on then quickly iterate it. With $7bn paid out to developers so far, iOS is still the Big Daddy of app platforms.Apps aren't completely commoditised just yet, then. But in a world where Angry Birds is on every smartphone, the emphasis may tip even more towards differentiation in OS user experience and the first-party apps of Apple, Google, Microsoft, BlackBerry, Nokia, Samsung and – if those longstanding rumours come true – even Facebook and Amazon.Fun for journalists to write about, but more importantly, good news for smartphone owners.
There's little doubt that PC gaming is undergoing a renaissance at the moment. With the current generation consoles chugging interminably slowly toward retirement, frustrated gamers are switching to computers with quad-core processors and top-end graphics cards that produce visuals of breathtaking fluidity and detail.But it's not all about graphics performance. While there are certainly detractors, Valve's digital download service Steam has revolutionalised the games buying experience, offering easy access to hundreds of titles, many at vastly reduced prices.Meanwhile, increasingly popular online multiplayer titles like DotA, Guild Wars 2 and Tera are only playable on PC. Plus there's the explosive rise of the indie scene, with many small studios ignoring the console platforms altogether in favour of PC development. If you didn't have a PC last year, you had no chance of playing brilliant offbeat titles like FTL, Slender and Hotline Miami. You were out of the loop.And while we're expecting huge announcements from Microsoft and Sony this year, we won't see a new console until October, with the PS4 more likely in Spring 2014. Even when these new machines arrive, current speculation suggests they're going to be built from the same sort of off-the-shelf components you could jam into a gaming PC – except with a gaming PC you can switch the key elements out a year later for something more up-to-date.So if you're a new PC owner, or just want to upgrade your current machine, we've compiled a guide to building a decent gaming machine for 2013. I've asked several PC developers for their input, and we've tried to look at both high-end and budget options. Here goes...Processor (CPU)For the brain of your computer there are really only two manufacturers in the running:IntelandAMD. "I would definitely recommend Intel," says James Hannett ofMode7, creators of award-winning strategy gameFrozen Synapse. "AMD processors currently use more power and are generally slower than the Intel equivalents. AMD's Bulldozer series was a disappointment for the desktop market. Bulldozer's successor Piledriver was a big improvement in some ways, but by then Intel had moved on as well. Now Steamroller's been delayed until next year, and what I hear isn't very encouraging".If you go with intel, and can afford it, you'll be wanting one of the Ivy Bridge processors, which come in three increasingly powerful flavours: i3, i5 and i7. "If it's top-flight you're after, the Core i7-3770 line is where it's at," says Al Bickham at Total War developer,Creative Assembly. "That's not just for games, but for other multithreading-heavy tasks, such as video encoding. They tend to retail around £230 depending on the clock-speed – they go up to 3.6GHz out of the box. But you can still get fantastic performance – and arguably much better bang for your buck – from the i5 series. Ivy Bridge i5 CPUs come in dual or quad-core flavours, so if it's a quad-core you're after, something like an i5-3570K is a great choice, and around £170".And here comes your first big construction dilemma: do you want to overclock your PC? Overclocking is when you tweak the settings of the CPU to run at a faster speed than the manufacturer guarantees it is stable at. It's something many experienced gamers do, and its fine if you have a well-built machine with lots of fans to keep things cool. If you head down this route, you'll want the i53570k and a Z77 motherboard; if that all sounds a bit scary (it does to me), stick with the cheaper combo of i5-3570 and H77 motherboard.Some PC retailers are suggesting that the bottom of the range i3 is now too slow to handle modern games, but our panel refutes that. "The i3 3220 can certainly hold its own when paired with a decent graphics card," says Hannett. "However, as it's only a dual core processor you might find that games released in the next couple of years will cause it to struggle."Ah, yes, cores. Currently, most PCs at the lower end of the market will offer dual-core CPUs, which as Hannett says is absolutely fine for most current game releases. However, as 2013 goes on, we're going to get lots more Triple A titles looking for quad-core power. If you're only running indie titles or older budget titles you've downloaded from steam, you should be fine on dual-core for a good while. But with PCs it always pays to think as far ahead as your wallet will allow.At the ultra-budget end, you're going to be wanting at least two cores running at 3Ghz or more. Hannett reckons AMD still does well with integrated CPUs and that the AMD A10-5800K will be fine. Bickham says, "if you're on the strictest of budgets, a dual-core i3 such as the 3.3GHz i3-2120 will still do the job at around £90. And it's a great overclocker if you fancy dabbling in the dark arts…"Bottom line:The Intel i7-3770 if you're rich, the i5 2500K, i53570 or i53570k if you're doing okay, the AMD A10-5800K or i3 if you're just about hanging in there.Graphics card (GPU)This is the thing that does all the calculations for the game visuals, including rendering geometry and spitting out all those lovely special effects. According to most of the developers I spoke tothisis where the big money should go if you can afford to max out on just one component.Once again, we're looking at a two-horse race: Nvidia v AMD, the former with its Geforce range, the latter with Radeon. This is a much closer competition though and both brands have their acolytes."If money is no object and you want the best right now, something like the Nvidia 690 is available for around £800-£1,000." says Philip Robinson of indie developerBorn Ready Games, which has just launched its visually stunning space shooter,Strike Suit Zero. Boasting 4GB of RAM and a dual-GPU set-up the 690 is a formidable beast – and will need a larger PC chassis to house it."If you want close to the top of the line, then I would recommend either the Nvidia GTX 680 or the AMD HD 7970, both approximately £400," continues Robinson. "However, I believe the best approach is to go for the Nvidia GTX 660 Ti or the nearest AMD equivalent at £230, and then replace it 18 months on". This may sound expensive to some – my Xbox 360 has pretty much done the business for six years at just £250 (plus £40 a year on Xbox Live Gold, of course) – but then every PC gamer has to decide how up-to-date they can afford to be.Hannett, too, has his eye on those mid-range cards: "I would recommend either an NVIDIA 660 Ti or an AMD 7870. There's not much to tell them apart so shop around on price and bundled games".As for budget options? "Right now, you can net a Radeon HD 6870 – AMD's previous-gen top-end card which handles DX11 games with aplomb – for the miserly sum of £100, if you shop around," says Bickham. "This will offer great frame rates at resolutions up to 1920x1200, and it'll even make a respectable stab at 2560x1600  – the kind of resolution output by 30-inch panels".Richard Leadbetter of Digital Foundry has just writtena guide to budget graphics cardsfor Eurogamer. "Less than £100 gets a GTX 650," he says. "If you can afford £130, get a Radeon HD 7850 1GB. TheDigital Foundry PChas a Radeon HD 6770 which is old, but actually outperforms its successor and we got ours for £70 – a fair bit cheaper than the GTX 650".Whatever you go for, though, check the card's onboard RAM. Cheaper options will offer 1GB, more expensive items, 2GB or more. "1GB would probably just scrape through for games in 2013," says Simon Barratt ofFourDoorLemon. "However, I imagine you will be making tradeoffs with performance depending on the texture quality you select without a 2GB GPU".That's an important point. Although your graphics card is important, if you're prepare to dial down all those extravagant effects and play at a lower screen resolution, you can get away with cheaper hardware. If you want texture detail at photorealistic levels as well as super smooth tri-linear filtering and dynamic lighting on every pixel, compromise clearly isn't for you.The bottom line:unless you're a lottery winner, stay clear of the ultra top-end cards, the performance hikes aren't noticeable enough to warrant the £1,000 price tags. At £200-250, look for the Nvidia GTX 670 or 660 Ti, or for just over £100 the Radeon HD 7850 or 7870. At the bargain bucket end, a Nvidia GTX 650 or Radeon HD 6770.RAMThe amount of memory your PC has will affect how quickly it can deal with software tasks. So how much do you need? "Since we're talking about gaming PCs and not computers designed for intense graphical rendering or particularly memory-intensive programs we don't have to go crazy," says Nick Tannahill ofFirefly Studios, creator of theStronghold Kingdomsseries. "Get 4GB if you're on a budget and 8GB if you're not. Onboard memory is one of the easiest components to upgrade or replace, just make sure you buy DDR3 and don't mix different types of RAM. Ignore MHz, there is little difference between 1333MHz and 1600MHz and price is more important".Bottom line:aim for 8GB if you can – it'll be fine for several years. 16GB will really sort you out.StorageYou have two options here. Well, three actually. You can go for a classic hard disc drive (HDD) or you can opt for a more modern solid state drive (SSD), which has no mechanical parts and is much quicker. SSD drives are also much more expensive though, so once again, compromise might be the best option."I highly recommend both an SSD and a hard drive," says Robinson. "The concept here is to use an SSD – ideally 128GB – for your operating system. This massively decreases the computer's boot-up time. Everything else should be stored on a hard drive. You can get a decent 1TB (one Terabyte) drive for less than the SSD. If you want even faster gaming, and you can afford it, you could buy a second SSD as well, and then install the games you are currently playing to that drive. This will decrease load times".Bottom line:Go for at least a modest SSD and a large hard drive. Install only your current games on the SSD and remove to the HDD when you're finished with them. A 128GB SDD should be enough to hold your operating system and a couple of games.MotherboardThis is the PCB to which all the components are attached, the unglamorous middleman of the PC innards. Does it matter which you go for? "Yes," says Bickham. "But it depends how many frills you want. Most motherboards carry onboard 5.1 sound-cards, but high-end ones tend to pack frilly extras such as fan-speed controllers and built-in Wi-Fi modules."The crucial thing is to match the socket type of your processor to a relevant motherboard; for example the Core i5-3330 requires a motherboard with an 1155-pin socket. Motherboards also support a range of different memory speeds, but of course, you need to match the right type of memory to the motherboard. However, the variance between memory speeds makes much less of a difference to gaming frame rates than your selection of CPU and GPU. Just make sure you get more than 4GB of memory – we tend to use 6 or 8GB – as Windows consumes a base amount of this beneath the game itself."Bottom line:If you just want something that does the job, make sure it's compatible with you graphics card and CPU socket. "Think about whether you want to overclock or have more than one graphics card," says Tannahill. "This may sound crazy at first, but later on you may want to do this if the price of your card drops dramatically".Case, fan and powerThe big box you jam all the stuff into is mostly an aesthetic choice, but you'll need to make sure it's big enough to contain all the components you've chosen – and that it has room for a fan to cool everything down. At the budget end you have less concerns: "You can skimp on the case and fans as low-end components don't tend to pump out much heat," says Leadbetter. "The case we chose cost £16 and has just one 80mm fan. I'd be a bit more wary about the PSU (power supply unit) though. The 430W Corsair Builder we chose is £35, but it's superb value and great quality."It's important to select a good quality PSU that can cope with the power required by your PC's components. This is measured in watts, and you can get units that will support over 1000w, although you're unlikely to need that amount of oomph for a standard gaming PC – if you're unsure, use a PC stockist who'll provide advice based on your machine's specifications. There's a detailed guide to PSUshere.Bottom line:choose a case that's big enough for all your components (duh) and allow space for cooling. And according to several of the developers I spoke to, a low quality PSU can damage components over time, so don't scrimp on that.The big question: build it yourself?Itispossible to buy all the components you need and construct the machine yourself. This will be cheaper than purchasing a ready-built machine, you'll know exactly what's in it, and you can install the operating system yourself without the retailer bunging in loads of ad-ware. The downside is that you'll need to check the compatibility of all the parts and if you do anything wrong, like accidentally salthering thermal paste all over your graphics card, it could end up being very expensive.Fortunately, there are lots of places you can go for advice and guidance. Digital Foundry hasgalleriesshowing you exactly how to build its recommended £300 PC. Computer Active has avideo guideto building a PC,as does NewEgg. There's also a dated but still very good guidehere.EbuyerandAriaare both good places to buy components as they'll help you check the compatibility of all your bits.If you choose to have a company assemble your set-up for you, there are plenty of options. Guardian Games Blog reader Simon Beck has been building gaming PCs for years and has advised other readers on where to buy their own machines:"Nowadays, you can buy really very good pre-built machines like theGladiator rangefrom Aria, theTitan rangefrom Overclockers. It's worth bearing in mind that a well-chosen £600 system will be able to run all the latest games at close to maximum settings. The PC arms-race has really slowed down now that all the big FPS titles are also on consoles – I am still using a PC I built for £900 two years ago and it will run BF3 on Ultra."There is also the middle ground ofPCSpecialist– I've sent a number of Games Blog readers there for a gaming machine. They will build everything for you, but their PCs are very highly configurable – you can really have pretty much any spec you want. If you start with something like theFusion 650it will be fantastic out of the box, or can be made into an absolute beast by upgrading some of the components.The Vortex 500is a more budget-friendly choice, but again you can adjust the specification as much as you want".Bottom line:building your own PC from scratch is reasonably straightforward and has price and performance advantages, but it's intimidating for tech newcomers. Buying your kit from a company that will put it all together will ensure you're getting the machine you want with no cheap components hidden away inside – but you'll pay more for it.Finally, there's another possibility looming on the horizon: the Steam Box. For years, Valve has been threatening to launch its own PC-like console; a high-spec machine designed specifically for digital gaming. An opening gambit – the Piston – was announced at CES this year, but we can probably expect a more powerful model later this year. So should gamers wait?Most of the developers I spoke to said that there was too much uncertainty right now, and it could be a year or more before we have a Steam Box that really showcases the concept. As Bickham puts it, "as a PC developer, we're interested in everything that Valve does. But for gaming in the here-and-now, nothing beats a decent rig with some shiny innards. Plus, the occasional overstocking incident with e-tailers means that shopping around – once you've isolated the parts you want – can net you some real bargains".The thing with PCs is, there is always something spectacularly powerful just down the road – that's Moore's Law for you. At some point, you've just got to hold your breath and jump in.Update:Lots of readers have provided great advice (and some firm backing for AMD processors) in the comments section below.
Size130mm x 65.6mm x 9mmDisplay4.2", four-point multitouch LCD display, 1280 x 768 resolution at 356dpi, touch on lensSoftwareBlackBerry 10 OSMemory2GB RAM, 16GB Flash, hot-swappable Micro SD slot (up to 32GB)ProcessorDual core 1.5 GHzTalk timeUp to 10 hours on 3GStandby timeUp to 305 hours on 3G, up to 316 hours on 2GAudio playbackUp to 60 hoursVideo playbackUp to 11 hoursCamera8MP rear-facing camera, autofocus, 5x digital zoom, 1080p HD video recording, 2MP front-facing camera, 3x digital zoom, 720p HD video recordingGPSAssisted, autonomous, and simultaneousBluetoothBluetooth 4.0 low energyWiFi802.11 a/b/g/n enabled, 4G mobile hotspotAdvanced sensorsAssisted, autonomous and simultaneous GPS accelerometer, magnetometer, proximity, gyroscope, ambient light sensor•Follow all the latest in our live BlackBerry blog
Nintendo has cut its sales forecasts for flagship devices, includingthe newly launched Wii U console.The Japanese video games-maker said it was expecting to sell 4m Wii Us in the current financial year, down from a previous estimate of 5.5m.The figures were released in a quarterly financial update that Yasuo Sakuma, portfolio manager at Bayview Asset Management, described as "a somewhat negative surprise".The Wii U was launched in November as Nintendo's latest attempt to keep ahead of the smartphones and tablets that have transformed the competitive landscape for games since the first version of the Wii appeared in 2006.The original Wii revolutionised gaming, allowing users to play simulated sports such as golf and tennis by making real-life movements rather than by pressing buttons.By contrast, the Wii U has not been heralded as marking such a big change, despite new features such as the GamePad controller, which incorporates a touchscreen, a camera and stereo speakers.Nintendo sold more than 3m Wii Us by the end of December, including the crucial Christmas period, but is now expecting fewer than 1m further sales between January and the end of March, when its financial year ends.Sales of games for Wii U devices would now total 16m for the year, not 24m as previously predicted, the maker of Super Mario and Pokémon games said in the update.Other consoles are now expected to shift fewer units than forecast at the last quarterly update in October.Nintendo expects to sell 4m of the earlier generation of Wii devices in the year to the end of March, down from the 5m predicted in October. Total sales of the Wii since its launch in late 2006 have now reached 99m.Nintendo's estimate for this year's sales of the 3DS device, which was launched two years ago, has slipped from 17.5m to 15m.Sales of the longer established DS console are likely to come in at 2.3m rather than the 2.5m forecast in October.As a result, Nintendo predicted total sales of ¥810bn (£5.63bn) for the year, down from October's forecast of ¥670bn.It said it would post an operating loss of ¥20bn rather than a profit of the same amount, which it had predicted.But its predicted net profit has more than doubled, from the ¥6bn predicted in October to ¥14bn. The company says it is benefiting fromthe weakening of the yen against the euro and the US dollar.Nintendo said it had returned to the black for the first nine months of its financial year.The company reported profits of ¥14.55bn in the nine months between April and December compared with a ¥48.35bn loss in the same period in 2011.Sales in the period slipped 2.4% to ¥543bn.
The principal story of the BlackBerry has been of a rapid rise in the west - followed, after the launch of the iPhone and especially of Android, by an erosion of its market share among consumers. Data in the US from ComScore, using a representative panel of thousands of respondents, shows that its share of the US consumer market has slumped from 43% of the installed smartphone base in January 2010 (with 18.4m users out of a total smartphone population of 42.7m) to just 7.3%, with 9m users out of a total US smartphone population of 123.3m.The UK used to be one of RIM's most solid outposts – but over the past six months its support has dwindled even here as young users consider other phones, especially Samsung\s devices running Android.The company's fortunes have been bolstered by a rise in users in countries such as Indonesia and Nigeria - but with its business under threat, it now needs to win back some of those lost customers.Below are the experiences of some of the people who have stuck with, left, or are about to leave the BlackBerry platform in the UK and France. It's not intended to be a representative sample of opinions – just the experiences of those who use, or used to use, the BB7 platform that RIM hopes to supersede.The student who's stickingAbigail Rudd, 21, is studying Geography and Sport Science at Exeter University. She's on her third BlackBerry since being given one by a friend in 2010: "Then I decided to get one on a contract because I liked the style of phone (Bold 9700), had that for two years (with a brief stint in the middle where I had an HTC whilst BB was being repaired as puppy chewed it!) and last April upgraded on another tw0-year contract to another, newer BB (Bold 9790) which I currently have.""Blackberry's main asset is the BBM [BlackBerry Messenger] function, which in my opinion is still much better than Whatsapp (although I do use Whatsapp as well!). In addition the keyboard is great, especially for a person, like myself, who uses my BB for emails. Another great aspect is that you can drop one without having to worry so much about a cracked screen or case. One of main reasons I decided on another BB last time I got a phone was the security of knowing that it would more likely survive a drop than an iPhone (which was my other option). BBM is still the best instant messaging service out there in my opinion. Most people are on iPhones / Samsung Galaxys / Blackberrys, but the popularity of BB has definitely decreased in the 3 years since I've been at University."Having said all of that - I am waiting for BB to release a touch screen phone that can compete with the iPhone and Samsungs. I don't think the popularity is in touch screen phones as much, just that their screens are much bigger for browsing. Also displaying media such as photos is easier on a phone that has a larger screen. The type of keyboard [touch v physical] is less of an issue, I think."However she "hasn't heard much about the new release" [of BB10 software] "but I am really keen to see what BlackBerry can do in response to their other competitors."The information worker who considered the options – and stuckMark Hawkins, 32, works in PR at Composed Communications:"I was in device upgrade territory for a little over 12 months until recently, but stuck with my old BlackBerry Bold 9780 because it simply did everything I wanted it to do reasonably well. There was the added factor of a discontinued Three tariff, through which I was also billing my Spotify Premium subscription. Therefore any upgrade would have seen me pay at least ten pounds a month more."In that time I also had an iPod Touch and latterly a [Google] Nexus 7 [7in tablet], both of which I used as much as the BB for audio and richer media. Hence I wasn't fussed about upgrading."A couple of weeks ago I had my old BlackBerry stolen and was forced into making a quick decision. Not inclined to dither any longer (as I had intermittently dithered about Windows Phones), I selected the now not-so-new Bold 9900, a device that will become dated quickly with the new raft of devices. As a user comfortable with carrying a number of different devices (Kindle, tablet, camera, iPod), it's no longer an issue if my mobile doesn't do rich media /big-screen apps. Provided it does Twitter ok and the browser is reasonable, that's essentially enough."On the 9900 the browser seems improved, although it could hardly have been worse – a constant thorn in BB's side. (I'm aware of one organisation who switched from old BB Curves to iPhones because links didn't work). I enjoy how BlackBerrys handle email – there's no perceived lag while waiting for an inbox or message to load. I also like a hard keyboard, which I find much quicker for typing than touchscreens."I'm interested to see what RIM's new OS has in store, and hope I'll be able to sample some of its features on the 9900. My fear is it'll over-borrow from iOS / Android, be overcomplicated, unintuitive and cluttered – as the App World can tend to be. My hope is they keep it relatively streamlined and simple for all screen sizes."The author in the waiting roomJenny Colgan, an author based in France, says she won't stick with BlackBerry when her contract comes up for renewal – if, that is, her handset lasts that long."They break just before the warranty runs out so you have to get another one. If I can EVER keep it safe, I will change at the first contractual opportunity. They have got steadily worse and worse." What will she change to? "Anything with buttons [on a real keyboard]." And what frustrates her about using the BlackBerry? "The browser – trying to find anything online is hilariously terrlbie. You can't find the bloody weather in under 15 minutes. The apps are like something off The Apprentice. I had the first ever model imported into this country; battery lasted a week. Now, it's four hours. I cannot be fair to RIM."The agent who departed with a smashing goodbyeCarole Blakeis a literary agent, co-founder of Blake Friedmann in London, who became frustrated at the experience. "I have worked with a BlackBerry for many years – all my company does – but they became increasingly unreliable."The beginning of the end came for me in October 2011 with the outages which occurred over three days. Five agents from my literary agency were doing business at the Frankfurt Book Fair, the most important week of the publishing year. We get there three days before the Fair begins to conduct meetings with our overseas agents before starting the '17-meetings-a-day-each' days of the Fair proper which begin on the Wednesday."On the Monday all our BBs went dead: frantic phone calls to our London office: we thought it was a fault with our company's server. Real panic ensued at the thought of missing emails containing offers, auctions being stalled because people couldn't reach us etc. Then it happened again … and again … and then we realised it was worldwide and curiously, and counter-intuitively, we calmed down. If it was happening to everyone with a BB, people would call us. And they did."Day after day it happened. We coped because we had to, but it was very uncomfortable indeed, not knowing if emails were getting through or not. And when the backed up emails did start flooding through some days later, they came in random order. It was a nightmare to catch up, especially with the huge workload that the Book Fair brings us."After that I noticed that my handset became very unreliable indeed: freezing mid-task, battery draining to nothing from one moment to the next. But we stuck with them because we all use them heavily for email and the qwerty keyboard is much faster than a touchscreen, especially for one who has touchtyped at the speed of light since I was 13."I complained &amp; they gave me a new handset. Again and again. I had three or four during a 12-month period – others in my agency had occasional problems but mine were continuous. Eventually, I could stand it no more and I switched to the iPhone 5 in November 2012. It took me about 5 minutes to adjust and I would never go back to a BB. Perhaps the adjustment was easier because I've used an iPad since they were first available, but really I think it was because I had lost all faith in the BB and was determined to prove that this old lady (50 years in publishing to be celebrated with a very big party later this year) could embrace change!"Having divested my BB of anything that could be useful to others – the battery, the leads, the sim card etc – I was determined to kill it. Asking for suggestions on Twitter wasn't helpful. 'Throw it in the Thames' someone said. No: I needed more violent closure than that. I decided to batter it to death. Which was far easier said than done."I wrapped it in clingfilm (didn't want to step on a sharp shard, pierce a vein and die of blood loss: that would really have allowed the BB to win) placed it on the hardest surface in my home (the kitchen floor), found the largest hammer I owned, &amp; hit it hard. Curiously the damned handset proved to be much more robust than the BB services. It took me a month – giving it a good hard bash every time I went into the kitchen – to get it to this state. Much to the amusement of visitors during the weeks it was on my kitchen floor. By that time I was so happy with the iPhone I couldn't be bothered to bash it any more. Closure had been achieved. Gradual revenge expunged the hatred in my heart for it: like a marriage that gradually dies, by the time it was in pieces I couldn't care less any more."The PR man who felt left behindJamie Fox is in charge of publicity for the British ski team. "I was just on a ski trip with Greg Rutherford (London 2012 Olympic Long Jump Gold medal winner) and Andrew Strong (Team GB runner and Olympian) and was relentlessly ribbed about still having a BlackBerry. Whenever it was taken out in the bar, loud cheers would go up and the mocking would begin."I had however already been thinking about a change, as the battery didn't last long and the apps others were using were not available on the BB. For example, Ski Tracks (they aren't anything to do with me by the way), is an app that records your speed and distance, etc when skiing.  I borrowed Greg's to see how fast etc I was going and it was brilliant – he may be the best Long Jumper in the world, but he will never be able to top the highest speed of 84.3mph on his app now (revenge!)."Then there was the camera – the quality is so much better on an iPhone."But most of all it would be the random red light flashing...it wouldn't be for an email, but for some random BB update and I could never get it to stop ... so distracting."On the whole it is just outdated." He has since got an iPhone, which he says is "going pretty well, other than my fat fingers".The startup entrepreneur and marketing consultant who switched to AndroidMamun Ahmed is a London-based strategic and marketing consultant specialising in startup companies. He says: "I abandoned BlackBerry for mainly two reasons. First, most of the websites I was using were not offering Apps for BlackBerry. Second, the market positioning issue."First: I consider myself as a tech savvy guy and spend a lot of time online. Being a BlackBerry user I started realising that I couldn't keep up with the "tried the cool app" trend as very very few app makers were making apps for BlackBerry - ie my bank was only offering apps for the iPhone and Android. All of the websites I was using on day to day basis seemed only interested to make apps for the iPhone and Android and totally ignored others."Second: I still remember the day when I saw some kids holding a BlackBerry in one hand and carrying the chicken and chips box in another on the street. From further observation I realised that all of them on that group was owner of a BlackBerry phone. That day I realised that the definition of the BlackBerry user has been changed. I just couldn't imagine to associate myself with that very BlackBerry user group."Ahmed has switched to an Android phone.
Video game giant Nintendo is back in profit a year after recording its first ever annual net loss. In financial results announced today, covering the first nine months of the current financial year, the company revealed net profits of ¥14.5bn (£101m) compared to a loss of ¥48bn in 2011.However, the company has revised down sales forecasts for the year. The new Wii U console, which was launched last November, was originally expect to sell 5.5m units by the end of March 2013 – that figure has been revised to 4m.In its announcement, the company stated: "While Nintendo saw year-on-year increases in the sales of Nintendo 3DS hardware (up 11% year on year) and software (up 41% year on year), those gains were not enough to offset decreased sales of Wii and Nintendo DS hardware and software. Furthermore, the strength of the yen averaged against the euro in the first nine months of Nintendo's fiscal year contributed to an overall 2.4% year-on-year decrease in sales."Worldwide sales of the 3DS stand at 12.71m units with software at 39.56 million, a decent result aided by the release of major titles such as Mario Kart 7 and Super Mario 3D Land.Meanwhile, Wii U sales are at 3.06m, with software at 11.69m units. By comparison, sales of the original Wii console, launched in autumn 2006, were at 3.19m by the end of that year and reached 5.84m by 31 March, 2007. Even more tellingly, sales of the Wii, a console in steep decline with very few new releases, is still outselling its successor – shifting 3.53m hardware units and 45.08m units of software in the same period.Nintendo's financial statement also notes that the company is making a loss on Wii U sales; Nintendo usually sells its hardware at a profit from launch, unlike the other major console manufacturers which tend to make losses on console sales for several months until production costs are reduced.These remain challenging times for the industry veteran. The company is hoping that forthcoming releases such as Wii Fit U, Mario Kart, Super Mario, Legend of Zelda and LEGO City lift sales of the Wii U this year, but perhaps the biggest challenges are out of its control. Increased competition from smartphone and tablet devices has eaten away at Nintendo's base of casual gamers, while both Sony and Microsoft are expected to announce powerful new consoles this year.
Amazon's shares rose to an all-time high after the leading online retailer unveiled record Christmas takings of $21bn (£13bn).The business that began trading as a bookstore and now stocks everything from cameras to nappies increased worldwide sales by 22% since December 2011. Amazon continued to grab market share from both high street retailers and online rivals, a performance which helped swell its cash pile to $12.4bn.Profits were boosted by a major investment in 20 new distribution centres last year, three of them in the UK, allowing the retailer to reduce transport costs."The growth rate shows not only are they taking share from bricks and mortar but also other online channels," said RJ Hottovy, an analyst at research firm Morningstar. "You are seeing a consolidation of where people are going to for digital content. Apple's iTunes and Amazon are the stand-out destinations."Amazon's selection of films, TV shows, songs, books, apps and games has grown to 23m titles. The retailer gave no sales figures for its tablets but they held the four top spots on its sales charts over Christmas, with the touch screen, full colour Kindle Fire HD in first position.As Amazon reported larger than expected profits for its December quarter, the shares jumped 11% to $288 in after-hours trading, capping a year in which its stock market value has risen by 50%.The Seattle-based company said operating income jumped 56% to $405m in the fourth quarter, compared with $260m in the same quarter of 2011.Amazon's mounting reserves are likely to fuel demands for reform of UK tax laws. The retailer generates an estimated 10% of its worldwide revenues here, but paid just £2.3m in tax in the most recent three years for which figures are known.The company's cash savings ballooned from $3bn at the beginning of the quarter to $8bn by 31 December, boosted by a £3bn fundraising in November. Money held in short term investments increased to $3.4bn.Like other US technology companies, Amazon has put this money out of reach of the tax authorities by managing its European operations from Luxembourg. Profits collected in the UK and other major markets are funnelled out via a network of subsidiaries, in the form of royalty payments for intangibles such as use of the brand or technology developed inhouse.With politicians in recession-hit economies looking to balance the books, Amazon's savings could take a hit. The British prime minister David Cameron took to the stage at the Davos summit to call for companies to pay "proper taxes", and the French and American governments are pursuing Amazon directly.France served notice in September for unpaid tax totalling $252m, while Amazon has declared the US taxman could come after as much as $1.5bn of its takings.Worldwide, media sales grew by 8% to $6.5bn , at half the rate seen last Christmas. By contrast, sales of electronics and other wares were up 28% to $14bn.Founder and chief executive Jeff Bezos said book sales had reached a tipping point, with ebooks beginning to take over from printed volumes. "We're now seeing the transition we've been expecting," said Bezos. "After five years, ebooks is a multi-billion dollar category for us and growing fast – up approximately 70% on last year. In contrast, our physical book sales experienced the lowest December growth rate in our 17 years as a book seller, up just 5%."The fastest growing business line, still small at $820m, includes services such as web hosting, with Amazon investing heavily in servers which it rents out to other businesses to store their data.Annual revenues across the group reached $177m, up from $97m in 2011. Amazon's growth is in sharp contrast to the fortunes of the high street retailers. This month, disappointing Christmas sales drove music store HMV, camera shop Jessops and the UK arm of video rental chain Blockbuster into administration.Amazon is the only company "that is able to leverage a global fulfilment network to drive disruption of traditional offline retail sales", Morgan Stanley analyst Scott Devitt said in a note. He forecasts the worldwide e-commerce market will reach $1tn by 2016, up from $512bn last year. By then, Amazon's market share will be 23.5%, pushing total sales to $166bn.
In the end, Carole Blake simply took a hammer to her BlackBerry smartphone, and smashed it into pieces. The London-based literary agent had had enough of what she saw as increasingly unreliable service.In October 2011,BlackBerry servers were down for daysincluding her time at the Frankfurt book fair. But that was just the beginning of her BlackBerry problems, as her handsets also started malfunctioning. "Four in a year left me frothing," she explained.She switched to an iPhone 5. "It took five minutes to adjust, helped by having used an iPad. My unreliable BlackBerry was hurting business," she said.For Research In Motion (RIM), the Canadian company that invented the BlackBerry, Blake's story illustrates some of the many blows to the company over the past two years.Millions of users, and hundreds of businesses, have deserted BlackBerry for Apple, or Android phones such as Samsung's Galaxy S III, or Nokia. RIM suffered huge global operating losses last year including$643m in a single quarterand the board ejected its two co-founders,Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, replacing them with operations chief Thorsten Heins.So Wednesday is a very big day for BlackBerry, when Heins will unveil the company's latest offerings to try to reverse the tide and tempt back Blake and millions like her in what some analysts see as a last chance to survive.Two new mobiles – one with a keyboard, and one with only a touchscreen – will showcase its new BB10 software, which brings a completely new interface to the phone once known as the "CrackBerry" because of its ability to serve round-the-clock email to workaholics.Heins realises that he has a huge challenge but he recentlytold Die Weltthat he believed RIM's role in the future will be substantial and that the new software is aimed not only at phones but also for cars. "We have taken the time to build a platform that is future-proof for the next 10 years," he said.Benedict Evans, of Enders Analysis, sees BB10 as a last roll of the dice: "The question is, how long can they keep rolling it? How long can they wait for the right numbers? The high-end corporate users are abandoning it." Evans added that from talking to people in phone shops, it seemed teenagers were keen on rivals with more games apps.Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at research group Gartner, said the company cannot carry on as before. "This is certainly key to RIM's survival and indeed BBM is just not enough anymore," she said."Even consumers that are price sensitive and who value messaging are looking for more than BlackBerry Messenger." BBM – the free messaging service that was blamed for helping rioters organise during the UK riots in summer 2011 – no longer ties people to the brand either. The rise of rival services such as WhatsApp, which has an estimated 100m users worldwide – compared to BBM's 79m. WhatsApp also lets users send text-style messages for free but works on any smartphone.All of that means Heins and RIM have a mountain to climb. They have to tempt back people such as Mamun Ahmed, who switched from a BlackBerry to a phone using Google's Android software: "Being a BlackBerry user I started realising that, I couldn't keep up with the 'tried the cool app' trend, as very few app makers were making apps for BlackBerry," he said.His bank only offered apps for the iPhone and for Android phones. He said: "All of the websites I was using on a day-to-day basis seemed only interested to make apps for the iPhone and Android and totally ignored others."That has meant a flight of users – so pronounced in the US that in October the New York Times ran a story aboutpeople being embarrassed to show their BlackBerry in public. Heins wrote to the paper saying the article "lacks the balance" expected, saying "there are millions of BlackBerry fans out there who not only find value in their device, but also pride in being a BlackBerry owner."Some remain loyal. Abigail Rudd, a student at Exeter University, stuck with her BlackBerry rather than buying an iPhone when she renewed her contract last April because it is more robust than other models. "In addition, the keyboard is great," she said.Yet the outflow continues. ComScore, which calculates US smartphone ownership, reckons that there are now just 9 million BlackBerry users in the US, down from a peak of nearly 22 million in September 2010, while US smartphone ownership has doubled to 123 million.Embarrassment can be a factor. Jamie Fox, in charge of communications for the TeamGB Ski and Snowboard teams, finally switched after 10 years with BlackBerry to an iPhone 5 this month. "I was just on a ski trip with [2012 long jump Olympic gold medallist] Greg Rutherford and [Olympic runner] Andrew Strong and was relentlessly ribbed about still having a BlackBerry. Whenever it was taken out in the bar, loud cheers would go up and the mocking would begin," he said.But he had also become dissatisfied with the battery life, app choice and camera quality of the BlackBerry.RIM has also lost its favoured position as the handset of choice with business people. It has lost corporate and government contracts, some in the wake of the service outage. Businesses which used to hand out BlackBerrys are often replacing them with iPhones, where the galaxy of apps (sometimes custom-made) and better web browsing are pushing the BlackBerry aside. The prestigious contracts that RIM has lost in the past two years include the US National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, the US National Transportation and Safety Board and the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency. In November, even the Pentagon sought to let in Apple and Android phones, even while stressing that it would still hold on to some BlackBerry phones.The key to a BlackBerry revival, suggests Francisco Jeronimo, smartphone analyst at IDC, will be whether it can persuade those corporate customers – the segment where it first grew to fame as Wall Street financiers discovered they could get secure email while out of the office – to stay with it. "They could survive. You won't compare them to Apple and Samsung but they could be in the top five handset makers. If they can manage to regain trust from the companies who have been clients, they can survive, profitably, just by staying small and focused," he said.And if they don't persuade those companies? "If they can't, it will be very hard," he said. At worst, RIM might be broken up for the value of its patents which are considerable.Fox, for one, found his BlackBerry a source of irritation. "The big annoyance was the random red light flashing [on the top of the phone]. It wouldn't be for an email, but for some random BlackBerry update. And I could never get it to stop. So distracting. On the whole, it's just outdated," he said.Persuading people that it is not is the task that lies ahead of Heins. Most of all, he wants to stop that red light going out.
Middle of the week! What's been your gaming pleasure so far?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhatsApp breaches privacy laws &gt;&gt; CBC NewsThe popular mobile messaging app WhatsApp breaches Canadian and Dutch privacy laws by forcing many of its users to grant access to their entire address book in order to use it, Canada's privacy watchdog has found in a joint investigation with Dutch authorities.Doubt that Germany or France or even the UK will be thrilled either.Dear Tim: Open letter from an iDAD, Apple iOS parental controls needed &gt;&gt; AnewdomainFor starters, I need to be able to lock down apps -- and please let me select exactly which ones. And I need to be able to lock them down to a master time limit and maybe even a time limit of daily use per app.  I need to be able to tell my son's Apple iPod and Apple iPad that he should only be able to use these devices and the apps on them during times I specify.And that's not all.I want to tie this functionality down to a parent-child related account -- separate from my Apple ID. It should know, for example, the relation between my Apple devices and his -- for instance, if message limitations are close or if time limits like the ones I suggest above run out. Can you do that? I also want same controls to work if I later get my son an iPhone. That would allow calls to certain numbers at all times - and others at certain times - and it would work even if I turn off games and text that calls and email could be checked during certain time frames.If only Windows Phone were available on tablets, his problem would be solved.Ubuntu phones to come with a terminal -- prepare your command line skills &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe Ubuntu phone operating system will come with a terminal application. That's right: experienced users will have access to the full power of the Linux system running underneath the phone's shiny graphical user interface."Yes, grandma, type 'sudo rm -rf', and we'll be finished."Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer to bring company back to its roots: "It's the web ordered for you" &gt;&gt; TechCrunchYahoo plans to compete on mobile by way of partnerships, not hardware or operating systems,Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer told Bloombergat the annual World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland, where the subject of the talk was the future of Yahoo's business. The talk also delved into other areas of focus, including Yahoo's homepage, media properties, and where it could compete on search and personalization going forward."I think that's it's really important," Mayer said of competing on mobile. "If you look at what's happening in terms of the shift to mobile, the number of mobile phones and smartphones in the world has tripled in five years. Tablet sales will outsell laptops this coming year, if predictions hold true," she added.As someone else observed, it's hard to win if you're in a three-legged race.British retailers recommend Samsung over Apple &gt;&gt; TelegraphApple and Samsung were just as likely to be promoted by advertising in the store or the shop window but sales assistants were far more likely to recommend Samsung.In a press release, Informa said it was "likely that sales assistants see the Samsung devices as a safe bet to earn greater commissions".More than likely.Apple TV Software Update 5.2 adds Bluetooth input, more &gt;&gt; iLounge NewsApple today released Apple TV software version 5.2 for the second- and third- generation streaming media players. Arriving alongside iOS 6.1, the update brings enhanced support for iTunes in the Cloud, the addition of the Up Next feature introduced in iTunes 11, and long-awaited Bluetooth keyboard support. Apple notes that the Apple TV can now be controlled by Bluetooth wireless keyboards--the first official feature to unlock Bluetooth hardware that sat unused in the devices up until now.Hmm, keyboards, huh?What CIOs need to know about Office 365 Home Premium &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:Like it or not, Office 365 Home Premium is going to show up in your business on consumer devices: Your employees are likely to be using it on their own laptops and tablets, and they'll probably be connecting to your company network from their home PCs.The trouble is, the license for Office 365 Home Premium specifically excludes those uses. Here's the relevant portion of the license agreement:Only one person at a time may use the software on each licensed computer or licensed device.  The service/software may not be used for commercial, non-profit, or revenue-generating activities.If that prohibition sounds familiar, it's because the same issue arose when Microsoft released its Surface device, which includes a similar prohibition in the Office 2013 RT license agreement. That issue was eventually resolved with a change to the terms of Microsoft's Volume Licensing program.Wonder if the same move will save it this time.New video codec to ease pressure on global networks &gt;&gt; ITUA new video coding standard building on the PrimeTime Emmy award winning ITU-T H.264 / MPEG-4 AVC was agreed by ITU members today [25 January 2013].The new codec will considerably ease the burden on global networks where, by some estimates, video accounts for more than half of bandwidth use. The new standard, known informally as 'High Efficiency Video Coding' (HEVC) will need only half the bit rate of its predecessor, ITU-T H.264 / MPEG-4 Part 10 'Advanced Video Coding' (AVC), which currently accounts for over 80 per cent of all web video. HEVC will unleash a new phase of innovation in video production spanning the whole ICT spectrum, from mobile devices through to Ultra-High Definition TV.ITU-T's Study Group 16 has agreed first-stage approval (consent) of the much-anticipated standard known formally as Recommendation ITU-T H.265 or ISO/IEC 23008-2. It is the product of collaboration between the ITU Video Coding Experts Group (VCEG) and the ISO/IEC Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG).Great news. Though you feel sure there will be court battles over it at some point in the future. (Thanks @Clarkeviper for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Members of Congress investigating the prosecution of Aaron Swartz have asked the US attorney general if the free information activist's political advocacy was a factor in the decision to pursue him.A letter from the House Oversight Committee to Eric Holder indicates that it is taking a close look at whether the level of criminal charges and punishment sought by prosecutors were appropriate, as well as whether political factors played a part.Swartz took his own life this month after battling federal hacking charges, which have been severely criticised as over-reaching and unnecessary by lawyers and cyber-crime experts.A joint letter from Darrell Issa, the Republican chairman of the committee and Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat, asked for a briefing to be scheduled with Department of Justice staff within a week.Issatweeted on Mondaythat he had requested a "timely briefing" on the case, with a link to the letter,first reported by the Huffington Post.Swartz, an internet pioneer who helped create Reddit, faced up to 35 years in prison and millions of dollars in fines, after being charged with 13 felonies for allegedly breaking into Massachusetts Institute of Technology's computer system to access a huge volume of academic articles from the JSTOR digital library with the intention of making them freely available. He had legal access to the articles in the library, but was accused of violating the terms of service by downloading too many, too fast. JSTOR did not pursue a prosecution after Swartz turned over his files to the Department of Justice.His family have accused prosecutors and MIT of contributing to his death on 11 January.The letter from Issa and Cummings, dated 28 January, asks what factors influenced the decision to prosecute Swartz, and what lay behind key decisions in the case, such as the multiple charges against him and specific plea bargains offered to him.In particular, it asks: "Was Mr Swartz's opposition to Sopa or his association with any advocacy groups considered?"Swartz, an advocate for open access online, founded Demand Progress, to rally the online community against two internet censorship bills, the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) and the Protect IP Act (Pipa).Lawyers for Swartz have reportedly said that they had been unsuccessful intrying to get a plea bargainwhich did not involve jail time. He was offered a plea bargain of six to eight months prison time if he plead guilty to all 13 counts.Issa has been an avid campaigner for internet freedom and has spoken out against Sopa. Cummingstold the Huffington Postthat the Department of Justice had already agreed to brief them."I expect that we'll be meeting with them next week," he said. "We expect to have a candid and open discussion with the US attorney's office and then we'll take it from there, but I promise you we will not leave one stone unturned."He told the news site: "There's more than one issue here – is the law too vague? Why was he charged the way he was when the University decided it was not going to prosecute?"Representative Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat from California, has put forward an amendment to the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), which has been called "Aaron's law" http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2013/jan/16/zoe-lofgren-proposes-aarons-law?intcmp=239.Carmen Ortiz, the prosecutor, put out a statement after Swartz's death, defending the charges against him and said they were "appropriate".
Apple says that nearly 300 million iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches are now running its iOS 6 software released in September - possibly helped by the release in mid-December by Google of its Maps app, after Apple replaced it with its own implementation.The announcement came as it released iOS 6.1, its third update to the software since its launch in September.The figure means that a majority of iOS devices are now running the newest version - a fact that Apple's marketing chief Phil Schiller was quick to point up,saying in a statementthat it "may be the most popular new version of an OS in history".Chief executive Tim Cook said in October 2012 that there were 200m devices running iOS 6, and then during Apple's most recent quarterly earnings said the company had sold a total of 500m iOS devices since 2007. That suggests a substantial majority of the iOS devices still in use are running the newest version of the software. Every iOS device sold since 2009 except the original iPad, which lacks sufficient RAM, can run iOS 6.With Apple having sold a total of 47.8m iPhones and 22.9m iPads, as well as about 6m iPod Touches during the fourth quarter of the year - totalling 76.7m devices with iOS6 pre-installed - the new figure suggests that existing owners of older devices are still moving to iOS 6, despite the concerns that have been expressed about the quality of Apple's Maps, seen by some as a key reason to hold back.The growing proportion will be a relief for Apple, which dumped Google as its maps partner after the two sides could not agree on data and revenue sharing from the app, for which the search giant had been used on the iPhone since its inception in 2007.It suggests that existing users with older devices are willing to upgrade to get new services - which is crucial to Apple's strategy of retaining customers by locking them in to its app store and services. Two of those are its Photo Stream (photo uploading to the cloud) and iMessage service, an iOS-only equivalent to RIM's BlackBerry Messenger (BBM): Schiller said that "iOS users have uploaded over nine billion photos to Photo Stream [and] sent over 450 billion iMessages."The number of users of iMessage, introduced with iOS 5 in October 2011, could now be as many as 400m, far exceeding the number of BBM users, where RIM's worldwide user base fell by 1m during its last financial quarter to 79m.Although Apple's maps implementation brings turn-by-turn navigation and vector graphics which require less data to download - putting it at feature parity with Google's Android, which had had those features in the newest version of its OS since January 2011 - userscomplained about misplaced airfields, misnamed towns and incorrect landmarks.Thearrival of Google's own Maps app for iOS 6 in Decembermay have been an important step encouraging users to upgrade: according to the ad network MoPub, the release on 13 December of the app saw the number of users running iOS 6increase by a thirdsoon afterwards.Google said that the Maps app, which brought its own routing and Street View offerings to a separate app which works on both iOS 5 and iOS 6, was downloaded more than 10m times in the 48 hours after its launch. It has not released any further download figures, nor any that would indicate which version of iOS the downloads are being used on.Apple has pledged to improve the quality of its Maps app.• iOS 6.1 brings compatibility with a larger number of 4G/LTE carriers around the world, as well as the ability to buy film tickets in the US via Fandango, individual song downloads via iCloud and a new button to reset the advertising identifier - found in Settings –&gt; General –&gt; About –&gt; Advertising - which deletes any cookies and effectively makes the user look like a brand new visitor to any site.• Apple has launched a128GB version of the iPad 4, costing £639 inc VAT for the Wi-Fi model and £739 inc VAT for the 4G/Wi-Fi version. The pricing and capacity may mean it is aimed at businesses: the press release accompanying the release quotes three businesses which require large amounts of onboard storage, for AutoCAD files, high-resolution music files and the developer of an app for American football teams.
More than 70 Apple iPhone users in the UK have joined alandmark privacy action against Googleover the way it tracked their online habits, and another 30 have expressed interest, lawyers said on Tuesday.The internet giant is facing a group privacy claim over the way itsidestepped Apple's security settingson the iPhone, iPad and desktop versions of its Safari web browser to monitor their behaviour. TheUS Federal Trade Commission fined it a then-record $22.5m (£14m)last year over the privacy breach's effect on American users.More than 100 internet users have contracted the law firm Olswang, which is co-ordinating the claim, since Sunday to register their interest in joining the privacy action. A Facebook group set up by those suing Google, called Safari Users Against Google's Secret Tracking, has been "liked" by more than 430 people.Dan Tench, the lawyer coordinating the claims, told the Guardian: "We've had more than 70 people come forward to join this action. We are seeking further details in respect of these individuals' cases and, where appropriate, will be making further claims for them against Google."The litigation is the first group privacy claim against Google in the UK and could run up a significant legal bill for the search company. An estimated 10 million Britons owned iPhones, which use Safari as the default browser and Google as the search engine, between summer 2011 and spring 2012, when the breach is believed to have occurred.Google has admitted it intentionally sidestepped security settings on Apple's Safari web browser which blocked websites from tracking users through cookies – data stored on users' computers that show which sites they have visited. Security researchers revealed in February 2012 that Google's DoubleClick advertising network intentionally stored these cookies on users' computers without their consent.The search giant is no stranger to damaging privacy issues after rows over its Google Buzz social network and the collection of data from Wi-Fi networks. It agreed to a 20-year oversight of its privacy methods after Google Buzz revealed users details to each other against their wishes.Lawyers for claimants in the UK have ordered Google to reveal how it used the private information it secretly obtained, how much personal data was taken, and for how long. It is understood the claimants are suing Google for breaches of confidence and breach of privacy, computer misuse and trespass, and breach of the Data Protection Act 1998.Google declined to comment. A statement it released at the time of the $22.5m fine last July claimed it had "collected no personal information" with the cookies.
This is part II of an interview with Matt Firor, game director of The Elder Scrolls Online. Find part Ihere.Elders Scrolls Online splits players into three factions, and the rivalry between them is what its player v player system is built on. This is also an area where game director Matt Firor's previous work has particular relevance; the standout title on a long CV being Mythic's Dark Age of Camelot. Released in 2001 and still running, Camelot had an asymmetric take on PVP termed Realm v Realm constructed around three very different factions, and is still considered one of, if not thebenchmark, for MMOG PVP design."Yes we have a PVP progression system that we haven't really talked about yet," says Firor. "And in beta we'll go further into this, but you get Alliance Points the more you PVP, you get more abilities, and in that sense it's similar to Camelot where we had Realm Points. In Camelot though we had 47 classes that were all different, and after a while it was much more difficult to balance than it should have been – so if we've learned anything in the 11 years since it's let the players create the characters they want, and balance from there."Elder Scrolls Online lets any player, regardless of class or race, use any piece of equipment. "So it's symmetrical in the sense that everyone has the same options, but of course not everyone's going to choose the same ones."That raises the prospect of homogenisation; players rapidly deciding which weapons are optimised, and then hundreds of them running around waving the same sword."As game designers you have to solve those problems no matter what class or character system you have," laughs Firor. "In a true class-based system you run the risk everyone rolls the same class, but in a more open one the players will very much from the beginning try to find the most powerful build, and it's our job to ensure that there are many viable builds."I'm left wondering whether there will be any hard differences between the classes. Races in the Elder Scrolls traditionally have inherent buffs, and according to Firor these remain "a point of differentiation."But perhaps my thinking is too informed by the MMOG conventions Elder Scrolls Online is trying to move clear of. "We're really trying to de-emphasise quote unquote classes," says Firor."And make the player's development more about their choices. So for example we want to give everyone access to something like having pets – if they want to. Right now a perk lets you be a pet person, so if you want that ability you can go and get it." A brief digression about crafting; Firor says Skyrim players should expect a familiar system, and also mentions the ability to enchant weapons.PVP takes place in the huge central zone ofCyrodiil, and the obvious question is how many players can get involved. "We're planning on having 2,000 people at once in Cyrodiil," says Firor. "In a particular fight our client is optimised to have 200 players on-screen at one time, which means you'll have very large battles within an even larger battlefield."Such numbers means plenty of different player levels participating, an issue Elder Scrolls Online solves by automatically increasing everyone's stats."Everyone gets boosted up to the max level," explains Firor. "But you don't get abilities you haven't earned yet – just the hit points and stuff."A typical PVP battle might be a large-scale city assault, with one team defending, while the other is battering gates, firing trebuchets, and trying to sneak in through poorly-defended side-routes."We've designed the system to let players do all of those things, and it's up to them to figure out which tactics work better – but generally, if your entire army is in front of the gate and just beating the walls, you're gonna lose. Carrying the day needs teamwork."A larger concern is how the melee combat of Skyrim and Oblivion, which is functional but somewhat unrefined, can be re-engineered for competitive play."It does work the same way mechanically in PVP as it does in PVE," says Firor. "So you swing with the left mouse and block with the right mouse, but there are a couple of new moves, like a really fast left click then right click will stun someone, plus things like doubletapping a key to roll away. We're playing around with all of this now, but obviously with PVP we have to keep on testing and refining – and this will really be helped with the large number of testers we'll get in beta, that'll let us hone the system on a large scale.""Very soon" is the most precise date Firor offers for the beta. "One of the joys of making games like this is that they're on such a massive scale you need to get a whole lot of players into them to kind of see where you are." How big is the beta and how long will it run? "For as long as it takes for us to prove we're ready to launch, and we'll have as many people in as we can, especially because with a PVP system which supports thousands of players we really need multiple thousands to test that effectively."Elder Scrolls Online inspires strong reactions among fans of the series, and questions that will only be answered with the beta and many hours spent in its world. It's too easy to think about Elder Scrolls Online as merely some sort of composite work, a series of singleplayer epics re-jigged into one massively multiplayer world.Too easy and so wrong-headed.I close by asking Matt Firor how Elder Scrolls Online will silence the naysayers and pull players in – as well as keeping them there."So the answer to that is pretty simple; if you have a good game, people will play it. It's got to be long-term compelling, it has to be fun, and if you do that all the other questions answer themselves." Like most people involved in creating remarkable things, he makes it sound so easy.Elder Scrolls Online is currently in beta, interested gamers can find out morehere.
Thousands of children in the UK are to receive free Raspberry Pi computers to encourage them to develop programming skills.A total of 15,000 of the credit card-sized, bare-bones systems will be given away in a collaboration between the Raspberry Pi Foundation and Google.Speaking at Chesterton Community College in Cambridge, where a group of students received the first batch of free machines, Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt said he hoped the project would lead to more children and young people learning to write code."Britain's innovators and entrepreneurs have changed the world", he said. "The telephone, television and computers were all invented here."We've been working to encourage the next generation of computer scientists, and we hope that this donation of Raspberry Pis to British school pupils will help drive a new wave of innovation."Schmidt, avocal critic of the UK's computing curriculum, attacked the lack of attention paid to programming in his 2011 MacTaggart Lecture at the Edinburgh International Television Festival. Tuesday's event saw him deliver a programming lesson to students alongside Raspberry Pi co-founder Eben Upton.Upton said the partnership with Google could reverse the decline in students applying to study computing science at British universities, where applications have dropped by almost a quarter in the last decade."Fewer young people are applying to courses, which seems paradoxical when you think of the number and sophistication of digital devices they're using," he said."But generally the more sophisticated a device is, the harder it is to program. There's no lack of interest in technology, but there's a barrier between being a user and becoming a producer of content."Upton argues the Raspberry Pi exemplified the spirit of a more open era where users could more readily program their devices. "In the 1980s people bought 8-bit computers like the ZX Spectrum and the BBC Micro," he said. "They might have got them to play games or do their school work, but they also came with all the tools needed to write professional software."But, he said: "That ecosystem has been eaten by PCs, which are programmable but require users to go and find the right tools, devices like smartphones and tablets which aren't designed with programmers in mind, and games consoles which aren't programmable at all."Almost a million Raspberry Pis have been soldsince the system's launch in March 2012, many to adult computer enthusiasts."A comparatively small number of those sales have been to schools", Upton said."But there are teachers who are dedicated hobbyists who have bought Pis with their own money and used them for after-school programming clubs. If schools are lucky enough to have those motivated, passionate teachers then they're part of the vanguard. Hopefully the partnership with Google will allow us to broaden our reach. We're particularly keen to get machines into disadvantaged schools and to introduce more girls to coding."The machines will be distributed through educational organisations includingCoderdojo, which runs free, volunteer-led classes for children interested in programming.Lindsay Macvean, a professional web designer and Coderdojo mentor, said children had shown great enthusiasm for the Raspberry Pi."It's a fascinating looking machine", he said. "The fact that you can actually see all the working parts draws kids into computing in a very raw way. We've had programming sessions with members of the original Raspberry Pi team and we've had kids using the Pi as a synthesiser to make music."Macvean said the free systems would encourage children to explore computing science in ways that might not otherwise be possible."The fact that it's free means that there's no fear about breaking it", he said. "Parents aren't going to tell these kids: 'don't touch that, you might damage it' as they might with a family PC. They'll be able to play with these systems at a very fundamental level and see how things break and how to fix them, which is a very big thing in computing."They're understanding the concept of an operating system, learning to use a command line, and as none of the software is proprietary they don't have to stick with one company's products – they can chop and change things however they like."The project marks the latest in a series of efforts by Google to promote programming education in the UK. The company had previously worked with the charity First Teach to provide computer science specialists to teach in schools.Upton hopes other companies will follow suit. "It's good to see Google putting their money where their mouth is", he said."They've been vocal about promoting computing in the UK, and hopefully other organisations will have the same mindset."Sometimes individual companies can be apprehensive about getting involved because there's always the risk that you make an investment and the improved talent pool will go and work for your competitors, but if the whole industry gets together then we could do something on a massive scale."
Google's chairman has sketched out a future world in which cyberterrorists are targeted by government drone strikes, online identities are taken hostage and held for ransom, and parents explain online privacy to their children long before the subject of sex.Eric Schmidt also said that his recent trip to North Korea had shown that the population there lives in an "utter information blackout" – but that change was certain to come, as well as for the 5 billion people worldwide not yet connected to the internet, for whom connectivity would bring enormous benefits and transform their lives.Speaking to an audience at Cambridge University, in the first of a number of speeches outlining his view of the technological future, Schmidt said that he thought change would come "slowly and incrementally" to North Korea as the use of mobile phones spread, and with it information. Google hasalready updated its maps of the countrysince Schmidt's visit using "citizen mappers" inputting information to its Mapmaker software."North Korea reminds me how far we have come," Schmidt said. "That disconnectedness used to be closer to the norm than where we are now." With 2 billion people already online, he said he could see many benefits to the rise of connectivity – but that it would also be exploited by sinister forces as our online identities became a bigger element of our real-world identities."For citizens, coming online comes to mean living with multiple identities; your online identity becomes your real identity," Schmidt said. "The absence of a delete button on the internet will be a big challenge. Not just what you say and write, but also the websites you visit, and do or say or share online. For anyone in the public eye, they will have to account for their past."Dark side of the webBut that would bring downsides too: "We could see virtual kidnappings – ransoming your ID for real money," Schmidt said. "Rather than keeping captives in the jungle, groups like Farc [in Colombia] may prefer a virtual hostage. That's how important our online ID is."Schmidt's forecast is an extension of some existing trends. Some hackers have already used "ransomware" which takes over a user's computer and encrypts its hard drive, locking them out – unless they make a payment to the hackers. And others have had their private lives revealed online after having their email accounts hacked.Schmidt said the problems could go further as other technologies become cheaper: "Terrorists and criminals could use drones to carry IEDs [improved explosive devices] – that could result in conflict between civil and military drones," he suggested."Or it could happen over the US-Mexico border" – on one side of which drug cartels hold more sway than the police or citizens in a number of areas. "Maybe we'll even see the world's first drone strike against cyber-terrorists. That's how seriously evil part of this [growth in technology] could be."But the future will be much more disruptive to terrorists than everyone else. I can't see them operating out of caves in Tora Bora" – as al-Qaida did after the US invasion of Afghanistan in 2001.Terrorists' need to communicate online will lead to problems in hiding, Schmidt said. "If they connect them, they leave some sort of digital footprint. And that makes them detectable." He cited the case of one target who had said on a phone call that he was going to a family wedding, naming the place – and been caught as a result. Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad reportedly raised suspicions because it didn't have any internet connection.The birds and the IDsThe importance of online identities would also mean that parents would have to educate their children much earlier about the importance of making choices over what digital footprints they created than about sex. "I'm absolutely convinced that parents will have to have the 'online privacy' talk with their children before 'the sex talk'," he said. "It might be when they're eight years old, you'll be saying 'don't put that onlline! It'll come back to bite you!' and then have to explain why."And parents themselves would have to consider the implications even of the name they chose for a child. "If you give your child a unique name, that name will have a high ranking in search results [because it's unusual]. Or you can give them a non-unique name with a low ranking. What kind of parent are you in each case?"He suggested that "our online identity will become such a powerful element. Laws to protect anonymity – we may even see rise in black market where we can buy pre-made or real identities, with all their shopping and background all completely 'real' – verifiable online, that is. That's the effect of there being no delete button [on the internet] – people will find fake IDs attractive."Both drug smugglers trying to evade police and political activists looking to hide from repressive regimes would find those useful, he said: "you'll be able to buy an identity with fake friends and a history of purchases. I'm not encouraging this – some are saying it's going to happen."But he added that "whatever happens with digital identity, I know that Europe will be the leader in managing its regulation. Many other countries will be clueless."He even suggested that repressive regimes might seek to carry out "online ethnic cleansing" – "where people from a certain group the government doesn't like have their online payments slowed or even stopped, where their tweets are deleted, they can't connect."Making connectionsHowever, he held out hopes that the rise of connectivity, especially through mobile phones with data services, would reduce corruption and undermine repressive regimes.Yet he admitted that his recent visit to North Korea had been surprising. "Leaving our mobile phones in Beijing to go to North Korea was weird – I said it was like 1992, when we all used to have to talk to each other on journeys rather than looking at our phones. And when you get there, they give you phones, but they're bugged, so you can't do anything with them. There are only a million phones in use in North Korea. I'm sure change will come, but slowly and incrementally."North Korea's population, he said, was living in an "utter information blackout". He had visited the country as part of his "20% time" – the free time that Google gives its employees to do creative things. "I decided to go and visit the people in the countries who are future users of the internet." He travelled to, among others, Chad, Rwanda, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Somalia.In each, he said, the need to be connected, first through a mobile phone and then to the internet, became apparent. "In Chad, only 1% of the population have electricity, and there's a civil war. I wondered what a connected Chad would look like. Somalia, meanwhile, is the classic 'failed state' – but you look at it: there aren't any banks, but there is mobile banking. The telecoms companies are the only ones that are legal and profitable."In Afghanistan's Helmand province, he said, he had come across the example of two towns that the Taliban had invaded: in one they took the population's mobile phones away, and in the other they didn't. The population revolted against the invaders who took away their phones. "Saddam [Hussein, the former Iraqi dictator] didn't allow mobile phones at all," he noted.He said that the arrival of the internet was always beneficial: "There's no country where the situation has worsened with the arrival of the internet. Citizens can use their mobile phones to raise the cost of corruption. And even in China, the regime can be shamed – when there was a train crash recently the government tried to hush it up, but people began posting pictures on [the Twitter-like chat service] Weibo, and the story got out."Thestrike by journalists at Southern Weekly, over censorship – the fact that they could do that and then go back without trouble shows that the government, even that autocracy, is sensitive to the fact that it can be shamed online."He admitted that one of his biggest worries is not about children using digital devices for entertainment – "do they have an off button? They all do" – than about the lack of "deep reading" of long books. "I worry a lot that nobody's doing that, that nobody's getting what comes from the deep reading of a book."
Twitter is taking action against hardcore pornography on its new six-second video app, Vine, banning searches for explicit content and deleting X-rated users.The social network made efforts to clean up the porn-hit video app afterapologising for a "human error" that showed a graphic sex clip on its homepageon Monday.NSFWVine, the user behind the pornographic video, appeared to have been blocked from Vine on Tuesday morning – but not before they had uploaded more than 30 explicit videos to 500 followers. However, the person behind the account denied that it had been blocked.An individual who responded when the Guardian messaged the NSFWVine Twitter account said they were not "really expecting" Vine to select the clip as an editor's pick on the homepage.NSFWVine launched two websites asking users to submit pornographic videos to Vine less than 72 hours after Twitter launched the app, internet registration records show. "The plan is to have others submit their NSFW vine clips, so the site is a collection of NSFW vine clips. $ will be from ads," the person behind the account told the Guardian.They claimed Twitter had not been in contact about the explicit material despite making a public apology over it.The person behind the account defended uploading pornographic videos to the site, and said it was the responsibility of Twitter and Vine to make them difficult to find.The individual said in an email: "Twitter/Vine should really take steps to make it possible to filter out and block such content, so it can be out of reach for children, but I believe there are a lot of adults who would like the opportunity to share and view such content, and I bet they have gotten a lot of app downloads because of the media attention regarding porn on there. Maybe a safe search filter or something could be a possibility. Like Google have, which works well in my opinion."The San Francisco-based company moved to block searches for tags including "#porn", "nsfw" and "boobs" in a further effort to rid Vine of its porn problem. The app is still available for free for Apple iPhones and iPods, although it was quietly removed from the app store's editor's picks section late on Monday.Vine's launch last week inspired several spin-off sites that display an unmoderated stream of the rolling videos, includingVinepeek, launched by theLondon-based startup PXi Ventures.The director of Pxi Ventures, Peter MacRobert, said he was "disappointed" that porn had started appearing on Vine, but added that he was a fan of the service.He told the Guardian: "Vinepeek simply re-broadcasts a feed from Vine, and at the moment the original content is not tagged in any way to indicate that it may contain adult themes."Ideally, we would like to work with Vine to get an indication of a clip's suitability (for example, a meta tag) – allowing our viewers to make a choice before viewing the content."A Twitter spokesperson said: "We're in the process of changing how users find and view sensitive content. We're experimenting with a number of approaches and will continue to iterate."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Google is slowly filling in the blanks in its quest to build a comprehensive map of North Korea – one of the world's most secretive states – with the addition of new details, including one of the country's notorious gulags.Using data compiled with its Map Maker tool – which enables people to submit satellite imagery and knowledge from on the ground – Google claims users can now access maps of North Korea that offer "much more information and detail than before".The bulk of the new information on North Korea published by Google on Tuesday comes from satellite images. Only a tiny proportion of its 23 million people have access to the internet, and Google is unable to turn to local commercial providers to create maps as it does in most other countries.Google's map of North Korea as it was before, with less detail. Photograph: AFP/Getty ImagesThe select group of officials, scientists, software engineers and students that comprise the country's fledgling online community do not have access to Google."While many people around the globe are fascinated with North Korea, these maps are especially important for the citizens of South Korea who have ancestral connections or still have family living there," said Jayanth Mysore, senior product manager at Google Map Maker.Aside from a large number of South Koreans, the contributors included Sebastiaan van Oyen, an Australian who works for a financial trading firm in Sydney and does not speak Korean."I wanted to go to North Korea, and because it was not yet mapped I decided to start mapping so I could at least see how easy it would be to travel within the country," he told the BBC.This month Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, made ahigh-profile visit to Pyongyangand called on the regime to open up to the internet or risk continued isolation and economic decline.Google's new map's features include buildings, roads, subway stations, parks and some of the countless monuments to the country's ruling Kim dynasty.But there are other facilities that the regime would rather the rest of the world did not see, including the Yodok labour camp in the centre of the country.Google acknowledges that the map is still far from complete. "We know this map is not perfect – one of the exciting things about maps is that the world is a constantly changing place. We encourage people from around the world to continue helping us improve the quality of these maps for everyone with Google Map Maker."Martyn Williams, who runs theNorth Korea Tech blog, noted that South Korean national security laws meant there was more detail available about the area to the north of the demilitarised zone – the heavily fortified border separating the two Koreas – than about the southern side.Despite the update, Google's was not the most comprehensive map of North Korea, Williams said. He recommendedNorth Korea Uncovered, by the analyst Curtis Melvin, and theDPRK Digital Atlas, a joint project by Curtis and 38 North, the blog of the US-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University.
Any Monday night gaming action to discuss with us?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBeijing government releases official air quality monitoring app &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaBoy, has the government come a long way when it comes to air pollution. Just half a year ago, if you wanted to know how dangerous the air was in Beijing, your only real option was the US Embassy's @BeijingAir twitter feed, and the Chinese government was desperately trying to stop you from reading that. Now, not only is the Beijing government publishing real-time numbers for the air's PM2.5 (deadly particles) count, it hasreleased a smartphone appso that users can check pollution stats while on the go.OK, good. But - would you trust it to be telling you the truth?New details on Apple's budget iPhone 5 &gt;&gt; iLounge BackstageThis new model is actually a cross between the iPhone 5, fifth-generation iPod touch, and... wait for it... the iPod classic. Yes, really. It will have a 4" screen, like the iPhone 5, a bottom like the latest iPod touch, and a shape that's most similar to the iPod classic.The budget iPhone's raw dimensions are just barely larger than the iPhone 5's. It is around a half-millimeter taller and a half-millimeter wider--nearly imperceptible differences--as well as almost a millimeter thicker. Beyond shifting from glass and metal to a substantially plastic chassis, the most significant change Apple will make is in the curves.iPhone 5P for Plastic?Cash worries hit Phorm shares &gt;&gt; FT.comPhorm was a sharp faller this week as fears grew that the maker of internet traffic monitoring software would need a rescue fundraising.The group, which has been focused on emerging markets afterfacing criticism from privacy campaigners, dropped 39.8% even after announcing a rollout into two new Chinese provinces. "The company is likely to run out of cash around March absent funding," said Liberum Securities. "Recent share price weakness is potentially unhelpful and reflects financial worries, not progress in the business."Remember Phorm? (Subscription required to view article.)Moving to 64-bit Twitter User IDs &gt;&gt; Twitter DevelopersEvery entity represented in Twitter's API has an ID associated with it. As we allocate larger and larger numbers for these IDs, the space required to store them must grow in turn. For example, we migrated Tweet IDs from 32-bit to 64-bit integers back in2009, then did the same for direct message IDs in2011. We expect to start allocating user IDs in a 64-bit integer space sometime this year.This means that if you currently use signed 32-bit integers to track user IDs in your system, you should update your code to use 64-bit integers as soon as you can. To be safe, and to provide a date to aim for, we recommend making this change by July 1, 2013. This includes statically typed variables in your application code and column types in your database code.Twitter is thinking big.iMac shipments fall over 40% in 4Q12, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesThere were an estimated 578,000 new iMacs shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012, dropping 42.8% on quarter and 54.8% on year mainly due to delayed supplies of key components, especially panels, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers. As the supply of key components began to significantly increase in November 2012, iMac shipments are expected to rebound in the first quarter of 2013, the sources said.Pretty much what Tim Cook said.New BlackBerry World for BlackBerry 10 to Include extensive catalogue of songs, latest movies and TV showsBlackBerry® World(TM) storefront (formally BlackBerry App World(TM)) for BlackBerry 10 will offer one of the most robust music and video catalogs in mobile today. The new BlackBerry World will include an extensive catalog of songs as well as movies and TV shows, with most movies coming to the store the same day they are released on DVD, and next day availability of many current TV series. The competitive offering will feature content from all major studios, music labels and top local broadcast networks. Customers will be able to preview tracks and access the content using multiple payment options.Instagram v Vine &gt;&gt; Willa's WorldSays it all. Requires six seconds, but no video.Acer sees success in Chrome; Windows 8 fails to drive sales &gt;&gt; BloombergChrome-based models accounted for 5% to 10% of Acer's US shipments since being released there in November, President Jim Wong said in an interview at the Taipei-based company's headquarters. That ratio is expected to be sustainable in the long term and the company is considering offering Chrome models in other developed markets, he said.Acer, which last week announced a NT$3.5bn ($120m) write-off on the value of its Gateway, Packard Bell and eMachines brands that pushed it into losses, is looking for alternatives as Windows-based computers struggle amid rising popularity of tablets and smartphones. Global computer industry shipments dropped 6.4 percent in the fourth quarter despite Microsoft's latest operating system being released during the period, according to IDC Corp."Windows 8 itself is still not successful," said Wong, whose company posted a 28% drop in fourth-quarter shipments from a year earlier. "The whole market didn't come back to growth after the Windows 8 launch, that's a simple way to judge if it is successful or not."Also: won't release any Windows RT devices before autumn. Instead, it's getting into the smartphone business.False beliefs persist, even after instant online correctionsIt seems like a great idea: Provide instant corrections to web-surfers when they run across obviously false information on the Internet.But a new study suggests that this type of tool may not be a panacea for dispelling inaccurate beliefs, particularly among people who already want to believe the falsehood."Real-time corrections do have some positive effect, but it is mostly with people who were predisposed to reject the false claim anyway," said R. Kelly Garrett, lead author of the study and assistant professor of communication at Ohio State University....In fact, it has already been attempted: A team from Intel and the University of California, Berkeley, developed Dispute Finder, a plug-in for web browsers that was released in 2009 and would alert users when they opened a webpage with a disputed claim. That project has ended, but Garrett said similar efforts are under way.Idées fixes are all very well until a lion chews off your head. You'd think evolution might have sorted this out. Or maybe it's not an evolutionary disadvantage?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google would not oppose any moves by the government to tighten up the tax regimes that has allowed it to use Bermuda as a tax haven, its executive chairman Eric Schmidt said on Monday.Speaking at Cambridge University, the chief of the world's biggest search engine reiterated his position that Google would abide by any changes the UK imposed: "Our tax strategy is that whatever the tax regime, we would pay that."It comes just days after David Cameron called on other world leaders at Davos to crack down on tax avoidance. "When some businesses aren't seen to pay their taxes, that is corrosive to the public trust," he said. "I want this year's G8 [meeting of the largest economic powers] to bring a new focus on … tax [and] transparency. Those are the issues we are going to be driving for this year … We want to use the G8 to drive a more serious debate on tax evasion and tax avoidance." He added that "people across the planet are rightly calling for more action".Google used the tax haven of Bermuda for £6bn of transactions, while paying just £6m in corporation tax in the UK, in 2012. It defines the UK staff and operations as a "service arm" of the business, and uses an Irish subsidiary to collect advertising revenues from the UK and other countries. That pays royalties to another Irish subsidiary, which passes payments to a holding company in the Netherlands with its tax base in Bermuda. Google legally avoided paying around £200m on £2.6bn of UK revenues through the arrangement.In Davos, Cameron said that "there's nothing wrong with sensible tax planning … but there are some forms of avoidance that have become so aggressive that I think it is right to say these raise ethical issues."Schmidt declined to comment directly on Cameron's comments, but did acknowledge that corporations now had to recognise that they were dealing with a very different world from before. "It will be harder and harder for corporations simply to be focused on shareholders" – who are meant to be the beneficiaries of tax avoidance arrangements that maximise company profits."The reason why they won't be able to is their employees. In Google, we're there because we all talk about a shared vision of making the world a better place. Employees work in a company not for shareholder value but because they feel a need to be there. That model is how corporations everywhere are going to have to work."He suggested that the traditional corporate model "is in some ways outdated" because employees now are better educated about what the business they work for is doing.Other companies to have come in for criticism over their tax planning arrangements in the UK include the internet retailer Amazon and the coffee chain Starbucks, which said that it would pay an extra £20m in taxes.
Government requests for Twitter users' data rose by 20% in the second half of 2012, the social network said on Monday.The requests came from 30 countries around the world, but the vast majority were from the US and were usually linked to criminal investigations.Updated figures on what government and rights holders have been asking of the social network were revealed in the second of its transparency reports and posted on a new site, transparency.twitter.com.Twitter complied with requests by the US government 69% of the time, according to the report. The US government was responsible for 815 of the 1,009 information requests in the second half of 2012, it found. Most requests were coming from the US because Twitter is based in San Francisco.Twitter said that its transparency report hoped to "raise awareness about these invasive requests.""We believe the open exchange of information can have a positive global impact," Jeremy Kessel, Twitter's legal policy manager,said in a blogpostcelebrating what activists have dubbed Data Privacy Day."To that end, it is vital for us and other internet services to be transparent about government requests for user information and government requests to withhold content from the internet; these growing inquiries can have a serious chilling effect on free expression – and real privacy implications.""All of our actions are in the interest of an open and safe internet."Twitter's response to the requests varied, with the social network granting by far the highest number of US government requests. Most other government requests were not complied with. Twitter said it did not comply with requests that fail to identify a user in cases when a user may have challenged the request after it notified them, or when a request was overly broad.The report, Twitter's second for 2012, provided more detailed statistics on US government requests for information than the first. The majority – 60% – of US requests were comprised of subpoenas from authorities, while the rest were made up of court orders and search warrants, it said. Twitter said it notifies users of the requests except when prohibited from doing so by a court order, which happened in 20% of cases.Twitter's transparency report also noted an increase in requests for content removal, up from six in the first half of 2012 to 48, and a decrease in copyright notices, from 3,378 to 3,268.In November,Twitter announced a new policyfor dealing with copyright infringement claims in tweets.A statement from Google on Monday, setting out its approach to government requests for information, said it was pushing for updating laws such as the US Electronic Communications Privacy Act to protect online documents.It said: "It's important for law enforcement agencies to pursue illegal activity and keep the public safe. We're a law-abiding company, and we don't want our services to be used in harmful ways. But it's just as important that laws protect you against overly broad requests for your personal information. "
Google has called for changes in the 17-year-old law that allows US authorities to access people's online lives without a warrant.In a blogpost timed to coincide with Monday'sData Privacy Day, David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer, said it was time to update Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Ecpa) "so the same protections that apply to your personal documents you keep in your home also apply to your email and online documents."Google recently revealed that the number of requests for private data it received from US officials had increased by 136% by the end of 2012 from the second half of 2009, when Google first started collecting data.In the last six months of 2012, 68% of those requests were made under ECPA subpoenas which do not require a court order, unlike most wiretaps or requests to search properties. Google complied to some degree with 88% of requests.Drummond said Google scrutinizes requests carefully and notifies users about legal demands "when appropriate". "Sometimes we can't, either because we're legally prohibited (in which case we sometimes seek to lift gag orders or unseal search warrants) or we don't have their verified contact information," he wrote.ECPA was passed in 1986 and critics charge that it now violates the fourth amendment, which prohibits unreasonable searches. Drummond said Google required government agencies conducting criminal investigations to use a search warrant to access private content stored in a Google account because the fourth amendment "overrides conflicting provisions in ECPA."Google is working with lobby group Digital Due Process, which is pushing for ECPA reform and counts Apple, American Civil Liberties Union, eBay, Facebook, Microsoft and others among its backers.Congress is expected to start debating ECPA reform again this year after earlier attempts stalled."It's important for law enforcement agencies to pursue illegal activity and keep the public safe. We're a law-abiding company, and we don't want our services to be used in harmful ways. But it's just as important that laws protect you against overly broad requests for your personal information," wrote Drummond.
Everything about the Elder Scrolls is big. From Daggerfall's mind-boggling 188,000 square miles, a virtual space twice the size of Great Britain, to Skyrim's blockbuster sales figures and right down to the sheer amount of plants in Oblivion, this is scale at its most all-encompassing. So it's no surprise that The Elder Scrolls Online (TESO), the series' first massively multiplayer online game (MMOG), looks like it's going to be just that – massive.Building a multiplayer universe based on singleplayer worlds is no small task, of course, and there are many high-profile casualties. Even a killer brand only goes so far – last year Star Wars: The Old Republic suffered the humiliation of having to go free-to-play. There's also a little grumbling among Elder Scrolls fans that TESO is being developed by a new studio, Zenimax Online, rather than series creators Bethesda – though given that its staff are a specifically-assembled bunch of MMOG designers with quality CVs, the switch surely makes sense.The Elder Scrolls Online game director, Matt FirorTESO's game director Matt Firor is on the line from Maryland, and I've been wanting to ask this first question for days. Can you still pickpocket? In Skyrim you can get light-fingered enough to rob someone's clothes while they're talking to you, which always struck me as genius. "Pickpocketing's something that we have thought about doing," chuckles Firor. "But there's a lot of complicated interpersonal relations stuff with that feature, and basically what it comes down to is the world's divided into these three alliances, where everyone in your alliance is your friend and everyone else is the enemy, and if you pickpocket one of your friends then can you fight them?"I venture that yes, you could, but Firor has an effective counter. "It leads into design questions that we're unsure about – basically it's something that is a lot of fun for you, but not a lot of fun for everyone else."Put like that, it had to go; and anyway, getting bogged down in such detail seems rather miserly in the context of TESO's epic sweep. Previous Elder Scrolls games have been set in sections of the huge continent of Tamriel, such as Morrowind or Skyrim, but TESO's map is the whole of Tamriel, a thousand years before any of the events we know."The lore about the era we're in has been kind of sketchy," explains Firor. "All we know is it's a time of big unrest and the provinces are fighting each other with no central control. That's the perfect setting for us, because we can tell the stories about this unrest and how provinces are forming alliances or fighting each other over the imperial city."There is something special about a videogame prequel of such magnitude, in that Zenimax Online is creating the history of a future we've already visited. Exploring a place you already "know" in a game has a particular intimacy to it, whether that's gunning through Goldeneye's Facility or re-tracing your steps through Skyrim – and it's a particularly awesome responsibility when the source is another game, because players feel a real a sense of ownership about these worlds.I ask Firor what a player might notice when returning to somewhere like Windhelm, one of Skyrim's major cities. "The first thing you'll notice is the similarities. The buildings look similar, the stone's similar, the general setting of the city in the zone looks the same. The differences are it's a different layout, I mean it's a thousand years before, the town itself is different in its makeup, the political system is different. You'll still walk out of the gates and recognise you're in Skyrim, and things like that little stream in front of the city, there's a lot of continuity in that sense. I guess I'd say it looks similar, but feels different."Making the Elder Scrolls massively multiplayer isn't just about the world, of course, and Zenimax's biggest challenge may well be adapting a singleplayer combat system – and one not without its share of critics – for huge co-operative and competitive battles. Player v Enemy (PvE) combat will see huge groups of players ganging up on the world's nasties, which Firor explains has led to a spot of table-turning."We found as we played the game we liked certain character builds, so we've made enemies that essentially share some of those character builds. We're trying to simulate, basically, how players fight in groups – we want enemies to be using those tactics against you, so they'll help each other out, buff each other, heal each other. One might throw a pot of pitch and then a mage sets you alight – so now you're on fire and you're slowed down."The vast uncivilised tracts of Tamriel are used by TESO to address a more common and fundamental PvE problem – the plateau, the point at which you either PvP (Player v Player)or stop playing. "We might come up with a fancier name," laughs Firor. "But at the minute we call them adventure zones – you can go and explore the wilder parts of Tamriel, and our long-term PvE content is based around these areas. So if you're at a very high level but still want to play PvE, you can head to adventure zones and go explore solo or team up with similar players, and we'll probably tie some really big group quests into them."Your first hours in TESO, at least, will be PvE focused before the option to transition into competitive play. "Yeah we don't know exactly when that point is," says Firor. "Right now it's on level 10, which is about 15 hours of gameplay. Our thinking is at least a few hours of PvE to get the controls and how combat works – we don't want to throw 'em out there too soon, but we always want it all to be up to the player to choose."All well and good, because for many prospective players the focus is overwhelmingly on PvP – and Firor explains TESO's take inpart two.Elder Scrolls Online is currently in beta, interested gamers can find out morehere.
The one thing that tends to get overlooked when we think about Pride and Prejudice is the terror. I don't mean the usual video game form of terror – there are no monsters or ninja assassins in Austen's novel (although it's a few years since I last read it, I might have forgotten those bits). I mean the terror of social failure and displacement. The fear of dishonour and disgrace – and the very real peril young women faced when they were felt to have fallen somehow short of society's standards. And sorry, but this is all good video game material.The Regency society that Jane Austen wrote about was effectively a highly codified mechanism: a game system. Just like in a role-playing adventure, where certain "classes" of enemies can only be effectively fought after the required power-ups have been discovered, Austen's heroines faced a rigidly hierarchical environment in which every interaction was governed by status. Social engagements were arranged via calling cards, and elaborate rituals of acceptance and avoidance were developed to ensure everyone knew their place. Making friends and potential marriage partners was a question of understanding the etiquette – the game system – and playing effectively.I can totally see Pride and Prejudice as a sort of stealth adventure in which Elizabeth must quietly learn the systems of the Meryton gentry if she is to form a relationship with Darcy. Every ball is a mission in which the lead character has to gather information and work on possible alliances. We know from the excellent Party mission in Dishonored that upper class gatherings make atmospheric and sinister game environments. We also know from sci-fi RPG series Mass Effect how in-game conversations can be used to simulate diplomatic relations, allowing the lead protagonist to charm non-player characters. It's the same thing here; ecept every ball will also have a tricky mini-game in which you have to master the elaborate steps of Regency country dances – like memorising new moves in a fighting game.Every adventure game has a currency and many have a 'moral status' gauge where the system judges the player on their every action, good or evil. In a Pride and Prejudice title, the currency would be status and every conversation, every slight faux pas, would play into it. Address a viscount as a baron or take the wrong seat at the dinner table and your social currency plummets. Players would need to become proficient in the infrastructure of social terror, earning etiquette power-ups to survive.The difficulty of course, is that as a woman in Regency England, Elizabeth's actions alone aren't enough. A Pride and Prejudice game would have to figure out a way of dealing with Lydia and Mrs Bennet, a pair of social smart bombs capable of randomly sabotaging any progress Elizabeth makes. Game systems are all about the player's agency in the world, they give us ultimate power over our destinies and would be considered unfair otherwise. Austen's Elizabeth discovers that Darcy has helped to engineer the marriage of Wickham and Lydia – a veritable machine of disgrace – but in a game, the player would need to be involved, tying up this loop of the plot in order to progress.Hanging over the whole tale, of course, is Lady Catherine, a brilliant video game antagonist if ever there was one. She, likeKefka in Final Fantasy VI, is a malevolent regal presence, manipulating all, hating everything, misanthropic to the core. Like many of the best game villains, she is at the head of a family placed in jeopardy, often by a younger generation incapable of, or unwilling to, continue the dynasty (look at the messy private lives of the Resident Evil baddies). Anne is weak, Darcy is a rebel, Collins an obsequious toad. Catherine's confrontation with Elizabeth toward the end of the book is a video game boss battle, in which all the player has learned about society, interaction and self-protection must come into perfect play against the representative of an old world order. Catherine's boss battle weak spot is her family and Elizabeth's position beyond it – that's what you go for.Pride and Prejudice: the video game – would anyone play it? There has been a rather mawkish attempt in the past; a sort of graphic adventure game entitled,Matches and Matrimony. But game demographics have changed hugely over the last five years, and so has the ambition of designers. You only need look at titles like Journey, Papo &amp; Yo, Digital: A Love Story and All That Matters to know that, at least in the indie sector, a broader range of themes and experiences is emerging.Of course, it's arguable whether a game based around a young woman's social mobility is even desirable in the 21st century. But Pride and Prejudice is not just about romance it is about a system of subterfuge and repression. Regency England is a Death Star of class, and the learning curve of the game would align with the learning curve of the main characters in the novel – they need to escape those two titular nouns to achieve freedom. At that point, like the end of a game, the terror is overcome. The system is beaten.
Twitter has apologised over a "human error" that allowed hardcore pornography to be shown on the homepage of its new six-second video app, Vine.The social network admitted that it mistakenly made the explicit video – which was tagged "porn" and "nsfwvine" – an "editor's pick" on Monday, meaning users could view the x-rated clip without leaving the homepage.Vine has quickly become a new home for explicit material after it waslaunched last weekas a way to share short clips with friends.Twitter said in a statement: "A human error resulted in a video with adult content becoming one of the videos in editor's picks, and upon realising this mistake we removed the video immediately. We apologise to our users for the error."The blunder heaped pressure on Twitter to explain how it will clean up the app, which is available free on Apple iPhones and has already been credited with inventing "microporn".There is no age limit to prevent children using the app, which has passed Apple's strict guidelines on nudity and suggestive content. The video was removed from Vine at around 3pm UK time (10am EDT) after being on editor's picks for a matter of hours.A Twitter spokeswoman earlier said: "Users can report videos as inappropriate within the product if they believe the content to be sensitive or inappropriate (eg nudity, violence, or medical procedures). Videos that have been reported as inappropriate have a warning message that a viewer must click through before viewing the video."Uploaded videos that are reported and determined to violate our guidelines will be removed from the site, and the user account that posted the video may be terminated. Please review theVine rulesfor more information on these violations."Vine videos that have been reported as inappropriate prompt users to "tap to view" them, unlike all other clips which play automatically. This, in theory, should help warn users about extreme content – although it is unlikely to satisfy parental groups on internet safety. It is not known whether the editor's pick section of the Vine app is an automated feed or selected by people.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 26 January 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (3)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (40)PC (2)Wii U (1)112 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (34)Wii (5)183 (4)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (36)PC (6)94 (1)Dmc(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (43)PC (6)25 (10)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)Wii U (5)136 (5)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (43)VITA (11)PC (1)137 (6)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (77)Xbox 360 (18)Wii U (3)PS3 (2)178 (7)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (95)PSP (5)139 (9)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (77)PS3 (14)PC (9)5810 (8)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (1)1011 (17)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (28)Wii (21)PS3 (18)DS (15)2912 (11)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (25)Wii (18)DS (9)1013 (–)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1114 (14)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (28)Wii U (18)VITA (9)815 (15)Skylanders Giants (7+)Xbox 360 (29)Wii (36)PS3 (18)1516 (12)WWE '13(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (46)Wii (4)1317 (13)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (31)PC (11)1518 (16)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)2919 (–)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)920 (20)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (32)PC (7)11UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Nokia Music and its Mix Radio feature has been one of the most impressive features of Nokia's Lumia Windows phones since its launch in late 2011, offering customised streaming radio channels for free, with no ads. Now the service is getting a premium tier called Nokia Music+.Announced at the Midem music industry conference at the weekend, it will charge users €3.99 (£3.40) a month for the ability to cache an unlimited number of channels – or "mixes" – on the smartphone, as well as the ability to skip as many tracks as they want; higher-quality audio when streaming over a Wi-Fi connection, and access to the service from other devices via an HTML5 site."With this, our service is even more complete," says Nokia's vice president of entertainment Jyrki Rosenberg. "There is a funnel of free users, and also a tier of people who are willing to pay for unlimited skips, higher audio quality and the other features."That chimes nicely with the music industry's desire to see new models and prices for digital music in 2013, to complement the now-standard £9.99-a-month pricing for on-demand streaming services like Spotify and Deezer.The obvious comparison to Nokia Music is Pandora, the US-based personal radio service which is free in its basic version, but offers its users a Pandora One premium tier for $3.99 (£2.50)  a month. In that case, the incentive to upgrade includes the removal of advertising, although Nokia Music doesn't carry ads in its free version.While Nokia has made Nokia Music a key selling point for its Lumia smartphones, it has steered clear of grand promises to revolutionise the music industry, unlike the company's previous Comes With Music service, which failed to catch fire in Europe and the US – although it has been a notable success in countries like India, where it is currently generating 1m track downloads a day.Rosenberg says Nokia Music+ aims to reach consumers who aren't attracted by services such as Spotify."When we analysed the market, it was pretty clear from our research that this type of service is still targeting a fairly narrow segment of the market – I would say less than 10%, initially," he says."That's why it's important with this new tier to still be addressing a large part of the market, not limiting ourselves to less than 10% of it. €3.99 is still affordable enough for us to be focusing on the mass-market."Nokia Music+ will roll out across the 24 countries where the free app is available over the first quarter of 2013, available as an in-app upgrade for users. The company has never published figures to show how many people are using Nokia Music, although Rosenberg says that the app is certainly being found by Lumia owners."If we talk activation rates – how many people who bought a Lumia activate the service – that number is very big. The great majority of users activate it," he says.Nokia had sold 13.3m Lumia handsets by the end of 2012, which gives some idea of the scale. For now, Nokia Music is certainly smaller than Pandora, which ended 2012 with 67.1m active listeners, with Apple still mulling its long-rumoured launch of an "iRadio" style app to offer similar features to iOS users.Even so, if a significant chunk of Lumia buyers become active users of Nokia Music, and if the company can upsell a healthy number of them to the new premium tier, Nokia Music will have a genuinely meaningful impact for the music industry.
Oh dear, hello Monday. How was your weekend?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team24th January 2013 exploit &gt;&gt; The Public Whip BlogAnybody that has signed up to the PublicWhip website (forum or membership) will have had their plain text email address exposed, their PublicWhip username and an md5 hash of their PublicWhip password exposed. Whilst the passwords were "hashed", they were not salted (due to interaction with other code) and hence should be declared as "in the wild".You are advised to change any passwords which are the same as the PublicWhip one.You will no longer be able to log in to PublicWhip as the accounts have been wiped from the server.No financial information was exposed.We are sorry for this inconvenience and any problems caused.Cause: poor escaping of user input, allowing SQL injection.This is the biggest mirror on Earth &gt;&gt; io9This guy is standing on the flattest, shiniest place on Earth. It takes over a large section of Bolivia, and it's so flat, dry, and reflective, that it's used for satellite calibration.If you ever travel to Bolivia, and want to take pictures that will freak out your friends, go to the Salar de Uyuni. Because of an interesting confluence of geography and physics, this place has formed the world's largest mirror.Wonderful. Any better pics?January 2013 global threats &gt;&gt; SC MagazineThis month's "Global Threats" map found in the January issue, indicates that Spain was the top producer of zombie IP addresses in the world.And the EMEA region was the biggest source of zombie IPs overall. Inversely linked to employment and GDP? (Slideshow.)It's time to call out fraud in the adtech ecosystem &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogJohn Battelle's Search BlogBattelle has been researching a book, and found a problem:[Federated Media's Walter] Knapp notes two forms of fraud - ad injectors, fraudulent browser plugins that take over ad calls; and the practice of inserting an entire site into a 1×1 pixel hidden on high traffic but low quality sites featuring porn or music lyrics. Both are examples I've heard about over and over in my reporting. A third involves "stacking" ads one behind the other, all playing video to completion, often playing in inactive tabs. A fourth features refreshing ad calls on accelerated schedules or in inactive tabs. Yet another involves running as many ads as possible out of view, simply to gain "view through attribution" on a closed loop success metric.The shadow business is scarily large.Did you know how hilarious the patch notes to The Sims are? &gt;&gt; a place for posts to go"Sims who are on fire will no longer be forced to attend graduation before they can put themselves out", and other treasures of the imaginary world. (Not a hoax; sources confirmed bythis posting.)Vinepeek &gt;&gt;PXI Venturesvinepeek shows you newly posted Vines in realtime. Sit back and watch the world in six-second bites. Best viewed on a desktop browser.Unlike lightning, sometimes Vines strike twice. Please be patient if you see a Vine more than once. If it seems to freeze, refresh the page.Suddenly, it's all about video (short-form only). Didn't Flickr try this years ago?Fasten your seatbelts: Google's driverless car is worth trillions &gt;&gt; ForbesAdding up all costs related to accidents--including medical costs, property damage, loss of productivity, legal costs, travel delays and pain and lost quality of life--the American Automobile Association studied crash data in the 99 largest U.S. urban areas and estimated the total costs to be $299.5bn. Adjusting those numbers to cover the entire country suggests annual costs of about $450 bn.Now take 90% off these numbers. Google is claiming its car could save almost 30,000 lives each year on US highways and prevent nearly 2m additional injuries. Google claims it can reduce accident-related expenses by at least $400bn a year in the US. Even if Google is way off--and I don't believe it is--the improvement in safety will be startling.How much would you pay for a self-driving car? Could you afford it?Anonymous threatens Justice Department over hacktivist death &gt;&gt; CNN.comIn anger over the recent death of an Internet activist who faced federal charges, hackers claiming to be from the group Anonymous threatened early Saturday to release sensitive information about the US Department of Justice.They claimed to have one such file on multiple servers ready for immediate release. The hackers apparently hijacked the website of the U.S. government agency responsible for federal sentencing guidelines, where they posted a message demanding the United States reform its justice system or face incriminating leaks to select news outlets.We're watching our inboxes, though not with bated breath.Sony PS Vita sales analysis: Mobile console is dying &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:Over the past year, Sony's PS Vita has been squeezed badly by the dazzling success of the Nintendo 3DS and the overall contraction of the video game market in the US and Japan. After a brief rebound in sales during the holiday season, the Vita's lack of pulse became again painfully evident this week. As the winter doldrums hit the Japanese game market, the Vita's unit sales collapsed to just 9,000 during the week ending on 20 January, according to Famitsu. This is far below the 15,000 units the portable console managed during the same period in 2012, a level that was deemed dangerously low a year ago. To make things worse, Vita's ancestor console PSP just hit 15,000 unit weekly sales level, thanks to the latest Digimon title. It is not often you see a one-year old console being outsold by 60% by its seven year old predecessor.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google is facing a fresh privacy battle in the UK over its alleged secret tracking of the internet habits of millions of iPhone users.An estimated 10 million Britons could have grounds to launch a privacy claim over the way Google circumvented Apple's security settings on the iPhone, iPad and desktop versions of its Safari web browser to monitor their behaviour.At least 10 British iPhone users have started legal proceedings and dozens more are being lined up, according to Dan Tench, the lawyer behind the action at the London-based firm Olswang."This is the first time Google has been threatened with a group claim over privacy in the UK," he said. "It is particularly concerning how Google circumvented security settings to snoop on its users. One of the things about Google is that it is so ubiquitous in our lives and if that's its approach then it's quite concerning."A letter before action has been sent to Google executives in the US and UK on behalf of two users, including Judith Vidal-Hall, the privacy campaigner and former editor of Index on Censorship. Another 10 are preparing to launch proceedings, and plans are afoot for a group to form an umbrella privacy action.The legal action comes just months afterGoogle was hit with a $22.5m (£14m) fine in the USover a privacy breach between summer 2011 and spring 2012.Google has admitted it intentionally sidestepped security settings on Apple's Safari web browser that blocked websites from tracking users through cookies – data stored on users' computers that show which sites they have visited. Security researchers revealed last February that Google's DoubleClick advertising network intentionally stored these cookies on users' computers without their consent.Although the legal bill for Google is likely to be small compared with last year's profits of $10.7bn, the damage will be significant given the millions of iPhone users in Britain at the time. The exact figure for compensation is not known and will depend on a number of factors.Alexander Hanff, a privacy campaigner working on the legal claims, said: "This group action is not about getting rich by suing Google, this lawsuit is about sending a very clear message to corporations that circumventing privacy controls will result in significant consequences. The lawsuit has the potential of costing Google tens of millions, perhaps even breaking £100m in damages given the potential number of claimants – making it the biggest group action ever launched in the UK."Lawyers for claimants in the UK have ordered Google to reveal how it used the private information it secretly obtained, how much personal data was taken, and for how long. It is understood the claimants are suing Google for breaches of confidence and breach of privacy, computer misuse and trespass, and breach of the Data Protection Act 1998.News of the legal action was first reported by the Sunday Times. Vidal-Hall, who could not be reached by the Guardian, was quoted as saying Google was guilty of "electronic stalking". She added: "It angers me that our data is either being sold or passed on to third parties."A Facebook group calledSafari Users Against Google's Secret Trackinghas vowed to hold Google to account for the tracking. It said: "Google deliberately undermined protections on the Safari browser so that they could track users' internet usage and to provide personally tailored advertising based on the sites previously visited. There was no way to know that Google did this. In fact, they made it clear that they did not do this on the Safari browser."It continued: "It could mean for many users that surprises such as engagements, presents and holidays were destroyed when partners looked at their computers and saw display ads based on sites previously visited. There are many examples of the inappropriate consequences of such intrusion."Google is no stranger to damaging privacy battles, having being censured for snooping on Wi-Fi users with its StreetView cars and the failed launch of its email social network, Google Buzz.Google declined to comment. A statement it released at the time of the $22.5m fine last July claimed it had "collected no personal information" with the cookies.• Comments were opened in error for this story and have now been closed
Record Christmas takings have swollen Amazon's cash pile to as much as $9bn (£5.7bn), the online retailer is expected to declare on Tuesday in results that will inflame the debate over its tax contributions around the world.In just 13 weeks, Amazon's savings, which are held in cash and investments, have ballooned to between $7bn and $9bn, from $5.2bn in September, say analysts. The group's performance helped topple a number of its UK high street competitors, with the camera shop Jessops and music store HMV going into administration earlier this month.The UK generates an estimated 10% of Amazon's revenues, pushing the proportion of the cash pile collected in the British Isles to an estimated $900m.The retailer is under fire for paying low levels of corporation tax in the UK and other markets. With politicians across Europe casting about for ways to restore public finances, the sums are eye-catching. The issue will be forefront this week as parliament's influential public accounts committee resumes its inquiry into tax avoidance by taking evidence on Thursday from the four largest accounting firms.In the sights of many MPs are the major US companies that use a complex web of offshore havens to minimise their tax payments. Filings by Apple have revealed it is putting $1bn a week beyond the reach of the UK and US tax authorities. The iPhone maker has amassed $11bn in offshore havens in the last three months of 2012 and shielded $94bn from tax authorities around the world, mostly since 2005 when iPhone sales took off.Wall Street is forecasting that Amazon enjoyed larger than ever revenues of $22bn for the December quarter. The retailer continued to win market share from high street retailers over the festive season, according to RJ Hottovy, an analyst at the US broker Morningstar who puts Amazon's reserves at between $7bn and $8bn."Governments are looking to corporations more and more and re-evaluating what the appropriate tax balance should be," said Hottovy. "It's a very real risk for the company, but Amazon, given they have low costs and a sizeable cash position, will be well protected."The broker Sanford C Bernstein forecast $8.5bn in December, but says the total may have altered because the company has increased its debt. Debt payments can be offset against profits to minimise tax bills. Recent acquisitions may also have eaten into cash.Morgan Stanley calculates $9bn in savings, with $6.8bn in cash and the balance in short-term investments such as shares, government debt and corporate bonds.At the last count, more than $3bn was held in foreign currencies, including euros, sterling, Japanese yen and Chinese yuan.In three years from 2009 to 2011, Amazon earned more than £7bn in the UK but paid just £2.3m in corporation tax, despite employing 15,000 people in the country, thanks to a scheme which drives sales through a European head office in Luxembourg.Its most recent published earnings are for 2011, when the UK generated £3.35bn in sales, around a tenth of its $48bn in worldwide sales.Amazon said in its latest filings that it is already being pursued for unpaid tax by the US and French governments. It faces $1.5bn in additional federal taxes over a seven-year period, beginning in 2005, at a time when company accounts show it began to amass large amounts of cash in Luxembourg. Amazon did not respond to requests for comment.Like Google, Starbucks and other multinationals, Amazon and Apple legally funnel revenues out of countries such as the UK and France through payments to subsidiaries, typically in the form of loans or royalties for intangibles such as use of the brand or technology developed in-house.France served notice in September for unpaid tax totalling $252m, including interest and penalties, for the years from 2006 to 2010. As to the UK, and a number of other countries, Amazon's filings state it is or may be subject to investigations going back as far as 2003.Prem Sikka, professor of accounting at Essex Business School, said HM Revenue and Customs could claw back some of Amazon's savings by checking whether payments between its companies for items such as royalties were set at a fair price."Part of the reason for these cash piles is that companies have participated in complex structures and avoidance schemes to shelter profits from UK corporate tax, and there is no reason why HMRC cannot investigate this. HMRC is perfectly entitled to challenge the basis of any calculation."He warned against leaving aggressive tax schemes unchecked: "If you erode the tax base you can't have any form of effective government. We have allowed a very deep tax avoidance industry to become established and once an industry is established it becomes very difficult to get rid of it."
