Apple has signed a deal to sell iPhones on the world&apos;s largest mobile phone network, China Mobile, in a move that could dramatically expand its sales, according to reports.According to the Wall Street Journal,the long-expected tieup will be unveiled in two weeks&apos; time and will for the first time make the American company&apos;s phones available on the gigantic network, which has 760 million subscribers, of whom 176 million have 3G connectivity.But the iPhone will initially only be sold for 4G/LTE connectivity, the reports suggest, as part of the unveiling by the mobile carrier of its new faster connections on 18 December. The Chinese government issued 4G licences this week, and China Mobile is reckoned to be poised to take a lead there over its two smaller rivals, China Telecom and China Unicom, who together have half as many subscribers as the giant company.The iPhone 5C and 5S, released in September, include models with are compatible with China Mobile&apos;s TD-LTE system which is it rolling out across China.Vast customer baseEven so the move would give Apple a potential customer base three times bigger than the entire US mobile population. That could have a dramatic effect on its handset sales, whose share of the overall smartphone market has fallen as that business has grown – though it has still managed to increase sales year-on-year.Financial analysts reckon that Apple could sell between 10m and 17m extra iPhones in the first year of a deal with China Mobile, generating nearly $9bn in extra revenue. In the past four quarters it sold 150m iPhones.China is a key market for Apple because its buyers value premium western brands, and are also eager updaters of handsets: on average, owners replace their smartphones every 13 months, though the replacement cycle is longer on China Mobile. In Apple&apos;s most recent financial quarter, revenues from Greater China totalled $5.7bn, or 15% of its total.Compatibility issuesChina Telecom and China Unicom already sell 3G-compatible versions of the iPhone. But Apple&apos;s handset has not officially been available on China Mobile because the two companies had so far been unable to agree a revenue-sharing deal on handset, data and app sales, and because China Mobile uses its own version of 3G which is incompatible with those deployed elsewhere.Apple has never made an iPhone that is compatible with China Mobile&apos;s 3G services - but even so there are anestimated 42m iPhone users on its network, using slower 2G and EDGE services. They represent an estimated 80% of iPhone users in China.Apple declined to comment on the report. China Mobile said in a statement that talks on cooperation were ongoing and there was &quot;nothing to disclose&quot;.•iPhone 5S world price index shows it is most expensive in Jordan – and India
Despite being the most powerful man in the world, President Barack Obama is not allowed to use an iPhone because his security advisers have claimed it is not secure enough.“I am not allowed, for security reasons, to have an iPhone,” Obama quipped during a pitch for his healthcare law at the White House, intimating that he was forced to be behind the curve in technology adoption.His daughters, Sasha and Malia, however, do have iPhones, and “seem to spend a lot of time” using them, he said.The iPhone is insecureObama famously became the first president in US history to use email andbattled with the NSA in 2009to allow him to keep a BlackBerry, a fight he eventually won although it is allegedly restricted to communicating with just 10 people.Apple’s iPhone has yet to be certified as secure for government and military use by White House staff, meaning that the president and his staff are restricted from using Apple’s smartphone.Despite not being allowed an iPhone, Obama does have an iPad 2, which waspersonally given to him by Steve Jobsbefore the device was released to the public in 2011.•The iPhone 5S is the most expensive in Jordan, according to research, showing disparity of the cost of an iPhone around the world
Nikon D5200A full-fledged DSLR, the D5200 takes advantage of the entire range of Nikon lenses, has full manual controls, and features an HDR mode, "Active D-Lighting" (to improve backlit images), 1080p HD video, and a great 24.1-megapixel sensor and a 39-point autofocus system taken from the more expensive D7000.From &pound;510Canon 1100DCanon's entry-level DSLR, the 1100D can use the entire range of Canon EF-S and EF lenses, captures HD video at 720p, has full manual controls, and an APS-C sensor.From &pound;260Sony NEX-5T&nbsp;A mirrorless interchangeable lens camera that packs the 16.1-megapixel APS-C image sensor from a DSLR in more compact, lighter body. With Wi-Fi and NFC for instant image offloading and an articulated touchscreen, the NEX-5T is a jack of all trades.From &pound;485Canon Powershot SX160 ISCanon's inexpensive offering features 16x optical zoom, manual controls for shutter speed and aperture, image stabilisation, and uses AA batteries so you can still get power even in a pinch.From &pound;99Nikon Coolpix S3500The least expensive camera on this list, the S3500 is also the smallest and lightest. With vibration reduction, 7x zoom, 720p HD video, and wireless transfer, it packs a lot into a small, affordable package.&nbsp;From &pound;72Sony QX10The only camera in this list without a screen, the QX10 (and its more-expensive brother, the QX100) is a high quality camera controlled via an Android or iOS smartphone or tablet. The QX10 can be mounted to a phone or shot remotely, and features 1080p HD video, 10x zoom, and a larger sensor and lens than the smartphone you'll use to control it.From &pound;135GoPro Hero 3 Silver EditionThe best action camera out there at the moment, the GoPro Hero 3 range meets almost any extreme recording needs. The Silver Edition forgoes the pointless 4K UHD video recording for 60fps&nbsp;1080p full HD video, 10MP photos, excellent low-light performance and built-in Wi-Fi. In its included case the camera is waterproof down to 40m.From &pound;252Nokia Lumia 1020&nbsp;A bit of a wildcard entry into a camera category, Nokia's flagship Windows Phone isthe best camera phone goingand with its massive 41-megapixel image sensor is more a camera than a phone. Nokia's clever software and Carl Zeiss optics produce stunning images with a 3x lossless digital zoom. Combined with the connected abilities of a smartphone, the Lumia 1020 certainly makes an interesting proposition.&nbsp;From &pound;480Photograph: Timothy Clary/AFP/Getty Images
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSmart Metering is FCUKED &gt;&gt; Creative ConnectivityAs always with big Government driven IT programs, whilst there's money to be made by the metering industry and consultants, momentum rules.  It seems perfectly justifiable to carry on and saddle consumers with a £12bn white elephant which will further inflate domestic energy bills.  As a result of this lack of due diligence, smart metering is firmly on course to be the next big UK Government IT disaster.Might be worth keeping an eye on this one.Online banking faces a new threat &gt;&gt; SecurelistThe author of this post [on a cybercriminals' forum] was offering a malicious program that could be used to attack "about 100 banks" by seeding add-on code onto bank websites viewed with Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox, with VNC connections, and other ways to attack "any bank in any country."Kaspersky Lab immediately began to dig deeper, and discovered that the program the malicious users were offering was Trojan-Banker.Win32/64.Neverquest. By mid-November Kaspersky Lab had recorded several thousand attempted Neverquest infections all around the world. This threat is relatively new, and cybercriminals still aren't using it to its full capacity. In light of Neverquest's self-replication capabilities, the number of users attacked could increase considerably over a short period of time.The key part in that Trojan's naming? Win32. This wouldn't touch an iPad or Android user (or Mac user).The banks' legacy systems problem &gt;&gt; Coppola CommentFrances Coppola used to work in banking IT:The existence of ancient "legacy" systems within the modern banking systems architecture is not necessarily to do with lack of investment, as [RBS boss] Alastair Winter suggested, though fast growth and acquisitions complicate IT architectures and can make systems vulnerable. I shall return to the likely effect of RBS's aggressive expansion strategy shortly. But the real problem is the size, complexity and criticality of these old systems - plus the fact that many of them are written in programming languages that are not widely used now, so there are skills shortages among IT staff.Add in the demand for more banking services all the time, plus the fact that IT is viewed as a cost centre, and you have a problem.Shady marketing firms are still quietly bribing bloggers &gt;&gt; GawkerHamilton Nolan:To briefly reiterate the problematic aspects of the practice: these firms are hired by clients to enhance their Google results and overall SEO. The firms then offer to, essentially, bribe writers at various websites to place links to their clients in editorial content, because Google looks kindly on such links when calculating search rankings. The writers get paid; the links go in quietly; the cash is slipped into Paypal accounts; the news organizations are never informed. It's stealth marketing, and it's designed to deceive both the employer and the reader. It's an unethical scam.Turns up examples on Huffington Post, though one that was on the SF Examiner is vapourised.Dell tablets at bargain prices &gt;&gt; AllThingsDWalt Mossberg tries the 7in Dell Venue 7:So, what exactly do you get from a $150 name-brand tablet?The answer: You get a lower-quality device with weak battery life, which might suffice for a first-time tablet buyer with a tight budget.The Venue 7 is a relatively chunky black plastic tablet running Google's Android operating system, that's available via Dell's online store. It operates over Wi-Fi only, though a cellular version is planned for next year. It cannot be ordered with more internal memory than 16GB, but it has a slot for a memory expansion card.This tablet has a big brother, the Android-powered Venue 8, with similar specs, that starts at $180, still a good price.On the plus side, I found the Dell Venue 7 to be fast enough not to be annoying."Fast enough not to be annoying". Faint praise indeed.ByPlace™ revolution continues with iBeacons &gt;&gt; Exact EditionsThis latest step in the ByPlace™ revolution brings together the promotional tools of geolocation based access as previously announced, with revolutionary iBeacons technology. Allowing publishers to sell magazine access to specific locations and venues. From coffee shop to concert hall, Starbucks to stadiums, any venue is now a promotional tool, or a customer for a publisher.This unique promotional and sales tool, allows the publisher of the magazine to sell subscriptions two-fold, once to a venue offering the magazine, and once to the end user once they leave the iBeacon zone. With ByPlace™, Exact Editions have revolutionised the way that magazines can promote and sell their digital products.iBeacon is the Apple Bluetooth technology enabled in iOS 7. Be interesting to see how this gets deployed.The speed of mobile adoption &gt;&gt; jdd.ioDuncan Davidson:This month so far, the stats for jdd.io show 38% Mac, 31% iPhone, 16% iPad, 9% Windows, 3% Android, and it tapers from there.That's half phone and tablet devices with a huge bias towards iOS. Of course, these stats reflect the habits of people that read my blog or follow me on Twitter. If I do say so myself, it's a pretty leading-edge crowd. But what about a more normal site, such as theLuma Labswebsite where Greg and I sell camera straps? That should be a bit more reflective of general trends.The answer: 38% Mac, 38% Windows, 10% iPhone, 9% iPad, 4% Android, and then down from there. In other words, almost a quarter of our e-commerce traffic comes from phones and tablets. Wow.(Those five categories he cites add up to 99%.)Future iPhones may unlock, hide messages based on a user's face &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderAs noted in the US Patent Office]document, face detection and recognition are two different processes. Detection involves locating faces within an image, while recognition goes deeper by pairing those faces with a particular person or user. Typically, facial recognition follows detection.Apple's patent comprises three separate systems: a face detection decision application; a face recognition application; and an input/output control application. These systems work together to detect whether a user is authorized to operate a given device, and if so, activate certain functions within the computing environment.This sounds awfully familiar.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Online shopping is not the most glamorous aspect of the digital revolution, but it has just become the latest Silicon Valley battleground, with droids racing drones to become the courier of the future.First Amazon promised to eliminate the drudgery of the post office queue with parcels delivered by drone. Now Google has revealed that it is developing humanoid robots that could one day carry groceries to your door.Andy Rubin, the Google executive who brought smartphones to the masses by developing Google's free Android software, has revealed he is working on a secret project for the search engine company to create a new generation of robots.Rubin resigned unexpectedly from running Android in March, and over the past six months has quietly overseen Google's acquisition of seven small companies whose combined technology could be used to create a robot with animal characteristics such as a form of vision and moving limbs."With robotics it's a green field," Rubin told theNew York Times. "We're building hardware, we're building software, We're building systems, so one team will be able to understand the whole stack."Google robotics will be based in Palo Alto, California, and in Japan. The companies acquired include Industrial Perception, an American start-up that has developed digital eyes and robot arms for use in loading lorries, Holomni, which produces caster wheels that can rapidly swivel in any direction, and Japan's Schaft, whose robots generate as much power as a human and have mastered stable biped walking to cope with uneven ground (they can even retain their balance against the force of a human kick).Sources say plans are to develop machines that can be used for a range of activities, from manufacturing small electronics like smartphones – still mostly assembled by hand – to packing goods in warehouses and ultimately making home deliveries.If Amazon and Google's plans materialise, the unsuspecting online shopper could find a dazzling array of remote controlled technology arriving by air and road at their doorstep.On Sunday, Amazon's founder, Jeff Bezos, kicked off his company's Christmas publicity push by revealing a project to use drones to deliver purchases to the doorstep within half an hour of an order being placed.Meanwhile, Google is approaching a breakthrough with self-driving cars that will use sensors and onboard computers to steer through traffic, raising the prospect that purchases could be delivered by robots in driverless vehicles.The recently launched Google shopping service, a pilot project, is already delivering goods in San Francisco from Walgreens pharmacies, Target discount stores and American Eagle Outfitters.Noel Sharkey, emeritus professor of artificial intelligence at the University of Sheffield, said: "This is a very exciting development at Google. The robotics community is waiting with bated breath to find out what is being planned. Clearly, given the companies that have been acquired this is going to be research on the development of humanoid robots."People should not be worried that [the robots] will be super intelligent. It is more likely they are going to develop these for domestic purposes such as assistance in elder care or perhaps for bar work or as receptionists. We can only speculate. But with the kind of money that Google can throw into a project like this, it is likely to be astonishing."Rubin worked for the German manufacturing firm Carl Zeiss, as a robotics engineer, before joining Apple and then Google.He said that much of the technology needed for humanoid machines was already in place. There was room for improvement in areas including software and sensors, but mobility and moving hands were already well advanced.He described the robotics project as a "moonshot", but unlike other Google research labs Rubin's division intends to produce machines that will eventually come to market."Like any moonshot, you have to think of time as a factor," Rubin said. "We need enough runway and a 10-year vision."While Amazon's drones may prove little more than a publicity stunt, Rubin has a proven commercial track record. Android, launched not long after Apple's first iPhone, was slow to catch on, but its model of providing free software for use in any manufacturer's smartphone has helped Samsung surge ahead of Apple. Today, 80% of all smartphones sold run Android software.
Prime Minister David Cameron was forced to defend the UK's decision to allow China's Huawei to build huge parts of the country's telecoms infrastructure, as US senators expressed concern about the company's role internationally.Asked whether he was concerned that the UK's cyber-security might be compromised by the involvement of Chinese firms such as Huawei in Britain's telecoms infrastructure, Mr Cameron told Channel 4 News: "We have a proper system in the UK for examining whether investments in the UK are pro-competitive and whether they're in the national interest.  We also have a very good way of defending ourselves in terms of cyber-security, I think we're one of the most advanced countries in the world in terms of the action we're taking on cyber-security, and I've made sure we've put extra money into it."He was questioned afterThe Times reportedthat the UK's national security adviser will approve Huawei's systems after vetting them on national security grounds.The checks were carried out afterMPs expressed concerns in October 2012about potential links between Huawei and the Chinese military. Some experts raised fears that Huawei's systems could have secret "back doors" in the software or hardware which could be exploited by foreign spies to tap calls or disable systems.In the US, the heads of two US Senate committees have expressed concerns to the Obama administration about a recent network supply deal, under which Huawei Technologies will build telecoms systems in South Korea - an ally of the US.Critical operationsThe role of the Chinese company, which has taken a dominant role in building mobile and fixed telecoms infrastructure, has become contentious in recent years as its influence has grown.Australia excluded Huaweifrom its National Broadband Network project, and Canada has considered a similar move.Democratic Senators Robert Menendez, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Dianne Feinstein, chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said media reports on Huawei's supply deal with LG Uplus raised concerns in light of the close security alliance between the United States and South Korea."Maintaining the integrity of telecommunications infrastructure is critical to the operational effectiveness of this important security alliance," they said in a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, Secretary of State John Kerry and James Clapper, President Barack Obama's Director of National Intelligence.South Korea still hosts some 28,000 US soldiers to deter potential provocation from North Korea; the two are officially still at war. US Vice President Joe Biden is due to visit the South Korean capital Seoul later this week as part of a broader Asia trip.But Huawei reacted angrily to the senators' letter. "Our gear is world-proven and trusted, connecting almost one-third of the world's population. The motivations of those that might groundlessly purport otherwise are puzzling," the company said in a statement. "Huawei has a proven track record of providing secure products and solutions to our customers. There has never been one incident where Huawei's commitment to security has ever been called into question."LG Uplus, the country's third-largest mobile carrier, added Huawei to its fourth-generation mobile network vendor list in October to boost competition. It was already working with Samsung Electronics and with Ericsson and Nokia's telecoms gear unit.Security concerns"There is security concern when you purchase telecoms equipment from foreign suppliers. It's not just limited to one specific company," said Lee Dong-ho, an official in charge of telecoms network regulation at the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning. "But they are providing equipment in accordance with local regulations, and we also have authorities and proper systems in place aimed at monitoring any security breaches. We don't have any plan to look into Huawei's deal at this point," the official said. His minister, Choi Mun-kee, told lawmakers in late October "There's not much the government can do about private companies doing business with Huawei, but there is security concern (involving such deals)."LG Uplus insisted it would directly manage and operate the system. "Unlike some other foreign countries, we directly manage and control our network," LG Uplus said in a recent statement on the Huawei deal."Japan's Softbank Corp also has been using Huawei equipment for more than two years, but their government hasn't raised any issues as they operate the system like we do."Huawei, the world's biggest supplier of telecoms infrastructure systems, is effectively locked out of large-scale contracts in the US after a House of Representatives intelligence committee recommended that the four largest telecoms networks there should not buy equipment from the company or another Chinese firm, ZTE.However a Huawei spokesman told the Guardian that reports elsewhere that the company is "withdrawing" from the US network market were untrue. "We have revenues of about a billion dollars there, and we have network equipment contracts with some of the smaller providers," the spokesman said.Menendez and Feinstein said they were "very interested" to receive the administration officials' assessment of "potential threats and security concerns" about Huawei's involvement, as well as any discussions the US government has had with the South Korean government about the importance of network integrity related to the decision.A senior administration official declined to discuss details of diplomatic discussions involving Seoul, but added, "We do have concerns about Huawei." The official noted Huawei was excluded in October 2011 from taking part in the building of a US wireless emergency response network due to national security concerns.• In October 2012 a US reportsuggested that Huawei and ZTE should be shut out of the US marketover concerns for national security
The former president of the Dutch Central Bank, Nout Wellink, has told students at the University of Amsterdam that the hype around bitcoin is worse than his country&apos;s Tulip mania in the 17th century.&quot;Sooner or later the facade will fall&quot;, Wellink said, calling bitcoin &quot;pure speculation&quot; and &quot;hype&quot; according to comments reported in the Dutch press.&quot;This is worse than the tulip mania,&quot; he continued. &quot;At least then you got a tulip [at the end], now you get nothing.&quot;Wellink&apos;s comments follow a warning from the Dutch Central Bank about the risks of virtual currencies like bitcoin, which fall outside Dutch financial supervision laws.“The exchange rate is volatile and there is no central issuer which may be held liable,” the bank warned. It also cautioned that the country&apos;s deposit guarantee scheme &quot;does not apply.”Tulip mania was one of the first recorded speculative bubbles. Over the course of four years in Holland, the price of tulips increased 200 times; at the peak of the bubble, a single bulb could sell for ten times a worker&apos;s annual wage.Then, in just one month, the bubble burst, and the price dropped to nearly nothing.•Somewhere in a landfill in Newport is a hard drive containing £4.5m in bitcoin
A new fund for technology investment plans to plug the gap between Europe&apos;s talent and available finance, the founder said on Wednesday.Hussein Kanji, a former associate at Accel Partners and founder of four US-based tech startups, said Hoxton Ventures has a $40m fund that will focus on European tech talent, aiming to fill at least some of the demand for investment and help Europe produce larger and more ambitious technology firms.Europe has only one-third of the capital available to tech companies in the US, he said. &quot;We need more venture capitalists in Europe, particularly those comfortable with early-stage risk and who can help startups grow into large, valuable companies. It doesn’t need just us, but four to five more venture firms. The is a big gap in the market between entrepreneurial talent and financing.&quot;Hoxton has made two initial investments in Tizaro, a marketplace for industrial supplies, and the bidding service Campanja. Kanji said the fund was looking beyond London to Paris, Berlin, Stockholm and to eastern Europe, but that the priority was companies with potential to grow 30 to 50 times by disrupting or inventing markets.As an investor at Accel, which invested in Facebook among many others, Kanji said he had once been warned against investing in video games on Facebook in favour of lightweight applications like birthday cards. It&apos;s a sign of the uncertainty at the beginning of a market sector, but investors have to be prepared to take a bet.&quot;Think back to 2004-2005 when it wasn’t clear what a social network was, or 2007-2008 and building a social gaming company when Facebook released a developer API and it wasn’t clear what you could build on top of that. We look for entrepreneurs who want to not just bring a great technology or value proposition to market, but are inventing entirely new industry categories.&quot;Hoxton&apos;s fund marks the latest in a series of announcements from venture capital firms who are stepping up their focus on the less saturated European tech market, while entrepreneurs generally accept that raising money in Europe means doing so at half the rate and takes twice as long.Data from Ernst &amp; Young estimated US venture investment to be 5.8 times greater than Europe at around 0.150% of GDP.• This article was amended on 6 December 2013. The earlier version said Hussein Kanji was a former partner at Accel Ventures.
This weekAleks Krotoskilooks at the gaming console battle.  It's a gaming clash of the titans as the XBOX One takes on the PlayStation 4, and caught in the middle is the Guardian'sGames Editor Keith Stuart. Keith wields the sword of Damocles to guide those wishing to make that big Christmas gaming purchas and get it right.Aleks is also joined by the Guardian tech team,Guardian Technology editor Charles Arthurand tech reporterAlex Hernto look at this week's big tech stories, including news that the UK is to lose its digital champion as Baroness Martha Lane Fox stands down after just over three years in the role. The government's crime and security minister, James Brokenshire, announces imminent measures for censoring "extremist content" and Amazon announces a plan to use drone technology to deliver its packages. Another vote for the mundane future.
Valve is joining the Linux Foundation in the run up to the gaming giant&apos;s launch of its Steam Machine, a console based on the Linux open source operating system which the foundation exists to promote.Linux is an open-source operating system, which means that anyone can use its code in their own projects. Although it began as a free alternative to desktop computing systems like Windows and Mac OS, it is now the basis of devices as varied as the Android mobile phone system and an ATM designed for dispensing Bitcoins.In September, Valve, the developer of the Half Life and Portal series of games as well as the Steam online gaming platform,announced it would be using Linux as the basis of its Steam Machine line of games consoles. The system takes a radically different approach to TV gaming from that advocated by the Xbox One and PS4, allowing any manufacturer to build a compatible system and install the Linux-based Steam OS on top of it.While the code which underpins Linux is free for anyone to use, the Linux Foundation controls the trademark itself, and co-ordinates development of the operating system between the numerous companies which contribute programming time.By joining the foundation, Valve will be able to feed the improvements it makes to Linux for the Steam Machine back into the main body of code, and also more directly benefit from the network of developers which work on Linux itself. &quot;Through these efforts we hope to contribute tools for developers building new experiences on Linux, compel hardware manufacturers to prioritize support for Linux, and ultimately deliver an elegant and open platform for Linux users,&quot; says Mike Sartain, a key member of the Linux team at Valve.&quot;Linux offers Valve access to a platform that already has billions invested in it,&quot; says Jim Zemlin, the foundation&apos;s executive director. &quot;The company gets to take advantage of a community developing at phenomenal pace: The Linux kernel changes 8 1/2 times an hour with 10,000 lines of new code written per day.&quot;Take graphic processing for example, which is incredibly important to gaming. It will always be able to take advantage of the latest hardware every 3 years. In high performance computing (HPC), there has been trend toward graphic processing unit (GPU) systems, where large clusters of graphics cards are used for visualising oil fields of the coast of Rio, for example. Any improvements to Linux from the HPC industry to better optimise GPU would immediately benefit Valve.&quot;Valve&apos;s approach stands in contrast to that of Sony and Microsoft, whose new consoles, the PS4 and Xbox One, are locked-down machines which cannot be altered by the user or other companies. Their approach is emblematic of the &quot;hit-driven industry&quot;, Zemlin says, which is increasingly difficult to maintain. Instead, he speculates that the open approach of Valve will lead to it having more success with smaller independent games than the two titans of gaming.&quot;The hits will come from the bottom up,&quot; he says. &quot;We are convinced that most of the games that people will play in the future on Steam will be games largely created by users. Some of the best gaming inventions have historically been driven by users – self-generated worlds, massive multiplayer online games. The best way to achieve this is with Linux and open gaming.&quot;Steam Machine is not the only competitor looking to bring the open platform concept into the family space. Ouya and the delayed GameStick are cheap miniature consoles based on the Android operating system. There is also a growing range of &apos;living room&apos; PCs, designed to connect to your television and run games and apps. Valve, however, has built up a loyal global fanbase and its Steam Machine models should offer excellent specifications as well as the company&apos;s innovativeSteam Controller.Also joining the Linux foundation on Wednesday are Cloudius Systems and HSA Foundation. Cloudius is basing a new operating system on linux which is designed to handle cloud computing natively, while HSA Foundation is a company developing new types of computer chips.•&quot;Android is an absolute nightmare; PC is helped by Steam, but is still fiddly; and even iOS now has multiple OS versions, screen sizes and hardware specs to build for.&quot; Whereareindie developers going to go for the next console generation?
Microsoft has revealed an impressive list of indie developers who have signed up to create games for Xbox One. Chris Charla, director of the ID@Xbox programme, which has been set up to encourage and support smaller studios, says that 50 development kits have been sent out and more are on the way to developers around the world.The initial list of studios includes some very well-known names. Dutch studioVlambeer, creator of hugely popular titles Ridiculous Fishing and Super Crate Box, is a major coup, as isHalfbrick, the creator of smartphone hits Jetpack Joyride and Fruit Ninja. Also already on the programme is Double Fine, the creator of offbeat hits like The Cave and Broken Age, and UK veteran Team 17, developer of the Worms series. Other British studios to join the programme are racing specialistSlightly Mad StudiosandBorn Ready,responsible for space shooter, Strike Suit Zero.&quot;It&apos;s been great to see the diversity in developers who are joining the ID@Xbox programme,&quot; wrote Charlaon the Xbox Wire news site. &quot;Interest in ID@Xbox has been global – from Japan to Finland, developers in more than 50 countries are excited to get their games on Xbox One.&quot; The initial wave of studios includes two from Japan: Inis and Comcept.Importantly, there are some highly influential indie stars amid the announcement. Veteran US coder Chris Hecker is bringing his much-anticipated asymmetrical two-player game Spy Party to Xbox One. Jamie Fristrom who has worked on major titles like Spider-Man and Tony Hawk has signed up his new studio,Happion Laboratories. Cult developer/publisherNICALiSis on there, too, best known for titles like Terry Cavanagh&apos;s VVVVVVV, as well as Cave Story and NightSky. Iron Galaxy is bringing its promising 2D fighting game Divekick to the system.Early in the publicity battle between PS4 and Xbox One, Sony made a big deal of its support for independent studios and named many small-scale projects at its E3 press conference. Microsoft, however, was criticised for initiallyseeming to suggestthat small companies would not be able to self-publish on Xbox One. However, the self-publishing programme, ID@Xbox one was thenannounced in August, offering studios support with development, including free licenses to use the popular Unity game development engine.Few specific projects and no release details have been given as yet, but Charla states that this is very much the beginning: &quot;The list is far from comprehensive! It&apos;s just a first selection of the hugely diverse complement of developers who are working on bringing games to Xbox One via ID@Xbox beginning early next year. We’re working closely with developers to bring a wide selection of innovative titles to Xbox One and look forward to sharing more soon.&quot;• PS4 v Xbox One: indie game developers have their say• Xbox One&apos;s Phil Spencer: &apos;we&apos;re committed to the original vision&apos;• PlayStation 4 vs Xbox One: The next-gen consoles compared
This is surely just me, I think. I&apos;m looking at the Friends page of the Xbox One interface, trying to work out who is online. But the mass of square icons indicating all of my Xbox-owning pals doesn&apos;t immediately provide that information – it&apos;s just a mass of profile pics and data. I have to concentrate to work out that only the first three are online right now. I remember the old Social option on Xbox 360 which shows the avatars of your fellow gamers: if they&apos;re awake it means their owners are online. It was simple, human, endearing. It worked. And although a lot of Xbox 360 owners were indifferent to the whole concept of Xbox Live avatars, it was a nice game-like way of bringing your presence to the gaming universe. Avatars are almost invisible on the Xbox One interface.The truth of any system is in the use not the hype. The Xbox One interface, gamers are now discovering, has some issues. Although the new look, heavily influenced by Windows 8, seems clean and uncluttered, it is also proving to be frustrating. Things like Achievements, Friends and Chat, which used to be easy to get to through the Xbox 360 Guide function are now dislocated into apps and scattered around the system. There&apos;s no indication on the battery power levels in the controller. And in multiplayer games, the Kinect microphone is set to automatically transmit voice to other players – something a lot of people don&apos;t realise as they happily chat in their living rooms, sharing their conversation with 30 strangers. Edge Magazine is so upset it has posteda lengthy featureabout the failures and frustrations implicit in the set-up.Interface evolutionMicrosoft, of course, has said that the UI is an evolving platform and as players use it, the company will tweak functionality. But sensibly, some players aren&apos;t waiting. Software developer Ryan McCaffery has set up his own site,Xbox Feedback, to collect and log the various suggestions and observations of Xbox gamers on Reddit. &quot;I&apos;ve put together a list of ways to improve Xbox One,&quot; he wrote on the forum. &quot;Not to complain about problems but rather a way to present a list of issues that the Xbox Developers can work on to improve the experience for everyone.&quot;According to Polygon, Xbox mouthpiece Larry Hryb has seen the site and passed its recommendations on to the relevant engineers.There is possible a clash of philosophies here. Microsoft, in its drive to dominate the living room, is adopting the smartphone concept of the platform interface, which is more about immediate useability than raw functionality and access. Gamers expect a system that is highly adaptable to their needs, and that clearly offers all the inventories and menu systems necessary to make minor tweaks to default display, microphone and chat settings. But adding those layers to the front-end makes it intimidating to newcomers who just want to slip a game in the drive or watch Netflix. The thing is, Xbox One isn&apos;t a Windows phone; it&apos;s a console and you can&apos;t undo years of evolving functionality in one swipe. There need to be more graceful methods of meeting the demands of both legacy users and newcomers.Scrambled visionThese are not the only issues, of course. We have read about the &apos;judder&apos; some European users are experiencing when playing TV from their cable, satellite or set-top box provider through the Xbox One via the HDMI IN port. The Xbox One outputs in 60Hz, while European television broadcasts are in 50Hz meaning that every sixth frame is duplicated. Tech site HDTVTest hasapparently discovered a workaround, which involves tricking your Xbox One into outputting at 50Hz, but this is not exactly mainstream-friendly, and works against the ethos of useability that has already straight-jacketed some of the Xbox 360 functionality.Elsewhere,ITCProPortal has looked into claimsemerging on NeoGaf that the way in which Xbox One &apos;upscales&apos; 720p HD games into 1080p is causing noticeable artifacts on the screen image. The article uses launch title Killer Instinct as an example, but also points out that developers are figuring out their own custom upscaling solutions, and a firmware patch is likely. Again though, it&apos;s an old school wrinkle in a system that Microsoft wanted to fully iron out for those all-in-one family entertainment fans.But, really, the technical glitches, such as they are, do not rankle as much as the UI changes, which have been forced upon those of us who have grown accustomed to the super-evolved Xbox 360 interface. It is somewhat ironic that the human feel of that system, with its avatars, notifications and manageable communications options, has been disrupted in the quest for mainstream acceptance and brand synergy. Microsoft will no doubt fix all of this, it will take the three strides forward that are necessary to undo the two strides the Xbox One UI seems to have made in the opposite direction.Importantly, Microsoft must listen to the Xbox fanbase – the same group it tried to step over with its ludicrously hubristic announcement event back in May. Shortly after that, I wrote the following in a piece entitled,Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One misadventure: is there a reverse gear?The strange thing is, a fundamental truth of the gaming and wider consumer electronics sectors seems to have been lost: the power and influence of the early adopter. Conventionally, youneedthe &quot;geeks&quot; who buy in early to new technologies and share them with family members – it is difficult to bypass these self-appointed brand advocates to reach the mass market.I think that remains true. Microsoft is lucky that its fans on Reddit are taking pro-active steps to collate and share the experiences and suggestions of users. Because clearly it&apos;s not just me who finds the Xbox One UI coolly attractive but also pernickety and elusive. And it&apos;s not just me who misses the generally smooth functionality of XBLA, and the dorkish welcome of those avatars.• Xbox One: USS Enterprise or HAL?• Xbox One: hands-on review - video• Xbox One: lots of potential but ultimately a PS4 underdog – review
With Amazon winning headlines (ifnot universal praise) for its ambitions todeliver packages using drones, rival tech giant Google has announced its latest futuristic &quot;moonshot&quot;: robots.The initiative is led by Andy Rubin, the former head of Google&apos;s Android division, who stepped down from that role in March 2013.Since then, Google has quietly acquired seven robotics companiesaccording to the New York Times, which has published the first interview with Rubin on the company&apos;s plans.&quot;Like any moonshot, you have to think of time as a factor. We need enough runway and a 10-year vision,&quot; said Rubin, who started his career as a robotics engineer at Carl Zeiss, before later roles at Apple, Microsoft and Danger, before founding the startup acquired by Google to form the basis for Android.&quot;I have a history of making my hobbies into a career. This is the world’s greatest job. Being an engineer and a tinkerer, you start thinking about what you would want to build for yourself,&quot; Rubin told the New York Times.The piece suggests Google is focusing more on robots for the manufacturing and retail industries, rather than consumer products. Robotics companies acquired by Google this year include Schaft, Industrial Perception, Meka, Redwood Robotics, Bot &amp; Dolly, Autofuss and Holomni.Google is maintaining Schaft&apos;s office in Japan, while basing its robotics efforts in Palo Alto, California. They will sit alongside the company&apos;s initiativeto build self-driving cars, which it hopes to have on the market by 2017.&quot;The automated car project was science fiction when it started. Now it is coming within reach,&quot; said Rubin in his interview. &quot;I feel with robotics it’s a green field. We’re building hardware, we’re building software. We’re building systems, so one team will be able to understand the whole stack.&quot;A promotional video for the robots created by Industrial Perception, another startup acquired by Google.The seven companies fuelling Google&apos;s robot ambitionsSchaft (Japan)&quot;We, Schaft Inc. create the future where we walk together with humanoid robots, through research and development, manufacture and sales of humanoid robots.&quot;Industrial Perception (US)&quot;A leader in 3D vision-guided robot technology and enables industrial robots to assume challenging logistical tasks such as truck and container unloading, e-commerce fulfillment and package sorting.&quot;Meka (US)&quot;A provider of world-class robotic systems for researchers. At Meka we develop human-safe, human-soft, and human-scale robot technologies that will enable the robots of tomorrow to work alongside people in the home and the workplace.&quot;Redwood Robotics (US)&quot;Our robotic arms are simple to teach, affordable, and safe to operate around humans. Redwood manipulators will make professionals more productive, reduce the stress of dull and repetitive tasks, and allow manufacturers and service providers alike to respond flexibly to ever-changing market needs.&quot;Bot &amp; Dolly (US)&quot;Bot &amp; Dolly is a design and engineering studio that specialises in automation, robotics, and filmmaking. It&apos;s our mission to advance motion control and automation as a creative medium, and build world-class tools that enable others to do the same.&quot;Autofuss (US)&quot;We thrive on being a hub of creative collaboration by colliding visual artists with programmers, engineers with designers, storytellers with illustrators, architects with machinists.&quot; (Autofuss is the outlier here, being a creative agency rather than a robotics company – but according to the NYT piece, it&apos;s part of Rubin&apos;s robotics plans).Holomni (US)&quot;Holomni powered caster modules create a holonomic omnidirectional vehicle. A Holomni-powered vehicle can instantaneously produce omnidirectional accelerations and forces.&quot;•Meet the new generation of robots. They&apos;re almost human...
Snapchat has poached Emily White, the executive responsible for bringing adverts to Instagram, from the Facebook-owned social network. She will become the company&apos;s chief operating officer (COO).White, 35, only moved to Instagram as director of business operations in April, andthe company&apos;s first ever advert, for a Michael Kors watch, appeared five months later in November. Prior to Instagram, she had worked for Facebook on mobile partnerships, and was at Google before that.&quot;It happened really quickly, but to have an actual COO role in one of many companies that is disrupting the communications arena is one I could not pass up,”she told Kara Swisher of tech site AllThingsD.“I have always been captivated by the creativity that has gone into the product … and I think that Evan [Spiegel, Snapchat co-founder and chief executive] has been looking for someone who can help him grow and scale what is already something that has changed a lot of the way people think about the mobile experience.&quot;Kevin Systrom, Instagram&apos;s chief executive and co-founder, praised White for her &quot;contributions to Instagram&quot; and said that the company is &quot;in an even better place today because of her efforts and we thank her.&quot;Snapchat is one of the hottest American start-ups, having recentlyturned down a $3bn attempted acquisition from Facebook. But doubts have been raised over whether the company has a user base to match its aspirations.It has confirmed that its users receive 400m photo or video snaps a day, but not how many users there actually are, nor, crucially, how many messages the average user sends each day. If users of Snapchat are roughly as active as users of WhatsApp, thenthe company could have as few as 8 million active users.•Was the idea for Snapchat stolen? &quot;This is a case of partners betraying a fellow partner,&quot; says the man who claims to have invented it
More than 30 Anonymous-related Twitter accounts, including @Anon_Central, one of the largest with over 150,000 followers, have been suspended by Twitter following a campaign of misogynist abuse aimed at feminist campaigners on the social network.The four women, Labour MP Stella Creasy, Times columnist Caitlin Moran, freelance journalist Caroline Criado-Perez and campaigner Hannah Curtis, were all named ina documentshared by the largest anonymous Twitter account, @YourAnonNews, which claimed that &quot;mentioning these accounts can result in suspension and possible scrutiny for future accounts.&quot; It also claimed that &quot;Perez and Creasy appear to have some direct line to Twitter to get accounts suspended sooner.&quot;Criado-Perez, who has beenthe subject of campaigns of misogynist abuse before, says that those claims are nonsense. &quot;I certainly don&apos;t have the power to ban accounts, but I do report accounts that send threats and harass me,&quot; she said. &quot;Sometimes they get suspended and sometimes they don&apos;t.&quot;I don&apos;t bother reporting accounts that just call me a cunt, which is what they seem to think. Just ones that are directly threatening or are inciting harassment, like the Anonymous accounts have been.&quot;Moran also confirms that she &quot;doesn&apos;t even have a verified account, let alone any contact with Twitter.&quot;She added: &quot;If I had a hot-line to Twitter HQ, I&apos;d have used it to campaign for allhalf-naked pictures of Bruce Springsteento be much bigger.&quot;Judge and jury?In the past, groups related to Anonymous have made headlines for carrying out apparently feminist campaigns, including attempts to bring vigilante justice to the Steubenville and Maryville rape cases. In both situations, the hacktivists helped bring the situation to greater public awareness, but alsofaced criticism for taking on the role of judge and jury.But the group itself is too fractured and nebulous to pin any single ideology on to, and while some members may consider themselves feminist, it is clear that others do not.The last tweet of @Anon_Central, one of the suspended accounts, was directed at Criado-Perez: &quot;How much sex with an unconscious person until it counts as rape?&quot;, twisting the facts of the Steubenville case into something halfway between a rape joke and a threat.Anonymous alliesTwitter doesn&apos;t comment on individual accounts, nor does it comment on response times on support requests, but the company does have a stated policy on IP blocking, something various Anonymous allies have accused the site of doing in what they are calling &quot;#Trollocaust&quot;.&quot;IP blocking is generally ineffective at stopping unwanted behavior,&quot;Twitter says, &quot;and may falsely prevent legitimate users from accessing our service.&quot;IP addresses are commonly shared by numerous different users in a variety of locations, meaning that blocking a single IP may prevent a large number of unconnected users from logging into Twitter.&quot;The @Anon_Central account had been the centre of a previous controversy when it began tweeting outvirulently anti-semitic and racist materialin June.At the time, the larger, more respectable Anonymous accounts line @YourAnonNews and @YourAnonCentral neither condoned nor condemned the messages, but this week they are firmly on the side of their &quot;fallen comrade&quot;.&quot;Nobody is ashamed Perez. #RIPAnonCentral&quot; tweeted @YourAnonCentral.•&quot;The FBI were embarrassed by Anonymous and they feel that they need to save face,&quot; said Anonymous hacker Jeremy Hammond the day after his 10-year sentence• Is hacktivism on behalf of Rehtaeh Parsons a revolution in rape campaigning?
Filesharing website Hotfile has been ordered to pay $80m to movie studios, and shut down unless it starts using filtering technology to prevent copyright infringement of their works.The settlement came just before a court case triggered by a lawsuit against the online storage service, led by industry body the MPAA – its second such victory in a matter of months, following theshutdown of BitTorrent search engine IsoHuntin October.&quot;This judgment by the court is another important step toward protecting an Internet that works for everyone,&quot;said MPAA chairman and chief executive Chris Doddin a statement.&quot;Sites like Hotfile that illegally profit off of the creativity and hard work of others do a serious disservice to audiences, who deserve high-quality, legitimate viewing experiences online.&quot;While the MPAA claims that suitable filtering technology is available for sites like Hotfile to use, the website appears to have opted to close instead. &quot;As a result of a United States federal court having found Hotfile.com to be in violation of copyright law, the site has been permanently shut down,&quot; explainsa message on its homepage.&quot;If you are looking for your favorite movies or TV shows online, there are more ways than ever today to get high quality access to them on legal platforms.&quot;Hotfile is one of the larger &quot;cyberlockers&quot;, having launched in 2009 and grown to 5.3m registered users. In documents filed as part of the lawsuit, the company said the 123m files stored on its servers had generated more than 2.9bn total downloads.The studios had claimed that more than 90% of Hotfile&apos;s daily downloads were of copyrighted content, although the company had argued that it was merely an online storage service that was not responsible for its users&apos; behaviour.That defence strategy had already been given a major setback when, ahead of the trial, US District Judge Kathleen Williams ruled thatHotfile did not qualify for &quot;safe harbor&quot; protectionunder US copyright laws – legislation that protects internet companies from being held liable for copyright infringement if they remove offending materials when notified by a copyright holder.The MPAA is celebrating the settlement as &quot;the first time that a US court has ruled on whether so-called cyberlockers like Hotfile can be held liable for their infringing business practices&quot;. More lawsuits may follow, with the MPAA and its equivalent bodies from other creative industries focus their anti-piracy strategies on websites rather than individual filesharers.The MPAA had already secured the shutdown of IsoHunt in October, in a similar settlement ahead of a court case that saw the company agree to pay studios $110m in damages.Meanwhile, the criminal copyright infringement case involving the most famous cyberlocker of them all, Megaupload, remains up in the air as the company&apos;s founder Kim Dotcom battles extradition from New Zealand.Since his site was shut down in January 2012, Dotcom has launched a new service, Mega, which hasattracted 5 million userssince its launch in January 2013.This week&apos;s settlement may not be the final curtain for Hotfile, however. Within days of IsoHunt shutting down,the site had been resurrectedby a group unaffiliated with the original website claiming that &quot;IsoHunt can definitely be called a filesharing icon. People got used to it and they don’t want to simply let it go.&quot;•Netflix and YouTube make up majority of US internet traffic, report shows
Pebble SmartwatchAn e-ink smartwatch that displays notifications from both the iPhone and Android phones,the waterproof Pebbleruns simple applications and started life as a Kickstarter project successfully funded to sell over 250,000 devices.From &pound;92Sony Smartwatch 2The third iteration of Sony's smartwatch platform, theSmartwatch 2is waterproof and acts like a second screen for your Android phone displaying notifications.From &pound;115Samsung Galaxy GearThe most-hyped Android smartwatch currently available, the Galaxy Gear only works with certain Samsung Android smartphones like theGalaxy Note 3, packs a camera buthas limited functionality.From &pound;250.Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesAdidas miCoach Smart RunTheultimate runner's all-in-one gadgetwith a heart-rate monitor underneath the strap, a motion tracker and GPS. Instructions for lots of training sessions and exercises come built in, with Wi-Fi to sync new ones and your progress to the Adidas website, and Bluetooth to connect to a set of wireless headphones for exercise-powering music.From &pound;300Nike Fuelbands SEThe second generation of Nike Fuelband improves its accuracy, durability and battery life, making it theperfect gadget for tracking your sporting fitness. Social elements mean you can compete against friends, even across different sports. The Fuelband SE is limited to syncing with iPhones and computers &ndash; there is no Android support.&nbsp;From &pound;129Misfit ShineThe fitness tracker that requires the least maintenance, theShine last about 4-6 months on one battery, is waterproof and crushproof. It can be worn almost anywhere on the body, will track your sleep, syncs to an iPhone or certain Android phones via Bluetooth, and is the easiest tracker to live with.From &pound;75Fitbit FlexThe Flex is a movement tracker and pedometer for your wrist that syncs via Bluetooth to the iPhone, certain Androids and a computer. It is water resistant, will track your sleep, and has an at-a-glance screen to give you an indication of how close you are to your activity goal for the day.From &pound;75Fitbit OneThe Fitbit One is one of the most accurate fitness trackers out there counting steps and stair climbs, and can be worn on a belt or trouser, or just carried in a pocket. With a neoprene wristband, the One will track sleep too and sync to the iPhone, certain Androids and computers via Bluetooth.From &pound;75Withings PulseA fitness tracker that attaches to a belt or rides in a pocket, the standout feature of the Pulse is a built-in heart rate monitor on the back of the device. It will measure sleep too and syncs over Bluetooth to iPhones and a wider range of Android devices than most other fitness trackers.From &pound;80Jawbone UPAnother wrist-borne fitness tracker, the Jawbone UP eschews Bluetooth to sync via iPhone and Android apps using a 3.5mm headphones jack that doubles up as a charger too. The UP will track steps and sleep.From &pound;95Plantronics Backbeat Go 2If you're looking for a set of wireless headphones, you'll need to spend a bit more for the privilege of a tangle-free existence. Having said that, the Backbeat Go 2 are a sweat-proof set of Bluetooth earphones that sound decent, stay put in your ear with optional flexible stabiliser loops and won't break the bank. Excellent for the commute or a trip to the gym, and last about 6 hours on a charge.From &pound;60Sennheiser CX300One of the best value sets of earphones available, that sound great and won't break the bank. They make excellent upgrades to the cheap earphones that come in the box with most devices.From &pound;30Bose QuietComfort 20&nbsp;These certainly aren't cheap, but if you're looking for noise-cancelling earphones, they are arguably the most impressive. They offer a choice of full noise reduction or an "aware" mode to let in some sounds so you're not completely disconnected.From &pound;260AKG K451These foldable headphones are easy to carry around when not in use, comfortable to wear and deliver excellent sound quality belying their affordable price. The built-in mic is handy for phone calls too.From &pound;70Sennheiser Momentum On-ear&nbsp;Momentum is&nbsp;Sennheiser's more fashion-focused range in a choice of colours, with an in-line remote to control calls and music on Apple devices.&nbsp;They sound great, look great and are comfortable to wear.From &pound;150Parrot ZikArguably the best all-round Bluetooth headphones available with excellent sound quality, active-noise cancelling, fantastic touch-based controls and a useful iPhone and Android app for controlling their sound. The Parrot Zik headphones are only let down by their relatively short battery life.From &pound;221Philips Fidelio M1BT&nbsp;Philip's latest wireless Fidelio M1BT Bluetooth headphonesbring quality, balanced sound and great battery lifeto the compact, on-ear headphone market with very little in the way of compromise.From &pound;250
Sony is having a good week. On Tuesday it was revealed that PlayStation 4 had become the fastest selling console in the UK, shifting 250,000 units within 48 hours. Now, the consumer electronics company has announced that, two weeks after the US launch of its next-gen machine, global sales stand at more than 2.1m.Writing onthe Official PlayStation blog, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment, Andrew House, said: &quot;PS4′s North American debut on 15 November was PlayStation’s largest ever, with more than 1 million gamers picking up a PS4 in just 24 hours. Now, with PS4′s global launch expanding to a total of 32 countries worldwide, including Europe and Latin America, I’m proud to announce that more than 2.1 million PS4s have been sold. It’s an impressive and record-setting accomplishment for our company and for our industry.&quot;As for Xbox One, since announcing that over 1m machines had been sold within 24 hours of its launch, Microsoft has yet to reveal any further figures.As reported on Tuesday, the console did well during the US Black Friday shopping onslaught, taking 31% of sales as opposed to PS4&apos;s 15% – however stocking and availability issues may have played a role in the PlayStation&apos;s muted performance.The performance of PS4 is in stark contrast to the stuttering roll-out of the PS3, which in 2006, launched with less than 400,000 units available in the US due to production problems. The European launch also suffered, and just 1.68m units were sold globally by the close of the year. The PS4 figures also compare well with the successful launch of Nintendo&apos;s Wii, which shifted over 600,000 units in less than a fortnight in the US and just less than its 400,000 allocation in Japan.A major difference with this generation has been the more conventional design of the two consoles. Both use familiar CPU and graphics-processing hardware options, meaning that manufacturing has been relatively painless. PS3 featured a proprietary Cell processor and offered a Blu-ray drive while the technology was still being finalised.Sony has said that it plans to sell 3m PS4s by the close of 2013. Industry analyst IHS is more measured, forecasting a figure of 2.4m PS4s and 2.2m Xbox One consoles before the end of December.•PS4 outstrips Xbox One to become UK&apos;s fastest selling console• PS4 sells 1m in US, despite mixed reviews and technical issues• PlayStation 4 vs Xbox One: The next-gen consoles compared
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNexus phones carry SMS crash bug vuln &gt;&gt; The RegisterA Dutch security researcher has published a vulnerability that allows someone to crash a remote Nexus 4 or Nexus 5 phone – by sending them a crafted "Class 0" text message.Instead of falling into a user's inbox and waiting for someone to read the message, a Class 0 or "flash message" pops up immediately as a message window that the user is supposed to decide whether or not to save.On the Nexus phones, according to Levi9's Bogdan Alecu, the flash message is displayed above all active windows, with a semi-transparent overlay dimming them.The bug that turns this into a vulnerability is this: Nexus 4 and Nexus 5 don't give audio notifications of incoming flash messages. So an attacker can pile message upon message on a victim until the phone begins to misbehave.In this presentation to DefCamp 2013, Alecu identified various impacts of an attack in which more than 30 messages are sent to a target: either the messaging application crashes, or the phone reboots, or Internet access collapses.He says Google has known of the vulnerability for a year without fixing it.Slate: easily visualise spreadsheets &gt;&gt; KickstarterFraser Atkins:We are building Slate because we have personally experienced the frustration of debugging and interpreting complex and poorly documented spreadsheets.Excel is an incredibly powerful tool. It is great at creating complex models out of simple calculations. However, it is all too easy for models to become overly complicated and almost impossible to interpret.Worse still, when you inherit someone else's spreadsheet, problems can be amplified.Slate allows you to visualise your spreadsheets in a quick and simple way.With Slate, mistakes are much more obvious and resolving errors is as simple as following the trail of calculations back to the source.What it really lets you do is visualise the connections between cells in your spreadsheets - which can be the difference between getting it right and getting it very, very wrong.xperia z1 touchscreen problems &gt;&gt; Sony Support forumWhen scrolling down randomly zoom in or highlighting!?? When playing games after few minutes unable to move or aim. It does register single touch but when i try to draw a line, after few cm cuts off. This is very annoying!!!Surprising number of people reporting this problem.Building Android-first &gt;&gt; Christina CacioppoCompatibility between different versions of Android 4, for the most part, isn't hard because of the backwards-compatibility built into newer OSs and open-source projects that bridge gaps.This isn't to say Android works well all the time, because it doesn't. The worst breaks happen when hardware manufacturers modify the version of Android they're using without leaving any documentation. In effect, they're breaking the Android APIs, and they do so on a device-by-device, sometimes telecom-by-telecom basis. [5] In our experience, it's most common when the software tries to control the hardware, as device manufacturers often have to implement those software methods. The undocumented hodgepodge of implementations is hugely discouraging for developers (like us!) who want to use device hardware (the camera, GPS location, accelerometer, etc.) in apps.Right now, that probably means fewer Android developers use hardware functions in their apps, and some Android apps don't stack up to their iOS counterparts. Longer term, I suspect Android developers will become savvier about developing for a subset of Android phones.A fascinating blogpost where the footnotes are at least as informative as the main post.Why everyone will totally read this column &gt;&gt; WSJ.comFarhad Manjoo:[Neetzan] Zimmerman gets to his computer at around 7:30 every morning and begins scanning a feed of more than 1,000 sites that he has identified as highlighting viral content. He scrolls through the feed quickly, spending just a few seconds assessing each item. He looks at the subject of the story and the major themes it might elicit: Is it cute, outrageous, heartwarming, hilarious, anger-inducing? He scans the "metrics" on the post—the number of Facebook likes or Twitter mentions—which are often a sign of incipient virality.Because he's constantly scrutinizing his traffic to figure out why certain posts do well and others don't, Mr. Zimmerman also keeps a running list of "hot" themes in his head. "It might be that right now, people don't care about stories about cats that much, and instead, sloths are more popular," he says. "So I'll have a rule—cats are out, sloths are in, focus on sloths because that's going to be your meal ticket."The whole process happens very quickly. "Within 15 seconds, I know whether an item is going to work," Mr. Zimmerman says. He usually has a headline ready to go a few seconds after that. "It's a biological algorithm," he says. "I've put myself into the system—I've sort of become the system—so that when I see something I'm instantly thinking of how well it it's going to do."I just chased him through a bitcoin tumbler, and when he came out with 96,000 BTC, I was waiting for him... : &gt;&gt; SheepMarketplaceIt's not cyberspace-coining William Gibson, though he might feel envious, but a user trying to track the thief who emptied a Bitcoin exchange:I've been a very busy boy. All day, we've been chasing the scoundrel with our stolen bitcoins through the blockchain. Around lunchtime (UK), I was chasing him across the roof of a moving train, (metaphorically). I was less than 20 minutes, or 2 blockchain confirmations, behind "Tomas".He was desperately creating new wallet addresses and moving his 49 retirement wallets through them, but having to wait for 3 or 4 confirmations each time before moving them again. Each time I caught up, I "666"ed him - sent 0.00666 bitcoins to mess up his lovely round numbers like 4,000. Then,all of a sudden, decimal places started appearing, and fractions of bitcoins were jumping from wallet to wallet like grasshoppers on a hotplate without stopping for confirmations.Shit!He was tumbling our stolen bitcoins a second time, and a tumbler is unbeatable....Unless you guess which one it is, nearly all the coins belong to the person you're tracking, jump in with him, and get jumbled up through the same wallets using the same algorithm.Black Friday mobile PC trends and long term impacts &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogEarly holiday buying indications support our forecasts that call for nearly 66% of second half tablet PC shipments to have screen sizes smaller than 9in. We expect small sized tablet PCs to continue to account for the major share of the market through 2017. We also expect ASPs [average selling prices] to continue to drop from $341 for 2013 to $279 by 2017.Though foot traffic in the notebook PC sections of the stores we visited were high, sell through was modest. The twist for notebook PCs was that touch panels were more heavily promoted on notebook PCs this year as compared to last year with small signs indicating touch capability. The majority of notebook PCs had touch panels with only a handful of models having "mouse" interfaces.Though touch is being better promoted this year versus last year, we are expecting adoption to be modest for the second half of the year with a penetration rate of around 10% for the second half of 2013 with the penetration rate for the full year reaching 11%, or 19.8m units.Moto Maker tool still offline as Motorola swings and misses with its Cyber Monday sale (Updated) &gt;&gt; Android BeatFrom Monday:Motorola had big plans today — it was going to take Cyber Monday by storm with an incredible deal on its Moto X handset. The thundering opening to its handset sales quickly fizzled out when Motorola's website went down under what was likely a crushing load of eager customers.Starting at 9AM EST, Motorola started selling its off-contract Moto X handset for a mere $349, allowing people to customize the handset via its online Moto Maker tool. Shortly after sales kicked off, Motorola's Maker website went belly up, and the company had to suspend sales of its custom handset.Proof, if it were needed, that Motorola isn't that closely integrated into Google.HTC Corporation v Nokia Corporation [2013] EWHC 3778 (Pat) (03 December 2013) &gt;&gt; BailiiFascinating what stuff you can find in commercial judgements:The relevant market in the present case is the UK smartphone market. This market is both valuable and growing rapidly. It was worth about $7 billion to device vendors in 2012, and is projected to be worth $9 billion in year ending 31 December 2013. The market is presently dominated by Apple (which has 39% of the market) and Samsung (which has 33% of the market). Both Nokia and HTC are relatively small players: Nokia has 6% of the market and HTC has 3% of the market…The UK is HTC's largest market in Europe. HTC's current flagship model is the HTC One. The HTC One, One Mini and One Max currently account for approximately 70% of HTC's sales in the UK. The other phones currently being sold by HTC in the UK are the 8S and the Desire 500. In December 2013 HTC will begin selling the Desire 300 and Desire 601. The One, One Mini, One Max, 8S and Desire 601 all contain infringing chips. It is not clear whether the Desire 300 does or not.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A California woman pleaded not guilty on Tuesday to what is believed to be the first traffic citation over a motorist allegedly using Google&apos;s Glass device while driving.Google Glass features a thumbnail-size transparent display above the wearer&apos;s right eye - which could be interpreted as equivalent to a TV under the law.The technology will not be made widely available to the public until 2014, but defendant Cecilia Abadie is one of about 10,000 &quot;explorers&quot; who received the glasses earlier this year as part of a tryout.Her case touches several hot-button issues, including distracted driving, wearable technology that will one day become mainstream, and how laws often lag technological developments. Similar rules banning the use of TVs in cars by drivers apply in the UK.Abadie, a founder and developer at 33 Labs who says she was one of the first 200 people to try Google Glass, was pulled over in October on suspicion of going 80 mph (129 kph) in a 65 mph (105 kph) zone on a San Diego freeway. The California Highway Patrol (CHP) officer saw she was wearing Google Glass and tacked on a citation usually given to people driving while a video or TV screen is on in the front of their vehicle.Abadie pleaded not guilty to both charges in San Diego traffic court.The outcome of the case could have important ramifications for the use of Glass by groups such as delivery drivers, who might want to use Glass to get driving directions while on the way to locations.Abadie&apos;s attorney William Concidine told The Associated Press that she will testify at a trial scheduled for January that the glasses were not on when she was driving, and activated when she looked up at the officer as he stood by her window.The device is designed to respond to a head tilt by waking itself up.Concidine also said the vehicle code listed in the citation applies to video screens in vehicles and is not relevant to mobile technology such as Google Glass.The CHP declined comment on Concidine&apos;s assertions.At the time of Abadie&apos;s citation, the agency said anything which takes a driver&apos;s attention from the road is dangerous and should be discouraged.The lightweight frames are equipped with a hidden camera and tiny display that responds to voice commands. The technology can be used to do things such as check email, learn background about something the wearer is looking at, or to get driving directions.Legislators in at least three states Delaware, New Jersey and West Virginia have introduced bills that would specifically ban driving with Google Glass.Chris Dale, a spokesman for Google, said he was not aware of any other tickets issued for driving with Google Glass.Google&apos;s website contains an advisory about using the headgear while driving: &quot;Read up and follow the law. Above all, even when you&apos;re following the law, don&apos;t hurt yourself or others by failing to pay attention to the road.&quot;
It's Wednesday.
I can sympathise with David Cameron's neighbours in the Cotswolds (Stalled grants put PM's neighbours in digital slow lane, 2 December). Here we have no mobile signal, minimalist copper-wire broadband and a digital radio signal that comes and goes with the weather. We solved this: we formed a community not-for-profit company and with grants from various sources put up our own mast, last week. It should be operating by early next year. But be warned: it took us five years, with tons of paperwork and monolithic bureaucracy from service providers and local and national governments. The final sword cut was when the Welsh government signed a contract with BT to provide rural fibre optic broadband, sometime in the future, and BT demanded that government support be withdrawn from any other signal provider in the selected areas. This meant we lost some funding. But it's now up there on the horizon. Go for it, Cotswolds.Bill MesserPontrhydfendigaid, Ceredigion
Nokia has won a sales injunction which could see HTC blocked from selling its phones in the UK - including the HTC One - unless it can lodge a successful appeal by 4pm on Friday 6 December.Giving evidence in the patent dispute with Nokia, patent manager at HTC Brad Lin told the high court that the company does not know what features its key chips will have.He told the court that &quot;the features of the chips selected by HTC [for its new phone] are unknown to HTC&quot; and that he therefore did not know whether they infringe a specific patent owned by Nokia.&apos;Simply incredible&apos;But His Honour Justice Arnold called Lin&apos;s statement &quot;simply incredible&quot; in the context of the dispute, where Nokia has successfully asserted that the Broadcom and Qualcomm chips used in the HTC One infringed one of its patents.&quot;I shall assume that what Mr Lin means is that HTC does not know if the chips have the features of claim 1 of the [Nokia] Patent,&quot; HHJ Arnoldsaid in his judgment. &quot;The significance of that assertion, even assuming it is correct, depends on what efforts HTC has made to find this out, which neither Mr Lin nor any other witness reveals.&quot;The successor to the HTC One, the flagship phone from the Taiwanese phone maker, could be released as soon as February next year, the court heard, though the company has not yet announced a date.HTC unveiled the One in February this year, although production problems meant that it did not go on widespread sale until late April.According to evidence presented to the court, the UK smartphone market has grown from $7bn (£4.4bn) in 2012 to $9bn this year, and is dominated by Apple and Samsung, which have 39% and 33% of the market respectively. Overall, Android phones make up 48% of sales, the court heard.Direct competitionNokia has about 6% of the market and HTC just 3%, the court was told - putting their respective revenues at $540m and $270m. HTC contended that because the phones run different mobile operating systems that the two are not in &quot;direct competition&quot; - which Nokia disputed. It claimed that it had lost sales of its Lumia phones since the launch of HTC&apos;s One.The court also heard that the UK is HTC&apos;s largest market in Europe, and that the HTC One, One Mini and One Max account for 70% of its sales in the UK. From January to September HTC sold 715,000 smartphones in the UK, with revenues of £221m, an average selling price of £309.The patent in question covers &quot;a modular structure for a transmitter and a mobile station&quot; filed in October 1999. Nokia has previously successfully sued Apple for infringing the same patent, a dispute that was settled in April 2011. BlackBerry also settled with Nokia over the same patent.Sales bansNokia is asserting the patent against HTC in a number of countries, and the consequences of further losses could be serious if they are also followed by sales bans.LG - through Google&apos;s range of Nexus phones - Samsung and Sony are also in litigation with Nokia over alleged infringement of its patent.Nokia said in a statement that it was &quot;pleased that the UK high court has imposed an injunction on certain HTC products found in October to infringe a Nokia patent… Pending the appeal, HTC has undertaken not to ship any more of the infringing products into the UK, except the HTC One which it may continue to sell until the conclusion of any appeal. If HTC does not succeed on appeal, the injunction will take effect on all infringing products.&quot;HTC has seen its revenues dwindle in the global smartphone business as it struggles against Samsung and smaller Chinese rivals, as well as Apple and Nokia. Its monthly revenues for November,reported on Tuesday, were down by 27% year-on-year to $522m (£328m).• HTC One review: an amazing screen but a baffling interface
Amazon UK has reported its busiest shopping day as consumers took to the internet on Cyber Monday.The internet retailer said orders came in at a rate of 47 items a second, racking up 4.1m sales during the day and peaking at 9.22pm.It beat the previous record of 4m sales that had been set only three days before on "Black Friday" – the US-imported retail gimmick where stores offer a day of heavy discounting to kickstart the festive shopping season."Black Friday really captured the imagination of customers as shown by the fact that we had our busiest day to date and reached one-day sales of over 4m items for the very first time in our history," said Christopher North, managing director of Amazon.co.uk."Customers were then out in force again yesterday, shopping for Christmas presents and generating our busiest day of sales ever."Amazon, which has faced accusations that itsworking conditions could cause mental and physical illness, also reported that it had sold 1m items of clothes and shoes last week, its largest-ever fashion sales.Tesco said visits to its website were up 114% on Monday compared with a typical Monday, while John Lewis was boosted by a 300% jump in its traffic last Friday.But thousands of consumers were left frustrated after a technical glitch at the Royal Bank of Scotland left them unable to use their debit cards for three hours on Monday evening.Thebank apologised on Tuesdayafter customers at RBS, Natwest and Ulster Bank saw their cards declined on one of the busiest shopping days of the year.Amazon's bumper sales figures underline how online retail is changing the way people shop at Christmas. Visa Europe had forecast that this year's Cyber Monday would see UK online shoppers spend £450m.More than a quarter of all Christmas spending is done online compared with just 1% three years ago, according to the industry association for e-retail IMRG. Online shopping is already up 10% this year compared with 2012, according to Barclaycard, which processes nearly half of all card transactions in the UK.
Sheep Marketplace, a darknet shopping site, has shut down following a catastrophic theft of 5,400 bitcoins, currently valued at over £3.5m.The site uses technologies such as Tor and Bitcoin to enable users to purchase illegal goods online, and is one of a spate of successors to the Silk Road site which was shut down in October. For a few days, visitors to Sheep received a notice blaming the theft for the closure, but now its entire online presence has been removed.Sheep&apos;s administrators claim that the theft was carried out by a dealer with the username EBOOK101. &quot;This vendor found a bug in our system and stole 5,400 BTC – your money, our provisions, all was stolen,&quot; they wrote in the online message.But far more than 5,400 BTC remained in Sheep&apos;s Bitcoin wallets after the closure, and disgruntled users are accusing the site&apos;s owners of stealingalmost 100,000 BTCfrom their accounts.Fears had already been raised over the security of the site. In October, members of the Sheep Marketplace subforum on social news site Reddit discovered glaring holes linking Sheep and an apparently unofficial normal website, sheepmarketplace.com. The latter existed as an online signpost to the former, but because it was an unprotected website, it let users discover the location of the black marketplace&apos;s owner. &quot;sheepmarketplace.com&apos;s owner is the same as Sheep Marketplace; he is living in Czech Republic; he sucks at security,&quot;concluded one Redditor.Following the closure of Sheep, a second black marketplace, Black Market Reloaded (BMR), also announced that it would be closing down. BMR is currently the largest of the darknet marketplaces by volume of goods on sale, but its admins are worried by that fact.&quot;Tor can&apos;t support any site to be too big,&quot; wrote backopy, BMR&apos;s founder, on its official forums. &quot;Without competition the wisest thing to do is to shutdown the market, doing it in a timely and orderly manner.&quot;•Black Market Reloaded was itself closed briefly in October, following a leak of its code
Apple iPhone 5SThelatest and greatest Apple smartphone, the iPhone 5S has a fast processor, crisp screen, 4G LTE and can be unlocked with the Touch ID fingerprint sensor hidden under the home button. Arguably the best 4in phone out there.From &pound;549.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesHTC OneClad in aluminium with a crisp, good-looking 4.7in screen, the HTC One iscertainly a premium-feeling phone. With 4G LTE, a fast processor, 32GB of storage, Android and loud BoomSound speakers, the One is only let down by an average camera.From &pound;420Google Nexus 5The&nbsp;5in flagship Android phone from Googlehas a sharp screen, top-of-the-line fast processor, 4G LTE and the latest version of Android. A premium phone at a sub-premium price.From &pound;300Nokia Lumia 1020Nokia's flagship Windows Phone, and arguably the best camera phone going, theLumia 1020 has a massive 41-megapixel camera. More than just a huge megapixel count, Nokia's clever software and Carl Zeiss optics produce stunning images. A 4G Windows Phone, it has a limited but expanding app selection.From &pound;480Samsung Galaxy S4Samsung's latest non-phablet flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S4 is fast, light and with a 13-megapixel camera and 4G LTE. Itssoftware can be muddled at times, but Android underneath means access to all 850,000 standard Android apps.From &pound;400. Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty ImagesSony Xperia Z1A solid follow up to the different-looking Xperia Z, the Sony Xperia Z1 packs 4G LTE, a fast processor, decent screen and 20-megapixel camera. Being waterproof is its standout feature, along with some fun augmented reality camera applications.From &pound;435Sony Xperia SPThe cheapest 4G LTE phone worth buying right now, the Sony Xperia SP is a more affordable cousin to the Xperia Z1, ditching the waterproof outer. A crisp screen and premium-feeling design set it apart from the rest.From &pound;179.99(available on EE and O2 4G PAYG)Motorola Moto GThebest budget 3g-only phone by miles, the Moto G is Motorola's first UK phone since being bought by Google. With a fast processor, decent screen and slick unmodified Android, its only downfall is the lack of 4G support.From &pound;135.Photograph: Nelson Almeida/AFP/Getty ImagesSamsung Galaxy Note 3The king of thephabletcategory, theGalaxy Note 3packs a 5.7in screen, a stylus, a powerful processor and 4G LTE-support. Samsung's additions to standard Android can be confusing at times, but it is arguably the best of the 5in-plus-screen-sized phones.From &pound;480. Photograph: Zulkarnain/Xinhua Press/Corbis
A phlegmatic character can belie a multitude of feelings, making it difficult for others to pick up on emotional cues. But help is at hand. TheGER mood sweater, by design lab Sensoree, is wearable tech that attempts to shed light on the inner feelings of the wearer, without the need for uncomfortable chat.According to Sensoree, the top makes use of Galvanic Skin Response (GSR) – the way in which the conductance of human skin changes in response to stimuli. When you are calm and at rest, skin GSR is lower than when you are anxious. While GSR has previously been exploited in lie-detectors, Sensoree has harnessed it to turn a funnel-shaped LED collar a range of colours. These are designed to indicate different levels of arousal that the firm has extrapolated to different emotional states ranging from "tranquil – Zen" (green) to "nirvana – ecstatic, blissful" (yellow). Sensoree says the technology works by attaching sensors to the wearer's hands that are then hooked up to the collar creating what it calls a Galvanic Extimacy Responder. But beware, the mood sweater will turn you red-faced if you meet the love of your life – it should glow crimson when you are "nervous – in love".Having featured in shows and exhibitions around the world, including the Digital Fall 2013 Fashion Show in San Francisco in October and the Futurotextiles exhibition in Romania last month, the mood sweater could soon be hanging in your wardrobe.One hundred of the hi-tech custom-sized garments are expected to go on sale in March.
Apple’siPhone 5Sprice varies dramatically by country, but it is only when you see iPhone prices as a percentage of local earnings that you discover just how expensive or cheap they really are.According to data collected by Mobile Unlockedcharting sales through official channels rather than on the grey or black market, the cheapest iPhone 5S - measured by simple price - is found in the US at £439.12. That&apos;s probably unsurprisingly as it&apos;s Apple’s home market.An iPhone 5S price varies by as much as &pound;238 depending on which country it is being sold in. Data: MobileUnlockedSimilar to the way the Economist tracks thecost of the ubiquitous McDonalds burger across countries, nations and states, Mobile Unlocked tracked the price of the iPhone 5S across 47 countries in native currencies with native sales tax, and then converted those prices into US dollars (USD) or British pounds (GBP).At £549 for a 16GB iPhone 5S, the UK is 22nd in the world for iPhone 5S – behind Saudi Arabia, Thailand, China, Australia, and even Switzerland. The prices, including those for the US all include sales taxes (at Californian rates for the US).However, the most expensive iPhone 5S in the world, at least in pounds sterling, is found in Jordan, where the 16GB iPhone 5S costs £677.24, 54% more expensive than its US price.Uncurried favourOf course, total expense in GBP or USD only tells half the story. Mobile Unlocked also created an index of the price of an iPhone 5S in native currency by comparing it with the &quot;national gross domestic product (GDPPPP) per capita&quot; - the measure of how much wealth the average person generates in each country.Ranging from just 0.76% of GDP PPP per capita in Qatar, the iPhone costs locals a colossal 22.3% of&nbsp;GDP PPP per capita in&nbsp;India. Data: MobileUnlockedBy measuring the price of an iPhone in &quot;purchasing power parity&quot; (PPP) terms, one can compare the value of the goods that can be purchased - which should be a more accurate measure of the proportion of people&apos;s disposable income they would have to spend to buy an Apple phone.In that sense, it resembles The Economist&apos;sBig Mac Index, which uses PPP to compare the prices of the McDonald&apos;s burger in different countries to point to disparities in pricing and exchange rates.On that basis, the iPhone 5S is actually most expensive in India - where it costs a whacking 22.3% of per capita GDP. Vietnam is second, at 19.8%, and Jordan comes in a close third with 18.3% of GDP per capita.Despite being built in China, within the oft-criticisedfactories of Foxconn, the iPhone 5S costs 9.6% of personal GDP there. Compared to its effective price in the UK of 2.4% of personal GDP, and 1.4% of personal GDP in the US and thedemand for the iPhone within Chinabecomes even more impressive.The cheapest iPhone 5S by this measure is found in Qatar, where a 16GB iPhone 5S is just 0.76% of per capita GDP.Ireland beats the UKWithin the world rankings of iPhone 5S pricing by personal GDP, the UK comes 16th, beaten by neighbours Ireland, akey part of Apple’s profit machine, at 14th by 0.1% or £477.21.While you might be travelling this Christmas, and fancy picking up an iPhone 5S at a slightly cheaper price in the US or UAE or even Hong Kong for that matter, remember that not all iPhones work on all mobile phone networks in all countries, at least on 4G due to the different frequencies used around the world.• Apple hasbought a Twitter analytics company called Topsyfor a reported $200m, suggesting it might be looking to expand its influence in the social media sphere
I finishedThe Walking Deadthe same day I startedThe Last of Us. Both apocalyptic zombie games (or infected, if you're going to be precise), they have similarities. They're both good enough for me to have got soaked in their worlds and their blood.The following day I was walking down the street and I heard a woman shrieking. She was on a mobile phone with her back to me. As this was in the real world, my assumption was that she was getting good news. I thought exam results perhaps, or a relative's pregnancy. But her screaming went on longer than would be socially acceptable. I slowed down.The woman kept screaming.Spores of information floated about. Her husband. The door. Neighbours came out. "Have you opened the door?" "Has she been burgled?" Lots of conversation, none of it building a picture. A woman called the police. A woman was on the phone to the police. The other woman wouldn't stop screaming.Eventually it was clear her husband was in the house, ill in some way. I assumed she couldn't get in. I went to the door. Not locked. A man was holding it shut. "We're waiting for the ambulance." I went to a woman with her phone. "I won't go in there," she said. "The ambulance people are asking me to go in." "I'll do it," I said. "Do you want to take the phone?" I took the phone. There was an ambulance man on the phone. He told me to go to the door. I pushed open the door. The door stopped against something. A body. Then I saw.There was blood everywhere. There was blood on the floor. There was blood on the walls. There was blood all over the face and throat and body of a man. He was lying, crooked on the carpet. There was blood all over white tissues scattered. There was blood on a roll of toilet paper, finger marks of blood. He had been trying to get out. Blood. Everywhere.Everything around me looked like one of my games. I couldn't go in the room. "You must go in the room," phone man said. I think to myself, if this was a game, you would go in the room.The Last of Ushas me constantly creeping into dingy, bloody holes and being heroic.The Walking Deadforces you to make moral choices which infect your narrative, which judge you. And so, and forgive me but it's true, by imagining I was in a game, I walked into the room.The man was covered in blood and vomit. His eyes were open staring upwards. They were like a doll's eyes. They were like glass. The pupils were set. His face was contorted, mouth open. I could not look despite all the monsters and frothing and undead I've fought. I have never seen anything so big be so still. Everything vibrates, even just a little bit. But this didn't move. He didn't move. He was cut out of time. Everything in me said get out of the room. The man on the phone told me to go closer.I kept pretending I was in a game.How have I never seen a dead body before? In real life, I mean. He asks me to do chest compressions on the man. He is cold. I try. I take instruction. I put the phone down. Clear his airway. I can't. I can't. You can. Blood and vomit. Come on. Come on. He is cold. I can't touch him. Yes you can. But what if he comes back as a zombie? I am genuinely afraid now my protective mechanism is exploring its own conclusion. My brain tidies that stupidity up. I can't look at his face. This is what the protagonist has to do. I put my hands on his chest. Oh God. Oh God.Eventually, they came.The man was dead. He died of tuberculosis. He coughed up blood until he didn't have enough blood.Now as I write down what happened I am beginning to forget how it really was. I remember the story of what happened, not what happened. It didn't have an order in time or a logical progression like this, it was just a thing with an image and a feeling. Now what I remember is my memory.&nbsp; For weeks afterwards, I played it over. And over it, I played. Every single zombie, or infected, or attacker seemed like a person to me now, a backstory, an individual and a trauma. Every injury felt profound. Every detail seemed sharp with adrenaline. The event in my life made the game more real and emotional, as the events in the games had made my real experience more false and manageable.I used to scoff at the simplicity of equating onscreen violence with its real-world equivalent. But now there is no doubt in my mind that gaming can desensitise to death and gore. I'm just not sure that's a bad thing.&nbsp;My mind has been busy, privately, with its own desensitising and placating. It's been filing, controlling, fighting and protecting. Getting me to the next level. That's its job. Today for the first time since that happened, I bashed a zombie's brain out with a spiky metal pole and felt nothing. That's not true. I felt the mild elation and giggly cringe of executing a well-designed violent manoeuvre in a video game. But nothing else. That's better.&nbsp;
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSelf-driving cars to hit Swedish public roads &gt;&gt; TechHiveThe project is called "Drive Me" and is a joint initiative between the Volvo Car Group, the Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish Transport Agency, Lindholmen Science Park and the City of Gothenburg, Volvo said Monday. Together they will make an effort to eliminate deadly car crashes in Sweden, said Erik Coelingh, technical specialist at Volvo Car Group.In the next few years, Volvo will develop its Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) in its XC90 model. The goal is to have the first self-driving cars available to 100 consumers by 2017, Coelingh said. They will be able let their cars navigate about 50 typical commuter arteries that include motorway conditions and frequent traffic jams in and around Gothenburg, the country's second largest city.In case you thought Google was the only company doing self-driving cars.Review: BlackBerry Z30 &gt;&gt; NeowinBrad Sams:The Z30 is the best BlackBerry phone on the market but falls way short of the premium offerings from Android, Apple and even Windows Phone.The hardware for the Z30 is actually quite good. The phone feels great in your hands and the 5in screen does not seem all that large and in fact, from a hardware point of view, the phone is fantastic.Where it all goes downhill, is when you turn the device on. The slow boot time and buggy user experience leaves a lot of room for improvement. We had several instances where the touchscreen stopped responding to input for a few seconds or had an app crash for no apparent reason.The phone still has a considerable learning curve to it as well. Even though the OS now includes a tutorial feature that helps you learn all the gestures, coming from iOS or Android, it's certainly a different experience and it is hard to quantify if that 'difference' is a good thing. The lack of a dedicated home or back button at the bottom of the screen will likely annoy converts to the platform at first and in the retail space, with only a few minutes to try out the platform, could turn off potential buyers.IDC forecasts PC shipments to fall by double digits in 2013; volumes expected ro stabilise above 300m units per tear, but with no significant recovery &gt;&gt; IDCWorldwide PC shipments are expected to fall by -10.1% in 2013, slightly below the previous projection of -9.7%, and by far the most severe yearly contraction on record, according to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly PC Tracker. Interest in PCs has remained limited, leading to little indication of positive growth beyond replacement of existing systems. Total shipments are expected to decline by an additional -3.8% in 2014 before turning slightly positive in the longer term. At these rates, total PC shipments will remain just above 300 million during the forecast – barely ahead of 2008 volumes.Consumers, who used to be half of the market, are in effect on a buying strike. It's essentially turned into a replacement business.Dark marketplace closes after theft of £3m in bitcoins &gt;&gt; BBC NewsDarknet market Sheep Marketplace has shut down after $5.3m (£3.3m) in bitcoins was stolen from the site.The site shut down over the weekend and visitors today see a notice blaming the theft for the closure.It said the theft was carried out by a vendor on Sheep who exploited a bug in the site's software to steal the virtual cash.This is a key problem at the moment with Bitcoin: the organisations acting as banks are as vulnerable as the ones in the Wild West of yore.How tablets have redefined the rules of personal computing &gt;&gt; TIME.comTim Bajarin was asked to look at Microsoft's early efforts with tablets. And now:While I state that the tablet journey has gone on for well over 20 years, its accelerated growth has come in just the last three years.Another interesting point of reference is that most homes in developed markets have one PC or laptop. By 2016, these same homes will have about three tablets each, making them in many ways the most important computing tools in the family. With tablets priced as low as $49 with most of the relatively good models priced between $129 and $199, it's not too far fetched to suggest that every person in the home in these markets could have a tablet of their own by 2016. In emerging markets, we could have at least one tablet per home as well.Although the smartphone has become the dominant personal communications device, its small screen makes it difficult to serve as a fully-functioning personal computer.What's the dividing line between a phablet and a tablet, though?Cloud Horrors &gt;&gt; deRisk the CloudBreaking Cloud, our collection of Cloud 'horror' stories showing what can happen when a good cloud goes bad …or when a good plan doesn't exist!And Obamacare online is straight in at No.1!Supreme Court refuses Amazon's challenge to online sales tax law &gt;&gt; GigaomCan states collect sales tax from online retailers that have no physical presence in the state? For now, the answer is yes after the Supreme Court refused a request by Amazon and Overstock to review a lower court's decision that upheld a law that lets New York collect taxes if the companies advertise in the state.Want to fight off content pirates? Just stream your show for free &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe question of how to deal with the piracy of music, movies, and other forms of online content isn't likely to be solved soon. But achapter in a soon-to-be-published book on the digital economy(pdf) by the National Bureau of Economic Research makes a compelling case for media companies speeding up efforts to get as much of their content online as possible.The study looks at what happened in 2009, when ABC (DIS) added a chunk of TV shows to Hulu, the popular streaming-video service. The results were immediate and striking: Illegal downloads of those shows dropped almost 20% compared with a control group.It makes a certain amount of sense that people wouldn't seek out illegal copies of shows they can watch legally. More interesting is the impact that ABC's decision seems to have had on the levels of piracy for other content.Streamed is harder to store, and you can't fast-forward through the ads. Smart.Samsung: Tizen and Firefox could be powerful allies against Android and iOS | SamMobileSamsung has big plans for Tizen, the mobile operating system it is jointly developing with Intel, that's no secret. But, if the words of a Samsung executive are to be believed, those plans might also include the usually unthinkable act of joining forces with a rival operating system. At the Conference for establishing HTML5 Fusion Technique, Wonsuk Lee, Chief Secretary of Samsung, expressed interest in teaming up with Mozilla and bringing Tizen and Firefox OS closer together, due to the support for HTML5 development on both operating systems.Those sound more like small plans. Samsung's attitude to Tizen seems to be to keep it locked in a box.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Streaming music service Spotify is hoping to win over its musician critics by launching a newSpotify Artistswebsite explaining how its business model works.The company is also launching free analytics for artists to get data on streams of their music; announcing plans to help them sell merchandise from their Spotify profiles; and publishing figures on how much musicians can expect to earn as it grows.The various announcements are a response to trenchant criticism from some musicians in 2013. Thom Yorkedescribed Spotify as &quot;the last desperate fart of a dying corpse&quot;, while David Byrne criticised streaming as&quot;unsustainable as a means of supporting creative work of any kind&quot;.The Spotify Artists website aims to answer musicians&apos; questions about how Spotify calculates its payouts for streams of their music, and convince them that as the company grows, their streaming earnings will make up for any fall in sales of CDs and downloads.&quot;The position we take is look, we know Spotify is not perfect for all artists yet, but this is the theory behind it, this is where we are, and this is where we&apos;re going,&quot; Mark Williamson, director of artist services at Spotify, told The Guardian ahead of the launch.&quot;With any format change in music – CD and iTunes included – there&apos;s a lot of confusion around how these different models work, and quite often some serious scepticism. We understand that&apos;s out there, so we want to be as clear and transparent as we possibly can explaining how Spotify fits in.&quot;Spotify pays out nearly 70% of its total revenues to music industry rightsholders – labels, publishers and collecting societies – who are then responsible for paying musicians and songwriters their share.Spotify is publishing its royalties formula for payouts to rightsholders.The site also aims to dissuade artists from judging Spotify by &quot;per-stream&quot; payouts by explaining how it calculates each artist&apos;s gross revenue by their share of total monthly streams, with the resulting payout varying according to country, the ratio of free to paying users, and the overall volume of music being streamed.&quot;Per-stream is a really flawed way of thinking about it – it&apos;s not the way we pay or the way our model is built, and it&apos;s not the way people should be measuring it – but we appreciate people do talk about per-stream payments and want to ask the question,&quot; said Williamson.For all its protestations, Spotify has answered that question on its new site, saying that the average payout to rightsholders for a single play of a track is between $0.006 and $0.0084.The site also gives &quot;actual, but anonymised&quot; figures made in July 2013 for a month&apos;s streams of five specific albums, ranging from $3,300 for a &quot;niche indie album&quot; to $425,000 for a &quot;global hit album&quot;.Spotify also predicts how much these albums would receive in a single month when the service has 40m paying subscribers, rather than its current total (6m according toSpotify&apos;s last public announcement on that score from March, but closer to 10m according to music industry sources).&quot;We want to put the figures in context of what these payments will be when we launch in new countries and get to 40m paid subscribers,&quot; said Williamson. &quot;That small indie band whose album made $3k a month in July will now be looking at $17k a month from Spotify alone, and the global pop superstar will be looking at over $2m.&quot;Spotify claims that payouts for individual artists will improve drastically when it reaches 40m subscribers. Photograph: /PRAlongside the website launch, Spotify is announcing today that it has paid out more than $500m to rightsholders in 2013, and more than $1bn in total since its launch in 2008.It also claims that the average American Spotify user now generates $41 a year in revenue for the company – a figure including advertising revenues for free users and subscription revenues from paying users.Spotify claims as a comparison that the average US internet user spends $25 a year on music, although it admits that if you strip out the third of them who don&apos;t spend anything at all, the figure rises to $55.Its new site also compares Spotify&apos;s average royalties of between $6,000 and $8,400 per million listens to figures of $3,000 for a &quot;video streaming service&quot; (i.e. YouTube) and $1,300 – $1,500 for a &quot;radio streaming service&quot; (i.e. Pandora), in an effort to position Spotify as a better friend to musicians than those rivals.&quot;A million streams on Spotify is worth at a minimum twice as much as what a video service would pay, and three to four times what an online personal radio station would pay. A fan streaming your music on Spotify is far more valuable than, say, a fan listening to your music on repeat on a music video service,&quot; said Williamson.&quot;And these are the rates we&apos;re monetising at now, with 24m users. If Spotify grows to 140m total users and 40m paying subscribers, we will increase our payouts by five times.&quot;Critics will note that this is jam-tomorrow reasoning – not least because as Spotify has grown,so have its losses. Even with arecent $250m funding round, Spotify has yet to prove that it can stay in business long enough to reach those total user numbers.Spotify analytics will be available to artists through Next Big Sound.Analytics are the other key part of Spotify&apos;s outreach to artists, with the company partnering with US startup Next Big Sound to give artists and managers access to data on Spotify plays of their music, including total streams, track-by-track information and demographic data including gender, location and age.It mirrors anexisting partnership with British firm Musicmetric, which makes this kind of data available to labels. In the case of Next Big Sound, though, the analytics will be free to registered artists and managers, aiming to help them plan tours, singles and other marketing activity.&quot;They&apos;ll be able to see this alongside other metrics like Facebook Likes, Twitter followers and YouTube views, and all of the Spotify data will be free, although only authorised managers and artists are getting access to it,&quot; said Williamson. &quot;There&apos;ll be a process in place to ensure whoever is asking for the data is really connected to that artist.&quot;Finally, Spotify is announcing plans today to help artists sell merchandise from their profiles in its desktop, web and mobile apps, via a partnership with another music-tech company, Topspin. It follows a similar deal with British startup Songkick to show concert listings in the profiles, with fans able to click through to buy tickets.&quot;Right now our users are browsing more than 2m concerts within Spotify every month,&quot; said Williamson. &quot;We will soon be rolling out merchandise listings too, powered by our friends at Topspin. That will allow any artist to easily upload merchandise details and display it to their fans and followers on Spotify.&quot;Spotify will not take a cut of any sales made through this feature. Williamson says it is intended to complement revenues from artists&apos; recorded music, not replace it.&quot;We don&apos;t believe in saying artists should give their music away for free and make their money elsewhere. But we know that touring and merchandise is a huge part of many artists&apos; careers, and Spotify wants to add value in those ways as well,&quot; he said.Spotify is pitching the feature as a boon for musicians and fans alike, but it will also bolster the company against competitors. Headphones manufacturerBeats is already working with Topspinon a similar merchandise partnership for its Beats Music service, but that has yet to launch.Spotify may now beat it to the punch, but will today&apos;s announcements deflect some of the blows being aimed at the company – and streaming more generally – by artists like David Byrne and Thom Yorke?&quot;This is a new model, and it does take some time to get used to. By creating clarity around the model, and by discussing and explaining it, we hope we can overcome even some of the most vociferous critics,&quot; said. Williamson.&quot;I hope this gets out to some of the artists who won&apos;t engage with us. We can&apos;t be accused of hiding behind stuff: this is us being open and explaining our model.&quot;•Is Spotify going to save the music industry … or destroy it?
It's Tuesday.
Tim Berners-Lee is known as the gentle genius with the mild touch, a man who is strikingly modest despite having created one of the epochal inventions of the modern age, the world wide web. But get him on the subject of what the National Security Agency and its British equivalent, GCHQ, have been doing to crack encryption used by hundreds of millions of people to protect their personal data online, and his face hardens, his eyes squint and he fumes."I think that's appalling, deliberately to break software," he says in an entirely uncharacteristic outburst of ire. Of all the reasons he is concerned about Edward Snowden's disclosures relating to UK and US spying on the web – and there are many, as we shall see – it is thecracking of encryption revealed by the Guardianin partnership with the New York Times and ProPublica that seems to rile him most."Internet security is hard," he says with emphasis. "All systems have undiscovered holes in them, and it's only a question of how fast the bad guys can discover the holes compared with how fast the good guys can patch them up."We are talking in his office in the wildly shiny and curvaceous Frank Gehry building at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where Berners-Lee leads theWorld Wide Web Consortium (W3C), a global community working to develop standards for the web. He continues with the encryption theme: "So it's naive to imagine that if you introduce a&nbsp;weakness into a system, you will be the only one to use it. A lot of the IT industry feels that's a betrayal."Berners-Lee is astounded by the internal contradiction in the way London and Washington have handled the threat of cyberwarfare. The two governments have elevated thefight against organised hacker gangs and militarised cyber-attacksfrom states such as China to the rank of a top national security priority. Yet at the same time their spying branches have actively aided cybercriminals by weakening encryption."It's foolish from their point of view," he says, adding that it's also ethically misguided: "Any democratic country has to take the high road; it has to live by its principles. I'm very sympathetic to attempts to increase security against organised crime, but you have to distinguish yourself from the criminal."Many people will know of Berners-Lee from his cameo role in theopening ceremony of the London Olympics. Towards the climax of Danny Boyle's spectacle, the stage opened up and the spotlight fell on the computer scientist sitting at a desk in the middle of the Olympic Stadium typing the words: "This is for everyone."In a sense, all Berners-Lee's worries about Snowden's disclosures flow from this one simple slogan. "What do I mean when I say the web is for everyone?" he says. "I mean that everybody should be empowered by it, not just to read it but to have their voice heard and to participate in the democratic process."Berners-Lee was convinced about the importance of what he calls "universality" from the instant in 1989 when he circulated to a few colleagues a memo proposing the creation of a web of information that would connect everything and everyone through links. Over time, though, he has come to realise there is a second imperative that is almost as vital as the first."What is obvious now is that not only must the web be for everyone, we also need everyone to be for the web. The ability to use the web, and the power of it, comes with an obligation: individual web users have to stick up for their rights. The obligation of a web user is to look at the way the internet is provided and complain very loudly if it deviates from being neutral."Berners-Lee is not your average web user, but he certainly has been complaining very loudly about the deviations he perceives. He warns that the universality and openness of the web, for which he has so long campaigned, is "under very serious threat" from the systematic surveillance of people's internet metadata in programs such as theNSA's PrismandGCHQ's Tempora."You can argue about the legality or illegality of what the NSA and GCHQ were doing," he says. "But look at the ethics of it." The secret foreign intelligence surveillance court, often referred to as the Fisa court, that is supposed to be overseeing internet spying by the NSA, "was dysfunctional and unaccountable. Even if the court had been blocking a lot of things the NSA was doing, it would still have been unaccountable".Well before the Guardian began publishing stories drawn from Snowden's leaked files, Berners-Lee was concerned that surveillance could damage the web by reducing confidence in its privacy. "When you think about privacy you have to think about how intimate our use of technology has become," he says. "When someone is worried about a social or medical issue, about their sexuality or whether they have cancer, they can put their trust in the complete secrecy of the web. Maybe they are a minor, and too embarrassed to go through their parents. It's important to preserve the ability to do things over the internet that are very intimate."A loss of faith in privacy caused by government collection of metadata could have a chilling effect, he believes. "The chilling effect is where the teenager does not click on the button and ends up being misinformed. Or when somebody does not want to admit they are depressed and commits suicide because they are worried they were being watched when they clicked on a site. The chilling effect is when people know something is wrong but don't report it because they fear it will damage their career or put them in jail."There's another, potentially even greater, danger that flows from interfering governments – that it could stymie what Berners-Lee calls "intercreativity", or the act of creativity that happens when people interact freely and safely with each other on the web. He tried to embed that quality in the architecture of the web right as he devised it at its very inception."Intercreativity is where people share half-formed ideas, brainstorm, put parts of a solution together over great distances through the web. It's clear that you need a very safe space for people to brainstorm. When people think their ideas will be reviewed, they will not do that. When you take away the safe space, you take away a lot of the power of human problem-solving."Berners-Lee's personal brand of intercreativity is visibly on display on the whiteboard in his office. It is covered in a dense swirl of words, symbols and flow lines in several colours – a mad professor's frenzied splurge of ideas. To the uninitiated, the scribblings are gobbledegook. Take the sequence scrawled on one corner of the board: "html js / deeps / me. forts / msg / BBT subscribe files / ADD support / Facebook".Berners-Lee talks in much the same way as he writes on the whiteboard, his thoughts rushing over each other in such a flurry he sometimes stumbles over his words. He browses widely in his search for examples to illustrate a&nbsp;point, drawing from internet geekery, politics and social sciences with such seamlessness that it provokes the feeling that the world wide web is nothing but a binary expression of its creator's own roaming mind.Which leads us to talk about the most existential threat to the web that Berners-Lee fears could result from state surveillance – the risk that the simple act on which the power of the web depends, the ability to link from one page to the next in just one click, could be jeopardised. Already, governments such as Brazil  arelooking at ways to uncouple their internet networksfrom the US to curb NSA snooping, raising warnings that the internet is about to be Balkanised.Any move in that direction would damage a central principle of the internet, that it should be multiply-connected. "If you try and really split up the web, then it fails," he says bluntly. "The&nbsp;power of the web is that you can link to anything. If there's any category of things you can't link to then the value of the whole system drops tremendously, so much so that people would no longer use it."Any country that tries to create what he calls a "walled garden" of the internet would find the value of its GDP drop through the floor. Trade would be disrupted, cross-cultural exchange wither. "Boy, would it increase the cost of the system! It would be a horrible constraint and it wouldn't really help –&nbsp;it&nbsp;wouldn't stop the NSA getting its hand on the data."Berners-Lee is clear-eyed about the various threats posed by state surveillance, but it doesn't end there. He is also clear about what needs to be done to redress the problem. He begins by saying he agrees with the British and US governments that they have to be able to pursue criminal activity on the internet. "Clearly we do have to have investigative police powers," he says. But he goes on: "Clearly too we need to have people to guard the guards themselves, and in both the UK and US we have been complete failures in setting up that system. We can't be naive. We've failed. When you look at who guards the guards, there has been only one answer to that: in practice it has been the whistleblowers."Berners-Lee believes that the challenge of devising a new system of&nbsp;checks and balances that will protect the universality and vibrancy of the web while allowing the NSA and GCHQ to carry out necessary investigative functions needs to be met by an engaged and informed public. "The future of the internet must be in multi-stakeholder governance," he says, in which state agencies and large internet companies participate, but at arm's length.Next year, the25th anniversary of the birth of the world wide webas defined by that first memo he circulated in 1989, is the perfect moment, he suggests, to devise what he calls a charter of rights for&nbsp;the internet.I ask him how he would he frame such a charter were he to write it himself. He answers the question with a stream of consciousness, firing out bullet points about the fundamentals he would expect as an internet user:• "I can behave as though I'm not being spied on.• "If I'm being spied on, I know it's by somebody I trust for reasons that I&nbsp;approved, even if it's done secretly, and I know there's a system in place that ensures it is accountable to the public.• "I can communicate with everybody and I won't find my packets suddenly delayed because I go to an abortion site and my ISP provider disapproves of abortions.• "That the internet is neutral politically from the point of view of race, colour, creed, sexual preference – all the things where we do not discriminate."Berners-Lee, who was brought up in south-west London and still spends a part of every month in the UK, has a special message for his country of birth. He is convinced such a proactive search for an internet charter could be transformative for the UK. After all, he quips, isn't the British constitution famously not worth the paper it isn't written on?"Maybe it's time for Brits to decide that being constitution-less has lasted long enough. That it's time to put down some basic rights. We've seen our rights being violated, so let's write down what they are. Let's include the rights of the internet, let's include the independence of the fourth estate which is parallel but different. And let's include something that Britain can learn from America – the right to freedom of speech."A life of sharing information1955Born in London1976Graduated in physics, Oxford University1980While working at Cern, the Geneva-based European laboratory for particle physics, he proposes a hypertext project to allow sharing information between scientists. Calls it ENQUIRE1989Proposes an internet-based initiative for global information sharing which he calls world wide web Aim is 'to allow all links to be made to any information anywhere"1990Writes the first web client and server. His specifications of URLs, HTTP and HTML are refined as web technology spreads1994Founds the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), an organisation that seeks to lead the web to its full potential, at the at Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he is a professor2009Sets up World Wide Web Foundation that campaigns to end the global digital divide between those who are on the web and those who aren't.
Labor’s version of the National Broadband Network was “one hurdle” away from being on track to be completed on budget and on time, according to the previous chief executive of the company rolling out the network.Mike Quigley, who stepped down from the role at NBN Co in October, says while the Coalition’s policy was “legitimate”, he did not want history rewritten to say there was mismanagement on the original project.“It was a huge job and we hit a few hurdles but we basically had one more problem and the network could have been built in the timeframe and on budget,” he told Guardian Australia.“People who worked on it put their heart and souls into it and it wasn’t a shambles. I don’t want people walking away from this to rewrite history and say it was in disarray. It wasn’t.”Quigley said the last big hurdle was finalising contracts for digging holes for the NBN infrastructure.“I expected the most difficult part of the project to be the huge IT systems we have to deal with – I didn’t think we were going to have a problem with digging holes in the ground,” he said.“But these companies were used to building bridges, roads, things that were in one location, they weren’t used to working all over the country.”Quigley cited an example of hiring a contractor in the Northern Territory that failed to build any part of the infrastructure NBN Co needed for 18 months until the company stepped in.He said there were companies that were “performing badly”, but some followed a learning curve while others dropped out of the project.“We knew we were handling taxpayers’ money and we were always aware of it,” he said. “We expected to be scrutinised and so we should be, but there was a lot of misrepresentation.“If you asked the average person in the street if we were on budget they would say we were way over budget. Well we weren’t, we were on track to be on budget.“If you asked the average person on the street our take-up rate was very low – in fact our take-up rate was exceptionally high.”Quigley named The Australian and the Australian Financial Review as particularly critical in their coverage but said negative perceptions of the project were also fuelled by the opposition.“It’s [confronting issues] the usual way of building a project, there were people trying to paint this as a disaster from beginning to end and it wasn’t,” he said.Asked if there was anything he would have done differently, Quigley said: “You do think, should I have been more conservative? But the timescales are already set for you, the time frames are already put out there for you so there’s not much you can do.”Quigley said with the benefit of hindsight he would have liked NBN Co to use its final construction model from the start.“Towards the end we realised there was a lot more work we could build ourselves than we initially thought,” he said.This week NBN Co, now headed by Ziggy Switkowski, handed a review of the project to the communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull.The review looked at how much it would cost to continue to build Labor’s network and was handed to Turnbull this week after he initially gave the board 60 days to deliver it.It is not known when the review will be made public.
Google's latest doodle celebrates the birthday of Carlos Finlay, the Cuban physician and scientist who theorised that yellow fever was spread by mosquitoes.Of French and Scottish descent, Finlay was born in 1833 in Puerto Príncipe, now the Cuban city of Camagüey, and studied at Jefferson medical college in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He finished his studies in Havana and Paris before settling in Cuba to open a medical practice.Finlay was appointed  by the Cuban government in 1879 to work with a North American commission studying the causes of yellow fever, and two years later was sent as the Cuban delegate to the fifth International Sanitary Conference in Washington DC.At the conference, he urged the study of yellow fever vectors and later stated that the carrier was the mosquito Culex fasciatus, now known as Aedes aegypti.When a US army's Yellow Fever Board arrived in Cuba in 1900, he sought to persuade it of his mosquito-vector theory.Finlay's hypothesis and exhaustive proofs were confirmed by the board's head, the US army doctor Walter Reed, paving the way for the eradication of yellow fever and saving generations of lives throughout South America, the Caribbean, Africa and the southern US.As General Leonard Wood, a physician and military governor of Cuba, put it: "The confirmation of Dr Finlay's doctrine is the greatest step forward made in medical science since Jenner's discovery of the vaccination."Finlay died in August 1915 from a stroke caused by severe brain seizures in his home in Havana.
Apple has bought the social media analysis company Topsy, in a deal reportedly worth $200m.Led by Oxford graduate Duncan Greatwood, Topsy provides access to the &quot;firehose&quot; of every tweet generated on Twitter, and also indexes social networks including Facebook and Google+.The purchase follows theacquisition at the end of last month of PrimeSense, an Israeli technology company, for around $350m.But the new addition suggests that Apple is seeking to expand its influence in the social media sphere - an area where it has previously struggled to make any impact after the failure of its Ping social music service, which chief executive Tim Cookshut down in September 2012.An Apple spokesperson confirmed the purchase to the Guardian, saying &quot;Apple buys smaller technology companies from time to time, and we generally do not discuss our purpose or plans.&quot;Apple&apos;s purpose in buying the company could be to improve its iAds service, which has suffered from poor sales, or to improve its general web services functionality as it tries to compete with Google and Microsoft as the basis of smartphone and tablet competition shifts from hardware towards software and services. Apple lags behind Google in particular in web services, where the search company has advantages in fields such as local data, maps, and voice search.Alternatively it may intend to use it for indexing apps and to improve search using its Siri voice control system and in the App Store, where finding the right app is increasingly difficult as the catalogue grows.Topsy, founded in 2007, has created a complete searchable archive of 450 billion tweets sent over Twitter since it was set up, and added other analytics tools to make itself useful to businesses - who can buy pro services in order to tailor their social effortsThe company had raised a total of $35m in venture capital up to September. Vipul Ved Prakash, the co-founder and chief technology officer,told Techcrunchin September that “The amount of data being created on Twitter plus Facebook today is more than the data being created on the rest of the web… Social data has become the bigger public corpus.”Prakash said then that the company had built indexes which could be applied to Facebook, and that it had archived every public Google+ post.Topsy&apos;s essential power is seen as being able to evaluate &quot;sentiment&quot; around tweets and in peoples&apos; comments on social networks.•Apple bought PrimeSense - hose technology was in the first Kinect - with a clear intention
BlackBerry Ltd is &quot;very much alive, thank you,&quot; interim chief executive John Chen affirmed in an open letter on Monday in which the smartphone maker committed itself to rebuilding as a niche player concentrating on the enterprise market.Chen took over as CEO a month ago after BlackBerry abandoned a plan to sell itself.&quot;Our &apos;for sale&apos; sign has been taken down and we are here to stay,&quot; he wrote in the letter that was addressed to &quot;valued enterprise customers and partners&quot;. The company provided the letter to Reuters, and alsopublished it on its business blog. &quot;In short, reports of our death are greatly exaggerated.&quot;BlackBerry, once the market leader in on-the-go email, has suffered a drastic loss of market share to Apple&apos;s iPhone and devices powered by Google&apos;s Android software. Its new smartphones have so far failed to win back customers, as Chen acknowledged in the letter.&quot;We know that BlackBerry devices are not for everyone. That&apos;s OK,&quot; he said.BlackBerry has laid off thousands of workers over the last two years and in September it said it would shed more than a third of its global workforce and refocus itself on the enterprise market - large business and government clients - that vaulted it to prominence in the 1990s.&quot;We&apos;re going back to our heritage and roots, delivering enterprise-grade, end-to-end mobile solutions,&quot; said Chen, a turnaround artist with software maker Sybase in the late 1990s.&quot;The investments you&apos;ve made in BlackBerry infrastructure and solutions are secure. I will keep the lines of communication open as we navigate through this transition.&quot;BlackBerry shares were up 5 Canadian cents at C$6.76 on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Monday, just above the record low of C$6.25 hit two weeks ago, and at just a fraction of the stock&apos;s record high of C$150.30, hit in 2008, when the company dominated the smartphone market.Rather than sell itself, BlackBerry said early last month it would raise $1 billion in a convertible notes offering led by Fairfax Financial Holdings, its largest shareholder.•Sales of BlackBerry handsets to consumers in the US, China, Spain and Japan dropped almost to zero in the three months to the end of November, research says
Sales of BlackBerry handsets to consumers have all but fizzled out in the US, China, Spain and Japan, with the UK remaining its best-selling area, according tonew data from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.The latest data for smartphone sales for the three months to the end of October 2013 shows that the company&apos;s share of sales in the US fell to just 0.8%, even as that market has grown in size as more and more smartphones become available.In China, Spain and Japan, its share fell to less than a tenth of a percent - so that Kantar records it as zero.The collapse in BlackBerry sales points to the problems that have arisen since the company&apos;s much-publicised efforts first tosell itself to a private equity group, and then toraise $1bn at the same time as it fired its chief executive Thorsten Heins, who had only been in place since January 2012 after he was promoted to replace the company&apos;s founders.The company itself has said that it will be focussing on corporate sales - and the fall in consumer support seems to suggest that it will have to. Its largest sales share - 3.3% - was recorded in the UK, though that is a relative sales figure, and also does not indicate how many people are already using its handsets.More significantly, BlackBerry was outsold by Windows Phone handsets in every market reported by Kantar, despite havinglaunched its Z30 handsetin September to add to its portfolio.Apple squashThere was mixed news for Apple in the latest results, which showed that the annual uplift that it gets from a new iPhone release was having less effect than last year: in the five main EU countries (UK, Germany, Italy, Spain and France) its share of sales was just 15.8%, compared to 20.8% a year before. Kantar declined to say how much total sales have grown over that period, making absolute sales comparisons impossible.Android retains its leading sales position in all markets except Japan, and is most dominant in Spain where it made up 90.1% of all sales - ahead of even of &quot;urban China&quot;, where Kantar says that non-Google connected Android systems made up 78.1% of sales.Worldwide, Japan is the single exception, with iPhone sales making 61.1% of the total in the quarter, and Android sales 36.2%.EU5 (GB, GER, ITA, SP, FR) smartphone sales data in percent shows a strong seasonal tendency for iPhone sales. Source: Kantar. Photograph: /PRPast data from Kantar shows that iPhone sales are strongly seasonal, while Android has increasingly strengthened its grip on the leading position in a number of European countries. Sales of iPhones tend to slow in the period ahead of a launch - in September for the past two years - and then accelerate through to Christmas.But Kantar said that the iPhone 5C, which is reckoned to have seen slow sales, had nevertheless managed some success. “The cheaper 5C appeals to a broader audience than Apple usually attracts,&quot; said Dominic Sunnebo, strategic insight director at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. &quot;In the US, the biggest demand for these mid-end models is coming from lower income households. Some 42% of iPhone 5C owners earn less than $49,000 compared with just 21% for iPhone 5S. iPhone 5C customers also tend to be slightly older at an average of 38 years compared to 34 years for the 5S.&quot;The good news for Apple is that this wider appeal is attracting significant switching from competitors,&quot; Sunnebo added. &quot;Almost half of iPhone 5C owners switched from competitor brands, particularly Samsung and LG, compared with 80% of 5S owners who upgraded from a previous iPhone model.”Kantar reckons that the high-end 5S model has outsold the 5C by three to one - a figure that is backed up byseparate data from Mixpanel, which shows almost exactly the same split for usage - with an acceleration since US Thanksgiving towards the 5S.Windows Phone: on the advanceThree years after its launch, Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone made strong gains, principally driven by sales of Nokia handsets, and outsold BlackBerry in every market reported in Kantar&apos;s figures.Windows Phone also outsold the iPhone in Italy, by 16.1% to 10.1%, and was at level-pegging in Spain. In the five biggest EU countries, it had a 10.2% sales share, compared to the iPhone&apos;s 15.8% share, having nearly doubled its share of the market since a year ago. Kantar declined to give any indication of how the size of the market has grown, though, making it impossible to make precise comparisons.“Momentum for Windows Phone is continuing, although its growth remains reliant on low-end handsets,&quot; commented Sunnebo. &quot;In Britain, almost three quarters of Nokia Lumia sales in the latest period were low-end devices such as the Lumia 520 and 620 – a pattern that is similar across other EU markets.“China remains a key challenge for Nokia, with its market share languishing at 3.5%. Local Chinese brands are becoming increasingly dominant in the world’s largest smartphone market, selling high specification Android devices at low prices. If Microsoft partnered with a major local brand it could help drive Windows Phone momentum but, with the Nokia takeover imminent, this does not look likely to happen anytime soon.”
Over the past seven days the battle lines of the gaming industry have been drawn more distinctly and closer together than ever before, as Microsoft pits its paradoxically named third console, the Xbox One, against Sony's resurgent PlayStation 4. But are these technological behemoths worth your time and money? While the newest generation of gaming hardware was ostensibly inaugurated last year with the release of the Wii U, Nintendo has increasingly become a law unto itself, distinct in its successes and failures from the rest of the industry. For many, the real "next gen" experience has only just arrived. It's unusual to have two potential titans launching only a week apart – there were 15 months between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 launching in the UK in 2005 and 2007 – and the "clash" speaks volumes about the vast sums of money invested in each format and the consumer appetite for them.Pre-orders for both formats set records, and the campaign trail, from announcement to release, has been bitter for both camps. But while their predecessors both offered a leap to high-definition gaming, there's no such immediate payoff here. So how do they stack up?MKXbox One by Matt KamenBest bitAfter viewing the original Kinect with disdain, it is a hugely pleasant surprise to find how impressive the new model is included with Xbox One. Voice commands actually work and the camera sensor is far more accurate.Dead Rising 3offers the best in-game implementation so far, in calling out support commands to allies while slaughtering zombies.Biggest letdownMany of the launch titles – conspicuously, largely first-party titles published by Microsoft – are filled with micro-transactions (ie charging you, albeit small amounts, for extras).Forza Motorsport 5, although a great racer mechanically, offers constant nagging to buy better cars with real money, whileCrimson DragonandRyseboth lure you into the Xbox Marketplace for upgrades. Digital consumables in full-price games is disheartening, to say the least.Unique featureMore a suite than a single feature, Xbox One's dedication to all-encompassing media consumption is very well implemented. Alongside Blu-ray playback and the usual array of on-demand services (Netflix, LoveFilm, iPlayer et al), an HDMI input allows you to control and record TV. The 'Snap' function is also useful, running a second app, such as Skype alongside game sessions.ControllerImprovements to the Xbox One controller over the 360's are largely "under the hood", with dedicated rumble motors on each trigger. On the surface, the A, B, X, Y buttons are a whole millimetre closer together, start and back are replaced with menu and view – largely retaining the same functions – and the battery compartment is less intrusive. Comfortable, but unremarkable.ConnectivityMicrosoft's SmartGlass, a companion app for tablets and smartphones, is coming into its own on Xbox One. While the strength of each title's integration lies with developers, functions such as being able to control your apps remotely, pre-load movie purchases, participate in multiplayer games and reply to messages using your device's touch keyboard are fantastic.SocialThe maximum number of Xbox Live friends now clocks in at a monstrous 1,000, a vast and welcome increase. Players can also form parties, groups they play with regularly or only on specific games, and communicate through Kinect or a headset. Once you've downloaded the free Upload Studio app, sharing clips of your gaming prowess is quick and easy too.Room for improvementBeyond fewer microtransactions, home screen navigation is the area most in need of an overhaul. In trying to simplify the user experience, the minimalist approach is instead confusing and oddly cluttered. Favourite apps can be pinned but otherwise get clumped together in a sub-menu, making it trickier to organise. Hopefully, better categorisation is only a software update away.OverallDespite its relatively strong launch line-up and promising upcoming titles such as Titanfall, the Xbox One is very deliberately positioned as a multimedia server, rather than a dedicated games console for the hardcore. TV integration may be irrelevant for the young and tech-savvy, eschewing broadcast in favour of streaming or downloading, but for families wanting gaming, video, music and more, Xbox is the One.Score: 7/10Killzone: Shadow Fall is one of 22 launch titles for the PlayStation 4.PlayStation 4 by Jordan Erica WebberBest bitThe PlayStation&nbsp;4 demonstrates a refreshing self-awareness from Sony. Gone is the advanced Cell processor that put developers off getting properly acquainted with the PS3, so while the PS4 is powerful, it's simpler to develop for. It's less bulky than the PS3, too, and old hands will be relieved to know that the controller is significantly improved.Biggest letdownUnfortunately, early purchasers will likely struggle to justify buying their console at launch. Promising games such asDriveClubandWatch Dogshave been delayed, and the exclusivesKillzoneandKnackare only mediocre. However, plenty of great multi-platform games – such asAssassin's CreedandLego Marvel Superheroes– look even better on PS4, with some in higher definition than on the Xbox One.Unique featureOne feature to make Xbox One owners jealous is "Remote Play", through which you can play PS4 games on your handheld PlayStation Vita. Lag makes the streaming experience less than perfect, especially if you connect from afar, but being able to use the Vita as a second controller in games such as Knack and Lego Marvel Super Heroes is a blessing.ControllerThe DualShock 4 strikes a balance: is similar enough to the previous DualShock controller to maintain the brand but without its significant flaws. Both the touchpad and speaker are interesting additions – inKillzonethe former is used for menu selections and the latter to play audio logs – but most welcome are the concave triggers and a shape clearly designed for comfort.ConnectivityAside from the DualShock 4 and Vita, you can also have some control over your PS4 with the PlayStation Camera, an optional accessory left out of the basic console bundle to keep costs&nbsp;&nbsp;down. However, its response to voice commands is inconsistent, and its facial recognition feature, while impressive, is no quicker than using a controller to log in.SocialWith long-awaited group chat and the ability to log up to 2,000 friends, it's clear the interactive aspect is&nbsp;a key component to the PS4. While the record of everything your friends have done is excessive, the ability to capture segments of in-game footage and to stream as you play shows a real understanding&nbsp;of the modern gaming landscape.Room for improvementAs the PS3 and all it has to offer have evolved over the years, so too will the PS4. Let's hope it won't be too long before Sony releases an update with options to customise the home menu, which is currently no more than a horizontal line of every game and app installed on the device.OverallSony's goal for the PS4 was simplicity, and that's reflected in both the physical design and internal architecture, which paves the way for a console that is focused on gaming. While only a few of the exclusive launch titles are worthwhile, those delayed big-budget titles and a promising roster of independent developers should fill the gap before long.Score: 8/10
The console war is on and it seems, in the UK at least, first blood has gone to Sony. Industry news sourceMCV is reportingthat the PlayStation 4 shifted 250,000 units in the UK within 48 hours of its launch on Friday, smashing sales records for a new console. The Xbox One sold 150,000 machines in the UK during its own launch period following release on 22 November.The figure quoted by MCV comes from official industry sales monitor Chart-Track, which will have released it on Monday morning to subscribing publishers and retailers. It means the PS4 is now the UK&apos;s fastest selling console, beating the previous record-holder, the Sony PSP handheld, which shifted 185,000 units on its launch in 2005. It&apos;s also a long way ahead of the UK PlayStation 3 launch, which managed 165,000 units in 2007.Furthermore, Chart-Track software sales figures for last week show that the PS4 versions of most key multiplatform releases - including Battlefield 4 and Fifa 14 – outsold other platforms; apart from in the case of number one selling title Call of Duty: Ghosts, which shifted more copies on Xbox 360.The news will be especially sobering to Nintendo. The company&apos;s Wii U console, launched last November, managed sales of just 40,000 in its opening UK weekend. Regional year one sales for the beleaguered console have not yet been confirmed, but a retail sourceindicated to MCVthat the figure for the UK is not much above 150,000 units. PlayStation 4 launch title Knack, which has attracted mediocre reviews, charted one place higher, at 13, than the critically acclaimed Super Mario 3D World.Early victorySo how significant is this early victory? &quot;All the way along Sony said that it would be pushing to get as many units out for launch as possible,&quot; said MCV editor-in-chief, Michael French. &quot;They really went for it and quite possibly managed a much higher production run than Xbox One. But the figures also reflect the very strong pre-orders and high demand for PS4, as well as the successful PR and all the goodwill that&apos;s built up for the machine.&quot;Yet Microsoft has its own recent success to shout about.According to retail analyst InfoScoutXbox One was the best selling console in the US during the critical Black Friday with 31% of sales compared with PS4&apos;s 15%. However, InfoScout suggested this may have been down to thepaucity of PlayStation 4 unitsremaining on store shelves after the machine&apos;s launch.&quot;With regards to long-term outlook, I think it&apos;s a little foolhardy to read too deeply into launch sales of the new consoles,&quot; said Piers Harding-Rolls, Head of Games at IHS Electronics and Media. &quot;Both Xbox One and PS4 comfortably improved on sales of the prior generation consoles at launch in the UK, but that was expected because there are many more Xbox-brand console users now than in 2005 and PS4 is much more competitive on price compared to the PS3. Also people are eager for something new - it&apos;s been eight years since the Xbox 360 launched and the UK is experiencing some economic stability, so pent-up demand for both consoles has been high, even if the games on offer are not hugely compelling.Console cycle&quot;Looking at the comparison, PS4 stronger opening sales are a reflection of the lower price and perhaps a more active and engaged set of PlayStation consumers that have been won over during 10 months of very successful product positioning from Sony. Once past this opening adoption phase and into next year, we expect games and exclusives to become the key deciding factor for adoption alongside pricing.&quot;Whatever the case, the figures are close and supply is no doubt playing a role at this early stage. &quot;It&apos;s not until after Christmas, when stocks are up, that you can really compare statistics,&quot; said French. &quot;The real story, though, is that there is so much demand and excitement around these machines. It has been a long time since the last console cycle began. This has proved there is still a strong interest.&quot;• Xbox One vs PlayStation 4: how do they compare?
Video games remain in a weird liminal zone between fan culture and mainstream understanding – I think Charlie Brooker&apos;s programme, How Video Games Changed The World, which aired on Channel 4 on Saturday night, caught something of that. The spread of the medium, from Pong in 1972 to Twitter (yesTwitter) today, has been one of quiet contagion. Once in a while an icon bubbles into mass acceptance, so that you get Pac-Man cartoons, and Lara Croft on the cover of Face Magazine and World of Warcraft parodied on South Park, but much of the magic remains arcane. If video games have changed the world, what Brooker showed was that they have done so without anyone&apos;s permission.And sure, the format of the show – a list punctuated by talking heads and library footage – has been overworked to the point of exhaustion, but it provided a strong framework in this instance. From seeing Jeff Minter describe the appeal of Space Invaders as essentially &quot;tidying up&quot;, to Ron Gilbert admitting how the Secret of Monkey Island was heavily influenced by the Pirates of the Caribbean ride, there was interesting insight here, from people who have shaped the medium and know it inside out.Street FighterThe choice of games was provocative too. We were always going to see Street Fighter II, GTA III and The Sims. But it was good to see both bad and good outliers – like Night Trap and Pa Rappa the Rapper – earning mentions due to their considerable contemporary impact, rather than any lasting global impression. If we&apos;re talking about how video games changed the world then Night Trap make sense: it married the cinematic and interactive, it tested the censors and it suggested a future in which game narratives could be troubling, even perverse. But yes, it was also shit.Lara and horrorSome sections nicely revisited old arguments from the past. There was the debate around Lara Croft and whether she represented a feminist presence or an objectified plaything. I loved what Aoife Wilson of Official Xbox Magazine said about it – the fact that her 10-year-old self didn&apos;t care about any of the controversy, she was just thrilled to see awomanon screen who she could control. Rab Florence was brilliant on Doom, comparing the idea of being scared by that game to early cinema goers frightened by footage of a train coming toward them. Later, the concept of arms manufacturers licensing their weapons to the makers of titles like Call of Duty to boost the profile of their deadly products sent a true chill through the programme.Sure, there were major omissions – there were always going to be. Getting upset and angry over that seems weird to me. Brooker and his writers Matt Lees, Cara Ellison and Jon Blyth had a clear throughline they wanted to project, and they did it with clarity and humour. Ending on Twitter – chronologically, rather than in terms of merit – was clever, I thought. Because the one obvious way games have changed the world is by infecting every other user interface on the planet. From Sky Sports stats to social network &quot;likes&quot;, the media landscape is now awash with the semiotics and reward systems invented by video games. Those who shouted &quot;Twitter isn&apos;t a game, I hate Twitter!&quot; missed the point. Twitter, like it or not, has changed the world, and within its complex machinery are the mechanics and compulsion loops of games.Papers, PleaseWhat I also liked about the show was that it illustrated how dated many preconceptions about gaming are. That it&apos;s just for teenage boys, that it can&apos;t explore real-world issues, that it is exclusively heterosexual. Much mainstream understanding of games comes from the blockbusters that can afford to advertise on TV or fill the shelves at Tesco. But that&apos;s like imagining that all cinema is Michael Bay and Disney animations and super heroes. Matt Lees&apos; analysis of Papers, Please as a game that introduces the concept of guilt as a mechanic, and that shows how evil is insidious and gradual, was excellent and important. I think it&apos;s games like Papers, Please and Gone Home that truly point toward where this industry will go next.Mining for meaningI was on it too, of course. I mispronounced the Japanese term &quot;kawaii&quot; to the chagrin of many colleagues, and one internet viewer dismissed my contributions as &quot;excruciating&quot;. I&apos;ve had some nice comments as well, thankfully, many referring to the section in which I credit Minecraft with changing my autistic son&apos;s life. So far, no one seems to have questioned that statement – no one seems to have spluttered indignantly about how games are invariably a negative or marginal influence, and that he should be reading books. He does read books. He reads, he plays Lego, he takes all of his action figures into the bath and imagines long, detailed naval battles for them. He goes to the park, he has friends around. He does all that.Oh, but he also has a gigantic virtual playground in which he now designs and builds vast surreal citadels, filled with traps and ocelots. Here, he is the king, the master, and he takes great pleasure in explaining it all to others – because God knows enough of his time is spent having others explaining things to him. My wife, who knows or cares nothing about games, watched the programme and said it was nice to understand why I cared so much about them, to have that illustrated in such a digestible way. My mum rang me up and said she&apos;d enjoyed it – even though I said fuck on national television. She said my dad would have been fascinated by the programme and she&apos;s right.Obviously, I&apos;m not a disinterested observer. I took a part in the show, and enjoyed it too. I would do it again. And while no attempt to explore the appeal or the influence of games will ever be perfect, it was a very decent stab at it, with many memorable moments. The sad thing is, we many have to wait many months for another broadcast treatment of the medium. While Radio 4&apos;s Front Row promised to make games part of its regular remit, it hasn&apos;t; the Culture Show, too, only seems interested when a new Grand Theft Auto comes out. With so much going on in games, these radio and television commissioners are missing out entirely – they are almost unconsciously ceding responsibility to YouTubers and specialist online documentary makers. In doing so, they are failing their audiences. Because games mean something, they are fascinating, and increasingly, whether we realise it or not, they are changing us.• How Video Games Changed the World, is available to view on 4OD andon YouTube• Charlie Brooker on why video game television is so hard to make• Ignore the GTA 5 sceptics: adults do play video games• Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal story
Apple iPad AirApple&rsquo;slatest generation premium tablethas a high quality, high-resolution screen and powerful processor, squeezed into a 7.5mm thick frame weighing 469g. It still looks like the tablet to beat with full access to Apple&rsquo;s App Store and its 800,000 active apps.From &pound;399Photograph: John Keeble/Getty ImagesMicrosoft Surface Pro 2An upgraded version of Microsoft&rsquo;s 10.6in Windows 8.1 tablet with a stylus, powerful processor and eight-hour battery life.A full Windows PC in a tablet, it has access to 100,000 apps from the Windows Store plus an extensive library of traditional Windows applications. Best bought with the optional Touch Cover 2 keyboard.From &pound;719Samsung Google Nexus 10A&nbsp;moreaffordable high-resolution Android tabletwith access to all of Google&rsquo;s services, apps and stores. It runs the latest version of the Android operating system, and is fast, slick and bloat free. Its widescreen is great for watching movies, but a thinner, lighter model is overdue.From &pound;319Sony Xperia Tablet Z&nbsp;Sony&rsquo;s latest premium Android 10in tablet with plenty of storage and a great-looking high-resolution screen. It is the waterproof exterior and svelte 6.9mm frame&nbsp;that really sets the Tablet Z apart, however.&nbsp;From &pound;370iPad mini with retina displayAt the premium end of smaller tablet market the new&nbsp;iPad miniis both slimmer and lighter than the full-sized iPad, but maintains its solid aluminium build, 10-hour battery life, high-resolution "retina" screen and powerful processor.&nbsp;From &pound;319Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APGoogle Nexus 7 (2013)&nbsp;Arguably the best small Android tablet available.&nbsp;The Nexus 7&nbsp;has a high-res screen, powerful processor, 10-hour battery life and the latest&nbsp;Android 4.4 "Kitkat" operating system.&nbsp;From &pound;199Photograph: Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty ImagesKindle Fire HDX 7The smaller ofAmazon's new Kindle Fire tabletssports a high-res screen and powerful processor running Amazon's customised Android Fire OS software, inhibiting its access to the Google Play store and restricting users to Amazon&rsquo;s own app store with its 75,000 apps.From &pound;199Tesco Hudl&nbsp;The first tablet&nbsp;from Tesco is cheap and cheerful (costs just &pound;60 of Tesco Clubcard vouchers). It runs a standard version of Android Jelly Bean without significant customisation, which means it is fast with full access to Google&rsquo;s Play Store for apps and media.&nbsp;From &pound;119
Amazon has announced its ambition to use drones to deliver parcels in the US within five years, as a way to speed up its distribution process and make it "very green"."You order something and within half an hour you can have a drone land on your front porch, drop off a little box and off it goes," chief executive Jeff Bezos told news show 60 minutes on Sunday night. But Amazon is far from the only company aiming to make unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) a more familiar sight in our towns and cities.While drones are most associated with military uses, commercial drones (used by companies like Amazon) and consumer drones (used by us) are both growing areas. Here's a primer.1Moving beyond  warzonesThe use of drones – unmanned aerial vehicles, or UAVs for short – in military conflicts remains controversial. But drones have consumer uses too, and a growing number of companies are pouring money into making them mainstream in the years ahead. One of those firms,3D Robotics, raised $30m of funding in September, while the Federal Aviation Administration expects 30,000 drones to be flying over the US alone in 20 years' time.2   Parrot's AR.Drone 2.0Perhaps the best-known consumer drone isParrot's AR.Drone, which is in its second-generation model. It's a "quadricopter" controlled from your smartphone or tablet, which is capable of zipping around for 36 minutes at a time, recording and streaming video. £279 in the UK, it has an add-on Flight Recorder accessory that uses GPS to navigate a pre-set route, and plot it on a map.3   First Person View (FPV)Besides UAV, another abbreviation you'll often see used when talking about consumer drones is FPV, for First Person View. That refers to drones capable of recording video as they go and streaming it so the owner can steer as if they were sitting in the drone. Some, like the AR.Drone 2.0, offer FPV through their built-in cameras. Others, like theLehmann LA100, use cameras like theGoPro Hero3+correct, and there's plenty of sites explaining how keener owners can build their own FPV drones too.4   Military inspirationHaving said that consumer drones are moving away from the military world, it's fair to say that a number of them take their design inspiration from the drones being used in warzones. The4 Channel Predator/Reaper Style UAV Drone RC Planeis a miniature version of the US air force's RQ-1 Predator UAV, for example, encouraging buyers to "fly your own covert missions". For anyone who's followed the debate about military drone-related deaths, the comparison may be distasteful though.5   Price: how high can it go?There's a wide range of consumer drones available. Sub-£100 devices aren't a huge leap from traditional remote-controlled helicopters, with the real action happening between £200 and £400 – although prices are likely to come down over the next year or two. 3D Robotics' 3DR Iris costs $729.99 in the US, but prices go as high as $30,000 for theAibotix Aibot X6 UAV, which is more focused on commercial use – for example, by filmmakers . Not the kind of thing you'd want to slam into a tree.6   There's apps for themOne of the key features of consumer drones is their ability to be controlled by smartphone and tablet apps, although how open they are to developers varies. The AR.Drone led the way in terms of getting apps beyond pure controllers.AR.Race 2runs on iPhones and iPads, and operates as a racing game for the drone, with players taking turns to complete a course as quickly as possible. Meanwhile,AR.Rescue 2is an augmented reality game with virtual aliens that need rescuing. Expect to see more of this as drones get more popular.7   Commercial uses growingAs more drones get into the hands of individuals, so they'll start using them for work. Germany has a Dönercopter delivering doner kebabs, California has a Burrito Bomber delivering burritos. Sydney firmFlirteyruns a flying book-delivery service. Journalists and activists have also used drones: US journalist Tim Pool customised a drone – the Occucopter – and flew it above the Occupy Wall Street protests to stream footage to the outside world, for example.8  Drones aren't just about airThey are swimming and walking too. Portuguese company Azorean raised $127,000 on crowdfunding site Kickstarter to make Ziphius, which it described as "the first app-controlled aquatic drone that plays augmented reality games and shows autonomous behaviours". It's expected to go on sale in 2014. Meanwhile, theWalkera QR Infra X Smart Dronewalks around the house, has sensors to avoid collisions, and can even climb the stairs.9   Is this legal?There's been a lot of debate – more so in the US – about the legality of non-military drones, more in connection with commercial uses and the potential for spying on people. Legal bans on commercial drones left the way clear for consumer models to come out – some of which can be used for commercial purposes.  Expect to see some high-profile publicity too if anyone misuses their drone: people buzzing their neighbours' barbecues or spying on spouses or smacking someone in the face with a falling quadricopter could all spark lawsuits.10   March into the mainstreamConsumer drones are a growing niche. There's even already a beginner's guide-style e-book:Getting Started with Hobby Quadcopters and Drones, to demystify the area.  They also fit into wider trends, fromGoProand other wearable cameras toLego Mindstormsrobotics, that will make them seem less strange in time. That should make 2013 and 2014 a good time for serious discussion about the social implications of the technology.
Computer users are being warned about &quot;scam&quot; apps which stealthily use their PC&apos;s resources to &quot;mine&quot; Bitcoins - by getting permission in a lengthy user agreement.The security company Malwarebytes says that it has come across a program which silently used more than half of a user&apos;s computer power to perform the complex calculations required to generate the virtual currency, whose value has skyrocketed this year to around $1,000.Adam Kujawa at Malwarebytessaysthat the move is one step on from the typical &quot;Potentially Unwanted Programs&quot; which offer browser toolbars and search agents that capture user data and pass it back to the companies, which then use that to serve adverts.This time, though, the program &quot;installs a Bitcoin minter on the user system, not just for a quick buck but actually written into the software&apos;s EULA [End User Licence Agreement]. This type of system hijacking is just another way for advertising based softeare to exploit a user into getting even more cash.&quot;The relevant part of the EULA says:COMPUTER CALCULATIONS, SECURITY: as part of downloading a Mutual Public, your computer may do mathematical calculations for our affiliated networks to confirm transactions and increase security. Any rewards or fees collected by WBT or our affiliates are the sole property of WBT and our affiliates.&quot;Talk about sneaky,&quot; comments Kujawa.He points out that this means the owner of the software would not share any proceeds of the work with the PC&apos;s owner.Yet the efforts of the app writers - and the PC owners - may be wasted. The amount of processing power now being used to try to mine Bitcoins have increased exponentially in the past year, so that it now requires dedicated ASIC processing rigs to generate Bitcoins in any reasonable period. It&apos;s now almost impossible to mine Bitcoins using a standard PC CPU - and even &quot;botnets&quot; of CPUs aren&apos;t able to compete against the dedicated rigs in terms of computing power.Bitcoin exploits against innocent users who don&apos;t participate in using the currency have been growing as its value has risen. In September, Malwarebytes pointed to the use of &quot;ransomware&quot; which would encrypt a system and demand a ransom - and in the meantimeput the CPU to work mining Bitcoins.And on 19 November E-Sports Entertainment, an online video game company,made a $1m settlement with the State of New Jerseyto settle a case after it was revealed that a version of the company&apos;s software had in effect created a botnet to mine Bitcoins: in a two-week period in July, according to the complaint, its software took over 14,000 computers and generating around $3,500 in value at the time by mining Bitcoins. Two of the company&apos;s staff were accused of converting the Bitcoins into US dollars and depositing them in their accounts.E-Sports Entertainment disputes the detail of the allegations.
