A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Store sets Secret Service on spy camera artist &gt;&gt; Mashable"Artist Kyle McDonald installed a program on computers in two New York Apple Store locations that automatically takes a photo every minute. Now his personal computers have been confiscated by the U.S. Secret Service."Artist has bad idea. Has quality of idea forcibly demonstrated to him. Perhaps next time, ask first?Ubiquitous 'tiny belly' online ad part of scheme, government says - The Washington Post"The innocent-seeming "1 Tip" ad is actually the tip of something much larger: a vast array of diet and weight-loss companies hawking everything from pills made from African mangoes to potions made from exotic acai berries. Federal officials have alleged that the companies behind the ads make inflated claims about their products and use deceptive means to market them.&#10;"The take so far: at least $1 billion and counting.&#10;"The "1 Tip" ads are the work of armies of "affiliates," independent promoters who place them on behalf of small diet-product sellers with names such as HCG Ultra Lean Plus. The promoters profit each time someone clicks through to the product seller's site and orders a free sample. The sample, however, isn't always so free."Why Google and Android must deal with the mobile protection racket &gt;&gt; paidContent"This is a crucial summer for Android. It rose to prominence as the anti-iPhone, but has managed to unite Apple, Microsoft, and Research in Motion in a consortium of competitors who are trying to hit Google in its most vulnerable spot.&#10;"As [Andy] Reback related years ago, modern patent litigation isn't really all that different from a protection racket: you pay, or you get hurt. If Google wants to keep the Android miracle rolling, it's going to have to find a way to offer its own brand of protection before its partners opt for peace of mind over loyalty."The question is, what?British researchers design a million-chip neural network 1/100 as complex as your brain &gt;&gt; EngadgetRead it, and then write your own punchline.Twitter ads in timelines coming in weeks &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"As Twitter raises even more money, it's getting more serious about making money. The service is set to start showing ads in users' "timelines" within the next month, following through on plans it has talked about for more than a year."Twitter is pushing a new ad product called "Promoted Tweets To Followers," set to launch by early August."This will either go very well (nobody will notice them) or catastophically (everyone will notice them).Photo of the 3D-enabled iPhone 5 is a poor attempt at Photoshop &gt;&gt; Phone Arena"The day would simply feel incomplete without a spicy rumor about the next iPhone, and today's is a spicy one indeed. According to a photo that surfaced on the web yesterday, the next iPhone iteration will be known as the iPhone 5, but the more interesting part is that the smartphone will pack dual cameras on its back, presumably for capturing 3D photos and videos."Which a bit of playing with Photoshop reveals as fake. Isn't there a site where you can upload photos to see their fake-ness?How digital detectives deciphered Stuxnet, the most menacing malware in history &gt;&gt; Wired.comFascinating, detailed read.Open government data to fuel Kenya's app economy &gt;&gt; O'Reilly Radar"From Brazil to France to Australia to India, new laws and platforms are giving citizens new means to ask for, demand or simply create greater government transparency. The open data movement has truly gone global, with 19 international open data websites live around the globe. This week, the world will see another open government platform go live in Kenya."Amazing.Samsung CTO responsible for the Galaxy Tab line steps down &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"Omar Khan, the Samsung CTO who was responsible for the rise of the GalTab and other Android-powered smartphones, is moving to Citibank to handle that company's global digital banking initiatives. He will be replaced by Nick Dicarlo and Gavin Kim in 'product and service spokesperson responsibilities for Samsung Mobile.'"Techcrunch suggests this indicates a certain amount of "political infighting". Or, possibly, not a big enough raise?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationStar Trek PADDStar Trek and iPad? A match made in heaven, surely. This official app was made for CBS by ArcTouch, and apes the user interface of the LCARS UI from the TV show. That functions as a front end to a sizeable database of ships, aliens, places, technologies and TV episodes, along with news from the official Facebook and Twitter feeds.iPadPaparappziBlottr has launched a new iPhone app designed to make citizen journalism easier than ever. The idea: users capture info and photos on news stories happening where they are, and quickly upload them to the Blottr service. The company says it sees the app as encouragement for people to upload more local news.iPhoneHangover: App EditionThis is US-only for now, but still noteworthy. It's Warner Bros' latest movie app, devoted to The Hangover. Users can stream the full film over Wi-Fi, or download it for offline playback. There are also DVD-style extras, including videos, posters, photos and production stills.iPhone / iPadBullseye by Polyphonic SpreeRemember the Polyphonic Spree? The band are still going, and now they have a new selling point besides 'stage full of people in robes going bonkers'. Bullseye by Polyphonic Spree is an interactive music video - the work of a partnership with developer Moonbot Studios. That involves listening to the song while exploring the virtual world as a character called You-Me.iPhone / iPadCheckIn+Ever checked in to a place using Foursquare and Facebook Places and thought 'I wish I could do this using augmented reality...' No, us neither. Even so, CheckIn+ makes that a core feature, showing nearby venues overlaid on your iPhone's camera feed. More usefully, the app lets you check in simultaneously to both social location services.iPhonePDF ConverterReaddle's latest iPad app promises to convert any document on your tablet into a PDF, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and iWork documents, as well as web pages and photos.iPadHistory of Royal RomancesThe Press Association has released a new iPad app devoted to royal romance, with 163 photos of lovestruck kings, queens, princes and princesses from 1869 to the present day.iPadMireo Don't Panic UKThe latest GPS satellite navigation app to tilt its hat at iPhone owners is Mireo Don't Panic, released today in a UK edition. It claims to be "up to 100 times faster" than some of its rivals, and uses in-app payments to buy additional maps and add-ons.iPhoneQuBITQuBIT is the debut app from Secret Sauce, a new spin-off from UK mobile games firm Ideaworks Studio. It's an eyeball-lashing arcade game.iPhone / iPadmyPantone for AndroidColour specialist Pantone has made the leap from iPhone to Android with its myPantone app, providing a mobile palette of more than 13,000 colours.AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Last year was all about Angry Birds. The unlikely catapult-based physics puzzler saw 100 million downloads (now 200 million!) as well as translations to all the smartphone formats – and a movie tie-in deal. Yes, the mind really does boggle.So what have been the smartphone gaming highlights of 2011 so far? has there been a contender to Rovio's bird-flinging masterpiece? Today and tomorrow, we'll be listing what we think are the 25 best titles of the year so far, covering the three key platforms. To help me decide, I asked for contributions from the writers of mobile gaming news site,Pocket Gamer, and they've helpfully provided a few words on their favourite releases.So, if you have a longhaul plane flight to prepare for this summer, or just expect to be stuck on a variety of broken down trains, you might want to check this out...Big BossChillingo, iOS (linkhere), £1.19It's about time someone took the monster-on-the-loose brilliance of classic arcade game Rampage, and brought it to smartphones. Big Boss does that – and much more. Here, players build their own monsters then roam a fantasy kingdom mauling teeny knights and smashing their castles. "At its core it's a simple iPad beat-'em-up," says Pocket Gamer's Will Wilson, "But it's in the execution that Big Boss really shines, combining a moreish RPG-lite upgrade system and a fantastic array of customisation options. The difficulty curve is just right, with the apparently very easy task (you're much bigger than the enemy) becoming a lot harder as you progress thanks to the wide range of defenders and their various anti-big boss contraptions."Bird Zapper!Namco Bandai, iOS (linkhere), 59pThis fast-paced take on the standard 'match three' puzzler presents you with an array of different birds wandering along a series of power cables – your role (as a squirrel seeking vengeance on the avine community – don't ask) is to draw lines on the screen to connect targets with the same coloured plumage, thereby electrifying them. Naturally, you score more highly the more birds you connect with one swipe, while collectable power-ups give you extra abilities, like freezing the conveyor belt of feathered victims. There are three modes to try out, offering you timed or freeplay experiences, but essentially, it's just a well-constructed, nicely drawn take on an extremely familiar smartphone genre.Bumpy RoadSimogo, iOS (linkhere), £1.79It is difficult to understand exactlyhowSwedish indie duo Simogo has turned a score-based scrolling puzzler into a quietly moving meditation on the nature of love, but that is what they have beautifully achieved with Bumpy Road. Your job is to control a couple's car journey by prodding the road around them, creating hills that their vehicles zooms up and down. On the way, you need to avoid obstacles as well as collect objects which provide you with bonus sections. The visuals are exquisitely loveable, mirroring the cooly cute design of Bob Staake, but it is a title with its own style and its own message. A game to fall in love with.Continuity 2: The ContinuationRagtime Games, iOS (linkhere), 59pThe original Continuity was an award-winner at the annual Independant Games Festival and this sequel builds on its predecessor's mix of platforming and puzzler elements. You must get your little stickman through a variety of minimalist levels, sliding platforms around the screen to create a navigable route and solve puzzles. As Pocket Gamer writer, Mark Brown, points out, "The game introduces new concepts slowly over the 50 levels, so you never feel flummoxed or out of your depth. It's either a highly cerebral platformer or a clever twist on the sliding puzzler, depending on how you look at it."CordySilverTree Media, Android, free (with in-game payments – linkhere)Utilising the Unity3D engine to quite spectacular effect, Cordy is a whimsical platformer, filled with fiendish physics puzzles. The idea is to help a cute little robot switch the power on in each of the levels, all of which are rendered in the 2.5d-style familiar to fans of the old Crash Bandicoot and Spyro games on PlayStation. Each stage has a selection of objects to discover amid the block-pushing, wall-smashing and ball-rolling fun, and players are rewarded for finishing within a time limit. It's not a game of profound originality, but the landscapes and backdrops are gorgeous, and the design compelling enough to make it a great showcase for the Android platform.TrailerDead SpaceEA, iOS (linkhere), £3.99Those expecting a horribly watered-down mini-Dead Space 2D platformer will be pleasantly surprised by this bloody 3D hack-em-up, which packs some of the best polygonal visuals on iOS devices. Taking place just before the events of Dead Space 2, the game follows an engineer on a mysterious set of missions deep down in the mines of Titan. Naturally, it's all about exploring in the dark and splattering necromorph body bits all over the place using an array of familiar weapons (the plasma cutter) and some newbies (a handy electro saw). It's a properly meaty challenge, serviced with a proper touchscreen control interface that uses swipes and touches to control the character and bring up in-game menus rather than an awkward virtual joypad. And somehow, even on a small screen, it manages to give you the odd jump.Fable Coin GolfIdeaWorks Game Studio, WP7Of, course, this could have been a tawdry tie-in: take an enormous free-roaming RPG and turn it into a pub game. But Fable Coin Golf is a miniature triumph, brilliantly mixing the dynamics of pinball and shove ha'penny with cunningly compelling results. On each stage you simply have to slide your puck around the cluttered 3D course, attempting to pick up as many gold coins as possible en route. The Angry Birds-like control system (pull back then release to send your disc flying) is finely implemented, which is a good job as the array of obstacles on each stage, from water hazards to patrolling monsters, demands accuracy and forethought. It looks lovely, it's challenging, and all the gold that you amass can actually be spent in the Xbox 360 version of Fable III: a fascinating hint at cross-platform connectivity to come.Forget-Me-NotNyarlu Labs, iOS (linkhere), £1.19Want a retro arcade game, but can't decide which to go for? Boy, has Nyarlu Labs got the solution for you: Forget-Me-Not is about 15 early eighties coin-ops rolled into one. Essentially, it's a Pac-Man-style maze game, but the mazes are random, and you can also shoot, so it also feels a bit like Berserk; but then you collect lots of goodies, while tactically working your way through the monsters, so it's a teeny bit Gauntlet as well. Meanwhile, the audio is all glitches, bleeps and electronic cascades, so it sounds like a whole 1982 arcade has been captured on your phone. The controls are perfect too with simple swipes handling everything, plus, there's a two player mode. A really clever and enjoyable game.Hard LinesSpilt Milk Studios, iOS (linkhere), £1.19Hard Lines is a stylised re-invention of Snake (or Tron if your cultural reference points go back even farther) with lots of added depth. Guide the increasingly long line around the neon maze, forcing the other lines to hit yours, thereby killing them. There are bonuses to collect and six modes to play through, and it's astoundingly compulsive stuff, requiring a controlled, focused gameplay style. "Hard Lines is to Snake what Pac-Man Championship Edition is to Pac-Man," says Pocket Gamer editor, Rob Hearn. "But instead of making you feel like a gawping addict with its biomechanically engineered gameplay, it makes you smile. Also, the real magic ingredient is the chirpy personality of the lines on the screen, conveyed through hundreds of phrases in multicoloured neon text."Hot Springs StoryKairosoft, iOS (linkhere) Android (linkhere), £2.39Last year, Japanese studio Kairosoft had gaming fanatics around the world addicted to its brilliant management title,Game Dev Studio. That neat sim put you in control of a growing development team, hiring artists and coders and attempting to create hit games out of myriad weird themes. For the follow-up, Kairosoft is seeking to do the same thing with, er, health resorts, requiring you to keep your punters happy by providing the right facilities, comfy rooms and exotic treatments. "The appeal is in the pace of progress and the sheer breadth of the game," says Pocket Gamer editor, Rob Hearn. "You have to deal with everything from plant pot-placement to advertising to structural expansion. As with Game Dev Story and other games of this kind, the drip feed of minor achievements makes it difficult to put down." It's an addictive aside until the company releases its promised Game Dev Studio sequel.ilomiloSouthEnd Interactive, WP7Okay, it was out last year on some networks, but what the heck, if you own a Windows 7 handset and haven't already seen this ridiculously cute puzzler, you're making a terrible mental error that needs to be immediately rectified. Imagine LittleBigPlanet crossed with Pengo and Jon Ritman's 8bit classic Head Over Heels and what you have in your head is not a million miles away from ilomilo. The idea is to unite two dinky characters, Ilo and Milo, by switching control between them and navigating the duo through a series of maze-like levels. There are switches to pull and blocks to move and it's all set in a comfy, fluffy world of handicrafted soft furnishings. Hours of thereaputic fun.Kami RetroGamevil, iOS (linkhere), Android (linkhere), 59pMerging the mechanics of Mario vs Donkey Kong with the visual sensibilities of an 8bit platformer, Kami Retro is a hyper-stylised treat of bleepy tunes and self-consciously blocky graphics. Your aim is to direct a collection of Lemmings-like characters safely to the exit on each of the single-screen levels, avoiding all the usual obstacles that befall platform protagonists. The game smoothly and intuitively supports touchscreen controls so simple swipes of the screen make your little sprite men jump and change direction, and you also need to pick up and move objects like fans (which increase jump distance) to help in navigation. "It's a cheerful, seizure-inducing temporal mash-up pulsating along to a bouncy chip-tune soundtrack," says Rob Hearn. "To resort to an overused drug simile, it looks like Lego on acid. And crack." Crafted by the promisingPaw Print Games, this is definitely my favourite iOS game of the year so far.TrailerKaroshiYoYo Games, Android, iOS (linkhere), Android (linkhere), £0.59Originally developed by Dutch coderJesse Venbruxas a series of Flash puzzlers, Karoshi is now on smartphone, and the excellent conversion retains the central concept: you have to kill your character. Yes, Karoshi is Japanese for 'death from overwork' and the idea is to seek out all the platforming elements you're usually meant to avoid, from rampaging enemies, to deadly spikes and traps. There are also little sequences to work out which will usually end in Mr Karoshi being crushed or electrocuted. "It's all quite breezy and tongue in cheek," says Hearn. " However, the workplace setting and the presence of Mr Karoshi's boss, whose mood determines how high Mr Karoshi can jump, invite more sinister interpretations if you're inclined to make them. The occasional appearance of Mrs Karoshi, who frustrates her husband's suicide attempts by turning spikes into flowers, is a moving touch."Prices are a guide only and will vary between platforms and during promotional periods.
A new report from Deloitte has confirmed what many app developers know already: the majority of mobile apps commissioned by brands are failing to take smartphones by storm.The report was based on analysis of apps published on iPhone, Android and BlackBerry by big healthcare and consumer brands. Deloitte says that less than 1% of these apps have been downloaded more than one million times, and that only 20% had been downloaded enough to be considered for its survey.Or, to put that latter stat another way: 80% of branded apps analysed by Deloitte had been downloaded less than 1,000 times. This, despite the fact that every month, the three stores in the studygenerate 1.6bn downloads– 1bn for Apple's App Store, 500m for Google's Android Market and 90m for Research In Motion's BlackBerry App World."Brands view apps as a golden opportunity to communicate directly with consumers and in a more meaningful, long term manner," says Howard Davies, media partner at Deloitte. "When brands get it right, the returns can be huge." The problem appears to be that most are getting it wrong.It is easy to forget that one of the first big hits on the App Store – fuelled by word of mouth – was a branded app: Carling's iPint, which racked up several million downloads in the first few months after Apple's store launched. There have been other brand-app success stories too, like the Barclaycard-branded Waterslide Extreme iPhone game, which had been downloaded more than 12.5 million times at the last count.Some branded apps have been successful, then, so why are the majority flopping so badly? A few reasons suggest themselves:First, the majority of these apps are low in quality, and/or are pure marketing. iPint's success as a novelty branded app turned out to be one of the exceptions, rather than the rule. Actually, the way forward for brands is more likely to release apps that have real functionality, solving a problem for users or providing features that are genuinely meaningful.Pizza Express' iPhone app, which enables people to book tables and pay for their food, falls into that category. Tesco Groceries is another: in fact, most of the large retailers' apps have majored on functionality rather than pure brand messages. Lynx Stream, meanwhile, was an ambitious attempt to wrap social location features – sharing photos of nights out – around a deodorant brand.The second reason many branded apps have struggled, though, is that they have been eclipsed by apps and games that have come from nowhere to become brands in their own right.To name three specific examples: Rovio Mobile's Angry Birds is now well past the 200m downloads mark on all platforms, and when the company launched a spin-off game for blockbuster animated movie Rio, it was clear that the former was the lead brand, rather than the latter.Mobile gaming firm Storm8 has passed 210m downloads for its free iPhone and Android games, while Outfit7 just passed the 150m mark for its talking character apps for iPhone and Android. In an ecosystem where three new (or in Rovio's case, unknown outside the Java game industry) developers can total 560m downloads in three years, the news that most branded apps are struggling is not a surprise.But the third reason is more of a shock: branded apps simply are not being promoted very well. Whisper it, but it isnot actually that hardto pass one million downloads even on one platform, if you have money behind you.Strategic use of promotional services like Free App a Day, along with some intelligently-targeted advertising within other apps or mobile websites, mean the seven-figure milestone is far from insurmountable even for an average app. The fact that few branded apps are promoted in this way suggests a belief that the brand itself is sufficient to cut through the app store clutter.It is not. Deloitte's report suggests that the answer is to make more use of smartphone hardware, including the accelerometer, touchscreen, camera and GPS. That will help – albeit with caveats in the latter case as smartphone owners get more savvy about sharing their location – but brands must ask themselves two basic questions too. What is their appfor, and how do they plan to promote it?
Figures at the top of hackers' collective Anonymous are threatening to attack the Metropolitan police's computer systems and those controlled by the UK judicial system, warning that Tuesday will be "the biggest day in Anonymous's history".The collective is understood to be seeking to express anger over News International's phone hacking and at the threatened extradition of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange.A Twitter feed purporting to belong to Sabu, a senior figure within the group and the founder of the spin-off group LulzSec, which hacked a site linked to the CIA and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency, promised two releases of information would be launched within a day."Everyone brace," hetweeted. "This will be literally explosive."Afollow-up messageread: "ATTN Intelligence community: Your contractors have failed you. Tomorrow is the beginning."The account, @anonymouSabu, has not been verified as belonging to Sabu – but it has over 7,700 followers and has been referenced by the "official" Anonymous@anon_centralaccount on Twitter.Sources close to the collective were unusually close-lipped about the targets of tomorrow's hack, but talk within chat channels has suggested several top-level members of Anonymous are eager to launch attacks based around Julian Assange's appeal hearing against extradition, which begins on Tuesday.Others are also believed to have proposed targeting the Met in retaliation for alleged payments to police officers by News of the World reporters, and the general response to the phone hacking scandal.Other speculation centres around material claimed to have been obtained last week from contractors relating to security and secrecy of "former world leaders", or plans to target a senior leaders' retreat at Bohemian Grove, California.As is typical in the chaotic and occasionally paranoid Anonymous community, other sources close to the collective are warning some prominent members are probably engaging in "disinformation campaigns" ahead of any action.Communication problems around the planned releases were compounded as the main chat channel used by Anonymous was offline for much of Monday, leaving even those close to senior members of the collective unable to verify rumours ahead of the release.Rumours on Friday suggested that one Anonymous member had broken into the News International servers and taken copies of some internal emails which were being offered for sale or even ransom. However this could not be confirmed, and the Guardian has not seen any evidence that the claimed email stash is legitimate, although News International's site is understood to have been "probed" by members of Anonymous at the end of last week.Last Wednesday, two days after the Dowler revelations, alisting of emails of NoW staff appeared on Pastebin, a favourite site for posting the results – or beginnings – of attacks against all sorts of sites by Anonymous and other hacker groups.One source told the Guardian that News International's server had been probed for up to 30 minutes at a time last week by hackers using "proxy chaining" – a method of logging in via a number of remote computers – to disguise their identity. "Everyone thinks Interpol will get involved at some point," the source said.The hackers' anger at the company was ignited by the revelation last week that a private detective acting for NoW had listened into voicemails on the phone of the murdered teenager Milly Dowler, which may have interfered with the police investigation to find her.Anonymous has previously attacked PayPal and Visa over their refusal, following orders from the US government, to process donations for WikiLeaks. It has also carried out online attacks against the Church of Scientology over what is seen as suppression of information.
UK top 20 games, week ending 8 July 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (8)PS3 (1)152 (7)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)73 (6)Transformers: Dark Of The Moon(12+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (34)34 (2)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (29)DS (25)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (15)95 (3)L.a. Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)86 (5)Virtua Tennis 4(3+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (10)47 (17)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (41)PC (5)Wii (4)338 (9)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (39)PC (9)99 (4)F.e.a.r. 3(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (36)PC (5)310 (8)Top Spin 4(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (39)Wii (6)511 (10)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (29)PSP (8)Wii (6)4112 (–)Lego Star Wars Iii: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (27)Wii (20)3DS (16)DS (15)1513 (–)Ufc Personal Trainer(3+)Xbox 360 (93)PS3 (7)114 (19)Red Faction: Armageddon(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (35)415 (16)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (38)2716 (14)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (33)PC (23)1217 (13)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)8918 (15)Infamous 2 (16+)PS3 (100)519 (20)Dungeon Siege Iii (16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (34)420 (18)The Sims 3(12+)PC (36)DS (17)Xbox 360 (13)Wii (13)35UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-TrackCommentary from UKIE:505 Games' 'Zumba Fitness' makes it four consecutive weeks at No.1, and this is the seventh No.1 for this game since the launch of the Wii version back in week 13 this year.• It is a slow week for new releases, with nothing new to report within the Top 40; we added just 11 games titles to the UKIE database this week. But it is a good week for Codemasters' price-promoted 'Dirt 3' (+28%) climbing five places to No.2, which was its debut position on this chart back in week 21 this year.• It is also a good week for Activision Blizzard's next-gen versions of 'Transformers: Dark of the Moon' (+10%) with price promotion and visibility from the film pushing the title up 3 places to No.3.• Disney's 'Lego Pirates of the Caribbean' drops two places to No.4 (-9%) and Rockstar/Take 2's 'L.A. Noire' drops two places to No.5 (-29%).• Sega's 'Virtua Tennis 4' (-26%) drops one place to No.6, rejuvenated these past two weeks with a Wimbledon-timed campaign.• Activision Blizzard's 'Call of Duty: Black Ops' climbs 10 places to move back in to the Top 10 at No7 (+50%), coinciding closely with the Annihilation Map Pack DLC launch on XBLA in week 26.• THQ's 'UFC Personal Trainer' (+27%) climbs from a debut position last week of No.22 to No.13 this week.
For a non-Kindle owner, playing with theGuardian's new appon Monday was something of an eye-opener. The Guardian's first Kindle app has been six months in development ("We wanted it to be the best possible newspaper experience on the Kindle, and we wanted to get it right," said the team) and in keeping with other Guardian mobile products has made an effort to observe the best of other apps and build on those.You have to put a lot aside to enjoy a Kindle. There's something more than a little paradoxical about reading the contents of a printed newspaper that updates once each day on an internet-connected mobile device.Photo bykodomuton Flickr.Some rights reservedEmily Bell, formerly of this parish, once observed that reading devices would be most useful for people with very heavy, bulky reading material – such as law students – who would really benefit from the efficiency of the digital format. Newspapers, however, aren't really that bulky, unless you're a news junkie and buy a stack of them.And any smartphone user, myself included, would be forgiven for instinctively padding uselessly about on the satisfyingly matt screen. To borrowCaitlin Moran's capitals, NOTHING HAPPENS.Taking all that into account, the Guardian app, along with all the other newspaper apps on Kindle, feels like it is designed for Kindle natives – people who are there primarily for books and might try out some newspapers on the side. Certainly the syncing process is pretty seamless, provided your connection is good, and apps now form one small part of a many-pronged strategy for ailing news organisations.But it is a peculiar device. For the uninitiated Kindler, this device is all about the screen. It manages to be calm and alluring, yet the whole Kindle thing feels oddly out of date. My colleagueDan Cattdescribed it beautifully as "a highly polished trilobite fossil" – like an early prototype for something that still has a long way to travel.That said, lifting the design of the Guardian's Kindle app by introducing plenty of images is a good move, though anything on the Kindle screen still looks frumpy next to thenicely design Nook, for example. On the matt and monochrome (well, actually 16 shades of grey) screen, illustrations and photos have the curious quality of a delicate pencil study that comes from the softness of electronic ink, which has no backlighting. Backlighting, like all screens, makes photographs luminous and addictive, but is also hard work for our eyes and that makes the Kindle 'light relief'. So yes, it truly is a device designed for reading, which is very good. It's everything around the reading that needs work.Browsing articles is straightforward enough, but I crave a bigger screen and less plastic, something that might reinforce the newspaperness, the tactility, of a compelling reading experience. Colour will come eventually, but will arguably add far less than the tactility of a touchscreen interface which, for a device all about the reading experience, will make a vast difference. That will be the Kindle, and possibly the associated newspaper apps, worth holding out for. Perhaps they will even, you know, update with breaking news, like an internet-connected device.
A burst of 16 apps for your considerationSummifySummify is a very slick-looking iPhone app that pulls down news stories from Twitter, Facebook and Google Reader, then pings you with the 5-10 most relevant ones via push notification. Social features include the ability to look at other users' summaries.iPhoneColdplay Piano SongbookMusicroom's latest iPad songbook focuses on Coldplay, offering piano sheet music for 15 of the band's songs, complete with backing tracks to play along to. It joins existing apps made by the company for Adele and Bob Dylan.iPadAuto Trader for iPadUsed car service Auto Trader has a new native iPad app, with a visual-heavy interface and the ability to slice, dice and sort results however the user likes. Disclosure: Guardian Media Group is the co-owner of Auto Trader.iPadSwiftKey X BetaIf you're an Android user who's not an evangelist for Swype, SwiftKey's new app might float your typing boat. It builds on the existing SwiftKey keyboard with features including more personalisation, a better prediction engine and smoother user interface.AndroidSouthbank CentreLondon's Southbank Centre now has its own iPhone app, including a guide to events, an audio tour of the site, images of the Centre in 1951, and special offers for food and drink around the complex.iPhoneCoPilot Live PremiumNavigation app CoPilot Live has been revamped and relaunched for iPhone, iPad and Android. New features include alternate route options for journeys, a new user interface, social features and live traffic data.iPhone / iPad / AndroidWalk MagazineRamblers? There's an app for them, on iPhone, iPad and Android. It's based on the walking charity's Walk Magazine, with a mix of features, reviews and route cards.iPhone / iPad / AndroidTivo MobileIt doesn't appear to be official, but Tivo Mobile is an Android app that claims to let people plan and set recordings from their smartphone, with the developer saying it's "100% compatible with all Virgin Media UK TiVo boxes".AndroidUNICEF PhotographyGlobal charity UNICEF's new iPhone app is designed to showcase its work on children's health, development, education and protection, using location-tagged photographs.iPhoneProperty Week+UBM's new iPad app for Property Week magazine offers a blend of articles, data and analysis with extra video and audio content, tagged as a special edition.iPadBonus AppsThis isn't relevant for UK users, but mobile industry readers will be interested to see T-Mobile USA's new Android app, which focuses on its own apps and services around navigation, TV, games, music and others.AndroidThe Warhol: D.I.Y. POPThis app comes from the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, relating to its Andy Warhol Museum. The idea: users can create their own Warhol-esque digital silkscreen print using the photos on their iPhone or iPad. Around that, there is information on the museum and on Warhol's art.iPhone / iPadSmart Places CheckinUK-developed Smart Places promises a smarter approach to the Facebook Places social location service. The idea: users draw zones on a map where they want to automatically check in, and then let their phone handle it for them. There are also notifications of nearby check-ins from friends.AndroidPampers Hello World Baby MemoriesNappy-brand Pampers has a new iOS app designed around taking photos of the big baby moments, with video tied in too, and sharing features.iPhone / iPadPrismaticPrismatic is a location-based photo sharing app for Android, with features designed to help people find images from other users who aren't necessarily their friends already.AndroidPeexterPeexter is an interesting idea: an iPhone app (with Android coming soon) that builds social features around real-world shopping. The question is whether it will pick up enough users quickly to build critical mass.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Android is now the top smartphone OS insix ofeight key countries having edged past Nokia's Symbian in Spain, according to the latest quarterly sample data from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.In the UK, Android's growth is being driven by non-smartphone owners upgrading, rather than people switching from other platforms. According to the research, 74.3% of new Android sales come from owners of "feature phones"; only 1.4% of new Android owners come from former iPhone owners.But in the UK it is BlackBerry maker RIM which is doing best in picking up upgrading non-smartphone owners: the study says nearly 85% of its new customers come from feature phone owners. RIM announced on Friday that it hadgained 1m users in Europe in just the past three weeks.The research shows the challenges facing Nokia: of those changing between smartphones, Symbian provides 19% of new iPhone users, 17.5% of newSymbianAndroidusers and 10.9% of new RIM users.Every four weeks about 2.5% of feature phone owners have shifted to smartphones since April 2010 in the UK, suggesting that the "tipping point" when smartphones make up half of all users lies about a year away, in June 2012.The UK, US and Australia all show high levels of smartphone penetration and growth, according to the Kantar.RIM is performing well in the UK, while it is declining in the US and showing no growth in Australia.Android has grown its share of smartphone users in the UK from 1% to 9.2% between June 2010 and June 2011, though Apple has meanwhile doubled its share of the total installed based from 5.6% to 10.3%. RIM's share grew from 3.7% to 7.4% as smartphone ownership overall grew from 21.3% to 36.9%. But because the overall market grew, Apple's market share fell from 30.6% to 18.3%. ComTech notes though that in the UK the iPhone 4 has been the top-selling smartphone for the past 12 months.While smartphone ownership in the UK tends to be male-dominated, with 60% being men, RIM has reversed that trend over the past year, shifting from a male-dominated balance a year ago (57% v 43%) to a female-dominated one (45% male to 55% female) now.There has also been a significant growth in prepay smartphone use in the UK, which has gone from 18% of smartphones to 32% in just one year - though contract tariffs still dominate.The average price of smartphones has also fallen in the UK, in the contract and prepay markets. Generally, iPhones remain the most expensive, with only 45% of contracts offering the handset for free - compared to more than 90% for Android and RIM phones. That means that Android and RIM phones skew towards a younger demographic, the study found.For Android owners, the OS brand is seen as the most important element - while for Apple users, it is the availability of apps that they value most.Kantar Worldpane ComTech's global consumer insight director, Dominic Sunnebo, said: "We are yet to see any real signs of consumers switching between Android and Apple. Our data shows that Apple and Android's customers are intensely loyal when choosing their upgrade. One reason for this is the investment consumers make in their device through apps. In France for example, the average iPhone costs €215, and 17% of iPhone owners download more than 10 apps each month. This investment is then lost if they want to choose a different OS as the apps are non-transferable."Sunnebo warns that RIM's market gains now may not last: "With 63% of British consumers still owning a non-smartphone, future growth lies with upgrading customers. BlackBerry is currently attracting the most upgrading shoppers with 84.9% of its new customers previously owning a non-smartphone. Our data shows that most first-time smartphone owners look for lower prices. BlackBerry's competitive pricing allows younger consumers to switch to a smartphone device at a price they can afford."However, a concern for brands targeting the lower end of the market is that once consumers have tried a smartphone they are prepared to spend more on their next device and could turn to other brands. With more and more consumers buying smartphones the future for middle-to-high-end smartphones is set to become ever more competitive."He noted though that the BlackBerry Messenger app, which lets people contact each other on RIM phones without incurring text charges, is a key driver of use: 70% of BlackBerry owners aged 16 to 24 had used BBM in the previous four weeks.Nokia has staged something of a revival in France, where it lost only 3.9% of share in a market that grew 75% year on year – indicating that it grew the number of smartphones it sold. The C7 has been key in that.Kantar gathers its data from interviewing consumers, carrying out up to 1m interviews in Europe alone. This data excludes enterprise sales, which means that RIM's share in particular may be understated.Why UK users chose Android or iOSUK usersiOSAndroidRIMDesign13.110.913.7Colour1.00.70.5Hand Brand18.46.315.2Ease of use8.39.08.6Multimedia capabilities30.020.319.4Cost of tariff6.617.618.3Network Operator1.54.14.7OS Brand5.414.22.0Applications available11.55.65.1Cost of mobile phone2.79.17.0Free gift with the phone0.30.21.2Other1.02.14.3Data: how iOS and Android users in the UK chose their phoneHow iOS and Android users use their phoneUK usersTotal MarketSmart-phoneiOSAndroidRIMDownloading Music9.519.434.416.710.4Listening to MusicPlaying Games33.359.679.062.654.9Sending/Receiving emails32.663.581.563.770.9Internet Navigation39.276.892.682.377.2Taking Pictures57.380.788.582.281.4Using Navigation System/GPS24.954.276.361.743.0Using Instant Messenger Service15.429.634.323.148.9Downloading/Using an Application20.649.173.460.237.3Searching the WebUsing Social Networking29.459.375.262.760.5source: Kantar ComTechData: how iOS and Android users use their phoneSmartphone shares by countryCountry12 weeks ending 13 June 201012 weeks ending 12 June 2011Change%%%Great BritainSymbian32.710.7-22RIM19.422.32.9iOS30.618.3-12.3Windows5.62.8-2.8Android10.745.234.5Bada00.50.5Other10.2-0.8GermanySymbian51.324.8-26.5RIM4.83.3-1.5iOS27.618.4-9.2Windows10.46.3-4.1Android3.141.34.1Bada04.138.2Other2.71.7-1FranceSymbian24.320.4-3.9RIM12.99.9-3iOS31.217.9-13.3Windows10.13.2-6.9Android21.137.516.4Bada011.211.2Other0.40-0.4ItalySymbian68.338.1-30.2RIM6.75.8-0.9iOS13.820.66.8Windows8.95.7-3.2Android1.626.124.5Bada03.63.6Other0.80-0.8SpainSymbian77.840.2-37.6RIM1.79.37.6iOS7.25.7-1.5Windows1.33.62.3Android7.641.333.7Bada000Other4.40-4.4United StatesSymbian10.10.2-9.9RIM32.58.8-23.7iOS21.128.77.6Windows12.82.6-10.2Android195738Bada000Other4.52.7-1.8AustraliaSymbian43.920.9-23RIM9.72.2-7.5iOS36.336.80.5Windows4.52.7-1.8Android4.236.432.2Bada00.50.5Other1.40.5-0.9JapanSymbian30.93.7-27.2RIM00.40.4iOS37.927.7-10.2Windows5.73.4-2.3Android25.564.739.2Bada000Other000source: KantarData: worldwide market share and change for smartphone platforms• Corrected: ComTech wrongly said that Android was top in 8 countries; it should have said 6 of 8. A statistic about people changing from Symbian should have said they were changing to Android, not Symbian.
The makers of football sims would like us to believe that every annual iteration is a radical improvement on the last. In a minority of cases, this is actually true.The brief glimpse we caught of Fifa 12 during E3 suggested that this could be one of those occasions. Producer David Rutter is pushing a trinity of major changes to this year's instalment: a new player impact engine, a re-designed tactical defending system and precision dribbling. Having spent a whole day playing the game at EA's Guildford offices, it seems to me this is much more than PR bluster. This is a very different game to Fifa 11.The player impact engine is the most immediately visible – and strikingly entertaining – of the game's new additions. An advanced procedural animation system tied with accurate collision physics, means that every encounter between players is calculated in real-time – and they all seem to look and end differently, depending on the physical forces and sheer bulk of the men involved.In one game between Newcastle and Spurs, for example, a typically robust Barton tackle sends Bale spinning – literallyspinning– across the turf like a crash test dummy. Physical altercations have real crunch to them; muscular forwards like Balotelli are able to barge through defenders, their bodies clattering and shoving, shirts tugged amid the tussle.But the real physics seems to mean real risk. A tackle may upend the opposing player, or the tackler himself may come out badly, splaying awkwardly to upend an incoming team mate. You get these brilliant goalmouth scrambles as frantic players pile in, the ball ricocheting realistically between multiple sets of limbs.And this physicality is not just confined to on-the-ball moments: you'll often see background crunches where players have simply run into each other, sending someone spiralling to the ground in the near distance. Everywhere, there are players scrambling, jostling and tripping. The pitch is crammed with action.The impact engine, then, is authentic, often thoroughly amusing, but also a potential game changer. Fifa fans who have learned to predict the baked in behaviours of the ball and players will be quite literally wrong-footed again and again. Sliding tackles now often poke the ball against the oncoming attacker, rebounding it deliciously into his path; perfectly weighted through balls can clip the ankles of stranded defenders, knocking them agonisingly off course.This sort of thing did occasionally happen in Fifa 11, but it was within a more structured, more synthetic system. Here, quirky interventions and unexpected rebounds seem to be a factor in every encounter – and it's thrilling stuff.But it seems that there's plenty of skill and deftness to discover in the new controls, balancing out the blood and thunder. The game flow feels much more varied. The overhauled precision dribbling system puts a pace control option on the left trigger, which drops you down to a tightly controlled jog.From here, you can easily sell the ball in one direction and accelerate off in the other. Then, the top left bumper button is for manual precision dribbling, which gives high-fidelity control over direction, allowing you to circle the ball, guard it, and hold up play. "We were umm-ing and ahh-ing about whether to keep that feature in, " says Rutter. "But I suspect it won't get cut because it's too much fun."The result is a game that is more analogue in terms of pace; you're not just sprinting everywhere (was that just me?), you're playing around with speed, you're slowing, then accelerating, you're Lionel Messi. (And even if you're clearlynotMessi, when you approach a defender with no buttons pressed, it'll drop you into precision control automatically. The system wants you to play well.)Rutter saw this as a key aim of the design process. "Yes, there's a time for sprinting, when there's a wide open space, but there's also a time for close control when you're in congested areas – and both are important weapons when you have the ball, and allow you to express yourself with much more fidelity and imagination than previous versions of Fifa. That's not to say they're over-powered, and I think that's an important qualification."Meanwhile in defence, the new control set-up includes jockeying options on the triggers that let you put pressure on an opposition player. But there's also a tactical defending button that's more about holding your position and gently guiding an incoming player into the sidelines where they can't do any damage."At a base level it's about containing, not letting that player do what he wants to do until you force him into an error," says Rutter. "One of those errors is showing the ball to you, allowing you to tackle him – at that point it becomes very much about skill, because it's a manual button press to tackle. I tend to use the jockey buttons to drop a player into a sort of free-ranging contained state and then use the top right button to bring in a second defender if necessary. He would then apply normal contained pressure and I can move my other player with full manual control to try and cut out a pass or shot and wait for my opponent to make a mistake."The more adept you get, the more you understand that, 'okay, what I'm doing here is not necessarily trying to tackle, what I'm doing is waiting and holding until play breaks down.' That's what real players do."Beyond the match engine, another key aim with Fifa 12 has been to add depth to the Career mode, which was introduced last year. As a manager you'll have to cope with genuine injuries, attained through the physics-led collision system.Putting unfit super stars into your first 11 becomes a tactical option, but also a huge gamble – not just because they could get crocked again, but because of the effect it might have on your relationship. Player psychology and media intervention are much bigger deals in this game – aping, perhaps, the changes that have revolutionised the Football Manager series over the past few years.The newspapers will hungrily pick up on injuries, player resentment, any whiff of a potential exclusive – and if you don't deal well with your squad's problems, they'll huff off to the tabloids quicker than you can say 'transfer gossip'."We've put a big focus on be a manager in the sense that if it can happen in the real world, it can happen in the game," says Rutter. "Last year, the 'Play as Manager' mode was very blinkered, it was just about you. This year, curve balls will be thrown. Your players might become unhappy because they don't think they're being paid enough, because the team's not successful enough, or they're not getting enough run outs on the pitch."If they become unhappy, their form dips; if they come and talk to you about it and you don't do enough, they'll talk to the press. And when they talk to the press, other managers within the game might try and sign them. Basically. things unfold that are outside of your control – things come to you. It's a very different experience."Apparently, the transfer AI is a lot more cunning too. Transfer targets will chance extravagant wage demands to test your resolve; other clubs will put in pitiful offers for your star striker. Everyone's on the make. Thankfully, though, there's also an improved youth scouting facility, so you can bypass predatory clubs and mercenary players and discover the next Jack Wilshere for yourself.All clubs have season expectations, which the press and match commentators (Alan Smith and Martin Tyler) pick up on. There is also an extended transfer deadline day feature, which provides tons of last-minute business, a news feed of the latest in-game deals, and a ticking countdown clock to replicate the excitement of those last few hours of negotiations. In the midst of the chaos, your Chief Executive will provide helpful hints on possible buys, and you're able to stall on deals until the last few moments of the day to see how other business pans out.Another fresh addition is the EA Sports Football club, essentially a social networking feature similar to Autolog and Battleog. Everything you do in the game, from winning tournaments to triumphing in Career mode earns you XP which filters into online leaderboards, both worldwide and friend-based.You're constantly kept up to date with what your mates have achieved in the game, and can also spam your own successes to your Facebook account. Elsewhere, a Challenge section, which offers themed match experiences based around recent real-world football matches – so if Chelsea just beat Sunderland with a second-half hat-trick from Drogba, a challenge might be to play the last half as the Black Cats and try to prevent the assault.As an extra motivator, participants get to align themselves with a favourite club, which then gets a share of all their XP wins – this is all averaged out to create a score and a league table reflects the weekly fortunes of all the real-world sides. I'm not sure how much all this will mean to the average Fifa player – I just want something like Autolog, that makes it easier for me to complete against friends online, either together or asynchronously.So far then, Fifa 12 looks to be ushering in a very interesting new era for the series – one of complexity and unpredictability, both on and off the pitch. Interestingly, although it seemed to me that the player impact engine was the most obvious of the three major innovations.Rutter – who is on a something of a global press tour with the game – told me that different aspects are noticed much more in different territories. "Precision dribbling was a very big deal to the North Americans," he says. "Tactical defending was important too because it took a lot of the pressure off them. In the UK, we're talking more about the player impact engine – I'm off to France and Italy and Spain later this week and I'm sure they've all got their own take on what's important."I guess that's the important thing with modern football simulations. Just like current fighting games or all those military shooters with their myriad load-outs and perk options, personalisation and individual expression are the key. Plus, anything that gets us further away from pre-cooked animation cycles, unresponsive team mates and defensive options that stop at "sliding tackle or foot prod" is a triumph, really.
It's a lovely sunny* Monday morning!*Actual sunniness and loveliness may vary based on regional and personal conditions.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.Also - tell us how you like the slightly tweaked look. Better? Worse? (Here's how it looked on Friday.)Google on today's massive Google+ spam influx: "We ran out of disk space" &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Many Google+ users saw a massive amount of notification email messages from the service this afternoon, and now Google's head of social, Vic Gundotra, has an explanation.&#10;"'For about 80 minutes we ran out of disk space on the service that keeps track of notifications,' Gundotra wrote on Google+ tonight. 'Hence our system continued to try sending notifications. Over, and over again. Yikes.'"If you needed any confirmation that this is a rushed, half-baked product launch, then this is it. Google+ may have grown massively beyond expectations, but disk space is pretty cheap down Google way. And available - if you plan for it.How Apple led the high-stakes patent poker win against Google, sealing Ballmer's promise &gt;&gt; TechcrunchGood piece looking at the play-by-play of the mobile patents battle from Nortel.What slowdown in tablet sales? &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"It was a theme picked up by at least eight other news outlets, including VentureBeat ("Tablet sales slow"), The Loop ("'media tablet' market isn't as strong as previously thought") and Forbes ("Sales Dip Hints Media Tablets Won't Replace PCs Any Time Soon")."The source for all these pessimist headlines? An IDC report that the total number of tablet computers shipped into sales channels in Q1 2011 was 7.2 million.&#10;"At first that struck me as absurd, given that Apple (AAPL) alone is expected to report next week that it sold a good deal more than 7.2 million iPads last quarter.&#10;"Then I took a second look at IDC's report. What I missed the first time -- and what these reporters failed to take into account -- is that IDC was talking about Q1 2011, which runs from January to March, not Q2 2011, which ran from April to June. Of course tablet sales dipped after the October-to-December holiday quarter. We knew that months ago. This is news?"Android users choosing iPad over Android tablets &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"IPads are currently selling better than Android tablets to Android smartphone users. So claims Canaccord Genuity analyst Mike Walkley, who expects Apple to dominate the tablet market for some time to come.&#10;"Our smartphone and handset checks indicate iPads are selling better to Android smartphone users than the current Android tablets," Walkley said in a Friday note to clients (although he provided no numbers in support of the assertion)."What do Google execs know about Google+ privacy that you don't? &gt;&gt; Ed Bott"There, you've just hidden the list of people you've chosen to follow on Google+.&#10;"My question is: If this setting is one that everyone on Google seems to feel is important for their privacy, why isn't it the default for the rest of us?"Mac OS X Lion: This Is Not the Future We Were Hoping For &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"It breaks my heart to say this, but Mac OSX Lion's interface feels like a failure. Its stated mission was to simplify the operating system, to unify it with the clean experience of iOS. That didn't happen.&#10;"If it weren't for the fast, rock-solid Unix, graphics and networking cores, Lion would be Apple's very own Vista."Couldn't it be Apple's Vista even with the Unix, graphics and cores?Zune Disappears from New Xbox Dashboard &gt;&gt; WinSupersite"Has anyone noticed that this week's released screenshots of the New Xbox Dashboard conspicuously omit the Zune logo? If you look at the Music experience shot, below, you'll see some generic music note graphics, but no Zune.&#10;"The Zune brand, of course, is being phased out. This is just the latest public-facing example of this slow migration."More like a slow eradication from Microsoft's history, Soviet-style.Interview: Growl's project lead on coming to the Mac App Store &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple Weblog"Perhaps the biggest piece of news we learned from Forsythe is that in the Mac App Store, for the first time since its creation seven years ago, Growl will not be free. Devs working on the project are "still talking" about the final price, but "it most likely will be a dollar or two dollars at most," according to Forsythe. Some may turn up their noses at paying anything for the results of an open source project, but Forsythe says the reasoning behind the charge is simple: "I'm a grown adult," he says, "and my wife wonders why I spend time working on my open source project and not with my two-month old." For all the work Forsythe and his fellow devs have put into Growl, a few bucks seems little to ask."Growl is a very fine piece of software. It's pretty hard to begrudge someone a couple of dollars.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Proof that the road to enlightenment can begin with the most trivial subject arrived this month via Wikipedia. Start at any Wikipedia page, then click the first link (ignoring any that are italicised or nestled in brackets), then repeat. For more than 93% of articles, you will end up at philosophy.The path from Wikipedia's articles on Wombles to philosophy, for instance takes 19 steps, via categories for fiction, narrative, Latin, local government, scholarship and mathematics. The route from housing is somewhat longer, at 25 steps.But which articles offer up the quickest routes to philosophy? There are some unlikely contenders. It takes only 12 clicks to travel from "Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories" through the US constitution, supreme law, nation states and the social sciences to our ultimate destination. "The Only Way is Essex", naturally, provides us with a route that's not only quicker, but more thoughtful: 11 clicks through violence, manipulation, chivalry, conformity, the unconscious mind and German philosophy.Some senior editors at Wikipedia have theories about why this happens. On a discussion page, they point out that the site suggests users put an article in context by building an early link to a wider category containing the article's subject. As the categories, theoretically at least, grow ever-wider, eventually the user ends up at the widest category of all: philosophy.This elegant philosophy-at-the-root-of-everything theory has one flaw, though: it works far less well in foreign-language Wikis. As one frustrated Dutch contributor remarked, perhaps it shows that his countrymen "might just think in circles". Alas, it seems not everyone can be as deep as the Essex crew.
Japanese role playing games have often been guilty of esoteric design and storytelling that leave western audiences cold. True to form,Solatorobo: Red the Huntercertainly flirts with this tradition. Welcome then, to the floating islands of the Shepherd Republic, where players take on the role of the eponymous Red, a mercenary dog who speaks French, does his fighting in a massive robotic suit of armour, and can morph into a human whenever the situation&nbsp;demands.Gameplay is largely RPG standard – players wander strictly linear halls and roads to find simple puzzles or baddies to beat – but levelling up and skills trees are stripped to the bone and all the more engaging for it. Breakneck racing mini-games and an entertaining variety of subplot missions make welcome distractions from a predictable "save the world" story and dull central characters.Aesthetically,Solatorobodoes what it can, and the animated cut-scenes are a joy. But the in-game screens look out of date compared with its 3DS peers. Of course, as a JRPG, this will remain an acquired taste for many, but newcomers to the genre could do a lot worse than starting on such a well-rounded if somewhat unoriginal title.
Nowadays, aerial warfare is largely a matter of sending in unmanned drones piloted on Xbox joypads.Air Conflicts, though, harks back to an altogether more romantic era, celebrating the courage and pluck of second world war-era airmen by, well, letting you pilot them on Xbox joypads.Speaking of pluck, it often feels like the game's developer is flying by the seat of its pants: bugs are rife, production values are hardly skyscraping, and in one memorable scene the same actor has to voice both a petulant Gallic mademoiselle and the stoic Yugoslav spy with whom she's having a row. While it might seem churlish to harp on about this lack of gloss, the absence of little touches that might have brought the game's historical setting to life is problematic – flying a rickety old wire and canvas biplane feels pretty much like flying a Spitfire, which surely isn't right.The missions, meanwhile, offer frequent reminders as to why so few developers make air combat games any more, following a repetitious and overfamiliar formula of: go there, bomb that, perform another agonisingly protracted 180-degree turn... In other words,Air Conflictsproves to be every bit as nondescript as its title would suggest.
The Resident Evil series has, in recent years, moved away from the slow-burn terror that defined the "survival horror" genre, towards a more action-led experience.The Mercenaries 3Dcompletes that journey, expanding the score-chasing bonus mode first seen inResident Evil 4, which sees you attacking waves of infected enemies against a time limit.While the natural reaction when confronted with a deranged farmhand wielding a pitchfork would be to keep a safe distance, Capcom likes its players to get up close and personal with enemies, rewarding melee attacks with a time boost. The early stages feature much aiming at kneecaps, as you stun aggressors before racing in to deliver an uppercut, kung fu kick or even a butt. Ammo is scarce enough to make this the most reliable tactic – at least until the bigger, deadlier foes show up, where heavy weapons and grenades become more useful.Additional glowing pillars can be smashed to offer bonus time as you juggle the desire to build a big score with the need to survive, which is as paramount as ever (it doesn't matter how many enemies you've destroyed, if you're killed before being choppered to safety, the score will reset to zero).This ensures a constant knife-edge tension and the need to chain quick kills to earn a high ranking adds to the intensity. Each level begins with an orgy of rapid-fire violence and often ends with your character desperately staggering across rooftops, simultaneously searching for ammunition and health-giving herbs while fleeing from a chainsaw-wielding psychopath waiting to perform some particularly aggressive neck surgery.The 3D effect is subtly applied, though the frenetic pace of the action means most will turn it off. Either way, this is an impressive technical showcase for the console, approaching – if not quite matching – the visuals ofResident Evil 5on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.In one sense, this is the kind of experience Nintendo needs to convince players of the value of 3DS titles in the wake of cheap and cheerful App Store gaming. Yet it's hard to forget thatThe Mercenariesstarted life as a free bonus mode and even in expanded form, the action soon grows repetitive, though co-operative play adds to its shelf life. The all-too-brief accompanying demo of forthcoming titleResident Evil Revelations, meanwhile, shows plenty of promise (and even better graphics), suggesting a welcome return to the series' horror roots.
For all the hyperbolic praise it has garnered, one of the iPad's finest achievements has been to revive the Monkey Island series withEpisode&nbsp;1: Launch of the Screaming Narwhal(free until 22 July, App Store, Telltale), released six months ago. The adventure is now brought to a conclusion with four further episodes, all available for £3.99.Sadly, some of the problems found in the first entry haven't been corrected - controls could be improved and the slowdown that apparently affects the games on the original iPad remains; however, it's a sublime slice of puzzling fun. Following the journey of Guybrush Threepwood, episodes are crammed with an entertaining story, witty dialogue and ingeniously challenging puzzles, as our piratical adventurer attempts to rescue his wife from the nefarious zombie-pirate LeChuck.As with all Monkey Island games it's the coupling of humour with inventive challenges – finding facial expressions for a literally ugly face-off or Phoenix Wright-inspired courtroom battles in Episode 4 – that make the experience.At the same time, Telltale is developing new franchises in the same vein.Puzzle Agent 2(App Store, £3.99) has a lovely 2D animated style, as you guide FBI agent Tethers on bizarre Minnesota-based investigations. The voice acting is superb, the controls smooth – an improvement on Monkey Island – and, all-importantly, the puzzles are challenging, from jigsaws to brain-twisting logical conundrums.iPad 2 has the graphical heft to power many a beautiful shooter, but it's Telltale's brand of retro point-and-click adventures that still makes for some of the tablet's best gaming.
Psychologists have many theories about how we convince other people to do what we want them to. They fall under a variety of umbrellas, such as the elaboration likelihood model (ELM) of persuasion and the theory of planned behaviour. Compelling and neat, each of these theories of influence takes a complex human being as a starting point and reduces him or her to an object with certain essential properties that delivers the desired output when the appropriate recipe of stimuli is put into its complex psychological, social, neurological system. A cynical view, perhaps, but years of psychological training have lifted the veil and I am now unable to close this particular Pandora's box.Organised marketing teams brimming with freshly minted psychologists became an integral part of the fabric of commercialisation. The 20th century ushered in the cult of the brand, the celebrity endorsement, the clever ad campaign and "the science bit". What has become clear in both the real world and within the ivory tower over the past century is that selling stuff has always been easy. But selling a warm, fuzzy feeling is much more difficult. Unfortunately, that's what charities have to offer. And, according to social theorists, charity is an essential part of a functional civil society.Charities, like  corporates, implement influence manipulations that will get those of us with sufficient disposable income and/or time to give them support for little tangible reward. Their key techniques have been campaigns that raise awareness and opinion leader strategies that convince people that not getting on board carries greater social consequence than giving in.When the primary sources of influence were donation drives at the office and the mass media, soliciting support was straightforward: our attentions were fixed and we could be easily cornered at the water cooler. But the charity landscape was dominated by a few well-funded organisations. The voices of small, grassroots groups were drowned out by big money.Now the web has provided a platform for charities with little or no cash, where support can be solicited by encouraging people to click a button;  social enterprises and NGOs have proliferated. "For charities, digital tools and platforms are becoming the key channel to the public to encourage fundraising, action-taking or awareness," says Karina Brisby, the head of interactive campaigns for Oxfam.The online world is saturated with Twitter feeds excitedly documenting actions and Facebook pages asking for a click for support.But the rattle of a million collection tins has distilled what charities need to provide to attract the public's attention so that, ultimately, they can get people to do what they want them to do. Yet if the desired outcome is a pot of gold, charities will be disappointed: the trend from a decade of research published in theInternational Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Marketingpoints to the use of web technology as a communication tool first and a fundraising tool second.A successful charitable endeavour focuses on building relationships. "Charities and organisations set up over the last few years have social media in their DNA and are run more like tech start-ups rather than more traditional NGOs," Brisby says.Just as in the many commercial web services vying for our attention, the power of modern influence is embedded in the social graph. A non-profit's most valuable mechanism is to manipulate the social network.Facebook's "like" button is probably one of the most important innovations in the social influence toolkit. Its power is derived from being an emotional litmus test for the world's most popular social network. For little or no effort, I can give a thumbs up to a charity and this information is instantly beamed back to the individuals the charity perceives as my most important relations: the people who trust me and who believe I am similar to them. What do I get? Well, apart from flexing my identity, I become an agent of the "warm glow" associated with giving to charity, raising my value within my social group.There's more. The publicness of the "like" action not only gets the message out to a much broader audience than traditional means but it is also more likely to convert people to a cause. More people within a group will bow to social pressure and "like" the thing, to demonstrate that they are also part of that group. Eventually, it will achieve critical mass and a movement is born. But the web hasn't transformed charity. It's an efficient tool for self-promotion and awareness-raising for charitable causes but the process is still based on the same inputs and outputs described by social influence theorists in our offline experiences.As a litmus test for civic society, however, we should be cheered by the thriving online philanthropy landscape and the enthusiasm of the many social entrepreneurs who are making our world a better place.
A spectre is haunting the technology industry. It is called "electric wok syndrome" and it mainly afflicts engineers and those who invest in their fantasies. The condition takes its name from the fact that nobody in his or her right mind would want an electric wok. But because it is possible to make such things, they are manufactured, regardless of whether or not there is a need for them. The syndrome is thus characterised by the mantra: "Technology is the answer; now what was that question again?"The past two weeks have seen a virulent outbreak of the syndrome. It was triggered by Google's limited release of a new "service" calledGoogle+which was widely interpreted as the search giant's first serious foray into social networking. Initially available by invitation only to a select group of geeks and early adopters (which did not at first include this columnist), it has been the source of frenzied speculation in the blogosphere, not least because it implied that Google was finally getting ready to take on the 800lb gorilla of social networking, Facebook.In its "limited field test" form, Google+ has five components: Circles, Hangouts, Instant Upload, Huddle and Sparks.The blurbexplains that Circles allows you to assign your friends in an arbitrary number of "circles" – family, colleagues, poker buddies etc – "just like real life". Hangouts brings "the unplanned meet-up to the web for the first time. Let specific buddies (or entire circles) know you're hanging out and see who drops by for a face-to-face chat". It is, apparently, "the next best thing until teleportation arrives". (I am not making this up.) Instant Upload means that your pictures and videos upload automatically to a private album, ready for sharing. Huddle is group text-chat, which apparently will be very useful "when you're trying to get six different people to decide on a movie". And Sparks is some kind of RSS feed on steroids. "Tell Sparks what you're into and it will send you stuff it thinks you will like."To read some of the excited commentary on these innovations you'd think that teleportation had actually arrived. Watching people salivate over Circles and, er, Hangouts helps to explain how the ancient Egyptians came to worship an insect. It also reminds one of the astonishing power that large corporations possess to create a reality-distortion field around them which, among other things, disables the capacity to believe that these organisations might sometimes do very silly things indeed. There was a time, for example, when Microsoft's every move was greeted with the hushed reverence with which devout Catholics greet papal utterances. Grown men swoon whenever Steve Jobs appears in public. And it's not that long ago since Google launched its incomprehensible "Wave" service (now defunct) and an idiotic venture called "Buzz" – things that excited geeks but left the rest of the world unmoved.So the questiondu jouris whether Google+ is an electric wok or not. Initial reactions suggest that it is. First of all, it's engagingly flaky so that even simple tasks such as setting up a user profile are formidably difficult, as myGuardiancolleagueCharles Arthur reportedin his hilarious, and admirably acerbic, review in which he describes his attempts to create a profile and upload a photograph. "If Google were a start-up," he concluded, "it would have lost precisely 99.999% of every would-be joiner. Getting photos uploaded is the most fundamental thing you have to be able to do and every start-up knows it." He's right: geeks and early adopters revel in difficulty; ordinary users abominate it. They like stuff that just works.Charles Arthur's experience is by no means unique. What it suggests is that Google+ is what software people call a "closed beta" – ie a release that is OK for techies but not suitable for normal people. And that's fine. It will improve over time. But the thing about social networking is that it's now a zero-sum game because it depends on a very scarce resource – its users' time and attention. Facebook's users already spend a lot of time on the site, time that won't be available to Google+, no matter how slick its photo-upload process becomes.Which is a pity, because Facebook needs some real competition. Last week, it announced some new features that look suspiciously like bits of Google +. And itlet slipthat it has reached 750 million users. It's beginning to look like the winner that took all. Oh, and if you really want an electric wok,you can get onefrom Amazon. It even comes with a tempura rack and a spatula.
Wii Play: MotionMotion Plus is an add-on for Wii-remotes that makes them more precise, but adds several centimetres to the controller.Wii Play: Motion comes with a normal sized controller that has a Motion Plus widget built in, making the whole assembly a little less unwieldy. It's also bright red. Unusually for Nintendo, the games with which it comes bundled are woefully uninspiring, going as far as to include a version of whack-a-mole, a twist on Duck Hunt and Pose Mii, where you rotate your avatar to slot through sets of differently shaped gates, which is imported from Wii Play. Of the newcomers, only Teeter Target's finely balanced seesaw-based pinball antics offer any kind of engagement beyond trifling novelty value.Nintendo, £44.99Resident Evil: The Mercenaries 3D, Nintendo 3DSResident Evil: The Mercenaries 3D.While owners of Nintendo's 3DS will be enjoying feasting their eyes on sweet glasses-free recreations of depth perception, they may also be lamenting an odious trend towards games that feel a little flimsy on content. Steel Diver, Pilot Wings and now Resident Evil: The Mercenaries 3D are all games you can see the majority of in an afternoon – not bad per se, just lightweight. Mercenaries was originally a mini-game unlocked by finishing certain outings in the Resident Evil series, which eschewed plot and scares for full-on zombie massacring, offering a welcome change of pace. On its own, it's as playable as ever, but despite its profusion of characters, this has "potboiler" written all over it.Nintendo, £39.99Hard Lines, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchHard Lines.Like hoary old mobile phone freebie Snake, Hard Lines has you piloting a line around the screen, trying not to run into your own tail while collecting power ups and doing your best to put an end to opponents' lines. Its pared-down interface and pretty neon looks are complemented by the helter-skelter of one-liners that pop up, adding perfect little touches of wit. Its variety of play modes should provide even the most skittish attention span with 59p's worth of entertainment, although multiplayer is conspicuously absent.Spilt Milk Studios, £1.79Games NewsAlso on release areUFC Trainer: The Ultimate Fitness System, which brings Ultimate Fighting coaches into your living room (fortunately they all turn out to be very polite and supportive), andBeyond Good And Evil HD, a newly polished retread of the wonderful puzzle-infused adventure game.Virtua Tennis 4.Meanwhile,Virtua Tennis 4, currently the best way to play tennis without having to stand up, makes its way to PC just in time to miss Wimbledon …The multiplayer beta version ofUncharted 3, the latest globetrotting escapade in the increasingly awesome adventures of Nathan Drake, is online and available free to PlayStation Plus subscribers …Finally, California's attempt to ban the sale of violent games to children was overturned by the US Supreme Court after a campaign by trade body the Entertainment Merchants Association. You'd be pressed to call it a victory for freedom.
Fashion It SoWhen Janet Jackson suffered a wardrobe malfunction at the Superbowl several years ago, it duly damaged her reputation. But that was nothing compared to the sacrifices made by the cast of Star Trek: Next Generation, who were warned by doctors during their third season that if they continued to wear their tight spandex uniforms they would risk permanent skeletal injuries. A new two-piece wool uniform was ushered in and here, those and the other varieties of jumpsuit, turtleneck and shoulder-padded jacket that appear to dominate 24th-century fashion, are examined one Next Generation episode at a time.SoundWorks CollectionThe Social Network Photograph: AllstarSound is one of the most neglected areas of movie-making in terms of status and accolades. This site more than redresses this imbalance, helps demystify the art and shows how many different elements there are to it. Along with behind-the-scenes footage of professionals in darkened basements, there are conversations with soundtrack composers, animators and sound editors as well as "acousticians" who use software they describe as a "spectral de-noising tool". The Social Network sound team describe the challenge of making the actors' voices audible against a backdrop of loud music in a nightclub scene, while the sound designer for Transformers reveals that the noise an alien attack ship makes is actually a man rubbing a screwdriver against a guitar.Blog roll: FoodDavos snacks.The Inn At The CrossroadsFood and drink from epic fantasy A Song Of Ice And Fire, including "Berries and Medieval Creme Bastard" and snacks for Davos.Judith G KlausnerToast embroidery, condiment wallpaper, Oreo cameos and other food-based art.Fridge PornEnvious glances inside the fridges of total strangers.Paris PâtisseriesOne man's mission to binge on macaroons and pastry in the French capital.Vegan Black Metal ChefHow to cook up a tasty Pad Thai while also worshipping Satan.And The Cupboard Was Bare …Recipes and musings from an English gourmand in Turkey and France.What we learned on the web this weekBaxter Building.Who hasthe coolest homes in comicsThe historyof English in 10 minutesWhy theperson you're texting hasn't responded yetWhere urbanwastelands go to meet other urban wastelandsCats loveSlayerThe epicpathetic danger of bowlingThe colourorange was named after the fruitWhy peoplehate Michael Bay moviesWeird thingscustomers say in bookshopsHow toanswer the oddest job interview questions
Before you get to go in&nbsp;my hot red hatchback, I'm going to take you to my bedroom. I know it usually goes the other way round, but we're doing things in reverse today. So I've got these heavy, light-blocking curtains in my room. You can never quite close them completely, though; there's always a tiny hole at the top. A pinhole, you might say, because on a&nbsp;sunny day my bedroom becomes a&nbsp;giant pinhole camera. It really works only for red objects, but on bright mornings that coincide with&nbsp;Jubilee line maintenance work, I can lie in bed watching perfect but inverted double-decker rail replacement buses plying across my ceiling.One morning there's a new inverted red vehicle on my ceiling – smaller, less rectangular and more desirable than an old Routemaster dragged out of retirement to compensate for Transport for London's shortfalls. It's stationary, too; I need to get up and have a look. Oops, sorry ladies, good morning.Ah, Volkswagen have sent me a&nbsp;Polo GTI to test drive. And it's very red. It's also parked next to my girlfriend's old grey Polo – grey and green actually, because there's moss growing on the roof. The red car, all svelte and curved in the right places, with alloy wheels and low-profile tyres, is like temptation itself, a honeypot with a honeycomb grille to test my fidelity. It's a test I obviously immediately fail, because as soon as I've got some clothes on (I told you things were back to front today), I'm off with the younger model.The Polo GTI has only a 1.4-litre engine, but it's turbocharged and supercharged, 177bhp, which gives it a lovely, raspy roar and quite a kick. Nothing I can't handle, obviously (I&nbsp;say, undoing another button on my shirt), but hey, she's hot. And fun. Not the most fun – the orangeCitroën C3 Racing I had the other weekwas more fun, but this is a lot more fun than the old grey one with the moss on the roof, 'er outdoors.It's nice inside, too, black and silver. A bit too sober perhaps – a&nbsp;hot hatch should be trashier, show a&nbsp;bit more flesh, if you know what I'm saying. And I would have liked a clutch pedal. The GTI has VW's dual-clutch seven-speed gearbox, which changes automatically, or you can take over with the flappy flaps on the steering wheel like a racing car. It works very well, but I think a&nbsp;hot hatch should have a gear stick, shouldn't it?Anyway, it's way out of my league – nearly £19,000 (for a Polo!) – and I&nbsp;realise it's a fling rather than anything serious. But it was fun, while it&nbsp;lasted. And look, the space is still there, right outside my house. So if the sun is shining tomorrow morning, I can wake up with it once more.Polo GTIPrice£18,795Top speed142mphAcceleration0-60mph in 6.9 secondsAverage consumption47.9mpgCO2 emissions139g/kmEco rating5/10In a wordtidy
For RIM, it's swings and roundabouts: after our analysis showing thatRIM lost 1m BlackBerry users in the US in the past three months, the company has announced that it hasgained1m users in Europe in just the past three weeks.Which led to the follwing:Patrick Spence, Managing Director, EMEA, Research In Motion, said: "Thank you to the over one million new customers who have joined the BlackBerry community across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa in the last three weeks alone. We're excited by the continued momentum we're experiencing across EMEA, and are appreciative of the amazing efforts of our application developer partners, our operator partners, our retail partners, and our distributor partners who have helped us make this happen."(Distributor partners = carriers, mostly.)"BlackBerry continues to be the number one smartphone brand in a number of our markets, including the Netherlands, South Africa and the UK - where we also remain the number one smartphone vendor by total unit sales, and the number one prepay smartphone vendor. Our smartphones including the BlackBerry Bold and BlackBerry Curve also top the sales lists in countries like the UAE and Saudi Arabia and we recently announced RIM's international revenue for the first quarter had grown 67% year on year."That's true. We don't know anything about how international profits went, though; worldwide,profits were down 9.6%in the most recent quarter.What's also not clear is how the prices on those phones are going. The average selling price for RIM phones, according to its results, dipped below $300 in the past quarter; it's still getting squeezed. But clearly, it's pricing to expand users, and that is definitely succeeding. There's a special attraction in the Middle East, where BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) lets people of the opposite sex communicate without having to do it face-to-face: BBM and BlackBerries are hugely popular in those countries for that reason apart from plenty of others. That's part of why Apple is introducing its own version in iOS5.Meanwhile, some interesting news from Nokia. You'll recall that itshowed off the N9, which is going to be its only MeeGo phone.So, where will you be able to get an N9? Horace Dediu of Asymco, whonotes:Countries where the Nokia N9 will not be launched: UK, Italy, Spain, France, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Belgium, Canada and the US.And:The first Nokia WP7 [Windows Phone] device will be launched in UK, Italy, Spain, France, Germany, and the Netherlands, all excluded from the Nokia N9 launch.Which initially implies that the US, Norway and Belgium won't be getting either device to begin with.The fact of the overlap (or non-overlap) carries an interesting question: will the first Nokia Windows Phone actually use the N9's body? It's a good-looking phone - and with the slightly refreshed Nokia under Stephen Elop, perhaps a spirit of economy will prevail.
Apple is expected to launch Mac OSX 10.7 - codenamed "Lion" - as soon as next week, according to reports which say the company has instructed its retail stores to prepare machines for the upgrade by this Sunday.Machines in the store are being fitted with extra RAM where possible for the upgrade from OSX 10.6 ("Snow Leopard").The upgrade will cost $29.99, or £20.99 in the UK. Lion requires at least 2GB of RAM and an Intel Core 2 Duo, Core i3, Core i5, Core i7, or Xeon processor - meaning it is compatible with Apple computers excepting the Mac mini from late 2006 onwards.There are also rumours that Apple may launch new versions of its MacBook Air slimline notebook, possibly on Tuesday - when it usually releases hardware - with the software upgrade, which is only being delivered virtually to machines already running 10.6, following on Thursday - the day when Apple usually releases operating system upgrades.Developers have been using the "Golden Master" (final) version of Lion since the beginning of July, and many have been giving their discoveries of bugs or delights on Twitter, using the word "ROARDACTED" - a play on "roar" and "redacted" - to tag their findings.Lion includes a number of changes which have been brought over from the iOS operating system used on the iPhone and iPad, including optional "reverse scrolling" (in which moving the mouse down scrolls the screen upwards, and vice-versa) to other, bigger changes.We asked for experiences, and had this response from one developer (who has to remain anonymous) who has been testing the seeds of Lion through to the Golden Master.He said: "One thing that's really changing for the Mac is security. They're bringing the decidedly successful sandboxing [where code can only run in a controlled space, with severely limited access to machine resources] from iOS to the Mac. Can I see a time where all apps have to be downloaded from the Mac app store? Maybe.Multi-touch gesturesWhat it is:input system borrowed from the iPhone and iPad.Developer viewpoint:"Brilliant. Four finger swiping between e.g. an application in full screen mode and swiping left to the desktop is a dream. Really smooth implementation, feels normal already."Inverted scrolling. As you'd imagine, slightly tricky to get used to, but makes a lot of sense 15 minutes in. The mental switch has already happened and Snow Leopard now feels wrong.Full screen applicationsWhat it is:Expand any application so that it fills the screen - meaning no distraction from others.Developer viewpoint:"Right now I'm writing this in full screen mode. There are no menu bars, which at first feels a bit like getting into a lift without any buttons, a bit daunting, again, something you get used to easily. It's a productivity goldmine not being able to see the blue glow from the Twitter/Sparrow app, or glancing at the clock occasionally. With autosave, the anxiety about saving every so often goes away."Mission controlWhat it is:Brings together full-screen apps, Dashboard, Exposé, and Spaces in a new feature that gives you a bird's-eye view of everything on your system.Developer viewpoint:"Four finger gesture swipe up on the trackpad and you're in Mission Control. If you're working on a few different things at the same time it can be nice. Perhaps you have a lot of full screen apps on the go and want to get an overview of what you're up to. Being able to have multiple desktops to get a clean start on something is cool."Mac app storeWhat it is:Now more closely integrated into the system, and becoming a major source of apps for download. You can still get apps by downloading from the web, though.Developer viewpoint:"Nothing really exciting here, comes as standard with the OS as opposed to something you download. Few features such as in app purchases and put notifications, but I'm yet to see these in action."LaunchpadWhat it is:a new, full-screen home for all the apps on your machine, brought up by clicking an icon in the Dock: open windows fade away, to be replaced by a full-screen display of all your apps.Developer viewpoint:"Apple are working hard on the shift away from traditional Finder [the file browser] use on the Mac. You're more likely to open files from the application it belongs to as opposed to tracking them down in documents. Launchpad is a shift in that direction. Looking for an app which isn't on the dock already? With Launchpad, you're only a click away form viewing them all. No doubt, it's a much nicer experience than using Finder windows. The Springboard obviously mimics the iOS devices, so it's easy to use and intuitive."ResumeWhat it is:start the machine back at exactly the same place that you turned it off - preserving the state of the documents.Developer viewpoint:"This works well enough, although still buggy as of the GM release. A lot of times you can open Quick Time Player and get all the things you've ever opened open up at the same time. Four finger swipe down on an app will give you thumbnails of recently opened items."Autosave and VersionsWhat it is:documents created by certain apps will be saved automatically at set periods. You can revert to an earlier version or compare it.Developer viewpoint:"Does what it says on the tin. I've been unable to test versions functionality yet."AirdropWhat it is:on-the-fly peer-to-peer wireless networking between any two Macs.Developer viewpoint:"Have been unable to test this yet."MailWhat it is:redesigned with a three-pane interface borrowed from the iPad. Also has enhanced search and conversation threading.Developer viewpoint:"I bought Sparrow from the Mac app store because it was minimal. With Lion, Mail has clawed me back as a user. Beautiful minimal interface, immersive full screen experience and great new search functionalities."Bye bye scroll barsWhat it is:a radical change to the interface. (You can also resize windows from any part of the side, as Windows has offered for years.)Developer viewpoint:"Yeah, looks great without them, you can programmatically force them to remain there, e.g. Firefox5 right now still has them permanently, but that will sure change in the coming weeks."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?The iPad, because I can download books, magazines, TV series, movies and shows I've missed and watch them or read them when travelling, waiting or bored.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last weekend to escape from the deprivations of flybe.What additional features would you add if you could?Keyboard and flash. And earphones that don't even feel as if they are there.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years?Yes.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Learning new processes and programs. Since I started with a Wang computer in the 70s and a Commodore 64 for games, one virtually had to create one's own word processing program and learn Basic.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Not mad about Nintendo DS which at least initially was a lot of noise about a very little program. My eight-track stereo was rubbish, and I have never found a digital video camera to love – too small or too cumbersome.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Learn it and then learn more than you need because you'll need it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A nerditeWhat's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The electric hybrid self-parking full-spec Mercedes or BMW which I hope they will deliver soon.Mac or PC, and why?PC, because I had to learn so many languages in the early days and can't be bothered with one more. Mac is not – as claimed – all instinct or at least not my instincts.Robot butlers a good idea or not?Not – it's unlikely they'll mix a good Martini in my lifetime.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Anything that prevents technology companies from monopolistic practices.•Allan Scott is the co-writer of the classic British thriller Don't Look Now, a remastered verson of which has just been released on Blu-ray
Can you recommend any tablet devices, preferably not an iPad? It's mainly for watching video.Alex RichardsonI have a Samsung Galaxy Tab and I would like to play back some videos via my television, is this possible.David RichardsThe Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 and HP TouchPad are among the most impressive at running videos, but I have not been able to see them side by side, and there are lots of tablets I have not seen. Your best bet would be to try a few in high street shops and PC superstores and see which you fancy. However, there are some technical considerations that will help you to narrow your choice. These include the screen format, the types of video you want to watch, and whether you want to plug it into a TV set.The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 has a 16:9 widescreen with a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels, so it will play most widescreen movies without a noticeable "letter box" effect. According to the specification, it will also play full HD (1080p) movies. By contrast, the HP TouchPad has an old-style VGA screen with a resolution of 1024 x 768 pixels, which is the same as Apple's iPad. This will result in a "letter box" effect with black bands above and below widescreen movies.The Galaxy Tab 10.1 costs about £500, but there is a cheaper version with a 7in screen (1024 x 600 pixels), and similar tablets are available from other suppliers. A 7in screen is fine for many purposes, and less of a problem if you can plug it into a TV to watch movies. Samsung is expected to release the Galaxy Tab 8.9 with a WXGA (1280 x 800) display shortly.Tablets can be somewhat restrictive about the types of movie that they will play. Apple's iPad, for example, only supports MPEG4/H.264, Motion JPG and Apple's MOV formats; it doesn't support very common video formats such as DivX and XviD AVI movies, the industry standard VC-1 version of Microsoft's WMV (required for Blu-ray), the open standard Matroska MKV, or Adobe Flash. While you may be able to download an alternative movie player such as VLC to handle unsupported formats, software decoding can lead to choppy performance and shorter battery life. The alternative is to "transcode" movies into a format the tablet can handle, but this takes time and usually degrades the quality of the video.Out of the box, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 supports the MPEG4/H.264, H.263, XviD, WMV7/8/9 including VC-1, Google's VP8/WebM, MP43, 3GP (MP4), WMV (asf) and AVI. The Tab's 1.2GHz dual core Nvidia Tegra 2 processor provides hardware decoding support for H.264, VC-1, MPEG2, MPEG4, DivX 4/5, XviD HT, H.263, VP8, WMV, Sorenson Spark and Real Video, so these should all perform pretty well.It's not clear which formats the HP TouchPad supports, but HP's press release only mentioned MPEG-4/H.264 and H.263. Worse, Qualcomm'sproduct brieffor the TouchPad's 1.2GHz Snapdragon dual-core APQ8060 processor doesn't list which video formats it supports. Either way, the TouchPad runs WebOS (obtained by buying Palm) rather than the Samsung's more common Google Android 3 (Honeycomb), so you are less likely to find alternative media players and codecs for it. Support for MPEG-4/H.264 and built-in Flash should enable the TouchPad to be used with movie services and with YouTube etc, but it would not be a good choice for playing movies accumulated on a PC, even if you can figure out how to copy them to the tablet. This is another area where the Galaxy Tab and some other tablets score over the iPad and TouchPad, by allowing up to 32GB in removable (micro SD card) storage.Ideally, a tablet for playing movies should have some sort of "video out" port so you can plug it into a TV or video projector. Neither the Galaxy Tab nor the TouchPad has an HDMI port. However, Samsung sells a TV Out cable that plugs into its proprietary 30-pin connector, and has three RCA plugs delivering composite video at the other end. The TV will show exactly what appears on the tablet screen, but the connection does not support HD. For that, you need a Samsung Galaxy Tab Multimedia Desk Dock, which provides an HDMI port and speaker sockets.There are cheaper tablets with HDMI ports. For example, the Android 2.2-based A1CS X220 has a both 10.2in screen and an HDMI port, two USB ports and an Ethernet port. It costs only £169.99 from A1CS Ltd. I've not seen one, but it currently has 54 five-star reviews out of 77 reviews atAmazon.co.uk. However, the off-brand Android tablet market has plenty of issues. Reading a few discussions atAndroid ForumsandApad.tvwould provide some background.I'm assuming that you want a tablet for its touchscreen interface and convenience, not just for watching movies, because name-brand tablets are expensive. You'd get better video performance, more flexibility and more features – a bigger screen, a faster processor, a lot more memory, and a hard drive – for the same or less money by buying a laptop PC. The laptop might also last longer before becoming obsolete. Alternatively, you could buy a portable DVD player for £100 or so, leaving you £300-£400 to spend on movies.
The organisers of the routinely excellentGameCityfestival have announced the headliner for this year's event. Taking place in Nottingham from October 26-29, GameCity 6 will feature Naughty Dog lead game designer Richard Lemarchand, providing a personal introduction to Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception. Lemarchand will also host a behind-the-scenes look back at the previous two titles in the blockbusting series via a Creator's Commentary.Also on the agenda is Eric Chahi, the creator of legendary Amiga platformer Another World. He'll be showing off his forthcoming downloadable god game,From Dust, and is also curating the entire first day of the festival. Finally, Robin Hunicke from cult studiothatgamecompanywill be giving a late night preview of mysterious co-operative adventure,Journey.Also on the bill is Jakub Dvorsky, the inspired Czech developer behindAmanita Designand the brilliant point-and-click odyssey, Machinarium. He is unveiling latest projects Samorost 3 and Botanicula.Last and by all means least, fans of early morning video game debate will be ecstatic to discover that the Gamesblog Breakfasts will return! Last year, I hosted a daily topical chat event at the lovelyBroadway cinema, attracting indie luminaries such as Chris Hecker, Jonathan Blow and Adam Saltsman, as well as Katamari creator Keita Takahashi, who all happily turned up to discuss games with our audience while everyone scoffed delicious full English breakfasts.It is, then, another typially offbeat and eclectic line-up, mixing Triple A might with esoteric treats. "We're hugely excited about this opening line-up for GameCity, it's shaping up to the best yet," said understated GameCity Director Iain Simons. "We're just getting started with the programme for this year, with some huge new headline features yet to be announced..."
Google may co-operate more closely with Facebook and Twitter and believes there is room for multiple social networks as it rolls out its own Google+ product, according to executive chairman Eric Schmidt – but the two rivals appear to disagree.He said the company will co-operate fully with American antitrust regulators but will not let theformal antitrust probe, launched last month, distract or disrupt its strategy.Speaking at the Allen &amp; Company media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, Schmidt – who handed over the job of chief executive to co-founder Larry Page in April after 10 years, and now oversees government affairs –  said it was too early to say how Google+ was faring. But one key indicator was the number of people clamouring to be part of the limited group currently using the social networking site, which launched in trial mode last week.One of the more popular features on Google+, especially with younger users, was online video chat, he said.Singling out two services where Google+ can now be viewed as a competitor, Schmidt said he would "love to have deeper integration with Twitter and Facebook."But that is not evident in the reactions of the two companies. Google's "realtime search" deal with Twitter recently expired after 18 months, leading to the demise of the search feature in which recent tweets related to a search topic appear in Google search results. Despite "a substantive and lengthy discussion," the companies couldn't agree on terms, Schmidt said. Google will relaunch the realtime service with input from "a number of sources" – although italready drew from 17 different sources, including Quora and Facebook fan pages – the company said. That will almost certainly including Google+.The realtime search provision on Google was one of the first deals struck by Twitter in October 2009. It signed a similar deal with Microsoft to provide the same facility on its Bing search site. That still continues; it is not known whether the deal with Bing has been renewed, or was for a longer period initially.Facebook, meanwhile, hasblocked an extension for Google's Chrome browserwhich would have let people grab the data about their Facebook friends, including emails and phone numbers, to import them to other networks. Facebook acted to block the extension it by removing emails from its mobile site, which the extension used to gather the data.Google's overtures to Facebook to discuss letting Google+ users import Facebook friends led nowhere, Schmidt said.Schmidt laid out a future with multiple sources of online identity and multiple social networks, even as detractors say Facebook's service, with around 750 million users around the world, is too entrenched to allow for serious competition.Schmidt said Google executives – though not he himself – had discussed the recent hacking of email accounts with Chinese officials.Google last month revealed amajor hacker attack that it said originated within China. It said hackers tried to steal the passwords of hundreds of Google email account holders, including those of senior government officials, Chinese activists and journalists."We tell the Chinese what we know ... and then they publicly deny their role. That's all I have to say about that," Schmidt said.Meanwhile, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has started a formal review of Google's business, raising concerns among investors about a lengthy, distracting probe and potential legal action.The FTC is expected to address complaints from Google's rivals that its search results favour the company's own services. Google, which runs an estimated 69% of web searches worldwide, can make or break a company depending on its search ranking.Some worry that Google's desire to stand firm against government intrusion – as with its protests against Chinese censorship of search results – will trigger a long battle that ultimately does more damage than a quick settlement."We've had some meetings internally, [but] we haven't changed anything," Schmidt said.
If you only watch two game-related videos while you're eating your sandwiches today, make it these. First up, Rockstar has revealed the next LA Noire DLC package. Deliciously entitled Reefer Madness it has Cole Phelps attempting to break up a cannabis distribution racket, running out of a downbeat cafe. The title is, of course, a reference the cult propaganda movie from 1936 (which you can viewherein its glorious entirety).Next, we have the breathtaking behind-closed-doors demo of Bioshock Infinite, shown at this year's E3. The vid comes courtesy of G4TV and features Irrational Games founder Ken Levine. Inifinite was a 'game of the show' for many E3 attendees this year. This is why:As ever, let us know what you think below!
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNice try, Amazon: 'One-click' payment too obvious to patent &gt;&gt; The Register"A payment system devised by online retail giant Amazon is too obvious to patent, the European Patent Office (EPO) has ruled.&#10;"Amazon had hoped to patent the way its customers pay for products through the click of a single webpage button. The company was previously granted patent rights to the payment system in the US."An appeals board at the EPO ruled that the "one-click" method was too obvious as it relied on existing inventions, called "prior art" in patent law. Inventions must be new, take an inventive step that is not obvious and be useful to industry to qualify for patent protection."Perhaps we could hire the EPO out to the US to get their patent system into shape?Cameron unveils the transparent society &gt;&gt; UKAuthority"Data on the performance of GPs, schools and details of sentences passed by individual courts is to be released in open, standardised format under the government's latest transparency initiative, to be announced on Thursday.&#10;"A letter on the new Number 10 Downing Street website, launched on Thursday, promises 'the most ambitious open data agenda of any government in the world.'"Other events may have overshadowed this, but it's very significant.A Pun About Google Plus and The Circles of Hell &gt;&gt; Terence Eden"This is something Nik Butler and I have discussed.&#10;"Google needs to let people choose which circles to follow.&#10;"I imagine a UI which allows me to set a circle as private ("Work", "Family", "Political ranting") and set some circles as public ("Kitten pictures", "Industry News", "Political thoughts").&#10;"When you follow me, you can say "I hate kittens, but I love politics – I'll follow one circle and ignore the others."&#10;"At the moment, I don't have the time to categorise 200 people into what I think they're interested. And they don't want to be bombarded with QR codes when all they really want is LOLCATS.&#10;"So, come on Google, sort it out – let people choose which circles they want to be in.&#10;"Please RT!"The irony of that final request being offered for Twitter not lost, we hope.DNA is now DIY: OpenPCR ships worldwide &gt;&gt; OpenPCR"The price of a traditional PCR machine is around $3,000. So, do people in garages have great PCR machines? Not really. Howabout high school or middle school teachers? Nope. Howabout smaller medical testing labs or labs in India or China? Nope. Even some big bio labs try their luck on eBay. We set out to change that.&#10;"Josh and I prototyped OpenPCR over about 4 months — it was a lot of fun. Last May we unveiled the first OpenPCR prototype to all a bunch of crazy people on Kickstarter, 158 people gave us a total of $12,121. With that we designed and manufactured a repeatable, works-all-the-time device — it took a lot of hard work. Now we're done and ready to share!"PCR is polymerase chain reaction - the method by which you magnify a small sample of DNA. Now, anyone can play.Currys.co.uk and the missing phone call &gt;&gt; Sarah ParmenterThe strange case of how an oven couldn't be bought because the confirmation calls kept not coming through to her iPhone. Stranger than it looks at first glance.This is why Steve Ballmer keynotes at CES &gt;&gt; CES Twitter accountThe CES notices what we speak of, and provides its explanation.China-based white-box vendors expected to ship 8 million tablet PCs in 2011 &gt;&gt; Digitimes"China-based white-box vendors have launched many models of low-price tablet PCs mainly equipped with inexpensive ARM processors developed by Qualcomm, Nvidia and VIA Technologies for domestic sale and exports to emerging markets, with total shipments estimated at 2m units for the first quarter of 2011 and expected to reach 8m for the year, according to sources from Taiwan-based makers."White-box notebook players started cutting into China's tablet PC market in early 2011, targeting mainly the entry-level segment with price levels below US$250. [Even though] their operating system choices of only Android 2.2/2.3 or Windows 7 are rather weak compared to the mainstream operating system choices in terms of software or applications availability, their low prices still attract demand from some consumer groups."Not quite the "50%" market share that DisplaySearch was talking about, and Digitimes does seem to know the suppliers.Browse your Oyster travel and fare history &gt;&gt; GitHubRequires you to have your own server, and written for Linux (or Mac OSX). Clever, if you have the chops to make it work.How to take screenshots on your Android phone without rooting - Recombu"A handful of the Android phones we've recently reviewed allow you to take screengrabs - pictures of what ever is on the phone's screen at the time - simply by pressing the power and menu button simultaneously. Finally!&#10;"Big deal, you might think. Except that it is - it's a really useful feature. As well as making our lives here a little easier when we're writing up app stories, it has plenty of potential uses.&#10;"From capturing incriminating texts from friends/colleagues/ex-partners (perfect for uploading to Facebook, if you're feeling evil) to proving that you've three starred each Angry Birds level (including all of Seasons and Rio), there's loads of ways that this can be useful."Confirmed to work on Samsung Galaxy S II, for a start.My Summer at an Indian Call Center &gt;&gt; Mother Jones"While we idle in interminable traffic, my coworker Nishant asks where I'm from. 'America?' he says. 'I'll tell you about America.'&#10;"I must look wary, because he quickly explains that, after years of 50-hour workweeks, he's probably spoken with more of my compatriots than I have. 'America is not all honey and roses the way they tell you,' he informs me. 'Truth is, 90 percent of the people there, you will find, they'll do the most stupid things, impulsive things. I know for a fact. At the same time, Americans are bighearted people, and the remaining 10 percent of them are smart. Bloody smart. That's why they rule the world.'"Fascinating insight. The comments - including one from someone who admits they would be the idiot customer from hell - are also enlightening.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's Friday! Everything is going to be okay!
On the internet, as elsewhere, information is money, and information is power. So why have we given it away so lightly?Something extraordinary has taken place over the last few years. Voluntarily, and without coercion or, indeed, payment, internet users have handed over vast amounts of highly personal data – their preferences, where they live, who their friends are and what theydo– to private companies, whose primary goal is to profit from that data. And every day, we hand over more, willingly.On Facebook, we think we are sharing only with our friends the information – the news, the messages, the photos – that we place on "our" pages. But thanks to Facebook's confusing privacy settings, users are propelled to default and "recommended" settings that make public almost everything – and in so doing, also permit Facebook to make use of your information. Yet more obscure are the complicated and multi-caveateduser and privacy agreementsmost never bother to read. It is only here that Facebook admits that the content (your "intellectual property") belongs to the company. They own it; once it's on the site, you don't.Google's professed aim, apart from its famous motto to "do no evil", is to organise and share all the world's information. Less loudly avowed is its parallel objective: to make large amounts of money from that venture. This is not a cynical view: profit is – and must be – the goal of all share-held enterprises. If Google did not promise good returns to its shareholders, its share price would collapse and it would cease to exist. (Facebook has not yet been floated on the stock market; it is widely assumed that it soon will be, for perhaps $50bn.)Both Google and Facebook offer their services to users apparently for free. But the services are not of course free. Both companies sell the information that users provide – in search data, or personal profiles. In Google's case, this takes the form of information about individual and collective preferences as revealed by people's searches. Apparently, these companies mostly sell their (your) information to advertisers who mine the data in order to target consumers more effectively. But, despitefervent declarationsabout transparency, in fact, it's very hard to find out exactly to whom they sell the data or what the "data miners" do with it. McDonald's or the CIA? We're not told, even though it is information about us that they are trading.Most people have realised that this is the exchange implicit in using Facebook or other such "free" services. But the quid pro quo is never explicit: when you sign on to Facebook or Twitter, nowhere are you clearly told that this is the deal. This small but highly significant absence is obviously deliberate, as, one suspects, if we understood more clearly, many of us might think twice before handing over our personal data so lightly. These companies have not been entirely straight with us.The fundamental, if well-concealed deceit of this exchange is why so many feel uneasy about these companies, and about the way that the internet is developing. And this is not the only problem. In any circumstance, whether in the private sector or government, the concentration of power in the hands of the few is a bad thing. Thanks to network effects, the vast majority of users concentrates in a few sites, making it very hard for new competitors to attract users. This means that a massive amount of personal information about us is now in the hands of a very small number of privately-owned companies whose interests, however valid, are not the same as our own. A company that wishes to expand in China may have few qualms handing its users' data to the authorities in return for permission to operate. Infamously,Yahoo has already madeprecisely this bargain. Its users did not – and do not – get a say in the matter: none of these companies is democratic; that's not what companies do.Some may feel that the exchange of free services for our data is worthwhile. Both Facebook and Google have changed the way that we live, arguably for the better. But the price is a hidden one.Eben Moglen, of Columbia University, arguesthat in handing over our data, we have handed over something vital about ourselves; that in giving away our privacy, we have surrendered our very identities. To take our identities and privacy back, we must recoup our data,safeguarding it on our own "freedom boxes", mini-servers that connect peer-to-peer, not through commercial intermediaries.It may be overstating it that our very identities have been compromised, but what is unarguable is that we have handed over an unprecedented stock of information about ourselves to private entities, whose primary interest is to sell it. We have done so often unthinkingly (I didn't think about it when I signed up), and largely on trust, assuming that because these companies say so, our interests will be protected.There is, in fact, almost nothing to guarantee this, and indeed, the manner in which the exchange is presented, or rather misrepresented, when we sign on, suggests that our trust is misplaced. As more and more of our lives move online, we need to think harder about how to promote decentralised information as an intrinsic and essential principle of the internet (as distinct from the rather more compromised, unenforceable and often contradictory"principles" so earnestly declared by Facebook,Googleand their like). Like Professor Moglen's "Freedom Boxes", theLocker Projectalso seeks to help us take back control of our own data. For unfortunately, at the moment, the flow of our information is all the other way. We need to turn it back.As Richard Stallman and thefree software movementrealised early on, this is ultimately a political battle. For it is our information – and thus our privacy and our freedom – that is at stake.• With thanks to Neil Levine (@neilwlevine) for his advice in preparing this article• This article was amended on 8 July 2011 to clarify the type of information about users that Google is able to sell.
Microsoft is reportedly demanding $15 per Android handset sold by Samsung - and has other Android handset makers in its sights as it tries to extract the maximum value from the patents that it owns which it can argue cover mobile.Previously it has reportedlygot HTC to pay around $5 per handset, and earlier this week it announced that Wistron had "signed a patent agreement" for its "tablets, mobile phones, e-readers and other consumer devices running the Android or Chrome platform".Fabulous quote: "We are pleased that Wistron is taking advantage of our industrywide licensing program, established to help companies address Android's IP issues," said Horacio Gutierrez, corporate vice president and deputy general counsel of Intellectual Property and Licensing at Microsoft. Yes, certainly glad.If Microsoft can get that money from Samsung (though it's more likely that this is an opening salvo; Samsung is said to want to get it down to $10, which isn't much of a negotiating position) then Android is going to become the best earner Microsoft has in mobile.Given that Samsung produced 19m smartphones in the first quarter, that would be $190m even at the $10 level; $285m at the $15 level.There's also a lawsuit going on against Motorola, in which it's claiming that its Android handsets infringe, and with Barnes &amp; Noble over its Nook e-reader (which uses Android).And that's before Nokia - with which Microsoft has tied up a deal worth billions involving lots of intellectual property flowing back and forth - wades in with its patents against Android, because Nokia has got lots of patents in the mobile phone market. Microsoft would be able to litigate those for it quite successfully.Even then Microsoft isn't really finished with the patent licensing thing, because you'll recall that it was part of the consortium last week which won the bid for theNortel patents, which all relate to mobile. Those, it will be able to litigate once the transfer of ownership is complete (Canada seems to be cutting up a little rough about it).And oncethathappens, then Android handset makers may really begin to wonder whether the game is worth the candle. If Windows Phone licence from Microsoft costs you around $25 (a guess), but the patent payments are costing you $24 per handset, is it really worth persisting? Especially when everyone else making Android handsets is suffering in the same way, and the more successful you are, the more it hurts to have to write the cheques.In that case, Microsoft might come to them and suggest that perhaps they would like to put Windows Phone on their handsets instead. After all,Microsoft offers Windows Phone licencees indemnity against software patent lawsuits. That could potentially make Windows Phone a lotcheaper- if Nokia and Microsoft really start getting litigious (to say nothing of Apple, which is trying to put Samsung in a vice over "trade dress" and patent issues).Note that Apple, which was a partner with Microsoft in buying the Nortel patents, and which concluded asettlement with Nokialast month, comes out looking relatively unscathed.You might ask: where's Google? On the losing side of that Nortel patent bid (eating humble pi), and bereft of the sort of patent portfolio that it needs to really compete and fend off Microsoft. It's having enough trouble fighting off Oracle, which now owns Sun, and which is annoyed about what it seems as infringement of Java.But for Microsoft, Android is starting to look like a win-win. If Android prevails, it gets lots of money - and there's no obvious sign in big corporations of them tearing out Microsoft Exchange for their mail servers, so it's safe there (and keeps getting the income from there). If Windows Phone gets the updraft from exhausted handset makers, it wins big through market share.It's a big game, and it definitely isn't over yet.A nice example of how the patents game plays out comes from theForbes blog(which also has some good reading on this): "In the 1980s, attorney Gary Reback was working at Sun Microsystems, then a young technology startup. A pack of IBM employees in blue suits showed up at Sun headquarters seeking royalties for 7 patents that IBM claimed Sun had infringed. The Sun employees, having examined the patents, patiently explained that six of the seven patents were likely invalid, and Sun clearly hadn't infringed the seventh. Reback explains what happened next inthis classic Forbes article:"An awkward silence ensued. The blue suits did not even confer among themselves. They just sat there, stonelike. Finally, the chief suit responded. "OK," he said, "maybe you don't infringe these seven patents. But we have 10,000 U.S. patents. Do you really want us to go back to Armonk [IBM headquarters in New York] and find seven patents you do infringe? Or do you want to make this easy and just pay us $20 million?" After a modest bit of negotiation, Sun cut IBM a check, and the blue suits went to the next company on their hit list.Substitute Microsoft for IBM, and any handset maker for Sun, and you have the picture.
Mark Zuckerberg was in fine, jaunty form for last night's  presentation about Facebook's new features. He looked more at ease and sounded more fluid than ever, rattling off an anecdote about a comment form a elderly neighbour who'd put in a request for video calling. Tick!• Firstly - that main announcement of integrated Skype calling. The timing is absolutely right. Two of the biggest names in consumer web services, both mainstream enough to have major take up and at a time when consumers are finally beginning to overcome that inhibition about talking to their computers. Zuckerberg's anecdote about the elderly neighbour illustrated that, but I also know that when my Mum is talking about 'doing a Skype' that this really must have hit the mainstream.Facebook demonstrates its new integrated Skype feature• Zuckerberg made a fairly crude attempt to deflect attention away from thosepossibly stallinggrowth numbers. Active monthly unique users is no longer the metric of choice at Facebook Towers, he would like us to believe. He declared that to be so, despite confirming that Facebook has now reached 750 million users - so that's 250m added in less than one year. No doubt when Facebook does finally reach that one billion target, active monthly users will become de rigueur again, but until then, Zuckerberg wants us to believe that the volume of shared pieces of content is a better representation of activity on Facebook. And that's 4bn every day, doubling from this time last year.• Off the back of that explosion in sharing, Zuckerberg mentioned that to support growth, Facebook would be establishing more data centres after it opened its first in April this year. No more detail, but he said: "We're definitely on this trend now where it makes sense for us given the scale of usage and the information flowing through the network where we're probably going to be building our own data centers, rather than leasing."• He made several subtle but interesting digs at Google, cleverly reinforcing his strategy of describing Facebook as the default social infrastructure of the web on which all other services will deploy their social elements. Default MySpace friendTom Andersonwrote a good post, published on Google+, about Zuckerberg's comments on Google, but it is also worth noting that Zuckerberg described Google+ as just another company experimenting with social tools. With a touch of humility, Zuckerberg conceded that if Facebook doesn't keep innovating, it will be a different social infrastructure company that takes its place.• On the press call after the presentation I asked what the roadmap for the development of this feature looks like, especially given how exciting Skype calls within Facebook's mobile apps could be."Our philosophy to is to build the best experiences for people on Facebook and we want lots of those experiences as soon as we are able to build them," said Peter Deng, Facebook's video call project manager."I was part of the original team that built Facebook Chat back in 2007 and over time we've added more features, observed how people are using the service, what they like and don't like, understand what is the right move to make…. it's more of an iterative process [than a planned roadmap] when we do product development. We're going to try to get next features out as quickly as possible, but understand how people use those products first."We don't have a timeline to announce right now, but we're working on improvements already."Video calls on mobile through the Facebook app would be a direct rival to Apple's FaceTime (still think that's a dreadful name) but with a powerful social driver to initiate calls from within Facebook. That's what makes the video call so compelling from within Facebook though that said, I think many people might have the same reaction as me - to thoroughly review and clean up their Facebook contacts. Hovering over profile thumbnails and bringing up the 'video chat' option made me realise how few of these contacts I'd really what to talk to! If we haven't spoken since school, there's probably a reason for that. But that's for another day.• From the analysts:Ovum's Eden Zoller said Facebook/Skype is a blow to Google and Google+ Hangout. "We would expect the Facebook's video chat service to develop a strong mobile play given that at least half of Facebook's user base interact with the social network via mobile and also because Microsoft is determined to take Skype in this direction. A deepening Facebook, Microsoft and Skype alliance is on the cards and is a powerful prospect and one that will keep Google awake at night."Frost &amp; Sullivan's Jake Wengroff noted onTwitterthat as only 6% of Skype users pay for services, the tie-up is unlikely to make anyone any cash. It's aboutstrategic alliances. "I see it as a way for MSFT, Skype's new owner, to find a way to work with FB."Colin Gills at BGC said it vindicated Microsoft's $8.5bn acquisition of Skype: "This deal helps explain the purchase price… Facebook is going to drive ubiquity for Skype."
It's a big day for London-basedSkimlinkson Thursday as it announces its first  acquisition, buying New York-basedAtma Linksfor an undisclosed amount.Skimlinks has been one of the brightest London-based (not so startup) startups for several years now, with chief executive Alicia Navarro consistently impressive as one of the disappointingly small numbers of female entrepreneurs doing great things in a male dominated space.Navarro founded the business in 2006 asSkimbit, adapting the business over the next few years from a decision-making tool to Skimlinks, which creates affiliate links in web content.Atma's own in-text link platform will be integrated with Skimlinks to create a more accurate and specialist price comparison and product identification service, and all publishers have to do is add one line of code to a page of their site to start earning commission. Atma's founders Erik Nygren and Chris Dickson will join the Skimlinks team."They had spent the last two years building this really impressive technology for in-text product linking and price comparison, and we realised there was huge potential if we integrated their solution into our platform and across our network of partners," said Navarro. "We think its an exciting move in this industry that's been heating up recently (this last week in particular, with all theAmazon nexus tax issues).There is a real need in the market for an in-text monetisation solution for publishers that isn't intrusive or irrelevant, but its traditionally been difficult to do accurately, at scale, across multiple verticals. We'll be the first to do this, so I'm pretty chuffed."The business, which has raised $2.52m in funding so far, is now generating $13m in merchant sales every month with 700,000 sites running the service including Hearst Publishing and Wordpress. This acquisition is a significant move for Skimlinks – which, though based in London, opened its San Francisco office late last year and is already buying up the competition.
Apple has announced a new milestone for its App Store: 15bn downloads since the store launched in July 2008. The company also says that it has paid iOS developers more than $2.5bn from sales of their iPhone and iPad apps on the store.Apple said at WWDC this year that it had sold more than 200m iOS devices since the launch of the first iPhone, so that indicates an attach rate of 75 app downloads per iPhone, iPod touch and iPad.Meanwhile, the developer payout stat indicates gross revenues (including Apple's 30% cut) of $3.5bn from the App Store since launch. Apple does not break down its download stats between paid and free apps."In just three years, the revolutionary App Store has grown to become the most exciting and successful software marketplace the world has ever seen," said Schiller in a statement. "Thank you to all of our amazing developers who have filled it with over 425,000 of the coolest apps and to our over 200 million iOS users for surpassing 15bn downloads."Beyond the milestones, the interesting thing about Apple'spress releaseis the choice of developers to supply their own adulatory quotes. They come from Smule (Ocarina, Magic Piano), Epic Games (Infinity Blade), Callaway Digital Arts (apps for Martha Stewart and Sesame Street), rather than larger brands or established games publishers.Googlesaid in Mayat its I/O conference that Android Market had topped 4.5bn downloads, with 100m Android devices generating around 500m downloads a month. Apple's App Store passed the 10bn mark in January, meaning its monthly download total is closer to 1bn.Nokiasaid recentlythat its Ovi Store generates 6m downloads a day – so 180m a month, although this includes wallpapers and ringtones as well as apps. RIM's BlackBerry App World isdoing half that amount: 3m a day, and so 90m a month.Apple's decision to announce the 15bn milestone comes after the end of the second quarter of 2011, but before it announces its financial results for that quarter – thus preparing the markets for what are expected to be impressive numbers.It is not all good news for the App Store this week, however. The company haslost its bidfor a preliminary injunction against Amazon for the latter's use of the term Appstore to describe its Android-focused store.In a ruling, the US District Court of Northern California ruled that Apple has not established that its "App Store" mark is famous, in the sense of being "prominent" and "renowned". While the court accepted that Apple has spent a great deal of money" on advertising and publicity, and generated a lot of app sales and downloads, "there is also evidence that the term 'app store' is used by other companies as a descriptive term for a place to obtain software applications for mobile devices".
You've been asking for it for absolutely ages, and now it is finally here: the incredible product that not only washes whiter but also lasts longer, won't spoil your appetite between meals and means you don't have to take two bottles into the shower. Yes, you now have preview functionality on comments.Let the rejoicing be heard throughout the hills and valleys and all throughout the land etc etc.Meg Pickard, our head of social ... err, stuff ... has apost on the Inside Guardian blog explaining how it works. (Basically, you get a layer over the page; you can abandon the comment, without posting, by clicking the "X". Else, post your comment.)Note that this isnotediting functionality, and that's not likely to come at all. As Pickard explains:We've implemented preview rather than edit functionality mainly because editing of comments after publishing is rather open to abuse and can cause confusion, with people going back and changing their words (or minds!) making subsequent replies lack context or sense.It would be awful if comments lacked context or sense, of course. As she also points out, previewing isn't a panacea:It won't help you with an attack ofl'esprit de l'escalier, but it might help you pick up any spelling or formatting errors which might have snuck into your comment.As long as you pick it up before you hit "post", obviously, because of the editing thing. See above.We'd like to go into detail about the army of kittens and the mutant hamsters but we're filing for the patent. Sorry about that.OK? So now we never, ever want to see any spelling, grammar or logical errors in your comments.Ever again. Unless, that is, you find a spelling mistake in any atricle you read here, in which case you're absolved.
Apple suppliers have begun manufacturing the next version of iPhone, expected to be released in September, which is expected to be thinner and lighter than last year's iPhone 4 - and possibly include wireless charging, according to reports.The Wall Street Journalreported on Wednesdayfrom Taipei, Taiwan, where a number of key suppliers to the company are based, that the new version will also include an 8-megapixel camera, putting it on a par with many other top-end phone cameras.The WSJ also reports one of Apple's suppliers suggesting that the company has a goal of 25m units [shipped] "by the end of the year" and that "the initial production volume will be a few million units ... we were told to ship the components to assembler Hon Hai in August".Digitimes, a Taiwan-based electronics newspaper,reportsthat Pegatron, a major Taiwan-based notebook maker, has received orders for 15m "iPhone 5" – or "iPhone 4S" – devices to be shipped in September, based on reports from upstream suppliers to the company. It suggests that Pegatron has been building CDMA phones which would be used on the Verizon network in the US and some Asian carriers. Most iPhones sold at present are GSM rather than CDMA, which was only introduced in January.The WSJ also suggested that the phone would have been launched in the summer but for delays in production – though that does not chime with the schedule for the release of iOS 5.0, the latest update to Apple's mobile operating system which wasannounced at its WWDC conferencein June but will not be available until September.The WSJ also quoted one person who said that Apple may include "a new way of charging the phone". That could imply wireless charging like that used by theHP TouchPad tablet, which uses an induction system to recharge the battery.Alternatively, it might mean that Apple will follow the EC regulationsintroduced last yearwhich mandate the use of a micro-USB port for charging: "In response to citizens' demand for a common charger, the Commission invited manufacturers to agree on a technical solution making the chargers of different brands compatible," said the EC's press release last December. "As a result, world leading mobile phone producers committed themselves to ensure compatibility of data-enabled mobile phones, expected to be predominant in the market within two years, on the basis of the micro-USB connector."Taiwan-based Hon Hai, which owns the Chinese manufacturing company Foxconn, is the world's biggest contract manufacturer of electronics by revenue. Apple uses it to assemble products, as do companies including Acer, Amazon, Asus, Dell and Nokia.In the first quarter of 2011, Apple said it shipped 18.6m iPhones, and the number is expected to have increased as the company has strengthened its position with Verizon, the second biggest carrier in the US. Apple's financial results for the quarter ended 30 June will be released on Tuesday 19 July, including iPhone shipment figures, which analysts are expecting to have increased.Data from comScorereleased on Tuesdaysuggested that Apple had gained an extra 3 million iPhone users in the US between February and May. Digitimes reports that Pegatron had expected to sell 10m CDMA iPhone 4 devices earlier this year, but in fact shipped less than 4m in the first quarter.
Electronic mischief-making has come into its own this year. Between WikiLeaks, Anonymous and more recently LulzSec, hacking cults are becoming high-profile irritants.But Peter Fein, the human face of Telecomix and currently spreading the word about their work, doesn't seem too bothered by his "hacker" label when I meet him at Sheffield Doc Fest, where he was invited to sit on a panel called the Revolution will be Tweeted."We're kind of like an inverse Anonymous," Fein said. "We operate in a very similar way to Anonymous not just IRC [Internet Relay Chat – online, open forums where users can meet to chat] but also the non-hierarchical structure. Except they break things and we build them."I guess you could say it's guerrilla informational warfare. I can just tell you my experience of what happened, and why – I'm not an official spokesman, we just don't have those. I'm not sure what to call us – are we hacktivists? Hacker is such a loaded term … what we're doing is clearly different than LulzSec is doing."If you're a Facebook or Twitter user you may recognise Tweets and status updates,such as thesecurrently aimed at people in Syria with censured and monitored web access: "ATTENTION PEOPLE OF #SYRIA — Let the world know! Here is how! Dial up access for #Syria: +46850009990 +492317299993 +4953160941030 user:telecomix password:telecomix." Or "Call skype inbox.intercom.gs +97316199341 +12062794895 +883510001348973 to leave a msg and have it tweeted."That wasTelecomix.The following week, calling from his home in Chicago, Fein says that in the early days of the Arab spring: "we saw what was happening in Egypt, we started asking around on the Telecomix IRC and eventually we managed to convince two ISPs, one French and one Dutch, to switch their old modem banks back on ... That worked really well – we ran the same thing again for Libya. It worked really well for two days before the government shut it down."He adds: "There's a real attitude of throwing a lot of stuff against the wall and seeing what works," pointing to Telecomix's early attempt to create a ham (amateur) radio network with activists on the ground in the first few weeks of the Egyptian uprisings. "People that have access to ham radio were military guys and regime supporters – I'd be happy to talk to them to but … yeah ..."Fein directs me towards theTelecomix IRC channel, where I ask about what projects everyone has been involved in. A mix of high- and low-tech responses come in from people with varying degrees: a Morse code-to-Twitter relay service, smuggling in satellite telephones to Libya, mass faxing medical leaflets on how to treat tear gas, setting up mirror sites, uploading scrambling and encryption programs. Fein is currently working on a wiki that specifically targets "street information tactics – flyering, stickers, posters ... I was talking to one guy in Egypt about a recipe for wheat paste and he thought that was awesome."Fein recounts his recent meeting of two Middle Eastern users of Telecomix's services: "I actually met two activists at Sheffield ... they were super-appreciative and super-excited about the possibilities. One of them had used our dial-up services quite a bit."The origins of Telecomix are unclear, like most of online history. This is Fein's version: "Telecomix started I think in 2006, by a bunch of Swedes. There was a telecoms bill that was brought in that they didn't like and so they set up an information service to let people know about the bill … how we got from there to international tech support, I don't know. But keeping information secure and available – that function has been around for a while."Fein became involved late last year. After working at an internet startup in Chicago, he felt "burnt out" and went on sabbatical. He began hanging out in chat rooms for the hacker collective Anonymous, where one member suggested that Telcomix might be a better fit for Fein's skills.Living off savings for the past eight months, Fein has been working overtime on Telecomix projects with their growing community of users."Some people just volunteer, literally. We'd put info together, post it up and people just respond, people just came out and set up a wikipage and people showed up on IRC and said 'how can I help?' So yeah it's a cool project and people are happy to put their technical skills to good use."The range of people on the Telecomix IRC – so right now's there are about 107 people tops on the IRC people; when we were doing things in Egypt there were about 500. The participation varies – it's what I call an 'ad-hocracy'. We don't have membership, we don't have a formal structure – people just come and go. We have MEPs, we have university professors, grad students ... anybody who's interested in facilitating free speech."Fein stresses Telcomix's consensus is about attuning the tools the organisation develops to the needs of people who are deprived of telecommunications, and information on the ground is the ultimate goal. He cites Egypt: "The internet wasbeing cut off and telephones were cut offand communication across the country got much more difficult. So Suez was completely cut off. And so this kind of created a need for internal communication — not for people to be able to talk on Facebook or Twitter to the world, but amongst themselves ... so there were a number of tools, mesh technology and so on — that we tried to help people figure out."He explains: "I had several hours of chats with guys on the ground with what they needed. A lot of the time they don't have the technical knowledge of what they actually need, they just want to be able to communicate without being wiretapped … so we'll send them Tor or something. Towards the end they were just asking us how they could hold the[Tahrir] Square– it's difficult and necessary to communicate across an area that large and packed and we helped them."How? "Instructions on how to set up a wireless mesh network [a way of creating a communication network, often using mobile phones' Bluetooth technology" or "two-way radio mics. One of the things we started working on is a how-to, a set of instructions, to build two-way radios, walkie-talkies… with hardware that people already have and the best thing we came up with is if you take a normal clock radio, smash it apart and cross a couple of wires and you can get them to communicate with each other. They have a two-kilometre range, I'm not a hardware guy though, I don't solder."With Syria in mind Fein and the rest of the Telecomix community are looking to grow their network. "We're not really looking for attention, I do go around and talk about the work that I do, because first of all people find it interesting and also I want to get the word out. I'm looking for people that want to help because there is a huge amount of work. And it's exhausting, I worked 20 hours a day for eight days during Egypt. So we're burnt out. A lot of what we do is reactive … so it would be nice if people started to work on things that are more proactive."I can sit at home in Chicago … and we're not going to get arrested if we oppose Mubarak or Gaddafi – which is important to bear in mind when you're in communication with these people on the ground."
The average iPhone gamer spends nearly twice as much time playing every month as the industry average for smartphone gamers, according to new researchpublished by Nielsenin the US. Its latest survey finds that iPhone gamers play for an average for 14.7 hours a month, ahead of Android gamers' 9.3 hours a month.Both are above the industry average of 7.8 hours, since other devices under-index considerably. Windows Phone gamers spend 4.7 hours a month playing according to Nielsen, while feature phone and BlackBerry owners spend 4.5 hours a month.Those figures won't make for pleasant reading at Microsoft, which has made the Xbox Live community a key selling point for Windows Phone 7 devices. There is some better news for the company: its users are the most likely to download games. Of WP7 users who have played a game in the last 30 days, 70% downloaded it, versus 69% for iPhone and 66% for Android.It's a different story for feature phone owners, with 54% playing games preloaded on their devices, while 28% have downloaded them. BlackBerry scores even worse on this metric: according to Nielsen, 24% of BlackBerry gamers are playing downloaded games, versus 63% playing preloaded titles.Developers piling into the emerging sector of mobile web gaming may be encouraged by the fact that 10% of iPhone and Android users say they are playing web-based games on their devices.Overall, games come out strongly from Nielsen's research. Of people who have downloaded at least one app in the last month, 64% say they have played games in that period. That's the most popular category ahead of weather (60%), social networking (56%), the slightly awkward catch-all category of maps/navigation/search (51%) and music (44%).Games are the most popular app category according to NielsenThe research also finds that 93% of app downloaders are willing to pay for the games that they play, compared to 76% for news. Not that this is a reason for publishers of news apps to be glum – it's certainly a conversion rate they can work with.Nielsen's survey will bolster the credibility of mobile gaming – on certain platforms at least – with traditional games publishers. It comes hot on the heels of analyst firm Gartner's prediction that by 2015, mobile gaming will account for20% of global games software sales."As the popularity of smartphones and tablets continues to expand, gaming will remain a key component in the use of these devices," said the company's principal research analyst Tuong Nguyen. "Although they are never used primarily for gaming, mobile games are the most downloaded application category across most application stores."
A burst of 11 apps for your considerationGrimm's Red Riding HoodGrimm's Red Riding Hood is the third iOS pop-up book-app from Irish startup Ideal Binary, following titles based on Rumpelstiltskin and Rapunzel. The app is a blend of text and interactive pop-up scenes, with young readers able to tap and swipe on objects as the storyline progresses.iPhone / iPadSongifyiPhone app Songify promises that it "turns speech into music, automatically". Users speak into their iPhone's mic, and their words are then turned into a song. There is a tie in with viral stars The Gregory Brothers (of AutoTune The News fame), who supply the music. The app is the work of startup Khush, which previously made the LaDiDa reverse-karaoke app.iPhoneThe King of Fighters-i 002Beat 'em up franchise The King of Fighters has a long and rich history, but this is its first appearance on iPhone, courtesy of publisher SNK. Four solo modes, trading cards and artwork extras, and the ability to battle friends over Bluetooth are all included.iPhoneClimate Mission 3DNokia has launched a new Symbian game that aims to get people reducing their carbon footprints and donating to environmental charities. The free game includes missions, which earn a user points which they can assign to specific projects around the world. The real world, that is - not the game world.SymbianSocial Call from O2 LabsJust released on iPhone and already available on Android, O2 Labs' Social Call app is a simple way to voice-call Facebook friends from the device. The downside: "The call will cost you the same as a landline call".iPhone / AndroidRunner's World SmartCoachRunner's World's new Android app creates training plans for people trying to get fit, covering training from 5k up to full marathons, with the ability to view workouts for a day or week at a time.AndroidCrayola ColorStudio HDCrayola – of crayons fame – has teamed up with Griffin Technology for this drawing app, which has its own iMarker stylus peripheral sold separately. The idea: children can draw using their fingers or the stylus, before adding music and sound effects. Initial reviews on the App Store have criticised the peripheral's responsiveness, leading Crayola to promise in the app's description that a forthcoming update will increase the app's sensitivity.iPadPayByPhoneIf you've noticed PayByPhone logos in car parks that let you, yes, pay by phone... well, there's now an Android app for that. It enables you to register for the service, pay for parking spots and get reminders when you're about to run out of time.AndroidSwords and SoldiersChillingo's latest iPhone and iPad game is a side-scrolling action-strategy title that sees players leading Vikings, Aztecs and Chinese warriors through three campaigns.iPhone / iPadMammals on RoadsThis app is the work of the People's Trust for Endangered Species, and wants to get Brits counting roadkill, tagging squashed wildlife to locations to help the charity monitor how populations in the wild are changing.iPhoneDeathsmilesDeathsmiles is the latest iPhone shoot 'em up from famed Japanese publisher Cave. Or, to put it another way, if the term 'bullet hell' means nothing to you, it may be a bit hard...iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInfographic Of The Day: How Twitter Exposes Google's Limits &gt;&gt; Co.DesignIntriguing. Of course this will all be solved by Google+. Won't it?Public profiles : Unbrowseable Answers &gt;&gt; Google+ Help"The purpose of Google Profiles is to enable you to manage your online identity. Today, nearly all Google Profiles are public. We believe that using Google Profiles to help people find and connect with you online is how the product is best used. Private profiles don't allow this, so we have decided to require all profiles to be public."How about profiles that are pseudonymous?Lodsys sues The New York Times Company and five other companies who previously sued Lodsys &gt;&gt; FOSS Patents"Lodsys filed a patent infringement lawsuit today in East Texas against the very six companies who previously filed declaratory judgment actions against Lodsys in other jurisdictions."One gets the picture of how exhausting this must be as a lawyer. Lodsys isn't folding its tent. Quite the opposite. For developers, though, this is becoming louder than a background hum.HP's TouchPad: Mixed reviews about user interface, inevitable iPad comparisons &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Before I get to my thoughts about the TouchPad after spending a few days with it, I also showed the device to a few friends and family who don't own tablets to get a fresher perspective on what these consumers liked, disliked and would be looking for should they ever decide to get a tablet."Interesting approach, and reactions.Microsoft pays customer $250,000 to adopt Office 365 &gt;&gt; InformationWeekMicrosoft Pays Customer $250,000 To Adopt Office 365 - InformationWeek"The University of Nebraska is mothballing its aging IBM Lotus Notes email and calendaring system in favor of Microsoft's Office 365 cloud platform for a number of reasons, including access to newer technology, greater flexibility, and operational savings."And one other big reason--the university will receive $250,000 in givebacks from Microsoft to underwrite the switch under a little-known program Redmond calls Business Incentive Funds."Sometimes Microsoft has an odd approach to making a profit. How long will this take to pay back?Tablets Converging With Notebooks in Post-PC Era &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"'The iPad is getting more powerful while the MacBook Air is getting lighter, and the distinction between the two is blurring,' [Bernstein Research analyst] Sacconaghi argues. 'In fact, we expect the distinction to blur across notebooks as a whole … In the next two to three years, we believe OEMs will offer notebooks at the weight of the original iPad with touchscreen and integrated keypad capability for under $1,000.'&#10;"And the debut of that converged, ultraportable tablet/notebook could have an unexpected result.&#10;Says Sacconaghi, 'Ironically, availability of such notebook devices might undermine tablet sales, rather than vice versa.'"In other words, the cannibalized becomes the cannibal. And in the end, it turns out that the post-PC era doesn't mean that the PC is dead, but rather that it's been born anew as a converged device — an ultrathin, touch-sensitive notebook."Make sense, especially with SSDs and if Windows 8 succeeds via a touch interface.Steve Ballmer headlines Consumer Electronics Show again -- but why? &gt;&gt; BetanewsJoe Wilcox: "No disrespect to Ballmer, but I can't think of many companies less appropriate to kick off CES."Microsoft's core business is software -- Office and Windows -- not consumer electronics. The majority of Microsoft customers are businesses, not consumers. The company produces arguably only one CE device -- Xbox 360. There are no smartphones, tablets, TVs, portable media players or other consumer electronics made by Microsoft, and the most popular devices run software from other companies.Most of the world's PCs run Windows, but the majority of CE products don't. Microsoft's core business is the Office-Windows-Windows Server applications stack, which is eroding before the mobile-to-cloud apps stack. Why is CEA paying homage to the past, again, rather than looking to computing's future and CE devices?"Quite why Microsoft has had a lock on this since the year umpty-ump remains a mystery. But which company should be there? (Note: Apple never will.)How a Google+ gap keeps me on Facebook &gt;&gt; CNET NewsStephen Shankland: "Here's an interesting illustration of the professional-personal situation. Bradley Horowitz, the Google vice president in charge of Google+ and other social and communications products, just announced his engagement publicly on Google+. Google+ makes it easy to keep that sort of post more private if desired, but it lacks an inverse mechanism that a fiancee might want, a way to filter out her fiance's public, professional comments and just get the personal.&#10;"One obvious solution to this plight involves the Venn diagram approach to circles--a thought that's occurred to me and several others. Simon Phipps would like nested circles, so he could have a group that's a subset of another. Another handy possibility would be the union of two sets--family members in the local neighborhood, for example. But the one that would solve my biggest problem would be an exclusion: I'd like a message to be sent to all those people who follow me except my non-nerdy friends and family."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's Thursday. Anything good happening today?
As America's 44th president, it's not that easy for Barack Obama to make history. Think of any original act by an incumbent of the Oval Office – bugging a political rival, say, or not having sexual relations with an intern – and they've already been done.Twitter to the rescue! At 2pm local time on Wednesday he stood at the White House podium and became the first sitting president to face the American people through a live "Twitter town hall"."It's only 140 characters," Jack Dorsey, Twitter's co-founder, reminded Obama as he tapped out a tweet. (It wasn't Obama's first signed tweet – he did that last month on Father's day.)Dorsey was moderating the meeting three months after Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of that other social media monolith, Facebook, had his hour in the limelight with Obama.Obama gained plenty of brownie points with the Twitterati simply for showing up and engaging with them, taking questions posted around the US on broadly economic themes, from the debt ceiling to taxes and education spending.He didn't do so well on Twitter's overriding principle: brevity. In his answer to one randomly selected question, he took 387 words – that's words, not characters – to make his point.Come to think of it, the whole Twitter town hall format was a bit of a con – Obama received the questions as tweets but answered them through that most old-fashioned of media: opening his mouth and talking.The question with the 387 word reply was in fact composed by a Twitter user with the name of John Boehner, who just happens to be speaker of the House of Representatives and Obama's arch nemesis.That got some Twitter users riled. "He can talk to the @WhiteHouse any time. Shouldn't @TownHall be a chance for the rest of us?" lamented Seth Oldmixon.But it at least gave Obama, who is locked in bitter debt ceiling negotiations with Boehner, the chance to take a poke at him because his tweet was mistyped."John needs to work on his typing skills," Obama said.Another question put to Obama came from Nicholas Kristof, a columnist for the New York Times. He asked Obama whether he had made a mistake by failing to get the Republicans to commit to raising the debt ceiling when he agreed to their demand to extend tax cuts for the rich.Kristof too came under a Twitter battering for having had his question selected."I am getting lots of complaints that Twitter questions for the president shouldn't have come from an NYT columnist. I hear you," he said in a later tweet.
The software running Apple's iPhones, iPads and the iPod Touch has "critical weaknesses" that could be used by criminals to gain access to confidential data on the devices, Germany's IT security agency has warned.Clicking on an infected PDF file "is sufficient to infect the mobile device with malware without the user's knowledge" on several versions of Apple's iOS operating system, the Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik (federal office for information security) said.Apple says it is working on fixing the security hole. Apple spokeswoman Bethan Lloyd said Thursday the company is "aware of this reported issue and developing a fix that will be available to customers in an upcoming software update." She did not specify when the update would be available.The problem may occur on iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPad, iPad 2 and the iPod Touch with software versions including iOS 4.3.3, and it "cannot be excluded" that other iOS versions – including the iOS 5 due in September – have the same weakness, said the Bonn-based federal bureau.The warning is published in German on its site.The problem could occur when opening a website that carries an infected PDF file, possibly allowing criminals to spy on passwords, planners, photos, text messages, emails and even listen in on phone conversations."The weak points allow possible attackers to gain administrator rights and get access to the entire system," the bureau said. Apple has not yet issued a fix for the problem. A spokesman for Apple Germany told the Associated Press that it was aware of the warning but would not comment on it.Apple has sold more than 200 million iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches, of which the vast majority would be vulnerable to exploitation.Mikko Hypponen of the security company F-Secure told the Guardianthat if hackers work out how to exploit it, "any web link could redirect to or embed a malicious file".The weakness was discovered by a team of hackers working on software to "jailbreak" the iPhone so that they can download any software on to it, rather than that approved by Apple. They have also put a fix for the vulnerability on their website, jailbreakme.com – but it requires the user to "jailbreak" their phone in order to load the fix. They have not, however, publicly disclosed precisely how the vulnerability works. That is a barrier to any person seeking to exploit it and means that the risk of its being used remains low for now.But until Apple works out how to fix the vulnerability and issues a software patch, jailbroken phones are more secure than the huge majority out there."If things turn bad and we see an iPhone outbreak via the new PDF vulnerability, there's not much you can do," said Mikko Hypponen of the security company F-Secure. "There are no antiviruses available on the iPhone."Apple has not yet offered a patch for the vulnerability, known as a "zero-day" weakness because the company has not been informed ahead of time of the weakness. Usually when a security company finds a weakness, it informs the company responsible for the software so there is time to develop a fix before it becomes publicly known.No attacks taking advantage of it have been reported so far, "but it must be expected that attackers will soon exploit the weak points", the German agency said.The bureau urges the devices' users to refrain from opening PDF files of unknown origin, whether they be email attachments or those offered on websites."Possible scenarios for attacks by cyber criminals include the extraction of confidential information (passwords, online banking data, calendars, emails, SMS or contacts), accessing the device's cameras, the user's GPS data as well as listening in on phone conversations," the statement said.The bureau reported a similar security hole last year, for which Apple soon presented a software upgrade fixing it.• This article was amended on 7 July 2011 to include updated information from Apple
Facebook users will be able to make free video calls to their friends through the site after the social networking giant announced a partnership with the web telephony service Skype.Rolling out internationally in the next few weeks, the widely anticipated feature brings together two of the web's most popular consumer services and is a sign of the way "social apps" will become more prevalent, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder and chief executive, said.Zuckerberg introduced the new feature as one of a slate of new sharing and communication tools to be launched in the next few months. "This is symbolic of the way we are going to do these things, building social apps on top of our social infrastructure … it's only possible because that social infrastructure already exists."He also announced group chat and a redesigned layout for Facebook chat. The next five years of consumer web, he said, would see companies across many sectors exploit the social infrastructure to make their businesses more social."The world generally believes that social software will be everywhere, and it will only be a matter of time before it reaches billions of people, whether through us or someone else," Zuckerberg told journalists and technologists at the launch in California. "The driving narrative is not about wiring up the world because a lot of the interesting stuff has been done but about what cool social apps you can build now this social infrastructure is in place."Skype video calling with Facebook, which has been six months in development, comes just a week after Google launched its own social networking layer called Google+, which includes a video chat feature called Hangouts. Zuckerberg took the very public opportunity of playing down Google+."I'm not going to talk too much about Google. Lots of companies that have not traditionally looked at social networking apps – not just Google – will be trying apps. I view a lot of this as validation of how the next five years will play out – every app will be social," he said. "We just have to stay focused on building the best service for that. If we don't, someone else will."The partnership exploits Facebook's connections with Microsoft, the technology giant which invested $240m (£117m) in the firm in 2007 and also acquired Skype in May this year for an estimated $8.5bn (£)5.2bn. Skype's chief executive, Tony Bates, said the company had put significant effort into ensuring its own infrastructure would be able to support Facebook's vast userbase, which will help Skype meet its own ambition of reaching 1 billion users.Confirming Facebook's latest monthly user milestone of 750 million people, Zuckerberg quashed speculation that its growth is slowing. "We don't measure the value the internet provides by how many people use the internet but the benefit people are getting, the apps they use and how it is driving the economy," he said, describing the volume of shared content as the primary measure for user activity.An average 4bn items, from videos to news stories and recommendations, are shared on Facebook every day. The amount of content being shared has doubled since this time last year and, predicted Zuckerberg, will, double again by this time next year.Research firm eMarketer estimates Facebook's global ad revenues will reach $4.05bn this year – more than double last year's figure of $1.86bn in global ad revenues. By 2012, worldwide ad spending on Facebook is expected to reach $5.74 bn, up 42% over 2011.• This article was amended on 7 July 2011. The previous version wrongly stated that the acquisition price for Skype was $80m. This has been corrected.
Spotify, the music streaming service, is coming to the US "soon", according to anannouncement on its front page. When is "soon"?Accordingto Ricardo Vice Santos, who does "cool stuff" for the company, "soon enough to make me excited/worried".The company has struggled with its attempt to break into the US market: it's no secret that US record labels have been holding it back because they have been sticky about licensing their content.People are being invited to register for the service for now, in the absence of any specific launch date.After the companysecured a $100m investmentin mid-June (valuing it incidentally at $1bn - quite a bit for a company that is not showing any signs of becoming very profitable any time soon) it looked as though it would have the resources to close the deals.Licensing streaming can be protracted; Google and Amazon have tried and failed to get the sort of licensing terms that they wanted over transferring and streaming music. Spotify, though, which can claimmore than 1m subscribersand, more importantly, backing of music companies (through shareholdings and/or share trades).Having arrived in the US though Spotify will be competing with a number of US-based rivals - notably Pandora, which hasrecently floated on the US stock market,and so has cash reserves with which to fight off this new competitor.Earlier on Wednesday in the UK Spotify announced a tieup with Virgin Media to offer its service through the broadband provider's set-top boxes.
Embarrassingly little scrutiny has been given to the SeedSummitstandard terms sheetsthat were announced today, the product of consensus between 21 European investors including Index, Wellington, Seedcamp and Nesta.The aim, said thepress release, is to reduce time and cost for both investors and startups in getting investment deals done. But didn't anyone think that a set of standard terms composed by a body of investors might be a little one-sided?Photo byClearly Ambiguouson Flickr.Some rights reservedWe've spoken to a veteran of the European investment scene who told us he was shocked at the naivety of response to this announcement, and explained his significant concerns about the possible conflict of interest where investors are cooperating to standardise market terms for early-stage companies. In short, these terms are "massively founder-unfriendly", particularly a clause that gives investors a controlling vote over major company decisions no matter how small their stake, and a vesting provision for founders that shouldn't be there at all."Under those terms, in that document if I invested £1 at a £100m valuation in your startup, you'd have to come to me to get my sell-in. Having the lions compose the terms without any representation from the antelope is a fairly one-sided way of doing it," said the source, who did not wish to be named."It's one side of what 'standard' is and in a negotiation the last refuge is always 'that's market practice' or 'standard terms'. That's incredibly lazy thinking. What these investors are trying to do is establish a baseline of market practices that are very investor friendly. It's the lowest common denominator of standard terms – when you decide something by committee you end up with a massive botch."It's not the principle of standard terms that's the problem. Had terms been composed by founders and investors, this would have been more balanced. But it is worrying that this is a term sheet designed not for experienced entrepreneurs likely to know when they are being sold a pup, but for first-timers taking seed funding.What does this announcement say about the startup scene in general? "It's a sign of too much capital. The first thing a supplier of a commodity tries to do the minute there's an oversupply is control the terms ... What they are trying to do is force an investor-friendly set of docs onto the ecosystem under the guise of transparency for the ecosystem and making it easier for the founders who don't know what standard terms are."SeedSummit has touted the benefits as encouraging cross-border deals within Europe, and the transparency of providing an open, publicly accessible standard set of terms that entrepreneurs can reference as some sort of benchmark. Without doubt, getting this many competitors to work together is an achievement; it took around 18 months to complete and follows a similar trend for openly publishing term sheets and contracts this year, TechCrunch points out, fromSeriesSeedin Finland,Passion CapitalandStartupBootcamp.Our expert said: "I applaud any attempt to build the European startup ecosystem, but it has to be done with the creators of real value – the founders – in the frame, not the suppliers of capital, which is the ultimate commodity."But the reality is theY all have to compete on terms anyway so this will all go out of the window soon."
Want to know the broadband speed in your area – and, just as important, how it compares to others? The communications regulator Ofcom on Wednesday released an interactive map revealing the variations of takeup and speed for fixed-line broadband around the UK.You can see the map on the Guardian's sitehereor on Ofcom's sitehere.The map shows 68% of UK homes and businesses now have a fixed broadband connection – excluding superfast broadband – with the average maximum speed of 7.5 Mbit/s. In theory, the fastest speed for first-generation broadband rolled out by BT from 2000 is 8Mbps. It has begun the rollout of a faster version, ADSL2+, which should be able to offer up to24Mbps– though most people might not see a significant difference.• The Western Isles – Na h-Eileanan an Iar – had the lowest takeup of fixed-line broadband at 46%.• Brighton and Hove registers the highest broadband takeup, at 80%.• Edinburgh has the fastest average speeds for fixed broadband at 10.1 Mbps with Bristol in second place at 9.9 Mbps• The slowest average maximum speeds were in Fermanagh, Northern Ireland, at 4.3 Mbps followed by Cookstown, at 4.4 Mbps.• Northern Ireland had some of the longest average line lengths (from the exchange to the customer) in the UK, and this leads to lower broadband speeds.The league table showed the city of Kingston-upon-Hull with the third-lowest takeup of fixed broadband at just 50% – a relatively low figure compared to similar sized cities in the UK, according to Ofcom.Significantly, 14% of customers with fixed broadband connections (excluding superfast broadband connections) currently have speeds of less than 2 Mbps – the minimum that the government thinks is acceptable for broadband. Ofcom says some could get faster speeds by improving their in-home telephone wiring, and around 6% have the option to switch to a higher speed cable and fibre-based broadband service.But the picture for superfast connections – of more than 40Mbps – is not encouraging. Ofcom says they make up less than 3% of total broadband connections. Principally those come from cable companies, notably Virgin, and are concentrated in urban areas. The government has made better superfast broadband provision a high priority, and set aside £530m – including some top-sliced from the BBC licence fee – to help achieve a target of 90% of businesses and homes able to get high-speed connections by 2015.There is little sign though of that being achieved in short order. A number of companies have complained to Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, over the pricing regime that BT has instituted for letting them lay new fibre-optic cable using its poles and ducts in rural areas, where it is expensive to install new connections – unless they use BT's existing infrastructure for the phone network.According to the figures, 58% of addresses are now in areas served by a superfast broadband enabled telephone exchange or cable network.Ed Richards, chief executive of Ofcom, said the information would help individuals, businesses and the government: "Championing the provision of more information in this kind of area in my experience so far has invariably led to better outcomes."
