Perhaps like the movie Gattaca, where genetic engineering is a divisive force, or possibly the dark world of Blade Runner, with advanced technology but lots of low-level conflict and insecurity.Those were two scenarios generated by an exercise organised by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) to consider what sort of world the interplay and advances in nanotechnology, genomics, information technology and cognitive science might create. We also had to consider the social, political and economic impacts of not only the technology but also trends like climate change, new political alignments and the rise of BRICS - Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. The three days were a mix of Neal Stephenson and Bill Clinton - a cyberpunk novel written by policy wonks.We developed four visions of the future; some were positive and hopeful. One was called heterarchy, a fast-paced collaborative world where science enhanced and extended life. Research was open sourced and developed into the blockbuster industry of the future, extending lifespans to 180 years.Another just extended the present, with outsourcing of nanotube production from China to Africa after 20 years of international debate over the factories' safety. Governments struggled to cope with the pace of change in biofuels, nanotechnology and genetic engineering, but eventually caught up.To be honest, we didn't find the positive scenarios to be all that interesting. So we decided to consider: what if it all went wrong - even horribly wrong?One possible future we envisioned was "gridlock". The left-right split of today's politics gave way to a deeply divisive standoff between "naturals" and "enhanceds". Enhanceds used all the tools of science to make life better, with intelligence-enhancing drugs and genetic screening of embryos for positive or negative traits (such as a predisposition to cancer). Naturals, a novel alliance of science sceptics from the old left and religious fundamentalists from the right, rejected enhanceds' "meddling" with natureThe worst world we envisioned we called "No Glue", where the financial, political and even social bonds of society all came apart. We considered a rapid evolution of virtual worlds that completely outpaced the ability of governments and international institutions to cope. Financial markets moved quickly into these virtual worlds because they were a much more efficient way of doing business than in the past. Virtual currencies became the medium of exchange. As nations declined and virtual worlds rose, offline social bonds frayed and people lost trust in each other. War and terrorism declined but the world was plunged into constant low-level conflict.Commenters on the Guardian Technology blog thought our scenarios were too positive: you foresaw a darker future of declining fortunes and increasing conflict. Remind me - which film is that?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Endless rebootMy Windows XP SP2 PC appears to boot up in the usual way, but then stops, saying Windows did not start successfully, possibly due to a hardware or software change. Whichever of the boot-up options I choose results in the same cycle.George KatritzkyJS: This could be the result of software corruption, a hardware failure or a virus. The quickest and simplest solution is to reinstall Windows. This will usually mean you lose the data on your hard drive. You should, of course, be able to retrieve your data from backups. If not, the problem becomes more difficult.According to the Microsoft Knowledge Base, you can recover your PC by starting it from the Windows CD and using the Recovery Console (search Google for307654). This has a DOS-style command prompt and is therefore only recommended for advanced users. It also assumes you will have some idea how to find and fix whatever is stopping your PC from booting. Another option is to perform a Windows XP repair installation, which Microsoft describes in article315341. Michael Stevens provides fuller instructions attinyurl.com/r1cg, along with numerous dire warnings. But this approach will not work if your PC has a hard drive or memory failure (seeoca.microsoft.com/en/windiag.asp).If you really cannot afford to lose any data, you can try booting your PC from a "live" Linux CD such as Knoppix, which will not affect your hard drive. The Trinity Rescue Kit 3.2 is a live Linux CD created especially for rescuing Windows machines (tinyurl.com/lhoha).For less expert users, it's easier to buy a new hard drive to replace your current disk and reinstall Windows from scratch.Once XP is running, you can install the old hard drive as a "slave" or in an external USB housing. You should then be able to copy your data from the original drive.You must have a firewall turned on before reconnecting to the net, and your first connection should be to Windows Update.DAB questionWhen all our radios have gone digital, how will we play our iPod music, which at present we can transmit through an FM radio?Sarah BorowskJS:DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) and DAB+ systems usually include FM as well, so the FM radio approach should continue to work for the foreseeable future.Goodbye to W98SEI think I must, reluctantly, move on from Windows 98SE, so the question is XP or Vista? My PC has a 1.7GHz Pentium 4 and 256MB of memory.ChrisJS:Your system has more than enough power to run Windows XP SP2 if you upgrade to 1GB of memory. Unfortunately, retail packs of Windows XP Pro and the XP Pro Upgrade seem to cost around &pound;150. It probably isn't worth spending between &pound;200 and &pound;250 on your old PC when new ones start at less than &pound;400, eg a Dell Dimension E520 with 1GB of memory, 250GB hard drive, DVD and 19in LCD screen, including delivery and VAT.However, if you go for a cheap OEM version of Windows XP (which doesn't include support) or can find a secondhand copy that will authenticate correctly under WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage), then you should be able to extend the life of your current PC for under &pound;100.A full copy of Vista Home Premium costs about the same or less than a boxed copy of XP Pro, and it will run in 1GB, but 2GB of memory is recommended. However, there isn't an upgrade path from Windows 98SE or any DOS-based version of Windows to Vista, and you could find XP a smoother installation than Vista on such old hardware. But if you do buy a new PC, I'd go for whichever version of Vista that does what you need - probably Home Premium or Business - as the long-term gain should outweigh any short-term pain. You can still install a free Linux alongside Windows, or experiment by running it from a live CD. There's a LiveCD version of Ubuntu (help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD).BackchatFollowing up last week's answer about PC memory, Richard Hancock points out that each Windows program can have 4GB of address space, which isn't necessarily virtual memory. "Only parts of that 4GB address space will be 'committed', ie backed by virtual memory (some or all of which will be backed by physical memory)."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At The New York Times, David Pogue has followed up his iPhone review with replies to somefrequently asked questions. A couple of samples:Do I need an AT&amp;T account?Yes. The iPhone won't work at all without a two-year AT&amp;T voice-plus-Internet plan (and no, you can't use it as just an iPod, no matter how tempting the bigger screen and longer battery life is).How snappy is the real iPhone, compared with Apple's ads?It's identical, with one exception: Apple never shows the iPhone when it's on AT&amp;T's cellular network. That would just be embarrassing.What does [the Web browser] lack?Java, Flash, stored passwords, RSS, streaming audio or video (except for some QuickTime videos).The Think Secret site also hasa collection of snippetsfrom reviews, which includes the information that: "Apple has developed a web app at reader.mac.com that will bring RSS feeds to the iPhone. Users will be able to add the addresses of news feeds and check on headlines through the Apple-designed RSS aggregator."
The first time I heard Steve Jobs being asked "What is the iPhone?" was in September 2002, at a press conference in Paris. His reply then was an incredulous "Whaat?", as though he'd been asked how often he'd had the yeti as a dinner guest. With the iPod then not quite a year old, Apple's focus was just on pulling itself out of its limp financial position - which began to happen once that gadget was made available for Windows. But the iPod then wasn't enough for people; they thought Apple should be making a mobile phone, and since the iMac and iBook had been cool names, "iPhone" was the obvious next step.So people speculated and dreamed and sketched iPhone designs. People have been wishing that Apple would launch a phone for so long that the fact that it actually will tomorrow has created in some people an unbearable tension between dream and bathetic reality, as though it had been announced that aliens had been discovered, but that they wear tweed.Perhaps uniquely for a product that has not yet appeared on any retailers' shelves, the iPhone has set some sort of record for prerelease hype - and opprobrium. Last week ZDNet published an article suggesting people might crash their cars while trying to text on it (because they'll have to look at the screen), while the Wall Street Journal suggested corporations' IT departments would stall people wanting to hook the iPhone to corporate email systems because it might be "insecure".Another writer, Robert Vamosi, stated confidently that "for the moment, iPhone will be running a version of the current Mac OS 10.4" (tinyurl.com/299hpc), which wins my prize for dumbest remark: how could anyone who's seen both the iPhone display and Mac OS X seriously think that? Forbes quoted Andrew Storms of nCircle, a computer security company, who suggested: "It's going to be entering enterprise networks whether we like it or not, and it's a nightmare for security teams." Then then he admitted this was "largely speculation" (tinyurl.com/2huxru). Well, yes, since he hasn't used one ...I'm indebted to John Gruber, whose Daring Fireball site (daringfireball.net) has been patiently, and eye-rollingly, noting these little snippets of absurd "reporting". But what's behind it all? As we wave Tony Blair goodbye, his "feral beast" speech - about how the 24-hour media cycle means careful consideration gets left in the dust as news organisations and websites vie to be first with a headline that will attract readers (tinyurl.com/ynt8rz) - seems pertinent.It's just like that with the iPhone: website editors know well that the online equivalent of a theatre sign saying "Free Beer" is a headline with the words "Apple" and "iPod" or "iPhone". (Though "iPod" is losing its lustre there.) So people are writing anything about the iPhone, even though they haven't found out anything new, or met anyone informed.Partly that's due to Steve Jobs, who in 10 years has completely reversed the positions of Apple and New Labour. In 1997, the latter was the tightest publicity ship you could imagine. Now it leaks like a rusty boat. And Apple? More tightly sealed than an iPod, unlike the loose-lipped ship of yore.What I haven't seen written about are the hard questions for network operators and rival designers. Did it really need Apple to notice that linear voicemail, where you have to listen to each message in strict order, is annoying and incongruous (you don't have to ring missed callers in the order they called you)? Or to put text messages into "threads" with their sender? (Have a look at Apple's 20-minute guided tour attinyurl.com/2hlaow.)I don't know if I'll buy an iPhone, because I haven't seen the European specification. It might acquire 3G, and GPS; I'm hypothesising. Still, Apple helped to drive the PC industry from command-line systems to the graphical user interface; if it can get mobile phone operators to start thinking about better services, rather than just pushing shoddy subsidised phones at us, then all that hype won't have been wasted.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
My Windows XP SP2 PC appears to boot up in the usual way, but then stops, saying Windows did not start successfully, possibly due to a hardware or software change. Whichever of the boot-up options I choose results in the same cycle. George KatritzkyThis could be the result of software corruption, a hardware failure or a virus. The quickest and simplest solution is to reinstall Windows from an original CD or from a hard drive partition that will return the machine to its factory state. This will usually mean you lose the data on your hard drive. You should, of course, be able to retrieve your data from backups. If not, the problem becomes more difficult.According to the Microsoft Knowledge Base, you can recover your PC by starting it from the Windows CD and using the Recovery Console (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/307654). This has a DOS-style command prompt and is therefore only recommended for advanced users. It also assumes you will have some idea how to find and fix whatever is stopping your PC from booting.Another option is to perform a Windows XP repair installation, which Microsoft describes inarticle 315341. Michael Stevens provides fuller instructions athttp://michaelstevenstech.com/XPrepairinstall.htm, along with numerous dire warnings. But this approach will not work if your PC has a hard drive or memory failure (seehttp://www.oca.microsoft.com/en/windiag.asp).If you really cannot afford to lose any data, you can try booting your PC from a "live" Linux CD such as Knoppix, which will not affect your hard drive. The Trinity Rescue Kit 3.2 is a live Linux CD created especially for rescuing Windows machines (http://trinityhome.org/Home/index.php?wpid=1&amp;front_id=12).For less expert users, it's easier to buy a new hard drive to replace your current disk and reinstall Windows from scratch.Once XP is running, you can install the old hard drive as a "slave" or in an external USB housing. You should then be able to copy your data from the original drive.You must have a firewall turned on before reconnecting to the net, and your first connection should be to Windows Update.
I think I must, reluctantly, move on from Windows 98SE, so the question is XP or Vista? (I am nervous of going to Linux, and the programs I like run on Windows and not on Linux.) My PC has a 1.7GHz Pentium 4 and 256MB of memory. ChrisYour system has more than enough power to run Windows XP SP2 if you upgrade to 1GB of memory. Unfortunately, retail packs of Windows XP Pro and the XP Pro Upgrade seem to cost around £150. It probably isn't worth spending between £200 and £250 on your old PC when new ones start at less than £400, eg a Dell Dimension E520 with 1GB of memory, 250GB hard drive, DVD and 19in LCD screen, including delivery and VAT.However, if you go for a cheap OEM version of Windows XP (which doesn't include support) or can find a secondhand copy that will authenticate correctly under WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage), then you should be able to extend the life of your current PC for under £100.A full copy of Vista Home Premium costs about the same or less than a boxed copy of XP Pro, and it will run in 1GB, but 2GB of memory is recommended. However, there isn't an upgrade path from Windows 98SE or any DOS-based version of Windows to Vista, and you could find XP a smoother installation than Vista on such old hardware.But if you do buy a new PC, I'd go for whichever version of Vista that does what you need -- probably Home Premium or Business -- as the long-term gain should outweigh any short-term pain. You can still install a free Linux alongside Windows, or experiment by running it from a live CD. There's a LiveCD version of Ubuntu (help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD).Note: The reference to Linux in the orginal question was edited out of the published version, but the Linux reference in the answer was left in ;-)Backchat: Ken Vines thought I was too hard on Windows XP, in suggesting 1GB of memory. He says: "256MB is perfectly adequate to run XP and 512MB adequate for all but the most demanding applications, which most people don't run." XP SP2 will also run Microsoft Office 2003 in 128MB of memory, but having done it, I don't recommend it. More memory helps compensate for a slow processor and slow hard drive. Also, memory is so cheap nowadays, I think it's worth having more.
When all our radios have gone digital, how will we play our iPod music, which at present we can transmit through an FM radio? Sarah BorowskiDAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) and DAB+ systems usually include FM as well, so the FM radio approach should continue to work for the foreseeable future.
At dozens of sites around the world today, construction crews are erecting vast, windowless buildings, each designed to hold thousands of computers. Connected to the internet through thick bundles of fibre-optic cables, these data centres, or server farms, promise to be the power plants of the information age - and to usher in a new era in the software business.Google has been the leader in the building boom as it strives to keep up with the booming demand for its search engine and other web services. The company already operates scores of data centres around the globe, reportedly holding as many as 2m or 3m computers altogether, and it continues to spend billions of dollars a year to put up new ones. It has centres under construction in Oregon, North and South Carolina, Oklahoma and the Dutch port city of Eemshaven, and last week announced plans for a $600m (&pound;300m) facility in Iowa.But Google is far from the only computing company laying lots of bricks and mortar. Its arch-rival, Microsoft, is building a mammoth data centre on a former bean field in the farming town of Quincy, Washington. It expects that the site will ultimately hold six warehouse-sized buildings encompassing 140,000 sq m of computer-packed space. Also rushing to build or lease data centres are Yahoo!, Ask.com, Intuit, Salesforce.com and Deutsche Telekom's T-Systems unit, among many others.What's behind this land grab? It stems from a change in the nature of the software business. In the past, software companies only had to concern themselves with writing code, copying their programs on to discs and selling them. It was up to the buyers of the software to maintain the computers, storage drives and all the other hardware needed to run the programs.But the spread of the broadband internet, with its enormous capacity for transmitting data, is changing the way we think about and use software. We're not installing as many programs on our own computers as we used to. Instead, we're tapping into programs that are delivered through our web browsers. Facebook, YouTube, Wikipedia, World of Warcraft, Yahoo! Mail, Google Spreadsheets - those are just a few examples of the popular software programs that run mainly in distant data centres, on computers owned or leased by software companies.This trend, which started in the home, is now moving into businesses. Instead of installing pricey and finicky software on their own computers, companies are beginning to rent programs over the net for a monthly fee. Even sophisticated applications for maintaining customer accounts, tracking finances, managing workers and performing other complicated tasks are now being offered as web services. The burden of running software is shifting from the buyer to the seller.To be a successful software company today, you increasingly have to worry not just about writing code but about assembling and maintaining big, complex hardware systems. There's an irony here. Since the arrival of the web nearly two decades ago, the pundits of information processing have told us that the future will be created not out of the atoms of the physical world, but out of the bits of the digital realm. The software business, conjured out of immaterial lines of code, has been held up as the herald and symbol of this transformation.But today's software companies are finding that, as more computing tasks move online, they have to compete not just on the elegance of their programs, but on their ingenuity and efficiency in buying and deploying physical assets - land, buildings, computers, and other gear - as well as managing the huge amounts of energy required to keep all the machines running. The management of atoms is becoming as important as the management of bits.Up till now, software businesses have had the luxury of not having to worry about the big investments in physical capital that have always characterised their industrial-age counterparts. But that's changing. The software business is coming down to earth.&#183;Nicholas Carr's next book will be The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There are a couple of hardware stories I've neglected to cover over the last week - apologies if these have already been discussed in Chatterbox, but thought I'd link to them now, just in case anyone missed them.Many of you will already be aware of the 'reliability' issues surrounding Xbox 360 (there's a 'red ring of death' group on FaceBook if you fancy sharing stories with other victims). A whole new rumpus has kicked off this week thanks tonews from Australiathat Microsoft is apparently handling failure rates of 30 percent with the console.Australian retailers quizzed for the news piece claim the situation has improved greatly with new iterations of the hardware, but as my machine is first-generation I feel like the sword of Damocles is suspended over it... possibly on a thin twine of worn cotton hopelessly inappropriate for the load it is bearing. It's worrying enough having my 18-month-old son jabbing at the console with his marmalade-smeared fingers, without having to consider that it may just implode from within anyway.UPDATE:thanks to reader, StevieBee, for reminding me aboutthis story- Microsoft UK is apparently receiving 2,500 broken 360sa dayand is struggling to cope, sending them on to Prague for repair.The other big machine news is that the PSP 3.50 firmware update not only opened up the possibility of Remore Play with PS3 via any secure Wi-Fi internet connection in the world (I'll believe it when I see it), but also unlocked the console's clock speed, allowing developers to utilise the full 333Mhz, rather than the 266Mhz previously available. God of War: Chain of Olympus is the first title to take advantage of the boost. There is, apparently, a hit on battery life, but there you go - the light that burns twice as bright burns half as long, as Eldon Tyrell once famously explained.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..In depth:Hanging up on ringtonesWith the market for downloadable over-the-air content flat, operators and music companies are looking to other ways of making money from mobiles, says Adam Webb.Government on the back foot over policies for pricing dataFree Our Data: Two government reports mark a move towards joined-up thinking - but there is some way to go, says Michael Cross.For power, just add waterResearchers have found a way to get renewable energy by extracting hydrogen from an alloy, reports Michael Pollitt.Game developers suffering a fit of the vapoursThe latest Duke Nukem game is in its 10th year of development - but it's not the only long-delayed thing, says Alexander Gambotto-Burke.Taxman lets loose the spiders to net Wimbledon rent cheatsWimbledon residents hoping to make a quick buck this fortnight by renting their property to tennis fans would be well advised not to advertise online if they want to keep the transaction private. HM Revenue and Customs is deploying a web spider to sniff out undeclared rentals and link them to tax returns, says Chris Partridge.Opinion:Pointless iPhone speculation hides more important mobile mattersCharles Arthur: Perhaps uniquely for a product that has not yet appeared on any retailers' shelves, the iPhone has set some sort of record for prerelease hype - and opprobrium.Software companies are building their way to a very material futureNick Carr: Today's software companies are finding that, as more computing tasks move online, they have to compete not just on the elegance of their programs, but on their ingenuity and efficiency in buying and deploying physical assets.The striptease of the vanities awaits usVictor Keegan: For years we have been worried stiff about a state-backed Big Brother using new technology to extract personal information about us, whether from the web or CCTV cameras. But now it has all changed.TechnobileGordon MacKie: I know how to spell my surname, thanks, and I don't want software telling me otherwise.A machine gun now comes with a lesson in philosophyGamesblog: If your understanding of videogame culture has come solely from reading the newspapers this month you'd be forgiven for thinking that developers are, for the most part, irresponsible psychos with a target audience of demented murderers and heretics. In fact, these days, most violent games have a brain and, Lord help us, a conscience.Newly Asked Questions:What will the future look like - utopian, dystopian, or both?An exercise organised by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) to consider what sort of world advances in nanotechnology, genomics, information technology and cognitive science might create was a mix of Neal Stephenson and Bill Clinton - a cyberpunk novel written by policy wonks, says Kevin Anderson.What do increased sales of Dark Side of The Moon tell us?That there's a new audio format to buy it in, says Charles Arthur. Pink Floyd's 1973 album has become the unofficial metric by which one measures a new audio format's likely takeup.And the restGadgetsQuicktionary 3 Lite | Olympus mju 770SW | Toshiba Portege G500Ask JackSend your questions and comments to Jack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updatesSiteseeingSlide comes into sharper focus.NewsbytesiPhone frenzy | Terabyte watershed | Sporting final | Plaxo reinvented | Personal supercomputing | Touchscreen camera | For the birds | Picture pointersLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
This week's issue of Ask Jack, printed in the Guardian's Technology section, is now onlinehereYou can send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but please include full details with your query.This blog only shows the 12 most recent entries. However, you can access more queries by clicking one of the topic headings on the right, such as Home Entertainment or Windows. Click onAboutfor more information.
iPhone frenzyAT&amp;T will start selling the long-awaited Apple iPhone in the US tomorrow.apple.com/iphoneTerabyte watershedSamsung says it has started shipping SpinPoint F1 Series hard drives that store a terabyte of data. Seagate says it will ship 1TB Barracuda drives in the third quarter.tinyurl.com/2al243andtinyurl.com/yv6oybSporting finalThe Electronic Sports World Cup 2007 final will be held in Paris from July 5-8.eswc.com/worldPlaxo reinventedPlaxo has released the beta version of a service to combine a user's address books from Microsoft Outlook, web-based mail services and mobile phones.plaxo.comPersonal supercomputingThe graphics processors on PC graphics cards can do some jobs faster than the CPU. nVidia has responded with the Tesla GPU intended for supercomputing applications.nvidia.com/teslaTouchscreen cameraHewlett Packard's 8 megapixel Photosmart R937 digital camera has a touch-sensitive screen for editing and organising photos on the camera.tinyurl.com/36ekbkFor the birdsThe RSPB has launched a monthly podcast called Nature's Voice.rspb.org.uk/podcastsPicture pointersVizURL is a new online service that shows your internet bookmarks as logo images instead of text addresses.vizurl.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In a world looking for renewable energy sources, wouldn't the hydrogen in water be just perfect? But splitting water into hydrogen (H) and oxygen (O) isn't that easy. Given the economic considerations of using electrolysis or very high temperatures, most hydrogen is produced from the steam reforming of natural gas.All this could be about to change. If Jerry Woodall, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University in Indiana succeeds, then water might become the fuel for portable generators, electric wheelchairs, golf carts and perhaps even cars. His idea goes back to 1967 when he was an IBM researcher working on semiconductors. "I was cleaning a crucible containing liquid alloys of gallium and aluminium," says Woodall. "When I added water to this alloy - talk about a discovery - there was a violent boof."The aluminium atoms had reacted with the water, splitting it to produce hydrogen and aluminium oxide (Al2O3). As a useful lightweight metal, aluminium is normally protected by a permanent oxide layer, which makes it resistant to corrosion. Gallium, however, is a soft silvery metal that dissolves aluminium, preventing the layer forming. Woodall wrote a patent for IBM and put his discovery aside.Instant fizzPrompted by a colleague a couple of years ago, Woodall has picked up where he left off. While the original patent was liquid-based, he's since developed a solid alloy of 20% gallium, 80% aluminium. Put a small lump of his latest mix into a test tube, add water, and it instantly fizzes with released hydrogen - just 25 grams of aluminium gives 34 litres. The reaction also produces aluminium oxide and heat, leaving the gallium unchanged.Woodall has worked out that a pound weight of aluminium produces more than 2kW hours of energy in the form of hydrogen combustion and more than 2kW hours of heat from the reaction of aluminium with water. But turning laboratory research into a usable technology is a big challenge. Having patented a "solid state renewable energy supply", Woodall is looking for applications. He's recently adapted a standard gas tank to contain some solid alloy. Add water and the hydrogen pressure soon builds enough to run a portable generator; he reckons hydrogen-powered lawnmowers are feasible, too."It's a simple matter to convert ordinary internal combustion engines to run on hydrogen. All you have to do is replace the [petrol] fuel injector with a hydrogen injector," Woodall says. Burn hydrogen as a fuel in an engine and what comes out of the exhaust pipe is water vapour. The aluminium oxide produced when the gas is generated can be recycled back to aluminium, just like the bauxite ore to aluminium process. Costing around $350 (&pound;175) per kilogram, the inert gallium is also recoverable.Professor Robbie Burch of Queens University Belfast also knows a great deal about producing hydrogen. He's been researching the catalytic reforming of bio-ethanol and pyrolysis oil, trying to use renewable sources of biomaterial to make hydrogen in a carbon-neutral way - a "green" fuel."Their discovery that alloying aluminium with gallium allows the aluminium to react is new to me," Burch says. "I think there are a number of problems in addition to the overall energy efficiency of the process. The side product of the hydrogen production is a very finely divided wet aluminium oxide powder. This will be difficult to handle."Hidden costMaking hydrogen is one thing, storing it safely quite another. To power your car for 300 miles, you'd need the space of a double-decker bus to store the gas. But even if you liquify it at minus 250C, you still have problems - BMW's hydrogen demonstrator car has a fuel tank that takes up half the boot and needs frequent refilling.Currently researching new methods of storing hydrogen, Professor Peter Edwards of the University of Oxford also finds Woodall's research innovative. "What they're talking about is hydrogen that's stored in water and, in a way, that's the ultimate store," he says. "In theory, you don't have a carbon penalty but there's always a hidden carbon cost." A litre of water contains the equivalent of 1,366 litres of hydrogen - which provides the same energy as 0.4 litres of petrol.Recent research by the UK Sustainable Hydrogen Energy Consortium has found a lithium hydride powder that absorbs the gas into its crystal structure and releases it when needed. This might eventually give hydrogen-powered cars a realistic range between fuel stops. Although he worries about the aluminium oxide waste produced by Woodall's method, he sees a positive side too."Aluminium does give you a route to renewables. This is an interesting development and it's trying to move towards making hydrogen from water. That has to be good," says Edwards, who also mentions science's holy grail of using sunlight directly to decompose water. "Diesel is the most effective hydrogen store there is except that it's got carbon. At the moment, all the hydrogen comes from hydrocarbons."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wimbledon residents hoping to make a quick buck this fortnight by renting their property to tennis fans would be well advised not to advertise online if they want to keep the transaction private. HM Revenue and Customs is deploying a web spider to sniff out undeclared rentals and link them to tax returns.Revenue officers have always scanned the local papers and taken a look at corner shop noticeboards in the run-up to the Wimbledon fortnight, when rents round the All England club in south London can hit &pound;900 for a simple one-bed flat in drab Southfields. A luxury five-bedroom mansion next to the courts can fetch &pound;8,000 per week.But the property lettings business has now moved almost completely online, giving many householders the impression that they can advertise without attracting attention from the taxman. They are wrong. The taxman's spider searches the web for ads which match criteria set by the officer in charge of a project such as the clampdown on Wimbledon lettings.The results can be compared with lists provided by local letting agents to eliminate declared rental income, focusing attention on potential tax evaders.HMRC says its system has had considerable success over the past year identifying online traders who fail to declare income or to register for VAT and National Insurance. The take is estimated at well over &pound;1m a year in unpaid VAT alone.The main obstacle it faces is on sites such as eBay, where traders are anonymous. Here the process is done in reverse: revenue officers start with traders they are already investigating, using the web spider to flag up sales in areas the trader deals in and might be linked back.Items are often purchased to establish the true identity and billing details of the trader. In this way, HMRC can build up a picture of the true extent of a trader's operations and estimate how much has not been declared.According to HMRC, eBay's informal culture, where people selling unwanted personal stuff are difficult to distinguish from large former mail-order companies, has blurred the distinction between amateur and professional traders.However, more than 100,000 people are now believed to make at least a quarter of their income from eBay trading. Many of these smaller traders believe that this sideline need not be declared even if turnover rises above the &pound;65,000 threshold for VAT registration.According to Peter Goodman, tax partner at accountancy firm Wilkins Kennedy, HMRC already has powers to demand information about transactions on websites from the site owners, and makes increasing use of them. "HMRC has various powers to obtain information about website and estate agent transactions and to cross reference against individual taxpayers' records," he says."This is part of a wider move by HMRC to use more innovative investigatory techniques to search for unpaid tax as it comes under pressure to increase its tax intake."And even as revenue officers search cyberspace for undeclared rents in Wimbledon, they are preparing the tax web bot for the next big bonanza for homeowners. Roll on the Edinburgh Festival.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Although Apple's iPhone is only released in the US tomorrow, its ringtone has been available for download for months, picked up by alert listeners to Steve Jobs's demo in San Francisco in January. Being a MIDI sequence, it's free. Free ringtones? It's enough to put a shudder through the music and mobile businesses.Yet they might have good reason to worry. One of the many anomalies of the mobile music market is that, while a full track bought directly from a network will cost between &pound;1 and &pound;1.50, a 20- second snippet from the same original can be priced at up to three times as much. Globally, this has created a multi-billion-pound business.In 2005, German-based content provider Jamba! reportedly amassed profits of $600m (&pound;300m) on the back of its Crazy Frog ringtone. Meanwhile, cumulative "realtone" (music tone) sales for R&amp;B artist Akon recently surpassed the 11m mark, greater than either of his two albums. Realtones generate royalties for record labels (though monophonic and polyphonic tones, or those from animated amphibians, do not), creating an unexpected silver lining for the music business which is stuck in a generally rather black digital cloud.Lucrative purchasesBut if the iPhone and the majority of next-generation handsets is anything to go by, the future of mobile entertainment lies in "sideloading" - transferring existing content, such as music, from a PC, as opposed to the more lucrative (for operators) process of purchasing products over the air."I think the ringtone business is in peril now because the operators have allowed into the market mobile phones which can sideload MP3s and use them as ringtones," says Andrew Bud, executive chairman of mBlox and vice-chairman of the Mobile Entertainment Forum.With nobody able to explain convincingly just why consumers continue to pay a premium for a novelty product, the ringtone industry is something of a gravity-defying act anyway. One analyst goes so far as to describe ringtones as "digital jewellery", with most concluding that their value is a combination of personalisation and convenience.According to the digital music business research consultancy Music Ally, the retail value of the UK's music ringtone market this year will be between &pound;100 and 120m, compared to &pound;30m for full track mobile downloads. With networks taking a slice of between 40% and 50% from each transaction, this looks slightly less impressive from the music industry's perspective. But a BPI press release earlier this month (tinyurl.com/2epp8w) quotes research by Informa Telecoms &amp; Media that the western European realtone market is set to increase this year by 56%. Surely things can only get better?However, Informa's analysts were unavailable to explain their calculations. And certainly sideloading (along with excessive data charges and poor user experience) is one of three significant roadblocks to bigger sales.Sideloading highlights some of the mobile market's inherent contradictions. The facility is essential for handset manufacturers such as Nokia and Ericsson, which are in effect competing head-to-head with Apple in the MP3 player market. But that is not necessarily in the vested interest of the networks that want consumers to buy content over the air, preferably within their walled garden.Meanwhile, music-enabled handsets able to store hundreds of tracks are increasingly commonplace - the BPI release notes that 40% of UK phones can play music files - and if the example of the iPod is anything to go by, the majority of these will be ripped from CD collections. Notably, the current specification for Apple's iPhone has no 3G capabilities, and is custom-built for sideloading. If converting those tracks into a user-generated ringer is similarly straightforward (as it is on popular models such as Sony Ericsson's Walkman range) and costs nothing, then the days of the &pound;3 ringtone look numbered.Mobile measurement company M:Metrics claims that 12% of UK mobile users are already sideloading their music collections, compared to 2.5% who buy tracks over the air. Countering Informa's predictions, they also suggest that the realtone market is, at best, flat, with 1.1 million UK consumers buying one or more ringtones in April, compared to 1.35 million in September last year.Anecdotally, record labels agree. Last year, Rob Wells of Universal Music Group International claimed that the UK ringtone market was in terminal decline.Whether sideloading will sound its death knell is another matter. Nobody within the mobile business anticipated the demand for either ringtones or text messages in the first place, indicating the market's unpredictability, says Music Ally's Steve Mayall. And since the industry is rife with unrealistic predictions and hype, that makes it incredibly difficult to assess. "Somebody said yesterday [at Monaco's Mobile Entertainment Market conference] that mobile content is a $40bn industry, but it's not," says Mayall."It's not even half that. It's not bigger than the entire music or film industry, and that kind of hyperbole is in danger of hurting the whole business. The reason that ringtones have been so popular is simply the convenience factor - and that isn't going away. That ability to make an instant purchase is still there, and businesses can still make a decent amount of money from ringtones."Bundled futureBut the fact remains that some fundamental changes will be necessary if this digital jewellery is to retain its allure. Seth Jackson, MD of marketing and distribution company Indie Mobile, says the future will most likely be a bundle (where, for a couple of quid, you'll get a full track, a ringtone and a video).Elsewhere, innovative products are being introduced: EMI, for instance, has just unveiled a remixable realtone for the hip hop artist MIMS, while independent labels such as Ninja Tune are using them as freebie promotional tools.What is certain is that prices cannot remain static. And as with moves to incorporate VoIP services and flat-rate data charges, it is innovation that will move the market forward, rather than the protection of any perceived golden goose."You can look at something like sideloading in two ways," Mayall says. "You can either say this is bad for the business as they're not getting money from OTA [over-the-air] downloads or ringtones, or you could say that it's encouraging people to think of their phone in a different way, and as a potential music player. Once you've got that notion established then you can build business models off the back of it. And that's really the way they're going to have to go."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A net for phishersIf banks' emails were aways sent from IP addresses registered to their own domain it would be easier to detect phishing messages (Revoke the phishing licence, June 21). This needs to be done at the ISP level as a phisher could insert a bogus "Received" line, but an ISP could detect this by checking for references to itself in the header.David Holdsworth,SettleSilence of the playersMat Smith should move to Vista 64 bit (Technobile, June 21). Realplayer for one does not provide a version that runs on that OS.John Loader,FordhamCalled to the barcodesThis article seems to have been written largely on the basis of Scanbuy's publicity machine (Mobile phone hyperlinks for the real world, June 21). If you'd done more thorough research, you'd have included a report on the Mobile Codes Consortium (mobilecodes.org), which is the only body seriously aimed at building a mobile codes ecosystem.Tim Kindberg,Hewlett Packard, BristolMobile phones are increasingly being used as a method to present barcodes, and companies already text consumers with messages that appear as bar codes on the screen. These can then be used as electronic tickets, for example.David Barnes,Motorola Enterprise Mobility BusinessWhen is Open not open?OpenXML (i.e. the .docx format) is so tied to Microsoft's products that to call it a standard, never mind an open standard, is disingenuous (Why .docx is a good thing, June 21). This is such a blatant attempt by Microsoft to retain its proprietary stranglehold on businesses using Office that it just isn't funny.Steve Welshman,Gillingham"The big question, of course, is why Microsoft didn't simply adopt ODF." Isn't there a risk that Microsoft might not be completely honest about its motives? Especially considering its lucrative monopoly might be at stake?Jan Hornboll Hansen,Soborg, DenmarkWhere would Wii go?If there weren't a Wii, where would those sales go? (Newly Asked Questions, June 21) Microsoft? Sony? Something else entirely?forums.projectego.netPushing the envelopeWindow envelopes (Letters and blogs, June 21) might be handy, but they are environmentally unfriendly as before recycling, the plastic window must be removed and binned. Most people don't bother.Peter Baker,LondonThe SQLite fantasticMany software salespeople have trumpeted far less useful pieces of software as the second coming (Modest creator of SQLite, June 21). Hipp could have made untold millions from SQLite. People embed it in other applications (that they sell) and I'm sure it's going to spread like wildfire in mobile devices.roboticat.comSoftly, softlyThose in search of a quiet PC should investigate the Mac Mini (Art of reducing your computer's noise, June 14).Roger Shufflebottom,HertfordSusan Witterick's claim that computer fans provide useful masking noise (Letters, June 21), reminds me of a drummer friend who lives besides the North Circular Road in London. When asked how he coped with the noise, he said it was great because he could practise all day and no one could hear him.Martin Davidson,London&#183;Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Quicktionary 3 LiteIf you're off on holiday in a couple of weeks' time, it's probably too late to attempt fluency in a new language. The &pound;85 Quicktionary 3 Lite might go some way to help, since it translates text from English to French or Spanish, and vice versa, depending on which version you buy. It comes in the form of a (rather large) pen that you scan over any printed text. It then suggests the correct translation. It does a remarkably accurate job, as long as the text is clear. However, it doesn't work on handwriting, no matter how neat you try to be, and has trouble with smaller fonts. It would be perfect for things like menus, though, where the text tends to be larger. Unfortunately, rather than suggesting the equivalent sentence to the one you have entered, it translates each word individually, leaving you to scroll through the suggested options. For example, it offered four different translations for the word "calling", with no clue as to which one would make sense in the sentence. The display screen also doubles as a touchscreen, so you can enter words yourself. There is a stylus stowed away within the pen, so you can stab away at the displayed keypad. It's fiddly, but if you've got a language emergency, it might just save the day.Olympus mju 770SWThe Olympus mju 770SW is meant for people guilty of not taking care of their gadgets. The company claims that this camera, priced at &pound;225, is shockproof, freezeproof and crushproof. It is also waterproof up to 10 metres. The 3x optical zoom is internal, to ensure nothing gets damaged when you inadvertently test the claim that it can withstand falls of up to 1.5 metres. The sturdy metal body makes the camera slightly heavier and chunkier than you might want, but it's more than made up for in peace of mind. One complaint regarding the build was that the battery and USB covers are difficult to open - presumably to prevent dirt and water from seeping in. There are 24 different modes, including such esoteric options as "auction" and "cuisine", the former presumably for the perfect eBay photo.Toshiba Portege G500The first thing you notice about this &pound;270 Toshiba phone is the size. Reminiscent of two old-style Sony Ericssons stacked on top of one another, you're paying a lot of pocket space for the connectivity of HSDPA, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. But in fairness to Toshiba, it bills it as a notebook in your pocket rather than a standalone phone. It's a shame, then, that it looks so much like a phone. The numeric keypad slides out from under the body of the phone, while the fingerprint scanner, for that extra level of James Bond-like security, is also under the slider. This same scanner can be used to control the cursor on the screen, although it's not particularly easy to use. The device runs Windows Mobile 5.0 which, while not the latest version of the Windows software, features a familiar and easy to navigate interface, and good support of email and office documents.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last weekSlide.comtook the No.2 rank among photography sites, based on its share of UK internet visits, overtakingFlickr.combut laggingPhotobucket.com. The rise of Slide and the dominance of Photobucket are a result of deals with social networks: Slide.com's visits more than doubled last week on the back of a partnership with social networkFacebook, which accounted for half of its UK traffic. Photobucket, which allows members to post multiple photos to social networking profiles, received half of its UK traffic fromBeboandMySpace. Flickr by contrast relies on traffic from search engines for most of its traffic.weblogs.hitwise.com
A watched kettle never boils, as they say. It is perhaps for this reason that 3D Realms' indefinitely delayed and endlessly hyped blockbuster first-person shooter, Duke Nukem Forever, has yet to hit the shelves - this year, in fact, marks its 10th anniversary in development.The game, the "true" sequel to 1996's megahit, Duke Nukem 3D, has received near-constant inquiries from the press and frustrated gamers, and 3D Realms' response has always been the same: it's done "when it's done".DNF is an example of "vapourware", a term primarily used to describe software that has been in development for so long that most assume it to be either abandoned or a hoax. Vapourware stirs betrayal and resentment in gamers who have been eagerly anticipating a game's release since its announcement, only to discover that it's been delayed or cancelled.With development costs soaring, it should come as little surprise that some just don't make it to completion - this year alone, two highly anticipated projects (The City of Metronome and The Lord of the Rings: The White Council) have already been axed. What's unusual about Duke Nukem is that 3D Realms has maintained that the game has been in development for the past decade - it's undergone many transformations, but its creators have always said this was for the sole purpose of delivering the best game possible.Press blackoutAfter so long, though, many gamers have stopped taking 3D Realms' promises seriously. Even the game's name itself has become a sort of self-parody. Screenshots and official trailers were released in 1997, 1999 and 2001, each time promising Duke Nukem 3D's long-awaited sequel was just around the corner, but the total press blackout since then has indicated that was never the case.Curiously, DNF's total absence from press coverage has ended up lending it a level of fame it might never have achieved had it actually appeared as promised. It's topped Wired's Vapourware Awards in 2001 and 2002, and was given a (specially created) "Lifetime Achievement Award" in 2003. In 2005, after readers complained that DNF hadn't made the list the year beforehand, it once again secured first place. It's become a running joke in even the most mainstream tech media; most long-delayed software products are now compared to 3D Realms' hidden magnum opus.And despite all this, the game - and the series - can still claim many fans. When George Broussard, DNF's designer, posted a job advertisement in January featuring a small, previously unseen picture of Duke Nukem, fans flooded 3D Realms' forums demanding to know the meaning behind the image. Broussard later confirmed that it was a new screenshot; after this, online coverage - including fan-made trailers on YouTube based solely on the low-res screenshot - exploded.It's worth noting that fans' excitement about this isn't entirely rooted in naivety. Prey, another piece of 3D Realms "vapourware", was finally released last year to largely positive reviews after being announced in 1995. The game, a first-person shooter in the vein of Duke Nukem 3D, featured many of the game mechanics DNF had been supposedly supporting for years - complex characters, interactive and explorable game-spaces, and even a small amount of the sense of humour that made Duke Nukem so popular in the first place. Some believe this indicates that DNF can't be that far away.Of course, 3D Realms isn't the only company that looks like it's going to finally deliver in the next year or two. Valve Corporation, the Washington-based developer known for the massively successful Half-Life series and the Steam digital distribution system, announced in July last year that Team Fortress 2 - the online action game in development since 1998 - would see its belated release later this year. The game has undergone a radical aesthetic shift since its first screenshots were exposed in 1999: it now features highly stylised, cartoon-like artwork, presumably to distinguish itself from other online military simulators such as the Battlefield series and America's Army.While TF2's release seems far more imminent than DNF's, the two titles have something very interesting in common: they've both spawned creative communities that have been inspired by games that don't yet exist. DNF's delays arguably spurred the fan-made "remake" of Duke Nukem 3D, complete with high-resolution graphics, full 3D visuals and support for modern operating systems. Similarly, TF2's delays forced fans to come up with their own replacement: gleaning what they can from the batch of TF2 screenshots released in 1999, a group of modders are creating Fortress Forever, a completion of what Valve promised eight years ago.Ultimate popularityFans' dedication to these stagnant franchises is some evidence to the controversial idea that delaying a game can, ultimately, increase its popularity. DNF's infamy for being the "game that never arrived" has ensured that it will at least be a recognised property - if it's ever released.Other properties were arguably doomed from the start. Infinium Labs' (now Phantom Entertainment) Phantom console held the secret to its fate in its name alone. Originally announced in 2002, the Phantom was to be the first dedicated games console to operate without physical media - everything was streamed to the player through the console's broadband connection, using a distribution system not unlike Steam. After years of delays and allegations of corruption, the Phantom project was finally announced as cancelled last summer, to be replaced by a Steam-esque distribution service.One of the biggest problems with vapourware developers - of both the true and false varieties - is that they often keep their projects hidden from the public eye. The market, as a result, loses interest. There is the argument, though, that protracted development cycles can genuinely result in better products - Windows Vista, for instance, was in development (as "Windows Longhorn") from 2001 through to late 2006.Games with rushed development processes often yield even bleaker results. Bugs and inconsistencies are common in the PC game market; such issues can often ruin even the most promising title's sales, because the game earns a reputation (often rightly) for being "broken" and unplayable. "Going vapour" might just save a few games from commercial extinction, with the attendant losses on marketing and physical production. And mocking up the occasional screenshot is a lot cheaper than employing teams of developers, or buying adverts. The real problem is whether the amount of money invested into a long-delayed project can ever be recouped by sales. Duke Nukem isn't exactly the most recognised property in the games industry anymore; how many players - younger, especially - will care enough about the series to buy it?Ultimately, of course, the best thing a vapourware developer can do is release a stunning game. Gamers can be forgiving - sales of Half-Life 2 prove that - and if extended development really has been used to improve a product's quality, developers are usually rewarded.Assuming DNF appears, will it enjoy the same level of success? Impossible to say at this point, but if 3D Realms wants to secure a more substantial fanbase, it would do well to implement a little bit of transparency throughout development, because a kettle will invariably boil, whether watched or not.Wired Magazine's top 10 vapourware, 20061. Duke Nukem ForeverOriginally demo'd in 1997, this has spent nearly a decade in development. In 2003, we gave it the Lifetime Achievement Award in hopes we'd be able to stop writing about it.2. TiVoToGo for MacGot a show on your TiVo you want to watch on your computer or a mobile device? Great! Just fire up TiVoToGo. Oh, you're a Mac user? Never mind. This software update was promised by mid-2006, but has yet to materialise.3. Skype for SymbianVOIP on a mobile phone? Word that Skype was working on it leaked in 2004. We've been waiting ever since.4. SporeWill Wright demonstrated the game in May 2005 and said it would arrive in 2006. More recently, he said the game is slated for the second half of 2007. ("Coming soon", according to Amazon)5. SED TelevisionsToshiba showed off its SED panels at CES last year and said they would arrive in time for Christmas [2006]. Then Toshiba said we'd have to wait until July 2007.6. Airbus A380The plane was first promised by Airbus in early 2006. Then the schedule was pushed back - first to late 2006, then early 2007. A third delay means that the first deliveries of the Airbus A380 are expected in October.7. Gran Turismo 4 MobileThis oft-delayed car-racing title for Sony's PlayStation Portable is now slated for an "early 2007" release. (It is now showing on Amazon as available in March 2008).8. The "iPod Killer"Microsoft's Zune was supposed to do the trick, but it's sitting on the shelves.9. Stalker: Shadow of ChernobylThe game made waves in a 2001 preview, then the developer promised it for late 2003. Noted one blogger: "Looks amazing ... but when the fuck is it coming?" (The game has now been released)10. Optimus-103 KeyboardThis infinitely configurable input device was promised in 2006. Art Lebedev Studios is now promising the keyboard in 2007. (The next 400 keyboards "will ship in early January", says the website.)&#183;Originally published in Wired Magazine, December 2006&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You can have your data, so long as it doesn't start costing us money to serve you. That, roughly, is the message of two government statements released this week.The long-awaited reports, from the Department of Trade and Industry (tinyurl.com/32jgke) and the Cabinet Office (http://tinyurl.com/ypfk67), recommend that the government make more data available without strings to community and commercial ventures. The Cabinet Office also paves the way to government sites opening self-help forums for citizens, and civil servants engaging openly in independent forums, blogs and wikis.Both reports, however, avoid the central demand of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign - that government should stop running information businesses, and instead give all data away to stimulate the knowledge economy.The statements, published on Monday, respond to two criticisms of government information policy. Last December, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) warned that potentially unfair restrictions could be stifling the market potential of public- sector information by about &pound;500m annually (tinyurl.com/29vo8w). And earlier this month, an independent review for the Cabinet Office, the Power of Information (tinyurl.com/yps9sn), called on the government to loosen some restrictions on the re-use of its data as part of a wide-ranging programme of measures to engage with the web 2.0 movement.Joined-up thinkingThe decision to publish both responses simultaneously marks a welcome move towards joined-up thinking. Unfortunately, from the point of view of the free data movement, that thinking predominantly echoes one department's point of view: the Treasury's. Its stance is that the cost of change is a showstopper, at least in the short term.In the government's response to the Power of Information, Hilary Armstrong, who steps down this week from her post as Cabinet Office minister, says the government should at least recognise online communities such as Netmums. "If 30,000 parents were meeting in a park or football stadium to share information and tips about parenting, government would take notice."The response paints a picture of a government keen to tune in. In pained terms, it comments: "The reviewers could have painted a more positive picture of the government's progress to date." The government accepts the review's conclusion that technology, particularly in the hands of an innovative private and community sector, is increasing the value of government information by finding new ways to use it, such as through mashups. "This is a good thing, but like many innovations has significant disruptive potential to existing business models and practices."The government should neither smother nor crowd out innovators, it says, agreeing that departments should consider shutting sites that compete with user-generated efforts. Notably, it urges Ordnance Survey to launch its postponed OpenSpace project, which would provide a Google Maps-like interface for mashups, by the end of December.However, the response warns that more ambitious steps towards free data could threaten the business of trading funds and their "vital role in the UK economy". It agrees with the Power of Information review, which says that the government should get hard data from an independent study of the costs and benefits of the trading fund model.Answering the OFT, the Department of Trade and Industry is also wary of tampering with the trading fund model, which accrues about &pound;400m annually from a score of organisations. (Technology Guardian's rough estimates suggest half that comes from public-sector organisations.) It brusquely dismisses the OFT's proposal for a new terminology to distinguish between "unrefined" data, generally held by a government body, and "refined" products derived from it.Although it seems an obscure technical point, the definition is central to the OFT's case that while unrefined data may be a natural monopoly, the government should encourage competition in refined products by allowing access to the unrefined form. "The situation is already complex and introducing new terms may not be helpful as existing definitions cannot be replaced or removed," says the DTI, which is especially nervous about data being redefined if doing so could hit the income of a trading fund.Trading funds such as Ordnance Survey and the Metorological Office have to set prices in line with the market. The DTI echoes a concern that OS has raised: that capping prices would not produce the cash surplus needed for future investment. "The OFT recommendation would set limits of no more than full cost recovery and required rate of return. This may have major implications for the way in which trading funds obtain income and may reduce surpluses needed for maintenance of their data and future investment."Balanced needsThe department defends the current regime as "a balance between the needs of commercial re-users, the maintenance of trading funds' public tasks, and a reasonable return to the taxpayer from the IPR [intellectual property rights] purchased by them. Any change to it would potentially have significant public expenditure implications."However, the DTI does crack the whip over one long-standing government recommendation: that all trading funds submit an action plan to the Treasury setting out how they propose to open access to their information further, using the principles for improving its pricing and dissemination, and what their current position is. This has been stagnant since it was made in 2000; the DTI says plans should be completed by the end of this year.Other responses go some way towards meeting business complaints about licensing conditions set by trading funds for the re-use of material. Public bodies should remove the clauses forbidding licensees from competing with their own products, the DTI says, but defends the oft-criticised practice of government agencies seeking information about intended uses of their data before granting licences for re-use.Michael Nicholson, chair of the industry association Locus, criticised "the cautious nature of some parts [of the response] ... where the direct cost to the public purse may be seen as more important than the overall benefit and value of PSI trading to the UK economy". He also raised concerns about the enthusiastic endorsement of Ordnance Survey's OpenSpace product, the release of which "might be construed as anticompetitive".The debate is not over yet. Both the OFT and the Cabinet Office have signalled that they will continue to take a close interest in public sector information: a government progress report is due in December. Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign will keep up an interest, too. Little by little, the government is being forced to re-examine its assumptions about public data. And that can only be good.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
That there's a new audio format to buy it in. Pink Floyd's 1973 album has become the unofficial metric by which one measures a new audio format's likely takeup, as there's an apparently insatiable supply of people ready to buy and re-buy it whenever it is re-issued.The latest version is the iTunes Plus version on Apple's iTunes Store, encoded in AAC at 256Kbps without DRM restrictions. Previously, the album has also been released on stereo vinyl, quadraphonic vinyl, 8-track, CD (several times, with different mixes and packaging), Super Audio CD, Windows Media Audio, and standard iTunes (128KBps AAC with copying restrictions).According to the band's site (tinyurl.com/d4ua7), the album "has sold approximately 34m copies worldwide". Though to say that is to skim over the fact that it remained in the US top 100 for 1,558 weeks - just two weeks short of three decades.All of which led Bill Bumgarner, a developer for Apple, to remark that "Dark Side of the Moon is the porn of audio media". Why? Because "if porn embraces a video format, it'll be a success. Likewise, if DSotM dominates your audio media sales, [it's a] definite success indicator..."(tinyurl.com/2y7fgy). All together: breathe...&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you were to stop someone you know and ask them to give you a list of all their friends - together with their friends' friends, complete with their special interests - you would be dismissed as strange, if not bizarre. Yet that is what is happening voluntarily with the seemingly unstoppable expansion of social websites such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook. For years we have been worried stiff about a state-backed Big Brother using new technology to extract personal information about us, whether from the web or CCTV cameras. But now it has all changed.Surveillance is so pervasive that it won't be long before someone publishes a consumer's guide to CCTV cameras; and we are so unworried about privacy that we are voluntarily shovelling information about ourselves into the public domain which can be used by governments or potential employers, not to mention predators.If you accept someone as a friend on Facebook you immediately have access to all their friends' photographs and details, together with similar information about their friends' friends and so on. Members have a personal wall on which anyone can write comments for everyone in their network to read and comment on. They can also take advantage of a box where they can leave comments about what they are doing at that moment, however trivial - such as, "I'm missing Sevenoaks all of a sudden", or "I am still trying to start work". The curious thing is that it is easy to build up your own image of the kind of person unveiling themselves, partly because there is an endearing spontaneity about them.Facebook has barriers against abuse, to the extent that email addresses and photos are posted so fakes ought to be easy to unmask. Nevertheless, delving into someone's past life on Facebook or the other sites may prove much more useful in future to those conducting job interviews than a bland CV and 30 minutes of questions in an artificial environment. New sites are coming out, such as Imagini.net, which are successfully building accurate profiles of people based on their reaction to photographs shown to them, but that is nothing to what can be gained from trawling a social website - unless, of course, Facebookers or Beboers, knowing it could be important in future, start building a flattering profile.This striptease of the vanities is happening all over the world and so quickly that there hasn't been time for a PhD thesis to tell us what it is all about. Maybe the best way to understand it is that the digital revolution is recreating on a global scale the bonded communities of old. As the perennially relevant Marshall McLuhan observed: "Privacy, like individualism, is unknown in tribal societies." Just as young people head like hunter-gatherers into city centres to link up with each other by mobile phone, so the new global villagers are using technology to break down traditions of secrecy in favour of mutually shared knowledge, no matter how personal. As McLuhan also noted more than 40 years ago: "When we have achieved a worldwide fragmentation, it is not unnatural to think about a worldwide integration. Such a universality of conscious being was dreamt of by Dante, who believed that men would remain mere broken fragments until they should be re-united in an inclusive consciousness."It is easy to write a disaster scenario for a world in which everyone is linked and in which you can communicate instantaneously with everyone in your group, however extensive, since the accelerating speed of circulation of news and comments could produce the worst excesses of madness of crowds. But it could also produce a global counterbalance to the excesses of politicians and corporations and an electronic version of the Indian idea of darshan, which McLuhan described as "the mystical experience of being in very large gatherings". The global village may at last be at hand.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When it first happened about a year ago, it seemed like a simple mistake. Throwing a bit of junk mail into the bin, I noticed it had been incorrectly addressed to a Mr Gordon MacKie (note the internal capitalisation).I assumed it was from a company that had bought some inaccurate second- or third-hand mailing list; certainly not the way to make a sale - bad marketing, getting a potential customer's name wrong. Into the bin it went.Not long after it happened again, and again; the rogue mailing list was doing the rounds, obviously. But hang on - here was one from my own credit card company! How could they have picked up the dodgy mailing list when they already had my details?A phone call resulted in a promise to change it on the system and ensure it didn't happen again. But it did, again and again, and with more companies.Then one day while shopping in PC World, I came face-to-face with the culprit - or rather, face-to-screen. The sales assistant needed to enter my details into the system for a guarantee on something I was buying.As I spelled out my name, I watched it being typed into the sales terminal - M-a-c-k. But as the k was typed in lower case, it was mysteriously replaced by an uppercase letter. I pointed this out, and he tried to correct it. But the system knew better and was going to enforce the internal capital letter, come what may.After more phone calls it became clear that somebody had decided that they knew best and decreed that in surnames beginning "Mack", the K was to be capitalised. And they got their arbitrary rule incorporated into some of the most common Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software in use in the UK.As a result I have become Gordon MacKie on countless mailouts from the banks, high street stores, credit card companies and other large organisations, and no amount of communication with them by letter, phone or in person has any effect; the spelling CANNOT be changed, as it seems that the software simply will not allow it. The nice people I am dealing with are as helpless as I am in fighting this orthographical fascism.I can't take my business elsewhere as they all seem to be doing it. I need to get to the people who specified and wrote the software and who made such an ill-informed assumption about how my name is spelled (and I suspect those of a few others ... Mackenzie? Mackinlay?).Why they have condemned me to such a frustrating daily abuse by post? I want them to apologise and to update their systems before it is too late, before the casual observer assumes this is the correct rule for spelling my surname and those of others.I couldn't bear to have my name go the way of the Grocer's Apostrophe and see an abuse become a usage through repetition.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Microsoft has recently switched its main website,www.microsoft.comto Windows Server 2008 and Microsoft-IIS/7.0,"according toNetcraft. The British firm says: "there are already around 2,600 sites running Windows Server 2008," because users can run the beta 3 version free of charge.The numbers are tiny, of course, but the code's progress has some interest for ordinary users. Both Vista and Server 2008 were developed from the Server 2003 code base. About a year of extra work will have gone into Server 2008, and the benefits will be rolled into Vista with Service Pack 1. Along with a tested roll-up of the security patches and bug fixes. Therefore the appearance of Vista SP1 is expected to trigger a round of corporate upgrades.Vista SP1, usually referred to as Fiji, is expected to be unusual in having a significant upgrade to the kernel (though Microsoft says "no architectural changes"). Vista Mail and the Media Center software should also be enhanced.It's not clear when it will appear -- Microsoft isn't talking -- but it was supposed to be before the end of this year.The SP1 release will be the first "new" Windows released under the leadership of Steven Sinofsky, following the departure of Jim Allchin. It will be taken as a sign of how firmly he is in control.
"Wii Software" - Nintendo's belated entry into original, non retro, downloadable content - is a further nail in the coffin for traditional retail. Not that European marketing director Laurent Fischer sees it it like that."Wii Software provides developers with big ideas - rather than big budgets - an easy and very accessible way to create new games and bring them to the marketplace".Sure, the games you'll be able to download via the service - more sexily called "WiiWare" in the US - when it launches are likely to be casual and light. Think Wii Play rather than Red Steel. But this will certainly change in the future as consumers get used to instant access gaming.Tomb Raider Anniversaryon the 360 is a good early test case. Available this autumn in episodic chunks, the game is only available to 360 owners who already have a copy of the preceding Lara title, Tomb Raider Legend. Although this is clearly designed to keep retailers happy - ie if you want Anniversary on your 360 you have to go buy Legend from a shop first - you can't imagine this happening in ten years time. We'll be looking back and laughing as we reminisce over our old boxed copies. Downloading games then, is it the future? Or are you always going to want physical ownership?
As a youngster I purchased the C64 version of Sensible Software's Shoot-Em-Up Construction Kit and spent a merry if often frustrating month creating the world's worst Spy Hunter rip-off. I was happy to discover today that I'll be able to re-live those heady nights of mediocre games creation.Majesco Entertainmenthas just announced Blast Works: Build, Fuse &amp; Destroy a scrolling shooter for the Wii (based on a freeware title namedTumiki Fighters) which comes complete with an in-depth construction element allowing users to design their own space craft, enemy ships and levels.Developed byBudcat Creations, the game has further interesting features, including the ability to absorb weapons and other parts from exploded enemies:"Across more than 15 different land, air and sea missions, the goal of Blast Works is to destroy enemy ships while continually growing your own into a massive craft by absorbing their fragments. The larger a "fused ship" is, the easier it is to protect from the growing onslaught of enemy firepower. Players can also upgrade their ship in the Hangar by customising weapons, propulsion systems and armour."There also seems to be a Missile Command element - "To defend the Hangar, players must use the Wii Remote like an anti-aircraft turret to shoot down enemies attacking from all angles." A two-player co-op mode completes the package.It's been a good month for lovers of traditional scrolling shooters. Konami revealed its plans to bring legendary series, Contra, to the DS (morehere), while Ignition Games has just released itsMetal Slug Anthologyon PS2 (following Wii and PSP iterations), which brings all the classic SNK shooters together in one glorious super blast. I've been playing this for the last couple of nights, and it's fabulous. I love the detailed, humorous visuals, filled with comic detail. I love the controlled level design, the exhausting, relentless action.2D shooters won't die - they just subtly evolve to keep trapping us. They're the cryptic crosswords of gaming.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Engadget's Ryan Block has not only read the iPhone reviews, he's compileda quick list of factoidsto save you the pain. These include:* The mobile version of OS X or whatever it is the iPhone runs takes up 700MB.* There's no way to cut, copy, or paste text! WHOA! Big, big mistake.* Sorry, music can't be used as a ringtone -- even if it's just a raw MP3.* Adobe Flash support is officially out. It's just not in the browser. Neither is there any other kind of embedded video support. Sorry everybody, that's that.* Apple sez between 300-400 charges the iPhone will lose battery capacity -- you'll send it in and get the cell replaced for a fee.This is the scary bit, because if you use the iPhone as an iPod replacement, you might have to recharge it every couple of days, if not sooner. It's a problem that could be solved by letting users get the battery changed on the spot in an accredited mobile phone shop, or by allowing third-party replacement services.There are other minor limitations, such as the iPhone can't do MMS messages or shoot videos. However, you can always carry a cheap phone that will do what you need, which will come in handy when you get mugged for your iPhone....Update: Just spottedFake Steve's summary of Walt Mossberg's review, which is funny.
Microsoft has more than a dozen Live services in beta (http://get.live.com/betas/), and it's adding a couple more: Windows Live Photo Gallery beta and Windows Live Folders beta (formerly known as Live Drive).Chris Jones from the Windows Live Experience teamsays:Windows Live Photo Gallery is an upgrade to Windows Vista's Windows Photo Gallery, offered at no charge, and enables both Windows Vista and Windows XP SP2 customers to share, edit, organize and print photos and digital home videos. The initial managed beta of Windows Live Photo Gallery beta is available today in nine markets around the world so far (including the United States (English and Spanish), China, France, Germany, Great Britain, India, Japan, and Spain), with more to come.We're also releasing Windows Live Folders into managed beta today, which will provide customers with 500 megabytes of online storage at no charge. We see this limited managed beta in the United States right now as just a starting point for us, and we'll begin collecting input from beta users.There's coverage atTechCrunchandCNet, for example.
We've been following the difficult gestation of the BBC's on-demand download service iPlayer for a long time, but things could finally be starting to happen.I trooped down to a swanky club in Covent Garden this morning to hear Mark Thompson, the Beeb's director general, Jana Bennett, the head of BBC Vision and Ashley Highfield, trumpet the service. The rough details so far: it's going to launch on July 27th, via thebbc.co.uk/iplayerpage (it's currently password protected for beta users).There's more information inthis storyfrom my colleagues Mark Sweney and Stephen Brook.If you're interested in the technical details - and I'm sure plenty of you are - here's how the system is going to work. Initially, it is a Windows XP system based on a peer-to-peer technology fromKontiki(the same one used by Channel 4's4OD), and it uses Windows DRM to manage rights, along with a geo-IP system fromQuovato prevent non-UK viewers from using the service (both Kontiki and Quova are owned by Verisign- update Konitiki is owned by Verisign, which also has a stake in Quova).You'll be able to download shows up to 7 days after they are aired on normal TV; once you've downloaded it you'll have a maximum of 30 days to watch it back - but once you've started watching, you'll only have 7 days to finish before the file is automatically erased.Pretty much all of this detail has already been in the public domain; the main thing is the date - it's been brought forward from a mooted November launch.The next part of the project appears to be getting a proper on-demand service on cable, followed by Macintosh, Vista and Freeview.I've madeseveralcommentsand writtenat length about iPlayer, and the state of things at the BBC - so I'm going to keep it short: whatever else you might say, I'm sure there are plenty of people who are relieved that this project is finally getting out of the door.Over to you.
It's always easy to imagine that the latest technology is the greatest thing since sliced bread: that instant messages, text messages, the web, email, the internet, telephones, television, radio and so on is each somehow more important than the last development. This week, again, all the cliches are out in force as we hear about the arrival of acertain mobile phone.But some technologies deserve to stand apart - and one of them, at least, is the telegraph. 2007 marks 150 years since the first great moment in telegraphy hit, when the initial line between Britain and the US was activated on the bed of the Atlantic Ocean.Of course, like all inventions, the 1857 date is slightly arbitrary: that first transatlantic line didn't last long, but the one which eventually took its place and became commercially successful happened in 1866 (this BBC article goes into some detail) and the "father of the telegraph", Samuel Morse, first got his invention going in 1837.But the telegraph has, at least, inspired many authors over the years. Science writer David Bodanis (who featured on the Science Weekly podcast backalmost a year ago) tells the story of early telegraphy beautifully in his bookElectric Universe. And the Economist writerTom Standagealso tells the story in his bookThe Victorian Internet, which is perfect "long zoom" material: getting the right perspective on the development of technologies. On his website, Tom says:It points out the features common to the telegraph networks of the nineteenth century and the internet of today: hype, scepticism, hackers, on-line romances and weddings, chat-rooms, flame wars, information overload, predictions of imminent world peace, and so on. In the process, I get to make fun of the internet, by showing that even such a quintessentially modern technology actually has roots going back a long way (in this case, to a bunch of electrified monks in 1746).So many things go unrecognised as we focus narrowly on what's happened in the last five minutes, or what we can see just beyond the tips of our noses. But sometimes it's the unexpected things that have the most impact. What's been the most important technology in your life?
So have you seen the advert? Nicole Kidman curled up on a smart sofa in a room seemingly styled for a Living Etc photoshoot. She's not doing her hair or spraying Chanel No 5 perfume, she's playing More Brain Training and giggling over her inability to win at a scissor-paper-stone-style challenge.It is simultaneously the most understated and revolutionary videogame advert ever made. The visual language - the lighting, the decor, the lack of background music - says high-end cosmetics advertisement. Kidman - exuding her usual ethereal, poised beauty - was apparently chosen for her 'universal appeal', but surely she was selected predominantly to exclude the usual videogame demographic. This ad works precisely because her appeal isnotuniversal. It is another attempt by Nintendo to cushion the blow for new gamers uneasy about their love of DS or Wii. It's okay, Kidman does it, and looks great doing it.My god, what a contrast to Sony's 'hey man, we're crazy' PS3 advertising. And importantly, the game is a central visual element. In the past, when videogame companies have attempted to make lifestyle statements, they've hidden the content away - see Sega's disastrous Dreamcast campaign. The PS3 ads were visually arresting, but also frenzied and annoyingly arcane - they were ultimately selling us a vibe that PS3 doesn't yet deserve.But here is a 40-year-old Hollywood actress just playing a game. And it really doesn't matter if, when the director shouts 'cut', she tosses the DS aside dismissively (according to Nintendo marketing, she's a fan, but then they would say that) - I mean, who really believes that Jennifer Anniston colours her own hair with the products she advertises?This advert deals with the currency of aspiration. It's a strange landmark, but an interesting one.
Today's edition of The Wall Street Journal hasa review of Apple's iPhoneby Walt Mossberg and Katherine Boehret, including a little video, and other US papers have also published reviews.The general reaction seems to be that the hardware is gorgeous (and doesn't scratch) and the iPhone works a treat for web browsing via Wi-Fi ... except when Flash is required. The main complaint is the use of the Edge network. The WSJ's key paragraphs are as follows:The iPhone's most controversial feature, the omission of a physical keyboard in favor of a virtual keyboard on the screen, turned out in our tests to be a nonissue, despite our deep initial skepticism. After five days of use, Walt -- who did most of the testing for this review -- was able to type on it as quickly and accurately as he could on the Palm Treo he has used for years. This was partly because of smart software that corrects typing errors on the fly.But the iPhone has a major drawback: the cellphone network it uses. It only works with AT&amp;T (formerly Cingular), won't come in models that use Verizon or Sprint and can't use the digital cards (called SIM cards) that would allow it to run on T-Mobile's network. So, the phone can be a poor choice unless you are in areas where AT&amp;T's coverage is good. It does work overseas, but only via an AT&amp;T roaming plan.In The New York Times, David Pogue reports thatThe iPhone Matches Most of Its Hype.USA Today's Edward Baig goes withApple's iPhone isn't perfect, but it's worthy of the hype.Update: Newsweek's Steven Levy has a big "Web exclusive",At Last, the iPhone.Valleywag hasconverted the reviews into a scorecard.Also of note: Engadget has done acomparison of the iPhone contract priceswhich concludes: "You're (obviously) going to pay more for the device itself, but the iPhone plans are totally fair, based on AT&amp;T's current pricing scheme."
Recently, I got an email complaining about an article I'd written. It happens. The angry tone was nothing if not consistent until very near the end. One question. After all that rage, why did she sign off with her first name and two kisses?This week I received an email from a PR woman with whom I had not previously corresponded, let alone met. It started with "Hi Stu" and ended with "warm regards". The "warm" part especially threw me.What is going on in my inbox? Isn't it obvious? Even in cyberspace, women just can't help throwing themselves at me. Even when they want to tell me off, they can't help disclosing they fancy me. Even when they're trying to get me to puff their products, they can't stop themselves disclosing the warmth of their feelings for me. Such are the perils of being an amazingly attractive and successful journalist-cum-babe-magnet.Or maybe not. Perhaps, rather, the bizarre intimacy of strangers and colleagues in emails to me is symptomatic of a broader social malaise - namely we don't know how to begin, and, worse yet, we don't know how to end our emails. What's more, because email is such a casual means of communication, it privileges those who prize informality. What happened to "Dear Sir", "Yours faithfully" and the bracing pleasures of a firm handshake? I ask. They died, you reply, but nobody bothered to tell you, granddad.But isn't this a terrible change? Why, without wishing to be too fogeyish about the issue, can't we seek to emulate the farewells of French correspondents in the 18th century? Why do we end with "Laters, yeah?", "Sweet as" or "Big hugs", rather than "Je vous prie d'agr&eacute;er, monsieur, les assurances de mon profond respect", or the equivalent in English? Similarly, many of us don't care for slacker email correspondence where all the words are in lower case. Frankly, if you're going to bother to write to me, the least you can do is use your shift key to capitalise letters now and again YOU BORDERLINE ILLITERATE SLOB.What seems clear is that we still haven't developed a workable etiquette for emails, even though cyberspace teems with netiquette guides. "Most onliners are not clear communicators," says Judith Kallos, ofwww.netmanners.comand author of an ebook on email etiquette. "If you think about it, we haven't had to rely on communicating with the written word in decades. Just a mere century ago people wrote letters daily. This meant choosing their words carefully and thoughtfully to communicate the emotion and intent of their writings. Now, fast forward this century and many emails appear to be written by someone who didn't make it out of grade school [ie primary school]."Good point. A colleague got an email recently, again from a PR person, which began: "Dear Clint [not his real name], How are you? I'm good - loving the weather! ..." The rest of the email was a pitch to interview somebody about their dull-sounding cultural artefact. It concluded: "Cheers!" Three questions obsessed my colleague: Had Clint and his emailer been introduced? Is it reasonable to dive into one's appreciation of prevailing climactic conditions in one's first email? Wasn't Clint's correspondent - like someone who expects sex on a first date when the other person isn't sure even if there's going to be a second rendezvous - rushing things?And yet that rush to an ersatz intimacy is precisely what characterises many emails, particularly business ones. One often has the feeling that over-intimate sign-offs are used to establish relationships where none existed, only because to do so is presumed to help sell a product. They may, though, be counter-productive: in mine, and indeed, Clint's case, they are very vexing. If intimate expressions, previously used only by people who care deeply for you are appropriated by strangers who don't, why would any recipient of them be anything but irritated?As long ago as 1977, the sociologist Richard Sennett wrote in The Fall of Public Man: "[C]ivilised relations between selves can only proceed to the extent that nasty little secrets of desire, greed or envy are kept locked up." He wasn't writing about emails, because they hadn't yet been invented, but still Sennett's remarks are pertinent: the incivility of emails, where the presumption that you know somebody when you don't and in which you express affection that you don't really feel, demonstrates a kind of bad faith akin to what Morrissey sang about in Heaven Knows I'm Miserable Now: "Why do I smile at people who I'd much rather kick in the eye ?" Similarly, why do my email correspondents so often conclude "take care", when they don't really care if a double-decker bus kills me on the way home? The seeming care contains a lack of respect which is infuriating.A more innocent explanation than the idea that there is a global conspiracy to pervert intimacy in emails in order to sell products, is that typewritten virtual correspondence is such a chilly medium that we seek to rebel by infusing it with warmth. We can't sprinkle perfume on our emails, we can't impress our correspondents with the skills we learned in calligraphy evening class. According to Alex Reid, director of the Oxford Computer Centre, who prepared an email etiquette guide that can be consulted atwww.lse.ac.uk/itservices/rules/email.htm: "Email lacks the other cues and clues that convey the sense in which what you say is to be taken, and you can easily convey the wrong impression. If you meant something in jest, use a "smiley" [ :-) ] to convey that."It's this supposed hopelessness of emails at handling emotional nuances that makes such "emoticons" became so popular. But I don't hold with emoticons (shorthand for emotion icons): if you can't express yourself and your emotions in words, maybe you should stop emailing/writing/verbally communicating altogether and convey your feelings in a series of grunts or by holding up signs others have drawn for you, you sub-articulate chimp.Another problem with such symbols, though, says Mary Mitchell, author The Complete Idiot's Guide to Etiquette, is cognitive dissonance - discombobulating kisses after rage, or throwing in a smiley emoticon at the end of an email expressing outrage, at British Gas's consumer service department only at the risk of confusion. The same, Mitchell adds, goes for emails that end too effusively: "If you're complaining to a company about a product and you sign off with 'Warmly', you are miscommunicating."Aren't I, you may well be thinking, making a big fuss over nothing? Shouldn't I just enjoy getting a couple of kisses from a strange angry woman? Maybe. After all, as Michael Ignatieff writes in his book The Needs of Strangers: "Our task is to find a language for our need for belonging which is not just a way of expressing nostalgia, fear, estrangement from modernity." A new language is being born in cyberspace, and, if it is more intimate than I am used to, so be it. Perhaps I should just get over myself.Netiquette guides do frown on such overintimacy, by the way. Judith Kallos sets out a list of acceptable farewells in business emails on her website. Kisses don't make it, nor do "Love and kisses" or its cyberspace shorthand "xoxo". Kallos says she always ends her emails with "At your service" or "Virtually". "If you see anyone else using these closings, you now know where they got it from!" she says.None of the etiquette guides answer the real question that bothers me, though. What is the particular significance of two kisses? Would three have been better? Would one have been worse? Is two really an insult? I don't know. All I do know is that I'm not sure whether to be revolted or seduced by the mystery woman's effusive final flourish.Anyway, hope you enjoyed the article. If you didn't, try not to be rude in your emails. And try not to come on to me too strongly in any correspondence. It's difficult, I know.Laters, yeah?Mad love!Stuie xx
I should have posted on this yesterday, but just in case you missed it, experts at an annual meeting of the American Medical Association have opposed a suggestion that videogame addiction should be catagorised alongside alcoholism and similar disorders.Dr. Stuart Gitlow of the American Society of Addiction Medicine and Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, had this to say on the proposal:"There is nothing here to suggest that this is a complex physiological disease state akin to alcoholism or other substance abuse disorders, and it doesn't get to have the word addiction attached to it"Notice the language here - 'doesn'tget to' - it sounds as though the ruling would provide some sort of validation. Lord help us, it's another academic attempting to put the boot in to the videogame industry. Now it seems, games aren't even important enough to qualify as addictive agents.To be honest, I very much doubt that games are capable of wreaking the sort of psychological or indeed physical damage familiar to addicts of drinks, drugs or gambling. There have doubtless been lost jobs, failed relationships, sudden acts of frustrated violence and, more disturbingly, a handful or reported deaths from extended MMORPG sessions, but nothing to pin a major mental disorder on.Just in case, though, the psychiatrist group is monitoring the situations and,according to Reuters, has said if the science warrants, it could be considered for inclusion in the next diagnostic manual to be published in 2012.We've asked this before no doubt, but has gaming caused you any trouble? Once, I smashed a new PlayStation controller after failing to beat Tekken 2. I think I've also claimed to be working late a few times when I was actually playing Battlefield. Small time stuff...
As predicted - sort of - inyesterday's blog, Flatout, the rather excellent new 360 racing game, has seen its sales suffer from racing game fatigue. Ok,14 in the All Formats chartisn't *that* bad, but releasing within weeks of Colin McRae DiRT and Forza seems pretty shortsighted. Forza, the hugely deep and rather scary car sim, is the main issue. Any 360 owner who has any interest in motorsport will have picked this up and is probably still knee deep in virtual grease. Those who wanted a less formal spin will have picked up DiRT, leaving Flatout's potential audience with their hands already full.So who decides when a game is released? Sure, there are economic, marketing and other pressures to launch on a title on a certain date but surely a quick look at your competitors release schedules has to be a factor as well?
It's 10 years since Psion launched the Series 5 handheld computer, and Andrew Orlowski has producedthe biggest ever story on The Registerto celebrate it. He also tackles the bigger question: given its world lead and some competent staff (who went on to TomTom and Apple, among others), why did Psion never become a consumer electronics giant?Well, given that the Acorn ARM chip and Symbian operating system are both British inventions, why don't we even have a leading mobile phone company?The Series 5 was a wonderful machine and I've never found a real replacement. However, fact is that it broke far too often, and Psion failed to move with the times in terms of rapidly adding support for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, USB and other new technologies. That's one reason why it ended up using Microsoft Windows CE. Sad, but there it is.Did Psion get its just desserts, or can we blame somebody else?
American web radio stations are closing their today, in protest at a proposed royalty hike that many say will put them out of business.Right now most US web radio pays 12% of profit back to the people who make the music that they play, on top of a basic annual fee. Next month, however, new royalty rates will come into force which means they will pay on a per-song basis - which they say could increase costs drastically.Services likeSoma FMare joining a "day of silence" to protest the decision, taking themselves off air for 24 hours in order to demonstrate what life would be like if they were driven to the wall.But it's not just the smaller operators who are complaining about being stiffed - bigger services such as Yahoo!'s Launchcast are also stamping their feet. Here's Yahoo! Music's general manager Ian Rogerson the yodel.yahoo blog:The situation webcasters are in is simple: the new royalty rates are higher than the revenues anyone can hope to make from related advertising. In other words, we all lose money on Internet radio starting July 15th. Yahoo! has no intention of operating LAUNCHcast radio as a loss-leader. This senseless rate hike needs to be changed, or our business will have to. And unfortunately the way we'd have to change our business would end up curtailing the great diversity that makes Internet radio uniquely compelling.They've all banded together under the umbrella ofSave Net Radio. But will it be enough?Update:It's just been pointed out to me thatLast.fm, the London-based service that's just been bought by US radio and TV company CBS, decided not to join in the protest. Felix Miller posted adetailed message on the company blog, saying "We do not want to punish our listeners for our problems, period." He also points out, rightly, that royalty payments are already higher in the UK.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Wikipedia has become a bit of a whipping boy for its mistakes, and this has now been extended to the logo. It seems that two of the characters used on the globe -- "one in Japanese and one in Devanagari, the script used in Sanskrit and several modern Indian languages -- are meaningless because of minor slips,"reports The New York Times.The logo design was a competition winner from Paul Stansifer, but the errors were introduced by someone improving it.Mr Friedland said he made the puzzle pieces more subtle -- with indentations rather than dark lines -- and used single characters rather than words, which he thought had cluttered up the design.But in the process, Mr Friedland, who has a degree in computer science and linguistics, introduced the errors. He said he tried to pick characters that were from a wide range of languages (including Klingon in the far upper right) that looked interesting and generally represented a W sound. The Devanagari error was caused by a computer glitch, he said, which swapped the order of two parts of the character; the Japanese error was simply carelessness.Sure, someone could fix it, but "Friedland says he lost the original computer file".
Big Blue: IBM's MareNostrum computer. Photograph: Fernando Bague/APToday Sun is planning to unveil its "Constellation" range of supercomputers, the first of which clocks in an impressive 105 Terabyte memory, 1.7 Petabyte storage drive and 421 Teraflops of computing power (potentially rising to 2 Petaflops). If you're not a maths wonk those numbers might not mean much - but to put it into perspective, I've done some back of the envelope calculations. At the last count Google's entire database was around 2 Petabytes; 421 Teraflops means 421,000,000,000,000 individual calculations per second; 105 Terabytes of RAM would probably be the equivalent to around 200,000 home PCs combined.The entire operation will require around 3 megawatts of power - equivalent to the amount used by a high-speed intercity train.This particular version, called "Ranger", will live at theTexas Advanced Computing Center, at the University of Austin. Apparently the hardware side of the operation cost $30m, while the maintenance and people-power will rack up another $29m. It's going to be used by science and engineering bods to do some of their incredible calculations.But even if Sun manages to temporarily claim the supercomputing crown, it won't be for long. IBM is fighting back with the latest of its Blue/Gene series; P - which will not only run continuously at 1 petaflop, according toTechworld, but is also supposed to be many times more energy efficient.I never know what to think of supercomputing; it's undoubtedly useful to the scientists who are trying to crack the meaning of life (and so on) but does this technological oneupmanship actually make a difference to us plebs?
There have been several independent games experimenting with hand-drawn visuals lately. A while ago I mentioned the as-yet-unsigned Wii projectPollen Sonata, the trailer for which features a sequence of animated pencil drawings. Now, here's a more modest browser game,Miestas, programmed by 'Teshla and Jurgis'.Miestas looks as though it has been cobbled together from smudged scrap paper and magazine cuttings - it's a sort of home craft/DIY aesthetic that also permeates LittleBigPlanet's customisable ragdoll characters.Has the growing scrap book/craft culture hit gaming? Will we be virtually knitting avatars from now on, rather than selecting costumes and skins tones from a boring menu system?
There have been plenty of differing perspectives on the Manhunt 2 situation since the BBFC and ESRB decisions last week. Rob Fahey'sexcellent piecefor Gamesindustry.biz comes down on the side of the BBFC, pointing out how sparing the board has been with its powers of outright censorship and how much it has come to understand and appreciate videogame culture over the decade since Carmageddon."In making such a game Rockstar has been juvenile, shameful and irresponsible. The right of creators to push the boundaries of media and society must be balanced out against a simple sense of social responsibility - something with Rockstar seems to entirely lack."I must admit, having spoken to several people who've played the game, I'm beginning to appreciate Fahey's standpoint even more. The problem is, the whole debate about censorship is almost as old as art itself and has yet to be resolved - it certainly won't be concluded over a videogame. Instinctively, most of us rail against outright bans and want to defend free speech. Indeed, games site Destructoid wrote an open letter to the BBFC lambasting them on the decision to 'ban' Manhunt 2:"To claim that this game is harmful is a statement of purest arrogance. I would optimistically hope that the BBFC actually played this game before banning it - are your testers harmed in any way, shape or form by what they saw, or believe they saw? Evidently not, if they are not in therapy currently and were mentally capable enough to ban the game, so what justification do you have to just assume that everyone else is too weak to handle playing it?"It's a rather simplistic and histrionic argument, but it touches on what others in the industry are thinking - whatI'vebeen thinking. Later, the sitepostedan emailed reply from the BBFC which points the letter writer to the official press release explaining the board's decision. Not enough to appease Destructoid, of course.Finally, others are attempting to read politics into the decision. Todd Greenwald, an analyst with Nollenberger Capital Partners, has been quoted in anAssociated Press storyarguing that Take 2 is paying the price for its reputation, earned through titles like GTA and Canis Canem Edit:"It does seem that Take-Two is being a little bit unfairly singled out ... because of their history of provocative games," he said. "They're being burned by their past."Yet, the BBFC has made it clear - and I believe them - that politics has played no part in the decision.It would appear that, in this case, an enlightened and knowledgeable classification board has been unable to consolidate a hideously violent entertainment product with the guidelines set down for an 18 certificate. Censorship is flawed and dangerous, it is a blunt instrument. Yet if we are to classify entertainment at all, it is a necessary element of that process.It ispossiblethe videogame industry is better off without this game.
It's 48 hours before hundreds of hackers descend on London, and Chad Dickerson and Matt Cashmore are sitting in a London cafe. In most senses, they are an odd couple - one a laconic American slacker from Yahoo!, the other an excitable Welshman who works for the bastion of British reserve, the BBC. But regardless of cultural differences, both are visibly twitchy as their self-imposed deadline approaches."Just sitting here now, in the back of my head I'm running through a list of things to do," says Cashmore, laughing nervously.The reason for the jitters is that they are getting ready for Hackday, a weekend geekfest where hundreds of technologists will congregate on the capital and, well, build stuff. The event is sponsored by Yahoo! and the BBC, and this pair have the unenviable task of running the show.To the layman the whole enterprise would appear slightly mislabelled. After all, it's not a day (the entire event lasts the best part of 48 hours) and it's not about hackers - at least, not the cybercrime masterminds usually drummed up in sensational press headlines.Instead, it is about the real world of hacking - that is, people messing about with technology to see what they can make it do. Attending the event will be a mixture software developers, webheads and inventors who are given just one task to complete: make something useful. They'll be given access to experts, special assistance and a wealth of information from the internet."It's a cultural event that's as much about people as technology," says Dickerson, who runs the Yahoo! Developer Network. "One thing we've discovered is a universal hacker ethic - if you put greasy food and pizza in a room, everyone's happy."It's in that spirit that more than 400 people - all pre-vetted for technical competence - have signed up to spend their weekend locked in Alexandra Palace with an endless supply of bad food to fuel their brains and their fingers. Nobody quite knows what's going to come out of the other end.Close relationsThis is the first Hackday to be held outside the US, but the concept itself is not new. Yahoo! has run them for some time, and they have had a rejuvenating effect on the company - coming on the back of a plan to be more of an active force on the internet.The scheme started with the acquisition of a couple of high-profile web services - theFlickrphoto sharing site and social bookmarking serviceDelicious- but higher-ups like Dickerson quickly realised they needed to foster communication between their own staff if they were going to capitalise on these moves. The company started holding internal hack days, where developers would meet their counterparts from other divisions and just build stuff. Yahoos (as the company's employees label themselves) now see it as a vital part of the attempt to build standing within the technical community.The events turned public last year, and caught the eye of the BBC - another corporation also desperate to turn from lumbering media giant to lithe, innovative internet player. Central to the Beeb's plan isBBC Backstage- the transparency project which Cashmore helps run. Among other things, Backstage is supposed to be opening up the arcane innards of the corporation to the public - making those huge libraries of information stored in the Beeb's vaults available to people who want to build useful new web services with them. It has had only a very modest amount of success, and the BBC needed a boost.So, with the help of a coterie of other brains from inside both companies, Dickerson, Cashmore and others have concocted an event which they hope will galvanise their relations with people, and boost the standing of both companies in the process.For the BBC, there's an added significance in the venue, too. Alexandra Palace - perched on top of a hill in north London - was the first place that the corporation used to send out its broadcasts to the world, and remains a sort of spiritual home. Even now, with its austere and manicured gardens, the palace captures both a sense of history and a spirit of innovation.Strike oneSaturday morning, and things are going to plan. Hundreds of people have turned up, and they are starting to get ready for a long night of breaking new ground. Teams have trekked in from around Europe, braving London's ugly weather to take part.Proceedings open with a series of speakers who are meant to set the tone for the day. But just as things are starting to bubble along, events take an unexpected turn."I was in the staff room and I heard a couple of loud bangs," says Cashmore. "I thought it was somebody playing Halo 2 on the big screen... then all of a sudden the radios started going "what the hell was that?""That", it turns out, was a twin lightning strike. The palace, replete with its towering transmitter, had captured the attention of the passing storm and found itself on the sharp end of two bolts from the blue.As it happens, Alexandra Palace is actually struck in this way around nine times a year, but usually the transmitter itself of the main hall which takes the hit. This time, freakishly, it landed somewhere else entirely - the communications room, a heavily protected corner of the complex which hadn't been hit for eight years previously.Within a few seconds, the whole event hangs by a thread.The result was chaos: power supplies fall out, Wi-Fi drops away and general confusion. Worst of all, the building's fire systems reset themselves, defaulting to open all the vents in the ceiling. Just as the best part of 500 geeks are starting to get down to business with their computers, the roof opens and water begins pouring in.Unsurprisingly, given that the venue is playing host to a Web 2.0-savvy crowd, the attendees document their troubles using the hi-tech gizmos at their disposal: sending text messages, taking photographs, using Twitter. "Got struck by lightning. Fire vents open. Rain falling on laptops. Umbrellas out" said one typically brief missive. Most of the hackers retire to drier corners of the complex; some stick around, coding under umbrellas as best they can.A few hours later and everything is more or less back to normal, but the lightning has clearly left its mark on everybody - as well as on the palace itself. The next day, when the hacks are presented back to the crowd, former Yahoo! programmer Simon Willison unveils "Google Smite", a "secret" new product he speculates was used to knock out the Silicon Valley giant's rivals.Saturday night, Sunday morningA day later, and everybody looks exhausted. A long night's hacking has taken its toll - and some people have worked right through to get their projects finished. The hardcore nerdery was interspersed with fun and games, including a big screen showing of Dr Who, but the light waft of sweaty, tired people has given the west hall a smell reminiscent of Glastonbury.Now it is Sunday afternoon, and the hackers gather to show each other what they've done. The stage is dark and organisers from the BBC and Yahoo! twitter around making sure everything goes smoothly.By this time there are plenty of high profile representatives of both camps in the room. Bradley Horowitz, the vice president of advanced development at Yahoo! is smiling broadly. His boss David Filo, the co-founder of Yahoo!, mooches around the hall keeping a low profile (no wonder he seems a little distracted: just 24 hours later the company'schief executive resignsand is replaced by his fellow co-founder, Jerry Yang). Elsewhere Ashley Highfield, the director of BBC's new media and technology division, slips into the building to watch the presentations take place.But this isn't about corporate gladhanding - it's about the hacks. Dickerson welcomes each group on stage, and they have 90 seconds to tell everyone what they've done.The projects vary wildly in quality and purpose. Some clearly turned up to hang out and work on projects they already had on the go (the internet equivalent of turning up at a party and forcing everyone to listen to your favourite record over and over) while others have gone for laughs.At the heart of every good hack there is a sense of play and experimentation, and one wag produces a paper-based website that gets a big laugh. Somebody else demonstrates a system that generates knitting patterns based on digital traffic.Another team has created a mashup game that crosses real and virtual worlds, based loosely around the boardgame Battleships. Each physical playing piece is linked virtually to a huge submarine inside Second Life: they circle each other, preparing to blow their rivals to bits."We could have got more done with more connectivity," says Jim Purbrick, a British developer who works for Linden Lab on the virtual world of Second Life. "We wanted the submarines to really do some exciting stuff."The winner, though, comes from a gang of researchers who work for the New York Times. Their gadget connects your mobile phone and your computer so that you can take information with you more easily. Eyebrows raise at the demonstration; chins are scratched and possibilities mooted; the winners donate their prize - a Nintendo Wii - to Great Ormond Street Hospital, before well-regarded new band The Rumble Strips close proceedings with a set in front of mildly bemused audience. Everybody stumbles home - tired, happy and a little bit smellier than they were on Saturday morning.A few days later Matt Cashmore drops by again. He has taken a few days rest after the long haul. "I got maybe three hours sleep between 8am on Friday morning and 1am on Monday morning," he says. "But it was worth it."
DNA pioneer: James Watson. Photograph: Markus Schreiber/APThe latest instalment ofScience Weekly, our regular science and technology podcast, has - if I may say so - a bit of something for everyone. And it's got some pretty big names, too.Not only do we have grabbed some time withSir David Attenboroughto ask him about his thoughts - including anextended interview- but we've also got the legendaryJames Watson, one half of the duo who cracked the mysteries of DNA. He's probably done more to enhance the study of human biology than almost any other living person; and has some strong views on where we should be headed in the future.There's also a chat withMatt Cashmorefrom theBBC Backstage projectwho tells us all about the recent events at the BBC/Yahoo! Hackday (blogged abouthereand written at lengthhere). That includes edible robots, by the way.If you fancy more,click here to listen nowor subscribe viaiTunesor ourfeed.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Classy: Danah Boyd. Photograph: James Duncan Davidson/O'Reilly MediaYou can't move for people talking about Facebook at the moment. We're as guilty as anyone else -Vic Keegan, JohnNaughton, JeffJarvis, and CharlieBrookerhave all written about it in recent weeks. EvenJack joined.But aside from all of the boggle-eyed social butterflies who spend hours each day updating their profile and the hand-rubbing money men (including those who enjoystating the obvious) the real interest for me lies in who uses it, and why.A month ago I posted here thatpart of Facebook's value is that it isn't MySpace (and vice versa):MySpace is about teenage rebellion; ugliness and defiantly folded arms. Facebook is much more popular among those of college age and older - it's more grown up, and looking at it isn't like pouring acid into your eyeballs.So it's timely that Danah Boyd, one of the most incisive researchers looking at societies on the web, has come up with apaper on the class structures of Facebook and MySpace. In essence, she says good middle class kids use Facebook, while the working classes use MySpace. In many respects it is one of those things that puts what you already know into context, but it's a worthwhile read.MySpace is still home for Latino/Hispanic teens, immigrant teens, "burnouts," "alternative kids," "art fags," punks, emos, goths, gangstas, queer kids, and other kids who didn't play into the dominant high school popularity paradigm. These are kids whose parents didn't go to college, who are expected to get a job when they finish high school.We all see stereotypes living inside social networks - LinkedIn is used by suited execs, for example - but does her analysis ring true with you? And how do other networks fit into this pattern?
I spotted this last week, but forgot to share...Scott Walker works for a newspaper in Alabama. He also appears to like hacks.So, he's taken one of those newspaper dispensers you get in the US - andturned it into a video slideshow of headlines.Inside, a Mac Mini, monitor and a few little tricks to get it call up the day's headlines fromthe Newseum. It's like some crazy version of RSS.
The summer used to be a gaming graveyard, with barely any new releases and precious little to get excited about. But while this made sense in the 80s whenWhy Don't Youand summer holidays were a distraction, it doesn't wash in today's more mature market.The majority of games sales - as with all entertainment products - are still centred around Christmas. Great for EA and Activision then, but not so good for some of the more interesting releases that get lost in the blockbuster rush. The wonderfulBeyond Good &amp; Evilwas a good example. Released in Q4 2003 it didn't stand a chance against Need for Speed and the rest. Bad news for those gamers who missed out, and bad news for those of us who loved it. Low sales meant there is little chance of a sequel - another downside of the bloated Christmas release rush. Thankfully publishers have woken up to the problem and things have improved. The recent trend of spreading big releases more evenly throughout the year has to be welcomed. But has it gone too far?Just look at this Friday's bloated release schedule. Harry Potter is the big one, but Resident Evil 4 Wii and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter on PC are also notable launches.360 owners alone can choose from The Darkness, Call of Juarez, Overlord, Project Slypheed, Vampire Rain and Harry Potter. And that's on top of three recent - and excellent - driving releases, Forza, DiRT and Flatout. Phew. Much like the Christmas rush the chances are at least one or two of these titles - Flatout? Overlord? - won't get the sales they deserve simply because of the crowded schedule. With blockbusters like Bioshock also due for a summer (August) release it begs the question - are there simply too many games released each year? Or does this summer deluge prove that gaming has never been healthier?
