A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat the police can learn from your smartphone &gt;&gt; PC Pro"Where you've been, who you've talked to, who you've been sleeping with – secrets that people wouldn't even share with their closest friends are being spilled into a device that knows you better than any confidant."Apple may have publicly denied that it's tracking people via their iPhones, but the police and private forensic experts have no compunction about unlocking the secrets stored in smartphones."Last year, the National Policing Improvement Agency placed mobile phone evidence in the top tier of training requirements for officers, teaching them how to secure evidence gleaned from handsets, with 3,500 officers a year expected to take the course."Supply of Apple's iPad 2 finally catches up with demand &gt;&gt; Fortune TechDelay to shipping down to 1-3 days, rather than one or two weeks as they were in April.Metafilter's Matt Haughey interviewed &gt;&gt; Willamette Week"Q: That's still pretty remarkable, though—most news sites get almost entirely trolling or abusive comments. What is it about the Internet that turns people into assholes?&#10;"A: I think the anonymity; they think they can get away with it. Anonymous speech—like whistle-blowing—definitely has a role in society, but any time you introduce anonymity people can freely be assholes. Like, I grew up in L.A., and when you're in a car in L.A. with 8 million other people, you're totally anonymous; people drive horribly. And then you move up to Oregon, and everyone's waving at each other and people drive much nicer. I see that online—it's like, whatever level of anonymity you allow, is how much garbage you're going to get."Is this the end of Android? &gt;&gt; Bob's Tech Site"It turns out that two patents have already been upheld in this way. One patent involves manipulating data structures using user input (i.e. if you tap on a phone screen a number increments, that's patented). The second patent involves "real-time signal processing of serially transmitted data" - though this initially sounds like a hardware patent, it can involve any layers of software abstraction from real time operations (such as drivers). You'll find more detailed information on the FOSS Patents blog.&#10;"The result of this is that if it is formally approved, Apple could either charge HTC a license fee for every Android device they sell (bearing in mind HTC is already paying Microsoft license fees for the exact same reason) or prevent HTC from importing any Android devices at all into the United States. The latter measure can be enacted in as few as three or four months."Android Uncertainty: Apple Wins a Round Against HTC &gt;&gt; Technologizer"On Friday, Apple won a round in its court battle against Taiwanese phone maker HTC, when an International Trade Commission judge ruled that HTC's Android handsets violate two Apple patents. HTC is appealing the judgement."It's all about patents at the moment.Nicola Hughes / Basic Twitter Scraper &gt;&gt; ScraperWikiUseful for any time you might want to scrape Twitter for, well, anything.11-03-30 Kootol Notice of Allowance &gt;&gt; US Patent OfficeKootol's software patent application - "Universal knowledge management and desktop search system" - is now sure to pass through (an apposite phrase) the US Patent Office and be approved. Has the USPTO been asleep for the past 10 years? Google Desktop Search? Anyone?Taiwan notebook shipments increase in 2Q11 thanks to Classmate PC &gt;&gt; Digitimes Insight"Taiwan-based notebook makers' combined shipments in the second quarter of 2011 reached 44.49 million units with a sequential increase of 8.5%, better than 5.6% growth of the same quarter a year ago. The shipment growth in the second quarter of 2011 was mainly due to the over one million units of Intel Classmate PCs ordered by Venezuela, while demand from the consumer notebook market remained low and Intel's defective chipsets incident, which caused delays in shipments of new notebook models, did not significantly benefit the notebook makers, according to Digitimes Research senior analyst Joanne Chien."Also: shipments of MacBook Airs rose by 300,000 to 1m - and were 30% of Apple's total notebook shipments. That's a lot.Software patents: the same as mathematical formulae? &gt;&gt; RedditPrompted by our story about developers pulling back from US app stores because of software patent fears, a discussion on Reddit about what is and isn't patentable about software. Insightful.The Rise and Fall of the Independent Developer &gt;&gt; Craig HockenberryHockenberry likes the internet as medium for distribution; "But this expanded distribution is also putting our business at risk: there are people in this new market who claim a right to a part of our hard work. Either by patent or copyright infringement, developers are finding this new cost of litigation to be onerous."The scary part is that these infringements can happen with any part of our products or websites: things that you'd never imagine being a violation of someone else's intellectual property. It feels like coding in a mine field.&#10;"From our experience, it's entirely possible that all the revenue for a product can be eaten up by legal fees. After years of pouring your heart and soul into that product, it's devastating. It makes you question why the hell you're in the business: when you can't pay salaries from product sales, there's no point in building it in the first place."&lt;em&gt;All&lt;/em&gt; the &lt;em&gt;revenue&lt;/em&gt;? Scary.Interview: HP's Stephen DeWitt and Jon Rubinstein on webOS, the death of Palm, and partnering with Amazon &gt;&gt; This is my next...Long interview; we'll boil it down to a couple of lines for the time-starved.Stephen DeWitt: "corporate synergy... laser focussed.. excited.. opportunities... channels.. compelling.. clientized.. leverage experience.. meaningful relationships.. passionate.. a few things we clearly didn't communicate right.. push back.. tethered relationship.."Rubenstein: "I'd rather focus my time on where webOS goes in the future."Verizon cripples data tethering - be wary of new Android updates &gt;&gt; LifehackerFor American readers only, obviously: "Verizon has already started cutting down on tethering by removing apps from the Android Market, but today they took a much bigger step by releasing an update for the HTC Thunderbolt that blocks it from unauthorized tethering." Droid Charge and LG Revolution next in line; avoiding the update means you don't get Gingerbread (Android 2.3) support later.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
A few minutes after Alain de Botton announced to a packed auditorium in Edinburgh that secularism needed to learn the lessons of religion and reintroduce the concept of the sermon, Chris Anderson, the head of TED, needed to fill a few minutes and asked for questions from the floor. "Is TED a new religion?" asked someone. "I can answer that," he said quickly. "Absolutely not."And yet TEDhasbrought back the concept of the sermon – 18-minute talks delivered by absolute experts in their fields. Five years ago, when YouTube started out, it was assumed to be where you went to look at cats that looked like Hitler, or people falling off skateboards, but TED Talks, with its short disquisitions on everything from neuroscience to creativity, has just celebrated 500m views on the site. By the end of next year, that figure is expected to reach a billion. In the month when theNews of the Worldfolded, Anderson has demonstrated that there is an enormous and still largely untapped appetite for actual news of the actual world.But then, as media magnates go, he is about as far removed from the chairman of News Corp as you could imagine. He founded and made his fortune from not one, but two, media empires – first with Future Publishing, the Bath-based company he founded in the 1980s which exploited the appetite for computer and  hobby magazines; and later in the US with Imagine Media, which at one time had 130 titles and 1,500 employees – but he is in many ways the anti-Murdoch. Not least because, apart from anything else, few people have heard of him.However, as the owner of TED and its self-styled "curator", he has become a sort of global "ideasmeister". Appearing at a TED conference, as more than 70 speakers did last week at TEDGlobal in Edinburgh, can have a transformative effect on an academic career. "We try to make our speakers look like rock stars," says June Cohen, the head of TED Talks. To a large degree, they succeed. A talk by Ken Robinson, a fairly obscure figure by anyone's standards, a Liverpudlian former professor of arts education at Warwick University, has now been viewed eight million times.Is it a religion, though? Not yet, though it has its rituals – attendees of the conferences check their cynicism in at the door; standing ovations at TED seem, at times, like mandatory acts of obeisance rather than spontaneous moments of appreciation – and it's not far off De Botton's description of the Catholic church: "collaborative, multinational, branded and highly disciplined". Anderson himself is the child of missionary parents, born in Pakistan and educated in India. He isn't, he says, "an earnest do-gooder", though Bruno Giussani, TED's European director, who programmed TEDGlobal, notes that he can't hide his optimistic nature.Giussani got his job at TED after sending Anderson an email out of the blue suggesting some speakers. "He wrote back within minutes. It tells you a lot about Chris. He's just very open to new ideas. He takes decisions quickly and he has the courage to do things that others wouldn't," says Giussani.Things like the decision in 2005 to give away the content for free. Because what's most remarkable about TED and its transformation into an international media organisation and a global force for the dissemination for knowledge is that it all happened pretty much by accident. When Anderson bought TED in 2001 on behalf of his non-profit-making Sapling Foundation, it was more like an elite supper club for the masters of the universe.It was where Bill Gates came to rub shoulders with Al Gore and Sergey Brin and Larry Page, and the annual Californian conference still has that feel. And it's not cheap: the 850 attendees of TEDGlobal had paid nearly £4,000 a pop. But in 2005, Anderson listened to his speakers – people who had talked about the Creative Commons and the way the internet could be a force for good – and he put all the talks online."TED went from being 800 once a year, to half a million every day in a shockingly short space of time," says Anderson. "And instead of destroying the business model, which is what a lot of people thought, because essentially it's giving away the crown jewels, it actually boosts it because more people have heard about it."Online video, he believes, is the start of a revolution. He calls it "crowd-accelerated learning" and his latest initiative, TED Ed, is about creating a database of educational resources that can be used in any classroom in the world."But thank God it hasn't gone to his head," said John Lloyd, the veteran comedy producer ofBlackadderand co-creator ofQI, who was in Edinburgh this week. Anderson rang him up in 2005 and asked him if he would speak at the first TEDGlobal."Of course I'd never heard of it, but I liked him immediately. I thought he was brilliant. And now TED has become like Comic Relief: if you get the call, you can't say no." The old media is in crisis, claims Lloyd. "Television just assumes people are stupid, but if you're motivated there's all this amazing stuff out there. Intellectual mobility is where it's at, rather than social mobility. And in this the power of TED is almost limitless. It's kicking ass."
Much of the attention focused on games released on mobile platforms shines a light on the atypical and peculiar and rightly so. But sometimes the finest titles also just stick to the basics, as here, with two excellent games built around concepts that will be hugely familiar.The first isHard Lines(iPhone, £1.19) by UK developer Spilt Milk, which offers a substantially reinvigorated take on the king of early mobile phones,Snake. Like the original Nokia game, it challenges the player to guide a trailing line around an arena, scooping up points and avoiding collisions.WhileHard Lines's heritage is impossible to ignore, it still provides plenty of originality. Via a range of different modes, the game, which is realised in glorious streaks of neon and elegantly thumping audio, charges the player with mastering a wealth of diverse strategies and play styles. Unashamedly retro-fetishistic and surprisingly witty, this accessible gem feels every bit as exciting as the iPhone's finest more arcane releases.Also just out is NaturalMotion Games'&nbsp;digital remake of tabletop classicJenga(iPhone, 59p). It would seem impossible that the diminutive iPhone screen could ever rival the tangible clatter of falling blocks at the very core of the real-world version. Yet, thanks to some impressive virtual physics and a great multiplayer mode, NaturalMotion's creation stands out as a worthy alternative to an old favourite.
WithCaptain America: First Avengerdue in cinemas this month it's no surprise to see a tie-in hitting the shelves. Sadly,Super Soldierfollows the template of many a tie-in – it looks pretty, but lacks content to back it up.A third-person adventure, you control the eponymous (or not) captain, modelled well on Chris Evans, as he goes about whupping Nazi ass in 1940s Germany – in a story spun off from the film. Some of the jumping set-pieces are superb – but the bulk of the game lies in timing a variety of combos to smash the villainous Hun, using fists, boots and the captain's Stars and Stripes shield. It's fun for a time, but the action fast becomes samey and the lack of variety makes for a disappointing experience, highly unlikely to tempt those with hostility towards this jingoist brand into parting with their money.
By most accounts, the boy wizard's final cinematic adventure is a fittingly dramatic and explosive end to this phenomenally popular series. The same cannot be said of the videogame version.The climactic stages of Rowling's story are dashed through at a breakneck pace – non-fans will be left bemused – with developer Bright Light seemingly in a constant hurry to get back to the action. Heaven knows why, as it all boils down to an anaemic third-person shooter where wands replace guns and spells are merely ammunition.There's a staggering lack of invention here: the box touts the ability to play as eight different characters, though all have essentially the same task, which is to shoot hordes of evil wizards who amble towards the player, their sorcery apparently feebler than that of the Hogwarts-trained characters. Attempts to inject variety include tedious chase sequences that require Harry to run towards the camera and a section where one character protects another from afar, using long-range magic like a spell-casting sniper.This paucity of imagination infects the entire game, with only Harry's (little-used) ability to apparate to safety and some lovely music escaping the curse. That such rich source material has been so shockingly wasted is a crime. To paraphrase the bespectacled hero: patheticus totalus!
IfDream Trigger 3Dis guilty of one thing it is that it tries to do too much. It strives to reinvent the 2D shooter that first captured the public's attention more than three decades ago withSpace Invaders, by splicing the conventions of the genre with elements from numerous other types of game. The result is something of a Frankenstein's monster, the well-chosen parts of which combine to fashion a handsome but not particularly graceful beast.On the upper of the 3DS's two screens it presents what initially looks like an archetypal retro shooter played on a 2D plane. There is a nimble player vehicle, swooping waves of enemies and drifting bullet patterns. Meanwhile, down on the lower touch screen there is a neat grid of colourless blocks across which regimented purple squares dance and scatter, each representing an enemy yet to be fully visible on the display above. Additionally, over the grid a rhythm bar sweeps across the screen, lending the game a tidy integration of audio and visual.The idea is as follows. Mines can be placed with a jab of the stylus of the bottom screen. As the rhythm bar passes by, it detonates the explosives in their relative position on the upper playfield, exposing those hidden enemies that are caught in the blast radius. From then on, all the while keeping an eye on where to place the next mine, it is a matter of negotiating the fields of bullets on the top screen while shooting down exposed enemies for points.Initially, this hyperactive mix of genre conventions is bewildering and particularly frustrating. A little persistence, however, will reward players with a satisfying and briefly enthralling game. But only briefly unfortunately –Dream Trigger 3Dsoon loses momentum. After it establishes an initially ungainly concept as something surprisingly workable, it does little else to captivate and appears unable to find much flexibility in its core mechanic. Having hit the player with a few too many new ideas at the outset, it saves few others for the remainder of play.The game does deserve praise for succeeding in realising a unique concept in a genre defined by extremely restrictive conventions, and its fluorescent and monochrome visuals are strangely compelling, but the contemporary 2D shooter has so much more to offer. – but
My favourite line in the filmA Fish Called Wandacomes when Otto (Kevin Kline), a psychopathically idiotic ex-CIA operative, objects to being called "stupid" by Wanda (Jamie Lee Curtis). To which Wanda replies: "To call you stupid would be an insult to stupid people! I've worn dresses with higher IQs."Until relatively recently, "dresses" could have been replaced by "mobile phones" in the script, and the line would still have raised a laugh. But that's changing fast. Quite how fast was revealed last week in an extraordinary report from the Pew Internet and American Life Project. This is the most sustained and intensive ongoing effort we have to chronicle the penetration of the internet into everyday life, and although it only surveys the US, many of its findings seem to be echoed in other industrialised countries, including ours.ThePew reportfound that 35% of American adults now own a "smartphone", that is to say a mobile phone with a significantly more powerful processor and much better internet connectivity than an old-style handset which could do voice and text and not much else. Smartphones (think iPhone, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Mobile) usually also function as portable media players and cameras and have GPS navigation, Wi-Fi and mobile broadband access built in. Smartphone penetration seems to be following a similar pattern in the UK. A few months ago, a survey conducted byOlswang, a law firm specialising in the technology and media sectors, found that 22% of UK consumers already have a smartphone, with this percentage rising to 31% among 24- to 35-year-olds.The first and obvious inference from these numbers is that the penetration of smartphones is rising more quickly than had originally been forecast. Who would have thought that such expensive devices would become so popular so quickly? Certainly not Nokia, a former giant of the mobile phone business, now in intensive care. But there's an even more significant discovery buried in the Pew survey results. It turns out that nearly 90% of smartphone owners access the internet or email on their phones, and two thirds of them do so on a typical day. A quarter of smartphone owners say that they now use their phones rather than PCs to go online. While many of these individuals have online access at home, Pew reports that roughly one third of them no longer bother with a high-speed home broadband connection.What does this mean? Essentially, that we are on the slippery slope towards a much more controlled, less open, internet. If these trends continue, then it won't be all that long before a significant proportion of the world's internet users will access the network, not via freely programmable PCs connected via landline networks, but through tethered, non-programmable information appliances (smartphones) hooked up to tightly controlled and regulated mobile networks. And if that happens then the world will have kissed goodbye to the internet's revolutionary potential.What makes the internet special is that it is a magical enabler of what the Stanford scholarBarbara van Schewickcalls "permissionless innovation". If you're bright and have a good idea that can be implemented via software, then the internet will run it for you, with no questions asked and with very low entry barriers. At the moment, there are no gatekeepers who can keep out an innovator, no incumbents who can impose a swingeing tax on an innovative idea. But an internet accessed mainly via smartphones would be a very different kind of space – dominated by giant companies determined to repel newcomers, to protect obsolete business models and ensure that innovation happens at a pace determined by them rather than by the possibilities of technology and human ingenuity.The danger, in other words, is that we move from an internet designed for people to a networked tailored only to the needs of corporations. This will be news, incidentally, to the UK's Department of Culture, Media and Sport, which – as theOpen Rights Grouppointed out last week – appears to think that the only role for government is to enable commercial exploitation of the net.In a striking TED talk given recently in Edinburgh, the internet scholarRebecca MacKinnonvividly spelled out some of the implications of this mind-set, and argued that combating it will require concerted citizen activism&nbsp;akin to the long-term campaigns that have begun to force western corporations to stop exploiting developing nations' child labour. She's right: but that means it'll be a long haul. And it needs to start now.
Hmm. White bikes: not sure. Do they need a wash after every outing like a&nbsp;white top? And isn't swanning around on&nbsp;a white frame a bit disrespectful toghost bikes, the white-painted bicycles left at accident spots as&nbsp;macabre memorials to fallen comrades? That said... the Charge Tap looks pretty snazzy, eh?So snazzy, in fact, that I worried about it being pinched. Having swapped the mean streets of London for the more civilised strassen of Berlin, I live in a&nbsp;one-lock city, and enjoy not lugging two £70 gold-standard locks around. But with the&nbsp;Tap I could take no chances. It's&nbsp;a peacock of a bike, an albino show-off that seems destined to be stolen, resprayed and&nbsp;offered on Craigslist for £150.Charge is a British brand that has&nbsp;built a reputation for solid, fashionable bikes since it started five years ago. Its enormously popular, single-speed Plug was arguably the prime catalyst for the resurgence in courier-style, stripped-back bikes when it came out in 2007.The Tap is an upgrade of the Plug, with a slightly higher price tag. The main thing you get extra is gears: eight of them, tucked away in the Shimano Nexus hub. I have a Nexus hub on myrealbike and cannot praise it highly enough: it slips from one gear to the next like shaved legs between silk sheets. Best of all, the whole mechanism is hidden from the elements, so you'll never get oily ankles. Or rather, you wouldn't if Charge had gone the whole hog and added a chain guard.Charge has already added mudguards, considered by manyseriouscyclists to be the devil's work (yawn). To purists, fitting mudguards is the bicycling equivalent of going 10-pin bowling with those sausage-shaped gutter-guards: it's cheating, and it spoils the aesthetics. I have no such qualms, though I had problems getting the Tap's mudguards to sit straight, and they kept rubbing against the wheel with a subtlety that drove me nuts.Another qualm was that it was not the right geometry for me. I'm an – I&nbsp;think – averagely proportioned 5ft 4in woman, and even the extra small and ostensibly unisex Tap was too big for me. With a bit of saddle adjustment I could touch the floor, but it was a bit of a stretch to reach the brakes. The handlebars were also weirdly wide, and out of keeping with the courier look. And the rough grips hurt my hands if I&nbsp;rode for more than than half an hour.But the Tap is a decent bike for riding to work as well as longer weekend jaunts. You can attach a&nbsp;rack to the back, it's light and nippy, and it ought to require minimal maintenance – if regular washing.Charge Tap 2011 Hybrid BikePrice£649.99FrameAluminiumGearsNexus Inter 8-speed hubExtrasMudgards and rack mountsIn a wordNickable
App developers are withdrawing their products for sale from the US versions of Apple's App Store and Google's Android Market for fear of being sued by companies which own software patents - just as a Mumbai-based company has made a wide-ranging claim against Microsoft, Apple, Google, Yahoo and a number of other companies over Twitter-style feeds, for which it claims it has applied for a patent.Software patent owners in the US have latched onto potential revenue streams to be earned from independent developers by suing over perceived infringements of their intellectual property - which can be expensive for developers to defend even if they are successful.Now developers in Europe are retreating from the US to avoid the expense and concern such "patent trolls" are causing.Simon Maddox, a UK developer, has removed all his apps from US app stores on both iOS and Android for fear of being sued by Lodsys, a company which hasalready sued a number of iOS and Android developerswhich it says infringe its software patent.Simon Maddox vents his opinion of Lodsys on TwitterShaun Austin, another app developer based in Cheltenham,saidthat "selling software in the US has already reached the non-viable tipping point".And Fraser Speirs, a Scottish developer who has written apps for the Mac and iOS, remarked that he was "starting to get seriously concerned about my future as a software developer due to these patent issues".The growth of patent lawsuits over apps raises serious issues for all the emerging smartphone platforms, because none of the principal companies involved - Apple, Google or Microsoft - can guarantee to protect developers from them. Even when the mobile OS developer has signed a patent licence - as Apple has with at least one company currently pursuing patent lawsuits - it is not clear that it has any legal standing to defend developers.That has led developers to take evasive action. On Wednesday Maddoxtweetedthat he was removing his apps from US app stores and putting 0.575% of total revenue into a spare bank account. "Screw you, Lodsys", he commented.He told the Guardian that it's "far too dangerous to do business" in the US because of the risk of software patent lawsuits.But for US-based developers, the problems remain. Craig Hockenberry of Iconfactory, developer of Twitterrific, remarked that "Just when you think things couldn't get any worse, they do andtweetedthat "I became an independent developer to control my own destiny. I no longer do". Iconfactory is among those being targeted by Lodsys, but earlier this week was granted a 30-day extension to reply to Lodsys's claim.Meawhile Kootol Software of Mumbaiannouncedthat it has sent a notice to Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo, Google, IBM, Research in Motion, LinkedIn, MySpace, Research in Motion and a number of other companies - including Iconfactory - claiming that they infringeUS patent application 11/995,343-  "A Method and System for Communication, Advertising, Searching, Sharing and Dynamically Providing a Journal Feed" - which it said has also been applied for in India, Canada and Europe.It says that patent it is seeking is an invention which "allows the user to publish and send messages using one way or two way messaging and by subscribing to posts of other users of a network. By indexing each message of each user the system provides real time search capabilities to users of the network in turn creating a unique form of communication."The company claims that it covers core messaging, publication and real-time searching, and that the named companies "may violate [our] intellectual property by using it for their website, networks, applications, services, platforms, operating systems and devices."Because the patent has not apparently been granted by the US Patent Office or any other patent office, the warning message may give the companies involved the chance to contact the relevant examiners and have the claim invalidated because "prior art" - implementations which predate the application - already exist, notes Florian Mueller, who has followed the development of the field.Muellercommented: "What surprises me is that the various patent offices examining this application haven't been able to reject it a while ago."This one is several years old. But now that many large players have been approached, chances are that this patent application will encounter some serious resistance. Let's hope it never gets granted in the first place."Update:Mueller now says it is "too late to stop" the Kootol application becoming a patent in the US, with a strong presumption of validity in U.S. courts. AScribd document has more details.
Microsoft wants to move towards a single software ecosystem for both mobile phones, PCs, and devices in between including tablets and e-readers running its software, according to Andy Lees, the head of the Windows Phone division.One ecosystem to rule them allIn aspeechat the Windows Partners Conference in Los Angeles, Lees outlined a number of key trends which he said were leading to the changes: "it starts right at the core of the devices themselves," he said, pointing to the demonstrations of Windows 8 running on systems-on-a-chip (SOC) that mean that PCs can take different form factors.Lees then suggested that there will not be "an ecosystem for PCs and an ecosystem for phones [and] one for tablets. They'll all come together." He said that this did not mean replacing the PC: "our strategy is that these new form factors are within a single ecosystem and not new ecosystems themselves".Having Windows Phone 7 on a tablet would "conflict with this strategy", he said. "We view a tablet as a sort of PC. We want people to be able to do the sorts of things that they expect on a PC on a tablet". That includes connecting to networks, using networking tools, connecting USB drives, printing, and using Office.But that has sparked heated - and urgent - dicussions about what a "unified ecosystem" is, and how it would work across multiple devices which run incompatible software.Longtime Microsoft-watcher Mary Jo Foleysuggeststhat for Microsoft, "ecosystem" doesn't necessarily mean "dependent population of software and hardware built on a reference platform", which is the meaning that every other organisation uses. She says it is instead "a broad-brush term that can mean anything from the development environment to its distribution channels.And, she adds, being a "Windows device" doesn't mean that that device is running "Windows" as you see on a PC. Windows Phone runs a version of Windows Embedded Compact with "a layer of Microsoft customization on top". Xboxes actually run a substantially tweaked version of Windows NT.But, she notes, ifMicrosoft has got Windows (proper) running on the ARM architecture, then maybe it could get it to run on Windows Phones.Foley's contacts say that that isn't going to happen for the next upgrades of Windows 8 and Windows Phone in 2012 - which means that any change, and unification, isn't going to happen until at least 2013.Developers think that appsmightbe made to run on any of those interfaces, if you could bring them close enough together: one suggestion is that Silverlight, its browser plugin system (analogous to Adobe's Flash), might fill the gap. Or maybe HTML5/Javascript/CSS will do the job, since Microsoft has talked about apps written for that running on Windows 8 (to the slight terror of some developers with years invested in Microsoft-specific development environments).Unification will tear us apartMy opinion: trying to unify "Windows" - or create a unified operating system environment - across all those devices, andeven across just tablets and PCs, will initially go swimmingly for Microsoft. Windows 8 is initially going to go great guns. It works on PCs and it's got an interface that works on tablets too! What's not to like? You can see corporations snapping it up. The idea of extending it (or extending its apps) to Windows Phone is ambitious, but I think that once they see what's going to happen, they'll pull back from trying to pull that in as well.But pay attention to the key word:initially. Compare the approach of Apple and Google, which are developing a mobile OS that works on both smartphones and tablets, with Microsoft, which is developing a desktop OS that works on both PCs and tablets.What sort of device is a tablet? Actually, don't answer that yet. What sort of device is a smartphone? A mobile one - and one that is evolving at a furious rate. Video calling, voice-over-IP, GPS, near-field communications (NFC), gyroscopes, compasses, accelerometers, augmented reality (requiring real-time video processing plus location sensing plus internet) - they've all come to smartphones in the past few years. And the mobile OSs involved have had to evolve to be able to handle the inputs involved and process them - which means  that to make them useful to developers, the OS has to evolve and offer APIs.You only have to look at how far and how fast Apple's iOS and especially Google's Android have evolved since 2007 and 2008 respectively to realise that smartphone OS evolution is running at an astonishing rate. TheiOS versions Wikipedia pageandAndroid versions Wikipedia pageshow that the times between major upgrades can be less than a year.Compare that to desktop OSs: both Apple and Microsoft are now on development cycles that take at least two years between major revisions. Windows 7 came out in 2009; Windows 8 is expected in 2012. Snow Leopard came out in August 2009; Lion is due, well, any day now. The development cycle for desktop OSs, even with service packs, is much slower than that for mobile phones.So our next, crucial question: is a tablet more like a PC or a smartphone? I think this one pretty much answers itself. Despite what Lees says (or has been told to say following long strategy meetings with Steve Ballmer and Steve Sinofsky, the head of the Windows division), tablets get used in situations that are more mobile than they are static. They're used in snatched moments between trains, or in homes, and particularly in situations where people don't want to or can't use laptops.OK - you can argue that laptops are used in mobile situations too, and nobody suggests that they aren't PCs. Fair enough: so we'll let Microsoft determine that tabletsarePCs, and let it produce the same OS for tablets as for desktop and laptop PCs.Now the fun startsFor a year, those Windows tablets are going to look great. But during that time, Apple and Google (and not forgetting HP with its TouchPad/webOS and RIM with the PlayBook, if it's still making it then) will be working as hard as they can to advance their mobile OSs to incorporate everything novel that crops up. They'll build smartphonesand tabletswhich will incorporate all sorts of new technology (which presently might be just a gleam in a researcher's eye - we're talking about 2013 here).Meanwhile, those Windows tablets will begin to struggle, because Microsoft will have two choices: (1) come up with service packs that enable access to APIs for those technologies on tablets, which of course won't be needed on desktops, lest they fall behind the competition, or (2) keep tablets moving at the slower pace of desktops.The second doesn't look good. The first is competitive - but that means both writing and testing the new software - hard enough - and, more to the point, working on a continuous upgrade and testing schedule which does not allow for any delays. Miss a trick in the tablet market, and someone else will step in and grab it. New APIs will have to be added to Windows tablets to compete with rivals; else they'll not support new technologies, and look backward.But the PC track and the tablet track aren't going to be quite in sync; the tablet track will be moving far faster than the desktop track, if Microsoft is going to keep competitive with those rivals. Very few people need a gyroscope in their desktop PC. They do need GPU optimisation. Built-in 3G isn't important for a desktop; you might like it in a tablet. Which should Microsoft develop first? If tablets are selling, that takes resources from the desktop development - unless you throw more bodies at both, in which case you have the inevitable problem ofregression teststo make sure code improvements haven't screwed up all your earlier work.Another alternative is that the tablet track moves more slowly, in which case although the tablets will improve in speed (through Moore's Law), they won't benefit from integrated extra capabilities. If in 2014 rival tablets can handle iris recognition and voice recognition, will people wait for Microsoft to crank the handle on Windows to release a tablet update that enables it?This is going to be extremely tricky for Microsoft to pull off. Recall that Windows Phone was significantly delayed, even though it used existing code (and is still built on ancient code going back to Windows Mobile). Vista was very delayed, because Sinofsky tore up the whole development process for Windows - which in theory is a lot more agile now. Even so, the risks of the tablet and desktop OSs diverging is very real; it already happens for Apple and Google. But it's a bigger risk if you insist that you must be able to do the same things on the desktop as you can on the tablet - as Lees did.In theory, Windows can be developed much more quickly now. That raises the question of why it's taking three years between versions. If tablets and PCs are moving at different speeds, as we already know they are, Microsoft is going to struggle to preventforking. Either it's going to pull off the most amazing development feat ever - not that likely given its track record - or one of the two, tablets or PCs, is going to suffer in the development stakes.Microsoft could of course get around this challenge by accepting that tablets work better with a mobile OS - which is sort of what Apple, Google, and latterly HP have proven. But to do that would sacrifice the Windows licence fee it hopes to extract from each Windows tablet under the new regime. The danger is that just as with its previous efforts on tablets, it's going to sacrifice volume for value - and annoy its partners too.
Following the first part of our collection of smartphone gaming treats, here's the concluding batch, rounding up the very best titles of the last six months. Again, I sought the help of brilliant handheld game sitePocket Gamer, and its writers have lent their considerable wealth of miniaturised gaming knowledge to the selection.Anyway, have a read then hit an app store and start sampling!League of EvilRavenous Games, iOS (linkhere), £1.19Like many of the titles in this list, League of Evil is an absolute triumph of style over originality. In effect, it's a traditional run-and-jump platformer, complete with blocky visuals, a scratchy chip tune soundtrack and lots of spikes, hammers and lasers. But like cult XBLA hit Super Meat Boy, it's also tightly designed and brutally difficult. As Pocket Gamer's Mark Brown explains, "The giant on-screen buttons are responsive and reliable enough to let you leap gaps, hop off walls, avoid obstacles and punch malicious boffins square in the mug. It just goes to show that a genre built on joysticks, D-pads, and fumbling dexterity challenges can be made to fit the sleek, button-free gloss of today's smartphones with due care and constant play-testing."Max and the Magic MarkerEA Games, iOS (linkhere), WP7, £1.19Previously released on Wiiware and PC, Max and the Magic Marker is a combination of platformer and Scribblenauts-style doodle puzzler. Your aim is to get Max through a series of environments, avoiding obstacles by drawing objects such as bridges, see-saws and bubbles, which will get your pen-wielding protagonist to safety. Or you can just draw massive weights over the heads of enemies and watch as they're crushed – by art. "It's no LittleBigPlanet, says Keith Andrew. "But for those who find the prospect of designing a game from scratch somewhat daunting that's no bad thing. Instead, it gives you the opportunity to sketch your way to success. There are limits to your creativity – what you can draw is constrained by the amount of ink you have in reserve – but Max and the Magic Marker's pen power is a gratifying gimmick nonetheless."Paladog!FazeCat, iOS (linkhere), £1.19The tower defence genre has been a smartphone mainstay since the beginning, but this could be the freshest and most original take since Plants vs Zombies. It's the distant future and humanity has been wiped out, with cute forest critters evolving to replace man at the top of the food chain. But now an undead evil has returned to the planet, and the animals, led by the eponymous terrier, must strike back. Gameplay combines elements of the RTS and time-management sim into the mix as you accrue resources and select units to attack the enemy stronghold. The visuals are almost irresponsibly cute, while the varied strategic action is compelling. But the masterstroke is having Paladog as a playable general in the midst of the fighting – like Dynasty Warriors but with puppies.PewPewJean-Francois Geyelin, Android (linkhere), freeChannelling the ghosts of Battlezone, Robotron and Geometry Wars, PewPew is a gorgeously retro slab of wire-frame shoot-'em-up insanity. Through a series of stark environments, you blast at incoming enemy craft using a virtual twin-stick setup. The action is fast and frantic, the screen regularly teeming with shards of neon shrapnel, and there are four stages to scorch through, including Mega Gore, in which you simply blast everything that moves, and Dodge This, where your weapons are taken and you simply have to navigate through the carnage. It's exciting, bewildering and tinged with vintage visual design sensibilities. And there's a fantastic sequel out already.RobotekHexage, iPhone (linkhere) and Android (linkhere), freeTwo giant global mainframes are sending out their robots to destroy each other, and you must help the good computer win by engaging in one-on-one turn-based android war. In a novel twist, actions are chosen via a slot machine mechanic, which spins through the available options per turn: manage to get two or more icons the same and your attack is more powerful. It's a great idea, skilfully executed and with neat visual flourishes. "Slot machines aren't known for their strategy credentials," admits Hearn. "Yet Robotek somehow makes a largely luck-based endeavour into an engrossing and stylish casual freemium strategy game. Like Peggle and countless other casual hits, it's this balance between luck and skill that makes Robotek extremely approachable. And it's free."Sonic &amp; Sega All-Stars RacingSumo Digital, iPhone (linkhere), £2.99Sumo Digital's faithful port of the very good Mario Kart-style console racer is a required purchase for Sega nuts. With fun handling and a range of courses designed around classic titles such as House of the Dead and Samba De Amigo, it's an assured cartoon drive-'em-up. We also love the choice of drivers behind the wheels of the various vehicles (which boast appreciably diverse handling characteristics) – whowouldn'twant to jump into a car with the stars of Shenmue or Jet Set Radio? As Hearn enthuses, "Online and local multiplayer, challenges, a thrilling sense of speed and some deft handling make this the closest the iOS has ever had to a proper Mario Kart rival, and far better than we've come to expect from home console ports."Speedball 2 EvolutionTower Studios, iOS (linkhere), £2.39The Bitmap Brothers' Amiga classic has found itself on almost as many platforms as Tetris over the last few years – there's just something instinctively engaging about this top-down-viewed futuristic blood sport. The fundamental sports action (a fast-paced cross between rugby, hockey and town-centre violence) is thrillingly realised, but there is also the tactical team-building element, allowing you to buy and train new players. As Will Wilson explains, "The controls are tight and responsive, feeling almost as natural on the touchscreen as they did on a joystick, while the graphics have been given a tidy polish without sacrificing the scuffed vintage character of the original. Even if you hold no particular nostalgia towards Speedball 2, Evolution's pace and crunching gameplay hold up well."StarFront: CollisionGameloft, iOS (linkhere), Android (linkhere), £variousFrench mobile veteran Gameloft has, time and time again, proved itself the master of taking console and PC gaming staples and brilliantly transferring them to the small screen. StarFront: Collision is essentially StarCraft, a deep, engaging real-time strategy title, pitching three interstellar races against each other, each with its own selection of ground and aerial units. The visuals are punchy and detailed, the user interface finely crafted for the iPhone display, and the single-player campaign is lengthy and engaging. Add in both local and online multiplayer and you have the most thorough RTS experience available. (Gameloft has a little gameplay demo of the iPad versionhere).Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworcery EPCapybara, iOS (linkhere), £2.99Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworcery EP drew quite a lot of attention earlier this year, mostly due to the artistic and theoretical intentions of its creators, who wanted the game to be a sort of metaphysical adventure, in which discovering the very nature of virtual questing is therealplayer objective. But don't let that put you off – it's also an imaginative and visually arresting title, with truly effective pixel graphics and neat concepts at every turn. "It's a unique and challenging game," says Mark Brown. "Sometimes it even challenges you to enjoy it. For instance, the third act can last a full, real-life lunar cycle if you don't delve into the game's time-bending secrets. It's certainly game-ish, with occasional monster-bashing and the odd RPG-style fetch quest. But it's more laid back and cerebral than that – it's an enchanting, arty experience about curiosity, discovery and everything in between."Tiny WingsAndreas Illiger, iOS (linkhere), 59pAndreas Illiger's casual hit has followed Cut The Rope in the growing line of Angry Birds beaters. It has plenty of similarities with Rovio's mega-seller – including a cute avine hero and a physics mechanic based around flight – but if anything Tiny Wings is even more intuitive. The idea is to help a tiny flightless bird into the air by setting him off down a hill, launching him into the air, then touching the screen to maintain his flight. Each quaintly crayoned background is procedurally generated so it never looks or plays the same way twice. "Tiny Wings appears to be based on obscure indie game Wavespark," says Rob. "But to all intents and purposes it's unique, particularly as it distinguishes itself from its lo-fi blueprint with a Yoshi's Island-esque art style and a some adorable nonsense about birds dreaming. A vivid reminder of what a lone developer with imagination can achieve on the App Store."(The official gameplay trailer ishere.)Wave – Against Every BEAT!Color Box Software, iOS (linkhere), Android, 59pWhen Tetsuya Mizuguchi cleverly combined the shoot-'em-up and rhythm action genres into his 1999 title Rez, he spawned an offbeat sub-genre that has flourished on mobile platforms. This latest example is a neon-soaked scrolling blaster with a strong audio element and an emphasis on accessibility rather than "bullet hell" carnage. Players simply slide a finger around the screen to move, while shooting is automatic. "It's not for everybody," admits Keith Andrew. "But if hardcore shooters leave you cold, Wave – Against Every BEAT is the perfect tonic. The action is hectic enough to make you look accomplished in front of onlookers, and you'll be able to make sense of it even if you're just an averagely skilled gamer." Always a good selling point around these parts.World of Goo2D Boy, iOS (linkhere), £1.79Back in 2008, World of Goo was one of the original stars of the indie revival, revered alongside the likes of Braid and Darwinia as a beacon of hope for the bedroom coding fraternity. The iPhone version retains the original WiiWare title's central premise – you must traverse a series of obstacle-filled screens by building bridges and towers out of blobs of goo. There are various types of globules, each with different capabilities, and the deceptive depth and calming properties of this physics-based challenge is almost zen-like. The touchscreen controls also work brilliantly, adding a pleasingly tactile element to the action. An absolute must.Prices and platforms correct at time of writing.
The Pentagon may have to redesign some of its weapons system after a foreign intelligence service hacked into systems at a corporate contractor and obtained 24,000 key files in March.The incursion was one of the worst single incidents the US defence department has seen. Though it did not name the contractor nor the country suspected of carrying out the attack,Lockheed Martin said in Maythat it had come under attack. China and Russia have frequently been suspected of carrying out internet espionage, with China the most prominent in recent years.US defence chiefs now think they need to have a means of response against such incursions. "We're on a path that is too predictable, way too predictable," General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said on Thursday. "It's purely defensive. There is no penalty for attacking us now. We have to figure out a way to change that." Hours later, the  deputy defence secretary, William Lynn, presented a strategy whose thrust, he said, is defensive and focused on "denying the benefit of an attack".Lynn revealed that over the year key files including plans for missile-tracking systems, satellite navigation, surveillance drones and even jet fighters have been stolen from systems. "A great deal of it concerns our most sensitive systems, including aircraft avionics, surveillance technologies, satellite communications systems and network security protocols," he said.Attacks on defence-related contractors and systems are growing increasingly sophisticated. The hackers who broke into Lockheed Martin's systems had firstraided the systems of EMC's security subsidiary RSA Securitywhich provides cryptographic "keys" used to scramble and decode files, in order to gain remote access to staff computers.Cartwright said US military commanders were now devoting 90% of attention to building better firewalls and only 10% to ways of deterring hackers from attacking. He said a better strategy would be the reverse, focusing almost entirely on attack.The defence department's new strategy relies on deploying sensors, software and code to detect and stop intrusions before they affect operations. "If an attack will not have its intended effect, those who wish us harm will have less reason to target us through cyberspace in the first place," Lynn said. "Current countermeasures have not stopped this outflow of sensitive information. We need to do more to guard our digital storehouses of design innovation."Cartwright suggested that stronger deterrents would be needed. "We are supposed to be offshore convincing people if they attack, it won't be free," he said, adding that adversaries should know that the US has "the capability and capacity to do something about it".James Lewis, an expert on computer network warfare at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, told the New York Times the Pentagon's computer networks were vulnerable to security gaps in the systems of allies with whom the military cooperates. America's allies are "all over the map" on cybersecurity issues, Lewis said. "Some are very, very capable and some are clueless."Lynn said most major efforts to penetrate crucial military computer networks were still undertaken by large rival nations. "US military power offers a strong deterrent against overtly destructive attacks," he said. "Although attribution in cyberspace can be difficult, the risk of discovery and response for a major nation is still too great to risk launching destructive attacks against the United States."He warned that the technical expertise needed to carry out harmful internet raids was certain to migrate to smaller rogue states and to non-state actors, in particular terrorists.If a terrorist group obtains "disruptive or destructive cybertools, we have to assume they will strike with little hesitation," Lynn said.The Democrat congressman, Jim Langevin, co-founder of the congressional cyber security caucus, told the Washington Post the plan was a good start but that key areas were missing."What are acceptable red lines for actions in cyberspace?" Langevin asked. "Does data theft or disruption rise to the level of warfare, or do we have to see a physical event, such as an attack on our power grid, before we respond militarily?".Lynn said the US has not yet been hit by an act of cyberwar and that there was deterrent value in remaining ambiguous about what would constitute one. But ultimately, he said, it is the president and the Congress that would decide that the human or economic damage is severe enough to consider a cyber event an act of war.
Back in 1999, the original Driver was one of the best games on PlayStation. Created by Newcastle-based veteran Reflections and heavily inspired by Walter Hill's cult seventies flick of the same name, it was a rollicking cops-'n-robbers adventure, revolving around an undercover detective named John Tanner, on the hyper-accelerated trail of a major crime syndicate.The single-player mode provided slick driving entertainment, maintaining the riotous sense of fun present in Reflections' previous PlayStation racer, Destruction Derby. But the real find was the large selection of mini-games and challenges that accompanied the central mode. Of these, 'Survival' in which you simply had to drive around the city evading the cops for as long as possible was a demented highlight. Alongside GoldenEye, it became a staple of those all-back-to-mine post-pub gaming sessions many of us enjoyed before online multiplayer came to consoles.Reflections (now Ubisoft Reflections) has clearly never forgotten those heady days. Its forthcoming return to the series,Driver San Francisco, is set to feature an incredible 19 multiplayer modes – 11 online, and eight splitscreen. Alongside a few straightforward racing options, several are designed to match the thrilling insanity of Survival. At a recent games showcase event in London, Ubi was showing off 'Tag', in which eight drivers fight it out to grab a trophy and keep hold of it as long as possible. To take the item from another player, you simply have to smash into their vehicle. Players get a point for every second they retain the trophy and the first to 100 wins.Of course, the key element is 'switching'. If you've kept your eye on the Driver pre-release hype you'll know that the main game is no ordinary gangland drive-'em-up. Once again, you're Tanner, on the tail of crime lord Jericho, but this time a near fatal car accident leaves the cop in a coma, and the game plays out inside his state of unconsciousness. Comparisons have been made to Life on Mars and Inception, and while its proved a controversial feature it has allowed this interesting game mechanic – the ability to instantly switch from one car to another.In Tag, the concept takes a while to grasp, but the tactical possibilities are immediately obvious. Hitting X on the PS3 controller, draws your view out of the car and into a map screen, which shows the city layout: pushing down on the analogue controller pans out for a wider view, and hitting R1 zooms directly to the trophy car. You can also see every other vehicle on the road - putting the cursor over one and pressing X puts you straight in to it.Obviously, the idea is to scope out the map, pick a vehicle near the trophy car, transfer into it and then give chase. But there are myriad strategic approaches: should you choose a car heading in the opposite direction to your target, thereby allowing you to drive straight into them? It's a fast, very direct option, but it's hard to time correctly, and if you hit the trophy car head on, you get the item, but your car is now a mess (and switching out of it will lose you the trophy). Also, do you swap into a sports car for a high speed chase, or opt for a truck or bus that can block off a section of the road? Eventually, it looks like you'll be able to gradually upgrade your shifting powers, opening up the ability to spawn the types of cars you want, when you want them.Tag is a brilliant concept, which essentially boils down the entire multiplayer experience into a series of heart-stopping five-second encounters. During the Ubisoft press event, there were players who'd spend ages in the map view, intricately planning attack strategies, while others hopped madly from car to car or stubbornly stayed in one vehicle to give chase on the road. And once you have the trophy, it's all about evasion – swerving through traffic, making last minute handbrake turns and – vitally – heading down the back alleys where there are fewer vehicles for other players to switch into. All the while, there are players spawning into vehicles around you turning every passive participant the mid-town congestion into a potential smash-happy competitor.San Francisco, it turns out, provides a sprawling network of wide avenues, snaking rat runs and fraught interchanges, along with its trademark swooping hills. The moderately heavy and unpredictable traffic adds hugely to the action, allowing the trophy car to clip other vehicles and cause mini-pile-ups in its wake. And of course, a robust physics model adds crunching impact to every car-on-car encounter.  "A lot of people have said that tag reminds them of Destruction Derby," says studio founder and the game's creative director, Martin Edmondson. "There was a similar mode in that called 'It', which was you versus 19 AI drivers – it was total mayhem."Along side Tag, there will also be team-based co-op modes including a Capture the Flag variant. Here, the car with the flag is weaker than the rest and if it is destroyed the flag is dropped. There are also relay racers, in which the team has to get a torch from one side of the map to another before their rivals – the problem is, the car carrying the item has a rapidly depleting fuel tank, so other drivers have to be ready to grab the torch and take it further. It requires a tactical mix of close-support and the sabotage of opponent vehicles. "You get a lot of moments where you're shouting 'I'm running out of fuel, where are you?!' And they're busy trying to smash the opponent's car…"So, Reflections is soon to be back doing what it has always done – messing about with driving games and providing wonderful little side-modes that are hilarious, destructive and very social. It will be fascinating to see how switching can operate as an integral part of the main game, and whether its use becomes seamless and natural enough to work as a major gameplay addition. After plenty of laughs on Tag, I think I'm one step closer to appreciating the potential.Let's shift againMartin Edmondson on this year's most intriguing game mechanic...The idea of 'shifting' has provided the focus for much pre-release coverage of Driver: San Francisco – it's something gamers have struggled to get their heads around. "Four and a half years ago, when we set out to make this game, shift was there from day one, so the whole game's been designed with the system," says Martin Edmondson. "We've got missions that operate almost like a racing team, where you've got to get two cars into two different positions on the map; you're continually shifting between the two. We have another mission where there are ten trucks around the city with bombs underneath them, so you need to shift into low sports cars all around the city and get underneath the trucks to diffuse the bombs – then you switch it another car on the other side of the city for the next truck…"Edmondson is keen to point out that there are multiplayer race events in which switching is removed – if purists insist on it. But mostly he wants the feature to be seen as a core dynamic rather than something that's been tacked on to give it a handy USP – a charge that's been levelled at forthcoming Need For Speed offshoot, The Run, which has on-foot sections. "Pure racing games are tricky – they don't have the market share they used to have, so there's a pressure to innovate," says Edmondson. "But I'd stress that this studio has a history, all the way back to Shadow of the Beast, Destruction derby and Stuntman, of innovating. For us it's natural to do something like this. And also innovation for the sake of it is pointless, it's self-defeating. We really think switching brings something new in. But it's so hard to explain. You just have to experience it…"•Driver San Francsico will be released by Ubisoft on 2 September 2 for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
Thousands of new apps are released every day for smartphones and tablets, although the vast majority sink without trace. Here is our selection of reviews from apps released in the last fortnight that are worth checking out.Tiny ToweriPhone, iPad, freeFreemium game Tiny Tower comes from the same developer as iOS hit Pocket Frogs, and is even more addictive. The aim of the game is to build a skyscraper packed with apartments and businesses, making enough money from both to continue adding new floors. The pixel-art graphics are full of character, and there are bags of humorous touches to the gameplay – the fake Facebook status updates from your residents is a favourite. You can play happily for free, but in-app purchases of virtual currency can speed up your progress.The Open Championship 2011iPhone, Android, freeThe R&amp;A's iOS app was an excellent way to follow The Open last year, and this time round it's been joined by an Android version too. There are plenty of live statistics to keep you posted on the players' progress, with live video streaming during the tournament too. There are plenty of people surreptitiously checking the leaderboard on their work computers this week, but the app is well worth downloading for when you're away from your desk.Foursquare for Windows Phone 7Windows Phone 7, freeSocial location service Foursquare is available on near enough every smartphone, and while most attention gets focused on its iPhone and Android incarnations, its recently revamped Windows Phone 7 app is perhaps the slickest of the lot. It fits well into Microsoft's WP design guidelines, as you swipe your way between check-ins and information on venues near your current location. There is plenty of data to explore, but assuming you're out with friends, its best feature is the ability to quickly check in without having to spend several anti-social minutes thumbing through menus.SongifyiPhone, freeIt's fair to say Songify counts as a novelty app: something to annoy and/or delight your friends with, rather than performing a hugely useful purpose. Not that this is a bad thing. The app gets you to speak into your iPhone's microphone, and then autotunes the living daylights out of whatever you said, setting it to backing music. The results can then be shared via email, Facebook and Twitter. The app comes with three backing tracks, but more can be purchased via in-app payment. Significantly more fun if friends are using it too, this could be a viral hit.CoPilot Live PremiumiPhone, iPad, Android, £14.99It's surprising how quickly the price of GPS satellite navigation apps has fallen since they were first available for smartphones. 15 quid might be a promotional price for CoPilot's new app, but even when it goes up, the app will represent good value for money. The UK and Ireland edition stores maps on your handset for offline access – good when your mobile connection is patchy – and makes it quick and easy to generate routes and find local points of interest. For an extra £9.99 via in-app subscription, you can add a feature called ActiveTraffic, which provides live traffic data to help you avoid jams.Toca Robot LabiPhone, iPad, £0.69Children (and their parents) who loved previous Toca Boca apps like Toca Hair Salon and Paint My Wings will be rushing to download the developer's latest effort. As its name makes clear, building robots is what this app is about, choosing from different parts to create a virtual robot. Once that's done, you get to fly them around a testing area, picking up balls and blocks. The developer calls its apps "digital toys" rather than games, and that shows here: with no goals, the pressure is off, and children can focus simply on creativity. We sense this app will be getting used by parents after their kids have gone to bed too, though.9mmiPhone, iPad, £4.99Gameloft's cop-thriller game 9mm is currently iOS-only, but an Android version is in the works too. It sees you playing as the wincingly-named John "Loose" Kannon, taking down a gangster kingpin. The game looks marvellous, especially on an iPad 2, where its graphics have been beefed up to take advantage of Apple's A5 processor. The controls are easy to get to grips with, and once you've exhausted the solo mode, there are 12-player online deathmatches to refine your skills. The phase "console-quality" is overused and abused by the mobile gaming industry, but 9mm genuinely merits it.ITV PlayeriPhone, iPad, Android, freeITV's catch-up TV app has joined that of the BBC on the iOS and Android app stores, and does not suffer in the comparison. It requires a Wi-Fi connection to watch shows – no 3G streaming as with its rivals – offering shows from all four ITV channels from the last seven days. Programmes can be searched for alphabetically, while the app also offers recommendations based on what's hot. Will there ever be one catch-up TV app covering all the British broadcasters? It's some way off, but for now the ITV Player does a good job alongside the BBC iPlayer.Grimm's Red Riding HoodiPhone, iPad, £2.49Irish startup Ideal Binary made waves with its pop-up book-apps based on Rapunzel and Rumpelstiltskin. Now it's giving the same treatment to Little Red Riding Hood. It combines text with double-page scenes that can be interacted with by tapping and swiping. It feels high quality throughout, thanks to the characterful animations and the impressively classy soundtrack. iPad owners in particular are spoiled for choice when it comes to excellent children's book-apps, but Grimm's Red Riding Hood is a valued addition to their number.
A burst of 15 apps for your considerationC4 NewsC4 News is the official iPhone and iPad app for Channel 4 News. It will offer catch-up videos from the last week, presenter Jon Snow's daily Snowblog, and on iPad additional special reports and galleries. An Android version is on the way too.iPhone / iPadPhotovinePhotovine is the latest stealthy app project from Google, based around shared photos around single captions (examples being "Warm And Fuzzy", "Double The Chin, Double The Fun" and "I Love Sf"). Users can start their own vines, or join those of others. The service is invite-only for now.iPhoneHarry Potter Film WizardryHarry Potter fans looking to spend another £7.49 on their addiction will rejoice at the launch of Harry Potter Film Wizardry. It's an iPad book-app focused on the eight Potter movies, with a mixture of photography and artwork, video clips and animations. That includes 3D models of Hogwarts and other locations, as well as sketches and storyboards. It's the work of book publisher Insight Editions, working with ScrollMotion.iPadPanamp - The Music PlayerPanamp is a music app that is aiming to replace the native iPod app on iPhones. Key features include the ability to stack tracks in queues for playing, as well as a nifty cascade view to arrange tracks, and fast search features.iPhoneUltimate Mobile ArmorUS tech firm Safe and Secure Mobile has launched its Ultimate Mobile Armor app for BlackBerry and Android, with iOS, webOS and Symbian to come. Originally created to make President Barack Obama's BlackBerry hack-proof, it's now being made available to a wider audience.Android / BlackBerryWi-Fi FastConnectWi-Fi hotspot network The Cloud has released an Android app to help people get online quickly with their smartphone or tablet at its locations. O2 users can use the app to automatically connect to The Cloud Wi-Fi whenever they come into range, but it works for other mobile operators too.AndroidGQ Style GuideGQ magazine has teamed up with Mr Porter to launch a fashion-focused iPhone app. It promises details on new suits, shirts and shoes, as well as a Style Shrink feature to "diagnose your fashion issues". Facebook, Twitter and email sharing is built in too.iPhoneAR BlitzAR Blitz is an augmented reality game for Android devices, which blends technology from Unity, Qualcomm and OpenFeint. The game itself uses Whack-a-Mole dynamics, and requires a printed marker to work.AndroidVibopVibop is the latest social video-sharing app for iPhone, with an Android version coming soon too. Going up against apps like Socialcam, it enables users to shoot 30 seconds of video, apply visual effects and quickly share it on Facebook or YouTube.iPhoneBreath BirdBreath Bird is an iPhone Twitter client designed for people with a "hand or finger disability". The idea: the app converts the user's breath into keyboard inputs. It's the work of Japanese developer Techfirm, working with university academics and rehabilitation centres.iPhoneRoyal Opera HouseThe Royal Opera House has launched its official iPhone app, enabling people to buy tickets for its productions, and browse photos, videos and podcasts. It also hooks into Facebook and Twitter to share details with friends.iPhoneGalaxy on Fire 2 THDFishlabs' critically-acclaimed space adventure Galaxy on Fire 2 has been released in a new version for Android smartphones, optimised for devices using the Tegra GeForce GPU. That means beefier ships and space stations and higher textures on everything.AndroidNoshNosh is a new app for iPhone and Android that focuses on food. The idea: users share photos and details of what they're eating and which restaurant they're in, to help friends and other users decide where to eat in future.iPhone / AndroidPopcornPopcorn is an intriguing second-screen app for TV fans, which lets them rate shows while watching. Popcorn (the company)'s plan is to then analyse data from all its users to show which parts of shows were liked and disliked.iPhonePocoyo GameboxChildren's TV brand Pocoyo has a new iPad app – a collection of five mini-games with rewards that can be redeemed in the Pocoyo World virtual world.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThis is what Twitter does not want to happen, part four &gt;&gt; Mike Cane's xBlog"It is even worse than it appears for Twitter. The Google+ APIs are coming. When that happens, third-party Twitter clients will start baking in Google+ integration, especially because Twitter has been kicking their developers all year.&#10;"What does Twitter do in response?&#10;"Do nothing? The bleeding increases. Backbone users, after all, are big fans of third-party clients.&#10;"Kick developers who dare to integrate with Google+? That sounds like it would generate a devastating backlash.&#10;"Buy more clients / pay developers to favor Twitter? That doesn't sound sustainable.&#10;"Alternatives?"The difference, though, is that an app for Google+ will need to be able to show the huge amounts of verbiage and comments that people add to it. Tolerable on a smartphone, but not so easy - oddly enough - on the desktop.Make a bootable Mac OS X 10.7 Lion installer from a USB flash drive &gt;&gt; OSX DailyPeople thinking of upgrading may find this useful.Research In Motion: Needham wonders If It could disappear &gt;&gt; ForbesAnalyst Charles Wolf at Needham has an existential concern: ""To say RIM's first quarter results and second quarter guidance were ugly is an understatement," he writes. "Notwithstanding management's enthusiastic endorsement of BlackBerry OS 7 devices that should arrive by September, it's unlikely they will have any material impact on RIM's downward trajectory." He adds that it is an "open question" is adopting QNX as the OS for future devices can save the day, noting that it "does not address RIM's inability to design a user interface int he class of iPhone and Android."&#10;"RIM isn't dead, but it looks more and more like the walking dead – a zombie company. Writes Wolf: 'Unless the company cracks the code in the consumer market, RIM's likely to become a shadow of its former self.'"But surely RIM has got a good handle on consumers - it's just not able to charge premium prices?This Is what Microsoft Is getting for Its big Bing investment &gt;&gt; Business Insider Chart of the Day"After spending billions of dollars over the last two years fighting Google with Bing, what does Microsoft have to show for it?&#10;"Not much from a marketshare perspective. The latest comScore data shows Bing's share is at 14.4%, and it's not exactly growing like a weed."More like a stick, really.US ISP flip-flops: why do they now support "six strikes" plan? &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"White House arm-twisting had something to do with it. As we reported on Thursday, the White House has been credited with "brokering" the deal. It's not clear what that means, but perhaps administration officials hinted that if ISPs didn't agree to a voluntary graduated response system, the administration would throw its weight behind a legislative solution.&#10;"McFadden wouldn't comment on whether White House inducements were a factor in Verizon's decision. But those meetings at the White House sound a lot like the "multi-stakeholder process" envisioned in an international report signed in Paris last month. That document explicitly contemplates using the threat of intermediary liability as a stick to get ISPs to "voluntarily" sign up for the role of copyright cop."Just like in the UK, in fact. Except that the UK progressed to law, and even then ISPs don't like it.Oops: Microsoft accidentally reveals secret social project &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Microsoft is working on a social/design project called Tulalip, according to details from a splash page that was accidentally published to Socl.com recently.&#10;"As of Thursday, Microsoft has taken down the splash page and replaced it with a message acknowledging the project.&#10;"'Thanks for stopping by. Socl.com is an internal design project from a team in Microsoft Research which was mistakenly published to the web. We didn't mean to, honest,' the message states."Can the world bear another giant company building a social network? However, the suggestion is that it would tie into Facebook and Twitter - and the interface looks like the "tiles" of the forthcoming Windows 8. It could just be misdirection.New tumor trial rules mobiles 'not guilty' &gt;&gt; The Register"The verdict from latest "Do mobile phones fry your brain?" study is in, and the answer is a resounding "Nope".&#10;"This new study was a monster: based on data from 2.8 million Danes, it studied the comparative likelihood of long-term users, newer users, and non-users of mobiles coming down with a non-cancerous form of brain tumor."Will this satisfy the tin hat brigade?Google+ built using tools you can use too: Closure, Java Servlets, JavaScript, BigTable, Colossusc&gt;&gt; High Scalability blog"Our stack is pretty standard fare for Google apps these days: we use Java servlets for our server code and JavaScript for the browser-side of the UI, largely built with the (open-source) Closure framework, including Closure's JavaScript compiler and template system....we use the HTML5 History API to maintain pretty-looking URLs even though it's an AJAX app (falling back on hash-fragments for older browsers); and we often render our Closure templates server-side so the page renders before any JavaScript is loaded, then the JavaScript finds the right DOM nodes and hooks up event handlers, etc. to make it responsive (as a result, if you're on a slow connection and you click on stuff really fast, you may notice a lag before it does anything, but luckily most people don't run into this in practice). &#10;"Our backends are built mostly on top of BigTable and Colossus/GFS, and we use a lot of other common Google technologies such as MapReduce (again, like many other Google apps do)."Cell Phones &gt;&gt; xkcdAs ever, check the alt text.3D Printers and unintended consequences &gt;&gt; xkcdYou didn't think of this. Now you will.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's Friday, and not a day too soon!
The scale of China's domestic Twitter rival, Sina'sWeibo.com, puts Twitter itself in true perspective.Around 56m accounts have been opened on Twitter, yet only an estimated21 million usersactively publish each month. Twitter's own Josh Elman, in charge of user retention, described to BusinessInsider the turning point from casual to regular user at the point where they follow 30 accounts and those people then begin following back.(Update: see end for updated Twitter stats)Sina Weibo is in a different order of magnitude with 140 million users and 50 million active monthly users, Sina claims, with 10m new accounts signed up each month. Sina is hoping for significant revenue growth from Weibo in the next two years, reportedChina Dailylate last month.Photo byDigiPubon Flickr.Some rights reservedThere are some subtledifferencesin how Weibo is being used, particularly with the type of content being shared. HP research into Weibo reads like an introduction to the microblogging market in China, based on a 30-day analysis of 4,411 keywords on Weibo and comparison to 16.32m messages on Twitter.The most commonly shared content on Weibo is jokes, images and video, most of which are retweets. The effect is less comment on shared comment, but there is also less sharing of news stories.Marketing is taking off in a very big way; 60,000 accounts of Weibo are verified accounts for celebrities, sports stars and major brands.Actor Yao Chen has 8.9 million followers and is turning down offers of 100,000 yuan (£9,600) per promotional tweet, while marketing professor Ye Feng predicts Sina's ad revenue will grow 50%a year due to enhanced marketing for brands and products using promotions and videos. He toldChina Daily:&nbsp; "Until now, the top 100 'grassroot' accounts have created profits of  about 20m yuan (£1.92m) from advertisements since they opened their  accounts."Sina is learning to push campaigns out at peak times – 10 to 11.10am and 2 to 3.30pm – and is also looking at other chargeable service for brands. No doubt Twitter will be watching its development very closely.TheMIT Technology Reviewpublished some interesting data on the value of users on different networks. Based on a threshold of $2 per user as a starting point, Groupon is way ahead at $78 revenue per users, while Google has $29, Facebook $3 and Twitter $1.75.Compare that to market capitalisation or estimated value into, Google dominates at $170bn, Facebook on $75bn while Twitter "languishes" on something around $7bn.• Update:Several readers have questioned the stats on the Business Insider piece and the rationale of determining which of those users are 'active', ie use their Twitter accounts at least once each month. Part of the reason BI published those estimates was because Twitter itself won't release active user numbers, hence BI's attempts to identify those. But for base registered account numbers we checked with Twitter - here's what they told us:• Twitter has more than 200 million registered accounts• There are now 600,000 signups per day• More than 200 million Tweets are sent per day• Twitter has more than 500 employees (and is hiring)• 40% of Tweets come from mobile devices• 70% of Tweets come from outside of the US
Google defied analysts' forecasts with second-quarter earnings up 36% year-on-year to $2.5bn (£1.5bn) and revenues up 32% to a record $9.2bn in co-founder Larry's Page's first full quarter as chief executive.Wall Street, which three months ago marked the company's shares down over fears that it was losing control of costs, pushed its shares up 10% to $581 in after-hours trading.Page, who ran the company for its first three years until 2001, when Eric Schmidt took over,said in a statementthat "we had a great quarter ... I'm super excited about the amazing response to Google+ [its new social network intended to compete with Facebook] which lets you share just like in real life."After subtracting Google's advertising commissions, its retained revenue stood at $6.9bn – nearly $400m above analyst projections.Google fared so well because advertisers were willing to pay higher prices to promote their products on the internet's largest marketing network. The average price paid per advertising click on Google's network rose 12% from last year. Internet users clicked on ads 18% more than they did at the same time last year.Google is tightening its grip on search and advertising, pulling ahead of Microsoft, which has been consistently losing money in its Bing search business since 2005.Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said: "Google should be viewed as a growth company again this quarter. This is well beyond expectations from Wall Street. Clearly, the combination of mobile search, Android, ad exchange, YouTube, and the core search businesses, they're all doing well. Google is no longer a one trick pony. You might say six trick pony if you count Google+."Page delivered the impressive results while vowing to bring in more engineering talent and investing heavily in more data centres so that Google can keep expanding into new fields. Google's newest venture, Google+, debuted two weeks ago and has grown quickly.But the company still faces difficult questions in the longer term over a number of outstanding patent fights in the courts relating to its Android smartphone operating system. Although Android phones now have the largest share of smartphones worldwide, Oracle is suing it for up to $6.1bn for infringements of its Java code, while Microsoft has sued a number of mobile handset makers claiming that their Android phones infringe its patents. So far it has signed up five companies which are paying a per-handset fee of about $5.Google added 2,452 employees in the second quarter, including 450 workers inherited as part of the company's $700m purchase of airline fare tracker ITA Software.
Its audacity was brazen and apparently fearless. Among its high-profile victims were Sony, the CIA, the FBI, the US Senate and even the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency. Exposing frailties in government and corporate networks, the group leaked hundreds of thousands of hacked passwords, and in the process garnered more than a quarter of a million followers on Twitter. But after just 50 days, on 25&nbsp;June, LulzSec suddenly said it was disbanding.Just hours before this announcement, the Guardian hadpublished leaked internet chat logsrevealing the inner workings of the group, which appeared to consist of six to eight members. The logs showed that authorities were often hot on their heels, and that after an attack on an FBI-affiliated website two hackers had quit LulzSec as they were "not up for the heat". As media attention mounted,Ryan Cleary, an Essex-based 19-year-old suspected of affiliation to LulzSec, was arrestedin a joint UK-US "e-crime" investigation. Had the pressure simply got too much to handle?'High-quality entertainment at your expense' . . . the LulzSec logoTo find out, the Guardian tracked down one of LulzSec's founding members, "Topiary". A key figure in the tight-knit group, he was revealed in the logs to have managedLulzSec's Twitter accountand to have written their press releases. After verifying his identity by asking him to send a direct message from the account – "This is the captain of the Lulz&nbsp;Boat," he confirmed – we began a long conversation by&nbsp;Skype."I know people won't believe this, but we genuinely ended it [LulzSec] because it was classy," he says. "The leaks we promised happened . . . 50&nbsp;days were reached, we just about hit 275,000 Twitter followers, things were on a high, so we redirected our fans to [hacker collective]Anonymousand [hacking movement]AntiSecand wrapped it up neatly . . . A&nbsp;high note, a classy ending, a big bang, then a sail into the distance."LulzSec's jovial public image undoubtedly helped it achieve unusual popularity within a short time. Its stated aim was to provide "high-quality entertainment at your expense," and the word "Lulz" is itself internet slang for laughs. The group's popularity spiked after it planted a fake story on US news outletPBS.comin protest over what it claimed was&nbsp;a misrepresentative WikiLeaks documentary made by the broadcaster. The story falsely reported that rapper Tupac Shakur, who was killed in a shooting 15&nbsp;years ago, had been found alive and well in New Zealand."What we did was different from other hacking groups," says Topiary. "We had an active Twitter (controlled by me), cute cats in deface messages, and a generally playful, cartoon-like aura to our operations. We knew when to start, we knew when to stop, and most of all we knew how to have fun."But the group's mission, Topiary explains, was not calculated. Almost everything LulzSec did – from choosing its name to its next target – happened spontaneously. "We made it up as we&nbsp;went along. We were originally  @LulzLeaks on twitter, but I forgot the password so we became @LulzSec. My&nbsp;first name was The Lulz Train, then The Lulz Cannon, then The Lulz Boat. I&nbsp;had no idea what The Love Boat was, it was a complete accident . . . I wrote every press release inNotepadwithout planning. That's what made us unique, we just came out and made stuff up out of nowhere . . . We released when it felt right, we tweeted what felt right, we wrote what we felt needed to be wrote. We weren't burdened by plans or board meetings, we just did it."The leaked chat logs also revealed the hackers appeared to revel in the international attention they received. However, Topiary says it wasn't that LulzSec was media-hungry, but that the media was LulzSec-hungry."We didn't contact a single media outlet for at least the first 40 days,  they&nbsp;just kept reporting on our humble tweets," he says, though he admits the attention "gave us more reasons to leak more. It was a thrill, sure, and it did play a role. We enjoyed occasionally confusing and pranking media with weird tweets, or giving exclusives to certain journalists to piss off other certain journalists. It was another aspect of the situation that helped us leverage the entertainment."Yet although many of LulzSec's attacks were perpetrated "for the lulz", the group was accused of attempted extortion by one US security company, Unveillance – a charge Topiary staunchly denies. It was also criticised after it hacked and dumped thousands of&nbsp;Sony Pictures Europe customers' usernames and passwords online, some of which were reportedly later used in scams by fraudsters. But Topiary is unapologetic."It's Sony's fault for not defending – and encrypting – its customers' data," he says. "Similarly, in a perfect world, we'd have dumped said data and nothing would have happened. These scams simply prove that other people (our fans/spectators) are more evil than us."Towards the end of LulzSec's reign, it seemed to gravitate towards more overtly political causes. It occasionally compared itself to WikiLeaks in tweets, and its penultimate leak was a joint effort with Anonymous to expose Arizona police as "racist and corrupt", and to "sabotage their efforts to terrorise communities fighting an unjust 'war on drugs'."Anonymous is well known for its acts of political "hacktivism". On Monday it reportedly threatened to attack the Metropolitan police over News International's phone hacking and the possibleextradition to Sweden of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. Earlier this year the group claimed responsibility for a series of Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks on government websites in Tunisia, Iran, Egypt and Bahrain, and in 2008 it attacked the Church of Scientology after it allegedly attempted to suppress a leaked video interview  with actor and scientologist Tom Cruise. Topiary has been heavily involved with Anonymous in the past, occasionally acting as its spokesman in&nbsp;televised&nbsp;interviews."Anonymous has been a great way for the younger generations to get involved through methods they understand, like utilising the internet," he says. "My main goal with Anonymous was to spread the word of revolution to those who might be seeking something new."How does he define revolution? "Revolution is kicking the Tunisian government in the teeth by rendering their malicious Javascript embedments inert, allowing Tunisian citizens to surf Facebook without fear of password sniffing. Revolution is a horde of activists holding up Anonymous masks and thanking us for assisting their hard work by obliterating their government's ministry, stock and finance websites, replacing them with inspiring words. Revolution, to me, is bringing down the big guy while not forgetting to stand up for the little guy."Though Topiary will not disclose his age, he describes himself as a teenager and "an internet denizen with a passion for change". He believes he is part of a generational shift in the way technology – specifically the internet – is increasingly being used as a tool to influence the world. The actions of Anonymous in particular, he says, have brought attention to the idea that actions taken online can have a major impact in real life – "linking the two realities". But he also recognises that the actions of Anonymous, LulzSec and other affiliated hackers can be used by governments as justification for greater control of the internet. So how does he balance his actions with that knowledge?"It only results in greater government control if we remain apathetic and let it happen," he says. "The goal with Anonymous is to brutally cut down the middle of that decision and shout 'NO' to laws we don't agree with. Laws are to be respected when they're fair, not obeyed without question."For now, however, Topiary is taking a break from law-breaking. He says he will continue operating on the margins of Anonymous, but will not engage in any more hacking. Instead, he intends to create art, video and graphics for the&nbsp;group to help with a new public relations project, to be titled Voice."I've been at this non-stop for a while, it's a big time-sink," he says. "Some people can handle it for years on end, and I respect those people. I&nbsp;just needed some air and a new page in the Anonymous/LulzSec era."After the arrest of Cleary last month, suspected US hackers believed to be affiliated with LulzSec had their homes raided in Ohio and Iowa. In the&nbsp;past, hackers have been offered immunity from prosecution if they cooperate with the authorities. But, if&nbsp;caught, Topiary says he would "never snitch" on other hackers and that he would "pretty much" rather go to jail than work for the government in any capacity."Not sure I'd have a place in government security, unless they enjoy  bizarre tweets," he says. "But again, no, I wouldn't accept a job that would fight against the things I've fought for. As for the authorities, well, if they  have their claws in, they have their claws in, there's not much I can do about it. But I can only hope that they haven't pinned any of us, especially my friends from LulzSec."
Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, is the most-followed person on Google's new social network Google+ – putting him ahead of Google's co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin.TheFacebook chief executivehas more than 184,000 followers on the service, whilePagehas only about half that, at 95,000.The service has grown rapidly in the two weeks since its launch, with one estimate saying it already has between 5m and 10m members. Besides Zuckerberg, Page and Brin, senior Google engineers are among the most-followed names.But unlike Twitter, where celebrities and big names have used their visibility to interact directly with the public, Zuckerberg has not posted a single comment on the service. Page, Google's chief executive and co-founder, last posted at the end of June.Sergey Brin, the other co-founder, is much more active, posting pictures three or four times a day – though he says: "I think a lot of people are under the misimpression that I am posting photos of exotic places at a furious pace to Google+. Actually, I have had a bunch of albums public for some time on my picasaweb page. However, people only started to take note recently thanks to Google+ and when they comment on those photos they end up in the streams of people who have me in their circles."At one point this week Zuckerberg increased his privacy settings so that it was impossible to see who followed him – he had already hidden the names of those whom he followed – but he then relented, according toSocial Statistics, a website which scrapes the Google+ service to collect data about it.With no clear way to measure growth or members on Google+, Social Statistics remains the best way to keep track of developments, though it is only tracking around 27,000 profiles. Those show that the overwhelming majority of Google+ users – 87% – are male.The estimate of between 5m and 10m users comes viaPaul Allen, of genealogical business FamilyLink who called himself the "unofficial statistician" for Google+: he based his estimate on the predominance of unusual names compared to the US census.Early bugs with the service, which made it difficult to register and to upload pictures, have been ironed out. But the service appears to have grown far faster than Google expected: at one point over the weekend the system ran out of disk space, which meant that registration and follower emails were sent multiple times because there was no way to record that they had been sent.Educators think that Google+ may have significant advantages over Twitter and especially Facebook: "I don't friend my students, because the ability to share is so clunky on Facebook," Jeremy Littau, an assistant professor of journalism at Lehigh University,told the Chronicle of Higher Education. "This gives us ways to connect with people that we can't do on Facebook." He pointed to the potential in Google+ Hangout, which offers conferencing video chat: "I can host chats a few nights a week," Littau told the Chronicle.The use of Google+ "circles" to limit groups and the fact that conversations are archived where Twitter's are not offers great flexibility. Littaunotes in a blogpostthat "this tool is going to change education".Google has also tweaked other elements of the service, including the ability to set the privacy setting on your gender, and preventing the re-sharing of posts where the author does not want them to be spread around.
The News of the World scandal was a long time brewing. We've had, quite literally,yearsof mounting outrage as the facts about Rupert Murdoch's tabloid empire and its ruthlessness, corruption and howling moral void oozed out whenever some whistleblower leaked more of the story, or an unbent copper finally got round to investigating the claims. Count me firmly in the camp who, on the one hand, would like nothing better than far-ranging investigation of the full scope of this kind of lawlessness and vigorous prosecution of all those implicated.Likewise, count me in with the cynical observers betting that the folding up of NoW will be swiftly followed by a Sunday edition of the Sun or a similar gambit – that the NewsCorp empire will suffer no more than a bloodied nose from the scandal unless lawmakers and police do something about it.But it seems that whenever I turn on the radio or read the papers, I'm confronted with politicians who begin by criticising NoW and NewsCorp, move on to other tabloids and press outlets whose bad deeds might come to light in the weeks to come, and then finish up with a general condemnation of "the press" who are said to be "too powerful."And this is where you can count meright out.For me, the phrase "the press is too powerful" is as chilling as "these elections are too time-consuming" or "this secret ballot is just a farce" or "due process is too expensive; we know who's guilty and who isn't." It is a contradiction in terms: for while it's possible for a particular company or cartel to be too powerful, the idea that theinstitutionof the press is too powerful is Orwellian. If a media company grows too powerful, that generally means the press isnot powerful enough: an all-eclipsing media empire blots out press freedom by monopolising distribution channels, distorting discourse and allying itself with this party or that in exchange for favours and (of course) more power. A powerful press is one built on vigorous, pluralistic debate, one that allows new voices to emerge and new points of view to be heard. The more diverse the press is, the more powerful it becomes."The press is too powerful" should be read as nothing less than a prelude to a proposal to regulate the press, specifically to increase liability for investigative journalists. We've already seen how this plays out: harsh libel laws intended to curb the tabloid press became a mere cost of business for enormous media empires. These empires grew even larger as they occupied the niches formerly occupied by smaller, more diverse, less wealthy media outlets that shrivelled up the first time they offended someone with the power to use a libel suit to silence them.Increased liability for expression always favors the rich and powerful.They're the ones who can hire sophisticated experts to help them come right up to the law's edge without slipping over it. They're the ones who can take risks and paper over their failures with cash settlements.They're the ones who own their own infrastructure and don't have to convince a risk-averse cheap web host or high-street printer to make their material available.Britain's punishing libel laws only incidentally affected the online world, but any press regulation that was crafted today would put the web straight in its crosshairs. Following from the litigation pattern of recent years, it would take aim at anonymous commentary, seeking to hold publishers and online service providers to account for comments left by their users. It would look for the deepest pockets in the system – say, Google (YouTube, Blogger), Facebook or Twitter – and seek to put them in the position of pre-emptively filtering out potentially risky speech.It will undoubtably serve as yet another excuse for expanding Britain's Great Firewall, currently under consideration by Ed Vaizey for use by entertainment barons to blacklist sites whose copyright stance annoys them.These laws and systems are more likely to shut down UK Uncut's reports from the street, WikiLeaks's cable dumps, and children who complain about their head teachers, than they are to put a scratch on Rupert Murdoch and his family. After all, the former have no lobbyists in Whitehall to make sure that the "modest, sensible press regulation" doesn't shut down their free speech, while Murdoch's profitable speech will fund an army of gladhanders to ensure that any law that emerges is as favourable as possible to them. Whatever changes they can't secure in the legislation itself will nevertheless be easier for the rich and powerful to buy their way around than the lone blogger, the community watchdog at the council meeting, the kid in a police kettle tweeting from her phone.I'd love to watch the Murdochs twist in the wind as much as anyone, and I hope they do. But whatever pleasure their comeuppance gives, it shouldn't be an excuse for an attack on the power of the press itself.There is no law regarding the press or journalists that won't end up entangled in the affairs of everyday internet users who concern themselves with the world around them.We don't need press regulation. We need vigorous enforcement of existing laws against phone hacking. We need thorough investigations into the machinations that caused Scotland Yard to declare the issue a non-issue and a closed case. We need rules about privacy invasion that are aimed not merely at "journalists" (whatever that means in this day and age) but ateveryonewho is collecting information on you, from the neighbour who installs a CCTV that captures your every coming and going, to the government itself — and the Murdochs and their private investigators, too.
Picture this. You're deeply engaged in one of the many free-to-play adventure games available online, when you decide to buy a bigger sword. It could be that you made the tactical decision to extend your armoury, or that you panicked when you spotted a gigantic dragon lumbering in your direction; you might not even know why you did it. You just fancied a bigger sword. But that action took you into the barely two percent of free-to-play gamers who actually pay for content – and the game makers want to know why.The freemium gaming business is expanding rapidly. We all know about the Facebook behemoth Zynga, which now claims over 250 million monthly players, and is valued at anywhere between $5-10bn. But online, there are dozens of global companies hawking a range of in-depth gaming experiences. There is the German publisher and portal operator,Bigpoint, which runs massively-multiplayer browser games likeLegend: Legacy of the DragonsandBattlestar Galactica Onlineand claims over 150 million subscribers. There is Korean veteranWebzen, with its long-running fantasy role-playerMu Online, which alone boasts 56 million users. Beyond these giants, there are dozens of new freemium social, browser and smartphone games starting up every month, looking to gain a foothold in the densely crowded market.And what the big players have learned is that coming up with a great game concept is only the beginning. A successful free-to-play game is all about inspection and iteration; it is about launching quietly, testing and fine-tuning the experience constantly, watching how players react, listening to feedback and re-building. This is how the likes of Popcap and Playfish arrived at super-addictive titles like Fifa Superstars and Plants vs Zombies. And now a whole new business is emerging to help developers understand their players.Alan Miller has been in the games business for over 30 years. He was one of the first programmers to join Atari's home console business, and he later co-founded Activision, currently the world's largest third-party games publisher. For the last decade, though, he's been working in the online sector, including a stint working on advergames with fellow Atari legend David Crane. Earlier this year he joinedGamesAnalytics, a new UK-based company specialising in the data-mining and monetisation of online games. It's a real-time service that continually monitors every player in any virtual world it's commissioned to work on. It's like CCTV constantly monitored by psychologists and statisticians.Game Analytics gathers data on all aspects of players, including the basics: age, gender and location."Our objective generally is to increase monetisation and improve player satisfaction," he explains. "Usually, the publisher's objectives have to do with increasing revenues, but not always. Sometimes they want to increase the virality, the number of invites and notifications sent out from a game. Then we look at their data and we identify behaviour patterns. It allows the publisher to learn a lot more about their game than they thought they knew.In his experience, it's rarely great big design errors that trip up growing freemium games – it's tiny, often over-looked alterations. "We're working with a big MMO at the moment. We studied the last five years of their operations and we noticed that there was a huge change in just one month in the retention rate of new players. It turned out the publisher had made just one change that caused the game to be less appealing for newcomers - they didn't even notice it; this is one of their worlds! So now they're trying to digest that information and work out what they did wrong."The key message behind freemium analytics is that free-to-play game construction is similar to web design – the publisher needs to understand, and subtly guide, every aspect of the user journey through the experience. Whereas traditional games are about creating big macro-environments for player exploration, freemium is about micro-managing every step the player takes toward actually buying something."A developer can build 'funnels' that depict the player actions leading to a financial conversion like purchasing extra content or virtual merchandize," says Justin Johnson, CTO ofPlaymetrix, another British company specialising in game analytics. "It's then down to the developer to use this analysis to improve conversion by removing obstructions and bottlenecks that may be inherent in the design.  For example, aspects of the game may be unclear or too difficult for newcomers, leading to early high attrition, which means they never reach the purchase step. Our system also tracks the amount of money that a player spends giving metrics called ARPU (Average Revenue Per User) and LTV (Lifetime Value). Simply put, the LTV of a player must exceed their cost of acquisition for the game to be profitable."It's a strange business. In the free-to-play universe, every player action is a potential metric in a revenue model. In-game behaviour is an algorithm that needs to be unraveled and de-coded. Developers have to operate like a sort of secret police agency, effectively bugging players – the Playmetrix software allows them to embed 'call backs' into their game code that trigger when players do something of interest. This is all visualised via graphics and charts so activities become infographics. It sounds kind of sinister, but understanding every intricate player activity is what makes a game in this sector successful. With no financial outlay at the beginning, players have much less impetus to keep playing; hence, 'funnel analysis' – tracking a player from the moment they register, though their actions in the game, to their first purchase. At any moment along this journey they may quit out. Understanding this is the key to lowering the dreaded 'attrition rate' – the numbers of people leaving the game.Another key element in the maths of social gaming is the DAU/MAU ratio. As Johnson explains, "most games have the base behaviours of attendance and engagement.  For that, we track daily active uniques (DAU) and monthly active uniques (MAU). By taking a ratio using the two (DAU/MAU) we can determine the percentage of monthly users that play each day and also derive churn." Last year, Lisa Marino of Rockyou, gave a GDC talk entitledMonetizing Social Gamesin which she identified the minimum threshold for a successful DAU/MAU ratio as '.2'. That's game design reduced to a single figure.Developers of new freemium titles like Drakensang have to get difficulty levels just right, challenging players but not setting barriers too high, thereby discouraging payments.But it's not just about data mining and statistics. Miller argues that good freemium analysts have to know about traditional game design too. "Let's say that in a certain MMO there are ten common behaviour patterns that ultimately result in players becoming paying customers. Clearly, our identification of these patterns won't account for every player, but they'll account for significant groups of players that went through the process. And we might discover that along the chain of events that lead to monetisation, the player has to, say, kill a dragon. Well, we can identify bottlenecks and say well maybe 89% of the players who tried to kill that dragon failed. Then we would advise the publisher to reduce the threshold. That's a combination of using the analytical tools coupled with our experience of game design to improve the situation for both the publishers and the players."In short, the dragon fight might not necessarily have to be removed, or even made easier, but it needs to be sign-posted. Miller says the GamesAnalytics software can deliver in-game messages to players, such as hints, challenges, free goods or offers – all designed to motivate that individual to move along that pipeline to satisfaction and – in theory – revenue.Johnson agrees that it's sometimes very slight in-game elements that can add to player churn. "The biggest mistakes are sometimes the most simple ones to make.  For example it's easy to over complicate, over engineer or omit to tell the player what they're supposed to do next.  Instructions may not be clear or a sense of progress, reward or player gratification may not come soon enough.  It may be that a game's intro sequence is slightly too long which means a large number of new players get bored and turn to another game as a result. It's important to get the psychology and balance right so that the decision a player has to make in order to purchase is based on perception of value.  If a game is confusing, incorrectly paced and doesn't have a clear sense of value in its monetisation plan then it's not going to do well."Of course, GamesAnalytics and Playmetrix are not the only companies operating on this emerging sector – Kontagent is an analytics platform that provides data on social applications, including games, and Adobe's Omniture helps with tracking acquisitions. The big question, though, is why these companies exist at all. With player retention proving to be such a key role in social and online game design, shouldn't the publishers have their own analysts in-house?Zynga's FrontierVille has used analytics to improve gameplay – and add more suggestive humour...Zynga certainly does – its dedicated team makes use of what is apparently the largest data warehouse in the world to track the behaviour patterns of its players. Sometimes it simply learns from how its users communicate. At this year's SXSW festival in Austin, the company's chief designerBrian Reynolds toldhow a tutorial level for the Frontiervillegame involved finding a sheep; when players achieved it, they had the option to post a cartoon image of a girl milking a ewe – except many players were amused that the crude image made it look as though the some sort of inter-species sex act was going on. The amount of chat it generated turned out to be a brilliant viral marketing tool, so Zynga went ahead and loaded the game's FaceBook messages with innuendo, such as 'Bob has some serious sacks' and 'Margaret needs a few good screws'. It was enormously popular. So there is science, there is data-mining, and there is the knowledge that middle-aged gamers like dirty jokes.Popcap is another proponent of analytics – but says brilliant game design is the key factor.Popcap, the hugely successful developer of Bejeweled and Zuma, has its own system. As Bart Barden, the company's director of online business explains, "we have an analytics team in-house that studies player data from three perspectives.  First we look at actual gameplay, which includes things like number of games played, average score, highest score and number of moves. Second, we analyse the social activity tied to the game, which includes how many times they share a score or power up on Facebook. And finally we look at monetisation, how people like to transact."Recently, in Bejeweled Blitz, we increased the frequency of players being able to get and receive special gems (like the Cat's Eye or Phoenix Prism) based on some data we saw surrounding sharing. We found that players were much more likely to share a special gem with their friends than any other event in the game so we responded to that.  This change has resulted in better engagement, which is a win-win for both the player and PopCap."Indeed, the company's mastery of the social gaming market has just led to its purchase by Electronic Arts for a whopping $750m.So why isn't this sort of analysis part of every social or online game? Johnson reckons it's down to cost and time. "Some developers have rolled their own solution but they are generally ad-hoc and fairly crude. Producing meaningful analysis capabilities isn't trivial - segmentation, funnels and cohort analysis requires a lot of thought and before you know it you're dealing with scalability, uptime commitments and a whole host of technical and operational issues that are far removed from creatively delivering a game." He likens the use of third-party analytics software to licensing a 3D engine like Unreal – it's about freeing up time and resources within the development process.EA bought social game developer Playfish in 2009 to gain a foothold in the FaceBook sector. Fifa Superstars was the successful result.It remains an esoteric, slightly sinister area for traditional gamers, though. Indeed, old skool publishers such as Activision and EA have found it just as challenging to evolve their thinking from the retail model into the freemium arena. Which is why EA bought Playfish in a deal worth up to $400m and Disney laid out $760m on Playdom – it's just easier to buy that expertise in. It's going to become more important though. With more and more games adopting the freemium model, actually understanding what hooks gamers into patterns of playing, sharing and buying will be a vital element. Barden reckons that, right now, third –party analytics systems are most clearly optimised for social titles based around resource management, but says their use will become more common, especially for small and medium-sized developers."Additionally," he says, "as more social game platforms emerge, third-party analytical toolsets become more valuable to consolidate and aggregate data across multiple social networks and products.  The overall importance and focus on analytics will continue to grow over the next two or three years but how individual companies choose to act on that intelligence may vary."The important thing to think about is that, in the free-to-play era, marketing and game design are indivisible – they're essentially the same thing. Players have to be on-brand and on-message, they have to be active agents in the game world and the advertising of that world. And everyone has to be watched. Although, all the industry people we spoke to were keen to point out that brilliant design is still the leading factor. As Miller puts it, "It's important to realise, we're not selling accountancy software. You're creating an emotional experience, it's an art form, individual style is tremendously important."
Which touchscreen ebook reader do you recommend, and are some of the US models like Kobo &amp; Nook coming to the UK?David FletcherAt the moment, there is only one mainstream touchscreen e-reader officially on sale in the UK, and that's theSony eReader Touch Edition. This is nicely made and well finished, and the screen is easy to read. The PRS-650 is relatively expensive at around £200 in a Sony store, but if you shop around you can get it for less.As you know, the US bookstore Barnes &amp; Noble offers theNookrange of e-readers, and these have become popular in a fast-growing market. Some companies sell Nook e-readers in the UK. For example, PurelyGadgets offers theNook (Touch edition) Wi-Fifor £139.99. I wouldn't recommend buying one sight unseen, though someYouTube videoswill give you a good idea what it's like.This year, Kobo has entered the fray with the Kobo eReader Touch, which appears to be a very polished product. Kobo has also launchedan online bookstore in the UK, but it doesn't offer e-reader hardware.I believe Amazon will enter the market this year with a touchscreen version of the Kindle that has the usual monochrome E Ink screen. (E Ink Corpis a company, and the E stands for electrophoretic. The latest and best E Ink screen is branded Pearl.) Amazon is also reportedly planning to enter the tablet market withtwo touchscreen modelsthat have colour screens and, like the Nook, run Google's Android operating system. Since these products have not been announced, it's impossible to say if or when they will be available in the UK. Still, I'd expect the two improved Kindles – one with a touch screen, one without – to appear here fairly quickly.*There are also a few other touchscreen e-readers around, including the iRiver Cover Story EB05, Pixelar MReader 6, and ViewSonic VEB625. All of the e-readers mentioned so far have 6in screens, except the Nook Touch has a 7in LCD. Larger touchscreen e-readers with 9in screens include the Asus DR900 and the Pixelar MReader 9. You may find other examples for sale new on eBay.There are a few problems with shipping e-readers internationally. The most obvious is providing ebooks in the local language. American English editions of books are generally different from British English versions, and may well involve different copyrights. One less obvious problem is providing local communications. Amazon's Kindle comes bundled with a Whispernet mobile phone connection so that you can buy and download books directly, without using a PC. The 3G Nook does the same thing, and iRiver is about to launch the Story HD e-reader, which will provide over-the-air access to Google's ebooks platform in the US.Both the Nook Touch and the Kobo eReader Touch have Wi-Fi, which can be used for downloading books, and there's also a Wi-Fi version of the Kindle 3 at a higher price. Sony doesn't offer Wi-Fi. All four e-readers, including the Sony eReader Touch Edition, have USB ports so you can transfer books from a PC.You should think about how you are going to buy or download books to read, and which ebook formats you will be using. The most common formats include EPUB, which is a standard, Mobipocket's MOBI/PRC, Adobe's PDF portable document format, and TXT or plain text. Amazon has its own copy-protected version of MOBI, which it calls AZW (Amazon Whispernet). The Kindle also supports MOBI/PRC and TXT but not EPUB, which the other three support. Both the Sony and Kobo e-readers support Microsoft's RTF rich text format, but otherwise, Kobo supports the most ebook formats and Sony the fewest.The plethora of ebook formats is not quite such a problem nowadays as programs such asCalibre, an ebook organiser, can convert between formats. However, this may not always be possible if the files have DRM (digital rights management) restrictions.Right now, if you must have a touchscreen e-reader, the Sony PRS-650 is probably the one to go for. However, even if neither the Nook nor the Kobo e-reader gets an official UK launch, I expect there will be a new touchscreen Kindle and perhaps some new Android-based tablets in the next six to 12 months. Alternatively, you could consider skipping the touchscreen and buying the cheapest Kindle, currently £111, or one of the cheaper models from Sony, iRiver or Pixelar etc, then upgrading to a touchscreen e-reader later. Just make sure you don't lose your investment in books.*Sadly, Plastic Logic's wonderfulQUE ProReader, which was unveiled in 2010 before Apple's iPad, will never appear. This came closest to matching Knight Ridder's 1994 vision of atouch tablet newspaper reader. This is the one I'd buy, if I could.
China Telecom, the smallest of the three telecoms operators in China – but with more subscribers than Verizon, the US's second-largest carrier – is to start selling Apple's iPhone by the end of the year, according to sources.Apple would have to sell the CDMA version of its phone, presentlysold through Verizon in the US, to work with the systems used by China Telecom. But the move could potentially more than double the number of potential buyers of the device, which was only introduced in January: China Telecom has more CDMA subscribers – 105.9 million in May – than Verizon, which was the first carrier to get the CDMA iPhone this year.The move will also help China Telecom cement more 3G users in a competitive market in which handset subsidies offered by carriers are squeezing margins.China has 896 million mobile phone users, a number bigger than the entire population of Europe. There are three telecommunications operators: China Mobile Ltd , China Unicom and China Telecom.So far, China Unicom is the only operator to sell iPhones after signing a three-year agreement with Apple in 2009, although it is not based on a revenue-sharing scheme, unlike some other operators in other countries. China Unicom uses GSM technology, the same as that used in the versions on AT&amp;T and European carriers."The reason telecom operators are fighting for the iPhone business is because everybody is trying to grab as many 3G users as possible," said Jane Wang, an analyst at UK-based research firm Ovum. "The only way to keep costs down is to build up such a user base."Apple reports its third-quarter results next week. Analysts are forecasting that it will have sold between 15m and 20m iPhones, with an average of 17m. In the first quarter of the year it sold 18.6m. It is expected to unveil at least one new iPhone this September.In May, China Telecom chairman Wang Xiaochu told a news conference that the carrier had contacted Apple to launch the iPhone based on CDMA (code division multiple access) technology."It's expected to happen this year. China Telecom already has the required technology and it all hinges on the content of the agreement. As we all know, it's not easy to negotiate with Apple," a source close to the company, speaking on condition of anonymity, told Reuters.China Telecom was expected to introduce the iPhone in November, said another source.
Oops, it suddenly appears to be Thursday.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamImogen Heap's tech-infused gloves create music on the fly &gt;&gt; Mashable"Grammy Award-winning musician Imogen Heap used her time on the TED Global stage on Tuesday in Edinburgh, Scotland to not just perform, but to demonstrate an entirely new way of creating music.&#10;"Using a pair of gloves equipped with wireless mics, an accelerometer, a magnetometer, a gyroscope and a variety of other sensors, Heap created a song on the fly — complete with sounds from a multitude of instruments and effects — using only her body movements and hand gestures."We very much want to get her into the Tech Weekly podcast. Think she'll bring her gloves?+Comment Toggle &gt;&gt; Chrome Web StoreNeat add-on for using Google+ in Chrome.Apple Told to Pay $8 Million in Patent Trial Over IPod Playlists - Bloomberg"Apple Inc. was told to pay closely held Personal Audio LLC $8 million after a federal jury in Texas found that the maker of iPod music players infringed patents for downloadable playlists."Personal Audio, a patent licensing company with an office in Beaumont, Texas, sued Apple in 2009 for $84 million in damages, claiming infringement of two patents. The jury today found that the patents were infringed, and upheld their validity, according to Personal Audio's lawyer, Ron Schutz of Robins Kaplan in Minneapolis.&#10;"The inventions cover an audio player that can receive navigable playlists and can skip forward or backward through the downloaded list. Apple contended that it wasn't using the inventions, and that the patents were invalid."$8m is chump change for Apple, but the patent system in the US is as broken as its political system.IDC: Nook Color leading e-reader sales For first time ever, as tablets lag &gt;&gt; paidContent"Kindle's sales are suffering from Amazon's lack of a color offering, at least that's the read from a new e-reader report released this afternoon. The Barnes &amp; Noble (NYSE: BKS) Nook, with both color and black-and-white versions, now leads e-reader sales for the first time, according to research firm IDC.&#10;"Amazon (NSDQ: AMZN) better hurry up and release its rumored color tablet. The buyers are there: e-reader sales grew by 105 percent year-on-year, IDC found. The company forecasts that the worldwide e-reader market will ship 16.2 million units in 2011—a 24 percent increase over 2010, and still a conservative estimate compared to recent Pew and eMarketer reports."IDC reckons 3.3m e-readers shipped in the first quarter of 2011. Amazon's tablet is on the way, don't worry.Weds. Signal: Is Facebook threatened? In a word…Yes. &gt;&gt; Federated Media Publishing"It's week two of Google+ mania, and the new service from Google seems more than a shot across Facebook's bow, now it appears Google is actually landing blows. As one person (not an Internet insider but savvy nonetheless) said to me: "I'm tired of Facebook, and I love Google's circles…am I crazy?" Apparently not. So, does Google have a hit on its hands? And is Facebook threatened? Well, yes, and no. Yes, Google has a hit on its hands, but let's remember Orkut was a hitfor about two months as well. And no, for now, Facebook is still the one to beat. But you can bet the folks at Facebook are sweating their next move(s)."Facebook's reaction to Google+, if it comes, will be interesting indeed. Though Facebook Groups arguably do what Circles do.Inside RIM: An exclusive look at the rise and fall of the company that made smartphones smart &gt;&gt; BGR.comIntriguing (if not particularly well-written; it reads like a lightly edited email dump) romp through the woes besetting RIM internally. Mike Lazaridis is clearly very smart, but not good at perceiving consumer needs.Always sell BlackBerry with a data plan! &gt;&gt; Nokia Siemens Networks blog"..sometimes you need to turn to your Marketing department to lower signalling – or at least that's what one major operator in Europe learned recently.&#10;"The operator was puzzled when they started seeing a huge increase in signalling traffic, at a much faster growth rate than had been observed previously. The growth was so rapid that it very quickly threatened network stability, so something had to be done fast. Using Nokia Siemens Networks' Network and Service Assurance solution (which is how we know about this), the operator found that it was signalling traffic from BlackBerries that was responsible for the spike. Drilling down further, they found that it wasn't just BlackBerries – it was one particular model of BlackBerry. And the data spike had started when the operator had begun offering that particular BlackBerry model as part of a recent special promotion – without a data plan."How many iPhones did Apple sell last quarter? &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"The estimates of the 39 analysts we polled for our quarterly earnings smackdown were all over the lot, from a high of 20.25 million from Traderhood's Nicolae Mihalache, a Romanian mathematician who teaches at the University of Paris and tends to overestimate, to 15 million from Needham's Charlie Wolf, a veteran Apple hand who tends to come in low.&#10;"The average all the estimates, 17 million, represents a 101% increase over the same quarter last year, and would bring the total number of iPhones sold over the past four years to more than 125 million."The mean and the median are both 17m - though sequentially anything below 18.6 is a fall, even if it would be growth year-on-year.Microsoft to open 75 new retail stores in next 3 years &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Microsoft revealed its plans to open 75 new Microsoft Stores in the next three years."Microsoft's Kevin Turner, chief operating officer, revealed the company's plans during a keynote address to 12,000 partners at the company's 2011 Worldwide Partner Conference in Los Angeles. Turner showed off a map of the new stores dotted across the United States. Microsoft currently has 11 stores open in the United States. The software giant held a grand opening ceremony for its eleventh Microsoft Store recently. The store, located in the Westfield Century City mall in Los Angeles, California, was opened by Turner. Microsoft presented more than $1 million in software grants to local organizations as part of the grand opening ceremony  last month."&#10;Apple has 287 stores worldwide, though it's a hardware company whose business is selling stuff directly to people. Microsoft's business isn't selling stuff directly to customers. But it's had a bee in its bonnet about Apple stores since at least 2003.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It has taken two years of intense wrangling with record companies and triggered wave after wave of speculation about future business models for the industry – now  Spotify, the Swedish streaming music service, has finally announced that it will launch in the world's biggest music market, the US, on Thursday.Spotify's US launch has been dependent on signing deals with the four largest record labels – Universal, Sony, EMI and Warner Music – though Warner is understood to have only completed the deal on Wednesday this week.Free accounts will be limited in the US to invitation only, though an ad-free version for $4.99 (£3.09) per month and premium account with mobile access for $9.99 will be unrestricted.The US launch, and the protracted negotiations with record labels, was preempted in May by an unpopular adjustment of the terms of use for its free account holders,who make up about 8.4 million of its 10 million users. Accounts were limited to 10 hours streaming per month with a cap of five listens per track.Themove was seen as a concession requested by record companies, and then in June it was announced that Spotify had raised a further $100m funding from Kleiner Perkins, Accel and Digital Sky Technologies to drive its US launch. Thefunding valued Spotify at around $1bn, and closely followed theinitial public offering of rival music service Pandora, which now has a market capitalisation of $2.8bn.The US is only the eighth country Spotify has launched in, and the first outside Europe. Itlaunched in the UK in February 2009. Spotify's software is designed to subtly echo that of iTunes, but with a more flexible and less proprietorial feel. FounderDaniel Ekhas said that the aim of Spotify was to create a simple, compelling service that bettered the convenience of pirated products.Though there has been concern aboutlow royalty payments to artists, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry has said that Spotify is now the second-largest source of digital revenue for record labels in Europe. But it also faces more intense competition in the US, where established rivals Pandora, Rhapsody and Mog have already built audiences and where cloud-based services from Amazon, Apple and soon Google will also compete for consumer attention and spend.Spotify's thorough integration may prove to be its biggest advantage. Analyst Rich Tullo at Albert Reid &amp; Cosaid earlier this weekthat Spotify presented the biggest challenge to the existing digital music services."Spotify is really the biggest threat, in our view. It's going to sell into Facebook's 650 million users, and if you look at the growth of Zynga, it's clear that an alliance with Facebook is definitely what you want because its the biggest distribution channel out there."
Sales of PCs in the second quarter of 2011 grew by just over 2% worldwide year-on-year, with declines in both the US and Europe, according to figures from the research companies IDC and Gartner.IDC pegged the total number sold at 84.41m, marking a growth of 2.6%, whileGartner had a slightly higher totalbut smaller growth, of 85.2m shipped for a 2.3% increase. The two companies use slightly different estimates for shipments. Neither counts tablets such as the iPad as a PC in its figures.Netbook sales continued to fall, they said, and consumers and businesses in the US and western Europe are holding off buying new PCs as budgets are squeezed. But in Asia sales are booming, notably in India and China, which saw growth of around 10%. Latin America also saw strong growth.Both companies agreed that in the three months from April the largest vendors worldwide were HP, Dell, Lenovo, Acer and Asus, with HP selling around 15m machines, Dell 10.6m, Lenovo 10.2m, Acer 9.3m and Asus 4.4m.But the key element was a fall in sales in both the US and Europe. For the US, IDC saw a 4.2% decline year-on-year, although the 17.8m shipped are up "substantially" from the first quarter of 2011, when worldwide sales dipped by 3.1% year-on-year. Gartner put the US figure at 16.9m, a 5.6% fall year-on-year.Gartner put the figure for the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region at 23m units, a 4.8% decline year-on-year."Given the hype around media tablets such as the iPad, retailers were very conservative in placing orders for PCs. Instead, they wanted to secure space for media tablets. Some PC vendors had to lower their inventory through promotions, while others slimmed their product lines at retailers," said Mikako Kitagawa, Gartner's principal analyst. "After strong growth in shipments of consumer PCs for four years, driven by strong demand for mini-notebooks and low-priced consumer notebooks, the market is shifting to modest, but steady growth. The slow overall growth indicates that the PC market is still in a period of adjustment, which began in the second half of 2010."IDC says that the US market is "still downcast from a combination of exuberant consumption a year ago and a tenuous economic recovery", while the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region contracted as well due to high levels of inventory - and IDC added that it is seeing "budget cannibalization from media tablets and smartphones [which] continued to contribute to weak consumer demand and slow stock depletion."HP and Dell grew roughly in line with the market, while both companies said Lenovo grew sales by 23%. Acer - which has recently had adestabilising management reshuffle, and discovered issues with inventory in Europe, fell to fourth place overall, shipping just over 9m PCs. Asus was fifth with 4.4m shipments, the companies said.IDC PC quarterly sales figures from Q1 1998 to Q2 2011, in millions. Most recent quarter highlighted in red.So far the total number of PCs shipped worldwide this year is the same as at this point in 2010.IDC revised its forecast in June to suggestthat the total number of PCs shipped this year will grow only 4.2% this year, having in February suggested a figure of 7.1%. Gartner in March lowered its forecastto an overall 10.5% growth, and thenin June cut it again to 9.3%.Rajani Singh, research analyst with IDC's United States Quarterly PC Tracker said in a statement: "The U.S. PC market continued to contract in the second quarter of 2011 largely as a result of three factors. The first is an ongoing contraction in the Mini Notebook (Netbook) market and related inventories. The second is the impact of 2Q10's difficult-to-sustain 12% growth. And third, demand has softened as corporate buyers continue to focus on increasing share of their IT budget in new IT solutions such as cloud and virtualization, and consumer interest shifts to media tablets... Given the weakness of sales in] the second half of 2010, we expect a better market environment in the second half of 2011 with mid-single digit growth rates in the third quarter's back to school and fourth quarter's holiday season."
Hundreds of people used a shared spreadsheet on Google's system to post helpful numbers and information following the blasts in Mumbai.The spreadsheetsoon filled up with details offering blood transfusions, numbers for police stations, offers of accommodation and general offers of help.Set up by Nitin Sagar, based in New Delhi, at 3.35pm BST, the document soon had scores of people adding offers of help. The number of people viewing the document quickly passed a thousand, forcing Google to limit the detail provided to keep it online.People were asked to give their area, offer of help, contact number(s) and username.On Twitter a hashtag –#heretohelpquickly developed too, with people also offering places to stay with contact details.
UK startup8linQis hoping to spearhead a new wave of music games for smartphones and tablets, with its first game Say What?! due to be released on 20 July for iPhone armed with a licensing deal with major label Sony Music Entertainment.The company is a joint venture between three partners: Music In Colour, Reactify and Metropolis Group. The first of those is a music production company formed by former staff from FreestyleGames, which developed the DJ Hero console games, while the latter is one of the most prestigious recording studios in the world.Based at the studio complex in London, 8linQ has been working on Say What?! for several months, culminating in its launch next week with playable tracks from artists including Calvin Harris, Scouting for Girls, the Zutons and The Nolans."The music business needs to capture a new audience," says joint managing director Chris Lee. "Rather than make a game then license the music, this is much more of a partnership. We think there is a great opportunity to leverage the mobile platform to build something that reaches a wider audience, and monetises music."Say What?! takes a different approach to DJ Hero and other console music games like Guitar Hero. Lee says that 8linQ's key aim was to avoid any assumption that the game's players will be experienced gamers.The game uses a scrolling collection of icons, which relate to individual highlighted words within the lyrics to the current song, which are displayed above. If the word 'I' is highlighted, the player might have to tap on an eye icon, for example, while 'down' might be the cue to tap on a downward-facing arrow.At higher difficulty levels, the clues get more cryptic. "There will be puns left, right and centre that take you a good five seconds to crack what the icon is representing," explains Yuli Levtov, the game's designer, and founder of the third partner in the joint venture: generative music studioReactify Music."It's almost a Generation Game mechanic: a simple layer that lives over the music," says Lee. "We're not trying to be cleverer than that. This is about something that appeals in its simplicity, and we're trying not to niche it. It should appeal as much to 8-13 year-old girls as it does to 30-40 year-old males."Lee adds that Say What?! was inspired by iOS games like Cut the Rope and Trainyard. "They're cute, you're allowed to fail and it doesn't matter," he says. "Far too many games can fall into the trap of having a game mechanic based on failure, and the fear of failure driving you to do stuff. We don't think that's what the mobile audience wants."Say What?! will be free to download with four included tracks: one from a big Sony Music artist, and three from emerging acts signed to Music In Colour. Tracks from Sony – and ultimately other labels too – will be sold via in-app payments of £1.19 per song.It's the second example this month of a major label selling music within this kind of game, followingEMI's deal with Facebook games publisher MXP4. Downloads within Say What will be chart-eligible too."It will be a great story if you can take a catalogue title – a single that was released 20 or 30 years ago – and see it get into the top 10 with 100,000 downloads because it's in a game," says Ian Brenchley, joint managing director of 8linQ and managing director at Metropolis Group. "This is the merging of music and software in a really nice evolutionary form, that monetises music in a different way."Lee says that making games for iOS has been a fresh challenge for the team members who cut their teeth on DJ Hero and other console games."I love the immediacy of being able to create content," he says. "Development cycles are so much shorter, and you get that immediacy of feedback too, where you can watch how your consumer is playing, react and develop new features. We have designed this game so that if we get a song at 9am, we can have it for sale by 9am the next day."Say What?! will also be the first game to be promoted using theFuture Games Network, a service that is being launched by another UK developer, Future Games of London. The idea behind the network is to promote other developers' iOS games to FGOL's existing community of 18 million players.It's a good example of the promotional networks that are springing up around apps and games, just as 8linQ is an example of the kind of partnerships that are emerging as companies from different creative industries target the apps market.
Hilarious, but true. Microsoft, as part of itsdrive to get people and companies to migrate from Windows XP to Windows 7(and you really ought to, you know: Windows 7 is more secure and it was designed in the 21st century so it knows about things like SSDs, which make your computer go like a rocket) has developed a little Windows widget that you can use to count down the days until that moment in 2014 when XP hits its End of Support (which gets its own TLA: EOS).So, that's a widget to get people and companies off Windows XP. With us so far?Andhere's the page. Mmm... yes... System requirements... "Supported Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows Vista."Microsoft's XP countdown widget: it won't run on XP.We look forward to lots of stories and people who upgraded so that they could run the widget to tell them how long it was until they had to upgrade.
EMI has become the first major label to sign a partnership to sell music within a social game on Facebook using the social network's Facebook Credits virtual currency.The major label has agreed a deal with social games publisher MXP4 to make a range of tracks from artists including Lily Allen, Gorillaz, the Jackson 5 and David Guetta available within MXP4'sBopler Gamescollection on Facebook.Fans will be able to play a selection of rhythm games for free with 60-second clips of the songs, but will have to pay using Facebook Credits for access to the full songs. MXP4 struck separate deals with EMI's recorded music and publishing divisions."Games are a high-growth digital business, so we are always on the lookout for ways to license our music or have our artists involved in that area," says Cosmo Lush, EMI's vice president of digital business development."We are talking to lots of different potential partners across the games business, but MXP4 were very forward-looking and keen to move quickly to get some of our music licensed and get going.""This is the first time a music label and publisher have signed such a deal using the freemium business model," says Albin Serviant, MXP4's chief executive. "We expect more signatures from other publishers and labels by the end of August for the commercial launch of Bopler Games."The games are currently in beta, with new EMI tracks being added every week. By August, there will be 12 games to play, with social features including challenges and tournaments wrapped around them."We have hundreds of tracks cleared from the label, and more over time as we see how well the service is performing," says Lush. "This is about looking for innovative new digital frontiers where music can be monetised in a way that is compelling and appealing to consumers."This is not the first crossover between music and social games. Lady Gaga's latest album waspromoted in Zynga's FarmVille gameearlier in 2011 with her own virtual farm, GagaVille.Meanwhile, US publisher Booyah'sNightclub Citygame has run promotions for Kiss, Keith Urban and Daft Punk's soundtrack for the film TRON: Legacy. EMI and MXP4 have worked together before, too, on a promotional Facebook game for David Guetta.What is innovative about the new partnership is the use of Facebook Credits to pay for access to songs by EMI artists within MXP4's Bopler-branded games, providing a direct revenue stream for the music group.Facebook takes a 30% cut of all Facebook Credits transactions, but Serviant declined to say how the remaining 70% will be divided between MXP4, labels and publishers. He stresses that the deal does not involve selling music downloads, however."This is not a service where you use Facebook Credits to purchase music," he says. "What we are monetising here is the gaming experience including the music. It's not about selling music as virtual goods: it's about selling music games as virtual goods."The deal is a welcome positive note for EMI after a troubled last year when control of the music group passed from private investment firm Terra Firma to bank Citigroup, after the former failed to meet the covenants of loans taken out to buy EMI in 2007.According to music industry body the IFPI, trade revenue from recorded music sales was $15.9bn in 2010, down 8.4% year-on-year. By contrast, social games are still relatively small fry: eMarketer estimates that social games revenues in 2010 totalled $856m.Even so, music rightsholders are intrigued by the success of social games publishers like Zynga, which generated $598 million of revenues in 2010 alone, with $575 million of those coming from virtual item sales.Facebook is mulling its own move into music, too. In August, the social network is expected to announce partnerships with streaming music services including Spotify, Rhapsody and Rdio that will integrate them more deeply into Facebook. It is unclear at this point whether Facebook Credits will have a role to play in those partnerships.
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion  co-chief executive Jim Balsillie says the company plans to launch seven new smartphones running its next-generation operating system in coming months – but admitted to shareholders that the company faces challenges as it tries to hit that target.Speaking at RIM's annual meeting on Tuesday, Balsillie said that there had been delays in releasing the new OS, but that the new phones would enable RIM to stay on track to meet its financial guidance for the year.Analysts have been doubtful that the company can meet its ambitious full-year guidance after a dip in profits in the last quarter, and RIM's share price has fallen more than 50% this year, to its lowest point since August 2006, before Apple's iPhone was launched. The company is presently valued at just $13.6bn (£8.5bn), compared to its August 2008 high of $75.2bn.Mike Lazaridis, who shares the title of co-CEO with Balsillie, said the delays were due to company's efforts to get its smartphones to meet market expectations, adding that the technology in the new BlackBerry Bold jumps a generation. "It may have delayed us, but we are going to come out ahead," Lazaridis said, adding that the delay would bolster RIM in the face of what he called an "arms race" brewing among its smartphone competitors.RIM once dominated the corporate smartphone market but has been struggling to come up with a device to compete with Apple's iPhone and smartphones running Google's Android.It has also hadpoor reviews for its PlayBook tablet, launched in April. So far it has not released any sales figures for the device. A very small proportion – about 1,000 – had to be recalled because of defective software. It haslost around 1 million users in the USaccording to figures from ComScore, although it announced last week that it hadgained 1 million in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region in the past three weeks. The company's results suggest that many of the gains have come through lowering prices.Shareholders indicated that they are anxious to see what's next in the company's device roster, with some criticising RIM's lack of marketing efforts in the face of rivals such as Apple. One shareholder brought pictures of the RIM's PlayBook tablet display at a Best Buy store that he said fell short of the rival offerings.Lazaridis said the company is continuing to build on RIM's reputation for security when it comes to email and added that trials of the PlayBook were under way at more than 1,500 companies. "This includes multiple government agencies and groups from both the public and private sectors," he said.The management structure, in which Balsillie and Lazaridis share the titles of chairman and chief executive, has also come under criticism, with some calling for an independent chairman. RIM avoided a shareholder vote on a plan to split the roles of CEO and chairman before the meeting when it reached a deal with Northwest &amp; Ethical Investments to establish an independent committee to review the role of the chairman.Northern Securities analyst Sameet Kanade said setting up a committee just prolongs the need to split up the roles. "We don't think it bodes well for the stock in the short to medium term," Kanade said. "It looks nice on paper, but it doesn't really solve the more pressing concerns of who is looking out for shareholder concerns on the board and who is looking out to make sure the CEO or the co-CEOs are taking the right and decisive actions."Kanade said he believes Lazaridis should be the CEO with Balsillie as the chief marketing officer or filling other roles. "Accountability would be more direct with one person running it. There's no one looking out for the shareholders' interests on the board."The falloff in RIM's share price has prompted takeover rumours, leading one shareholder to ask about a "poison pill" rights plan to block a hostile bid. Balsillie responded that a rights plan could be put in place in a "blink of an eye" if a hostile offer was made for the company.
Self-described map geekEric Fischerhas released a fresh batch of data visualisations that merge Flickr and Twitter geographic data. Using the titleSee something or say something, he's produced images forLondon, below, as well as 34 more includingNew York,Barcelona,Baltimore,Tokyo,Singapore,Jakarta,Sao Paulo,Seoul,Los Angeles,Mexico City,Washington DC,San Francisco,Rotterdam... and not Worthing.Photo byEric Fischeron Flickr.Some rights reservedFischer used red dots for Flickr pictures, blue for Twitter and white for both - all publicly available data in theFlickr and Twitter APIs. To some extent, the density reflects the density of footfall in different parts of the city, but with Flickr, geographic visualisations tend to reflect a more cultural consensus of photogenic places or tourist spots.In the Flickrcommentsfeed for this image, Fischer said it takes about 40m minutes to set up file data and 3 minutes to produce the image. He added that Berlin isn't included in theset("not a whole lot of Twitter use reported there," which is interesting)."There's not a whole lot of technology behind it," Fischerexplained. "It's a C program that runs through the photos/tweets in chronological order, plotting the earliest ones the most brightly and stepping the brightness down for points that don't show up for the first time until later on."Points are also allowed to diffuse by a few pixels when there is an additional record for a point that is already plotted, with the brightness falling off exponentially as the point that is actually plotted gets further from its intended location. Each pixel is the somewhat weird area of 2.25 square miles because a smaller area made the whole-world image too big for Flickr to let me post it."
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team"Download map area" added to Labs in Google Maps for Android &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"When you're visiting an unfamiliar location, Google Maps for mobile is great for getting an idea of how close you are to your destination, where streets and landmarks are in relation to each other, or just for getting "un-lost." But what if you don't have a data signal, or you're abroad and don't have a data plan? We say that if you use Google Maps for mobile, you'll never need to carry a paper map again. The "Download map area" lab in Google Maps 5.7 for Android is a step in making that statement true even when you're offline."Neat.Judge: It's 'possible' Google knew of Java violation &gt;&gt; ITworld"It "appears possible" that Google knew that its Android mobile operating system would violate Java patents held by Oracle, but decided to go ahead with the effort anyway, the judge overseeing the companies' intellectual property lawsuit said in a letter filed Tuesday."Judge William Alsup made the statement in connection with the so-called Daubert motion Google has filed in hopes of excluding the findings of Oracle's damages expert. Both sides have submitted briefs in connection with a hearing on the motion, which is scheduled for July 21."'In reading the Daubert briefing, it appears possible that early on Google recognized that it would infringe patents protecting at least part of Java, entered into negotiations with Sun [Microsystems] to obtain a license for use in Android, then abandoned the negotiations as too expensive, and pushed home with Android without any license at all,' Alsup wrote in the letter filed in US District Court for the Northern District of California."&#10;Hmm.First app developer gets 30-day extension to answer Lodsys's complaint &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsIconfactory (which makes Twitterrific) already has an extension. This is all going to play out forever.Flickr and Twitter mapped together – See Something or Say Something? &gt;&gt; Flowing Data"That's an artifact of population density and Flickr and Twitter users. What's more interesting though are the areas outside of the city dominated by blue and orange. For example, in the North America map above, the east is dominated by blue, whereas the west seems to be more orange.&#10;"What compels people to tweet over taking a picture and vice versa? Or are we just seeing a Twitter scrape that happened in the early morning, before the west coast woke up?"June 2009: "Why Google's software approach won't work for smartphones or the enterprise" &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Google's "continuous beta" approach that it used to build [Google search and Gmail] will not satisfy the customers of two new market segments that Google wants to win: smartphone software and enterprise software.&#10;"Let me start by saying that Google's move to create its own smartphone platform (Android) was a mystery to me from the beginning. It was unnecessary. Google could have simply focused on creating great mobile software and search products for all of the main smartphone platforms and it would have accomplished its primary goal, which was to create a mobile platform for AdWords."Quite entertaining to read something that misses the point so well.iPad sales estimates for fiscal Q3 range from 6.0 to 9.5 million &gt;&gt; Fortune TechThat's a pretty big range, but the average is 7.93m. (The median is 8.09m.) Either way it's more than double the 3.2m sold in its first quarter a year ago.Chart of the day: The striking collapse in the growth of PC notebook sales &gt;&gt; Business InsiderInteresting how HP, with its big corporate sales, is faring worse than the industry average.What's yours stays yours &gt;&gt; Dropbox blog"We've never been interested in rights broader than what we need to run Dropbox. We want to get this language right so that you're comfortable using Dropbox with no reservations: what's yours is yours. Instead of trying to add clarifications to the terms, we've rewritten this part from scratch..."Suitable for those concerned about it?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Good morning and welcome to the games industry – EA hasjust bought Popcapfor $750m! So much for austerity!
Video game publisher Electronic Arts is to acquire the social and casual gaming specialist PopCap in a deal worth $750m. The move, which has been rumoured for several weeks within the games industry, will see EA paying $650m, plus $100m in stock. The deal is expected to be closed in August.Founded in 2000, PopCap is a massively and repeatedly successful developer of online casual and social games. Its simple yet addictive range of puzzle titles, including Bejeweled, Zuma and Plants vs Zombies, have been downloaded over 1.5bn times, and appear on a diverse range of platforms from PC to smartphones and games consoles. PopCap reported revenues of $100m in 2010.Electronic Arts is one of the largest third-party publishers in the traditional video game sector and is expecting to report Non-GAAP net revenues of approximately $3.8-$4.025bn for the fiscal year ending March 2012. However, like other console gaming giants, the company has struggled to adapt to the digital games market, which revolves around casual downloadable titles rather than major retail releases.In 2009, EA paid almost $400m for the Facebook game developer Playfish in an effort to push its huge range of brands into the social gaming space. Since then, the publisher has made valuable headway into the lucrative Facebook gaming market, where its titles have around 32 million monthly active users. With PopCap's own Facebook titles, Bejeweled Blitz and Zuma Blitz, drawing in a total of over 16 million monthly active users, the two companies combined will become the closest challenger to the current Facebook leader Zynga, creator of Farmville.It is expected that EA will seek to expand PopCap's roster of titles to console platforms, as well as using the developer's expertise to take EA properties such as Battlefield, Dead Space, Fifa and The Sims into the social gaming sector. PopCap also adds stability and reliability to EA's business – an attractive proposition compared to the volatile console retail sales market."EA and PopCap are a compelling combination," said EA CEO John Riccitiello. "PopCap's great studio talent and powerful IP add to EA's momentum and accelerate our drive towards a $1bn digital business. EA's global studio and publishing network will help PopCap rapidly expand their business to more digital devices, more countries, and more channels.""We picked EA because they have recast their culture around making great digital games," said PopCap CEO, David Roberts. "By working with EA, we'll scale our games and services to deliver more social, mobile, casual fun to an even bigger, global audience."The deal closely follows EA's recent purchase of San Francisco-based social games developer,Ohaifor an undisclosed but certainly much lower amount.The purchase of PopCap will make waves in the games industry, where global revenues are set to hit $74bn this year according to research firm Gartner. However, EA is certainly not the only large publisher looking to buy its way into the growing casual sector. Last year, Disney bought successful social game developer Playdomin a deal worth up to $763.2m.
'Here is a new and brilliant way to connect with people," your friend will say to you. They say this every 18 months, and each time your heart sinks. All you can see is a clock counting down to social network Armageddon: the precise point when you are somehow cyberfriends, yet again, with your mum, your boss, all your exes and that boy who thinks (wrongly) he went to school with you.So what if, instead of all that harrowing connecting and reconnecting, you could cut ties, hide in corners and keep yourself to yourself, without offending a single person? That's the idea behind Google+, the perfect anti-social network. Its killer app is Circles, which is a bit like Lists, that Twitter thing nobody uses. You connect with people by adding them to a Circle, and you can then post stories, pictures, videos and all the stuff you might in the distant past of last week have posted on Facebook or Twitter, and only people in that Circle can see it. Friends from work might go in both "Friends" and "Work" Circles. And maybe, because people can't see which Circles you've put them in, you'll also create a Circle called "Work Idiots". "Family" is separate. Always. Or you could do what I'm thinking of doing, which is to simply create two groups: YES and NO.Google+ is in beta at the moment and new users are being invited in gradually. Many posts are coos and wails of awe and bewilderment: "Testing", "is this conversation private?", "HELLOOOOOO???", "has George Michael signed up yet?". Some people are gossiping about what is happening on Twitter in Google+ Circles called things like Twitter Refugees. Most liberatingly of all, because there is not yet any structured sphere of influence beyond being able to click "+1" (similar to Facebook's "Like") on posts you like, Google+ has not been overtaken by brands, there are no trending topics, and there is nobody instructing you to, for example, boycott a publication you never purchase anyway. Attention-seeking seems to be at a minimum, and there are no famous people apart from Britney Spears, for whom I have invented a Circle called "Britney Spears".But I also bring bad news. The asterisked stage directions that sprang to life thanks to Twitter's lack of text formatting do not work here. On Google+, whichdoessupport text formatting, those beautiful asides (*falls asleep*, *retires*, *throws laptop out of window*) simply show up in bold, which doesn't work.  This state of affairs  is unacceptable and must be addressed before Google+ goes fully public. The success or failure of Google+ is at stake.
Microsoft says that it has sold 400m Windows 7 licences. As I noted back at the end of April when Microsoft said it hadshipped 350m licences, the takeup has gone better, proportional to the total number of PCs sold each year, than it did with Windows XP in 2001 (and definitely better than with Vista in 2007).But what do those two numbers – the 350m and the 400m – taken together with their dates of announcement tell us about PC sales in the second quarter?Actually, they suggest that they aren't going that swimmingly. Here's why.In the second quarter of 2010, the research companies Gartner and IDC say that about 80m Windows PCs were sold (I've subtracted the number of Apple Macs sold for the quarter). In the second quarter of 2009, the figure was 66m. (So that was a rather impressive year-on-year growth of about 20% from 2009 to 2010.)So:350m sold by 22 April(the blogpost actually says "more than", but let's round it down, because that puts a better light on PC sales for this quarter.)Two months (and a week) later, Microsoft is saying that it has sold an additional 50m licences. Assuming that sales have been going at a steady rate through the quarter, that implies sales of just 75m PCs in the second quarter - which would be a 6% dip. That's quite substantial, and if correct, would come after a 2% dip in Windows PC sales in the first quarter. Possible reasons could include financial squeezes on businesses and the Japan earthquake slowing business in the Far East.One factor that objectors might raise: my calculation in April showed that Windows 7 licences were 67% of PC shipments in the first 18 months. (That's because you get an overlap with older systems, including XP and Vista.) If that's still the case, then that 75m would actually be 125m. But as there's never been the slightest sign of the PC market ever hitting that size, we can discount that as wrong. The 67% figure for the first 18 months will have arisen because of that OS release overlap; but now you can't get XP - Microsoft stopped selling it on October 22 - so it's Windows 7 all the way now.Allow perhaps for some small mix of Vista licensing and/or "white boxes" being shipped without licences, and you're still looking at zero or very small growth in PC sales over 2010 - perhaps a total of 80m. Financial snalysts such as Richard Windsor at Nomura forecasting a total growth of only 3% in PC sales this year.Yes, but what does it mean? It means less money for Microsoft. If there were only 75m Windows PCs sold in the second quarter, that translates directly to its bottom line.Going by Microsoft's own financial results (whose fourth-quarter figures are coming up next week), the three-year average for revenue per Windows PC sold is $56.47, and profit is $39.91.Plug those in to two scenarios and the following emerges for the Windows division:• 75m PCs sold: revenue: $4.23bn; profit $2.99bn• 80m PCs sold: revenue: $4.52bn; profit: $3.2bn.Those are still big numbers - but they're not showing the growth that Steve Ballmer might have hoped for. (The 75m is pretty pessimistic; the 80m would be level-pegging with the first quarter, but if netbook sales have collapsed further then it might be too large.) Those Windows 8 tablets really can't come soon enough.Update:There is another confounding factor which might mean that the number of PCs sold is actually higher than 80m, but that Windows licences aren't following them: PC sales in China. TheWall Street Journal in May reported a speechin which Ballmer noted that Microsoft only gets about 5% of the revenue from China that it gets from the West, because of rampant piracy. For 2011, the WSJ noted, IDC "projects PC unit shipments in China are likely to increase 12% to 71 million units, just shy of the 75 million units in the U.S., where it expects sales to be flat."If those shipments aren't matched by Windows licences, then we could see an increase in PC sales even while Microsoft's revenue from them doesn't grow. It's a possibility: we'll find out next week.
On this week's programme, we're reporting on the smartphone market, a handset ecosystem that's set to reach critical mass in the next 23 months. Once more than half the UK population has access to all the features, what will this mean for how we consume online content, and for trends in the UK software development market?Also, David Cameron launched the UK's latest open data initiative, releasing a new tranche of public data for use by developers. What new insights can be gained, and has this data been specifically chosen to advance the Tory agenda?We spend a lot of time talking about privacy issues on this podcast, but most of it related to the corporations behind social networks, search engines and other publishing systems. So what about punters who hijack computers for the sake of art? A New York-based artist has been detained by the US secret service for "fraud and related activities" for uploading software on public computers at Apple stores around the city and then capturing images of shoppers looking at the screens.Plus Jemima steps into the Elevator with Mark McLaughlin ofTicket ABC.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Microsoft has sold 400m Windows 7 licences, its chief executive Steve Ballmer told its Worldwide Partner Conference in Los Angeles - but warned that between half and two-thirds of PCs worldwide are still running the ten-year-old Windows XP, for which support will expire in less than a thousand days.Ballmersaidthat the adoption of Windows 7, which was released in October 2009, has been significantly faster than for XP; the new product now runs 27% of all PCs worldwide according to data from Net Applications.Microsoft also claimed that Internet Explorer 9 is now "the most popular modern browser running on Windows 7 PCs in the US" and that it is running on 17% of Windows 7 PCs worldwide.Ballmer also alluded to the forthcoming Windows 8, expected in late 2012, which he said would be "a true reimagining of Windows PCs and the dawning of Windows slates." Microsoft demonstrated anearly version of Windows 8last month which it said would work on both desktop PCs and slates.But the company is now trying tourge people and businesses to give up use of Windows XP(and, separately, Internet Explorer 6). In a blogpost, Stephen Rose, its senior community manager, suggested that "it's time to move from good enough to something much better", and pointed out that support for Windows XP will finally end in April 2014. "Bottom line, PCs running Windows XP will be vulnerable to security threats", he noted, because it will no longer receive security patches and hotfixes, as presently it does.Ballmer admitted that its performance in the smartphone market, where the new Windows Phone platform is selling fewer devices than the now-deprecated Windows Mobile, had been poor: "Phones, we've gone from very small [market share] to very small, but it's been a heck of a year," he said to laughter. But, he added, "you're going to see a lot of progress in that market competitively as we move forward" - a reference to its partnership with Finland's Nokia to build Windows Phone devices.Ballmer declined again to give sales figures for Windows Phone except to say it had sold "millions" of phones - which is no advance on the figure of 2m given at the beginning of the year.Ballmer compared Microsoft's share of 400m licences for Windows 7 to Apple's putative 20m installed base for Mac OSX, without naming his rival: "Now, 20 is too much, but 400, last time I checked, is a lot more than 20."Ballmer also announced that Microsoft has sold 100m licences for Office 2010, indicating continuing strong growth for the office suite, which will announce its full-year results on Thursday 21 July.Ballmer said of Microsoft that "in some senses, we're relatively simple. We're involved in creating either the platforms or the hardware for three major devices: Small screens, big screens, and middle-sized screens. Sometimes called phones, PCs, and TVs, sometimes we'll talk about the PC and the slate as separate devices, but we're trying to drive forward the platform for intelligent devices."At the same time, we're investing in core scenarios on the back end, on the server and service side that becomes applications and tools that you can use to complete the experience - Bing, Office, our server and Azure platform, and of course Microsoft Dynamics."
For the past decade Hollywood has very much enjoyed raiding our eighties childhoods, scrabbling about for marketable franchises and then emerging a year or so later with some nostalgia-packed summer flick of almost morbid uselessness. They have covered TV via the risible Dukes of Hazzard, A-Team and Charlie's Angels films, and they have scorched through toys via GI Joe and Michael Bay's Transformers, not to mention the forthcoming Cabbage Patch Kids and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles re-visits. Now they are turning their jaded sadistic eyes to early eighties arcade games.Recently, theHollywood Reporter revealedthat producers Lorenzo di Bonaventura and Gigi Pritzker have 'optioned the rights' (Hollywood parlance for, 'found some cash and proffered it at some bemused but delighted rights holders') to coin-op classic Space Invaders. Released in 1978 this early shooter pitted the player against waves of iconic alien craft; it became the most successful arcade game of the era and its huge popularity was widely credited with causing a coin shortage in Japan.But none of this adequately explains how on Earth this simple game will inspire a 90 minute movie. Not that the producers are letting such a minor point get in the way of the idea. Indeed, it turns out this is all in a day's work for di Bonaventura. The eighties-loving exec also produced the GI Joe and Transformers movies and is overseeing the development of a film based on monochrome space shooter, Asteroids – bought by Universal way back in 2009 (after, would you believe it, a bidding war with three other studios)."With Space Invaders, the producers are facing an interesting challenge," the Hollywood reporter tactfully puts it. "The video game doesn't have a built-in mythology, so on one hand a film won't risk offending game fans. Conversely, coming up with a captivating universe, especially for video game adaptations, is no easy task."They're right. Translating games into movies is hard enough when the source materialdoescome with a cogent story and recognisable characters – just look at what they did to Super Mario Bros, Street Fighter, Silent Hill and Hitman (on second thoughts – don't. Ever. Look. At. Them). Space Invaders has no plot and no lead role; the aliens are constructed out of barely animated sprites, which won't give modern special effects experts much to work with. Sure, the sound effects are iconic, but that's not going to see us much beyond the title sequence.Apparently, the game's designer Tomohiro Nishikado was influenced by Star Wars and War of the Worlds, so that does at least provide a useful starting point for any writers unlucky enough to be placed on the project. Sadly, what we can probably expect, is another Skyline or Battlefield Los Angeles, just with blockier aliens, who slowly advance towards Earth in a predictable rectangular formation. It doesn't really matter, of course, because marketing, nostalgia and plenty of cool retro merchandise will ensure a healthy opening box-office, which should probably be enough to turn a profit and fund the next landgrab on seventies and eighties brands. Hollywood, you aremad.Four early '80s coin-ops that would make 'great' moviesAs the movie industry is clearly struggling here, I've provided four more early eighties arcade classics ripe for movie conversion. Feel free to add your own suggestions in the comments section!Centipede (1980, Atari)A beleaguered smallholder finds his best efforts to cultivate an organic mushroom crop thwarted by a monstrous arthropod. Driven to the very limits of sanity, he attacks the beast with a laser gun. Possibly to be directed by Judd Apatow in the style of classic man vs nature comedy, Caddy Shack.Frogger (Konami, 1981)John Lasseter directs this magical story of an amphibian hero who just wants to find his way home.Thrillas he dodges busy traffic in the exciting freeway sequence;become confusedas he loses a life for drowning in the river, despite belonging to a species that practises cutaneous respiration;leave the cinemawhen it becomes clear that the film re-starts the moment you eventually make it to the other side...Moon Patrol (Irem, 1982)On the dramatic lunar surface, many miles from Earth, a Nasa research team comes under attack from a deadly alien force. Their only hope of escape is anincrediblyslow moon buggy, fitted with what appears to be a roof-mounted pea-shooter. Vin Diesel stars as a top science driver who has come out of retirement to pilot one last buggy mission. Can he outrun the extraterrestrial menace while also hitting the jump button to avoid deadly moon holes? Paul WS Andrerson to direct.Paperboy (Atari, 1984)'Delivering' fast-paced excitement and 'first class' entertainment, this nostalgic movie will remind film-goers what life was like when work meant clambering on to a BMX bike and throwing newspapers straight through the windows of badly drawn houses. And if runaway lawnmowers and savage dogs aren't enough to contend with, our novice paperboy hero (I'm thinking Justin Bieber, naturally) must prepare for a confrontation with the Grim Reaper himself! Something to do with a dead letter office? We'll patch those details in later.
People staring at computers.It could make an interesting study of our changing behaviour, a clever way of changing the view on a culture that is increasingly screen-focused. A look out, rather than a look in.Unfortunately, New York artist Kyle McDonald made a rather too liberal assessment of laws around spying and public photography before installing a customised camera app in Apple stores in New York City, automatically taking photos every minute and sending McDonald 1,000 images. These are all posted on his blog,peoplestaringatcomputers.tumblr.com.One study from Kyle McDonald's Apple Store project peoplestaringatcomputersThe project was up on McDonald's site for a full two days before the secret service called round, hetweeted, and confiscated his laptop, one other computer, an iPod and two flash drives.McDonald hasn't exactly defended the project with detailed theoretical, contextual explanation, but then he is now following the advice of the Electronic Frontier Foundation andkeeping quietpending the results of the police investigation.What he did say on hisFree Art &amp; technologyproject site is that: "Before sharing the photos online, I decided to exhibit them in the same places they were originally captured. So I wrote another app that could be remotely triggered after being installed on all the computers in one location. When the app starts up, it takes a picture and slowly fades in that photo. A moment later, it starts cycling through older photos."Most people instinctively quit the app less than 10 seconds after recognising their own face, so the exhibition was relegated to the unused machines."More explanation in his video about the project.Noble and innocently artistic as his intentions may have been, his interpretation of the law has been more than a little naive. "As I understand, photography in open spaces is legal unless explicitly prohibited," hetweeted.A modicum of further consideration might lead you to conclude that Apple stores are not "open spaces", by which he presumably means public areas. He latertweetedthat he had been told his work violates "18 USC section 1030". It does seem surprising that Apple's in-store security didn't have some sort of system in place to protect itself from this kind of mischief; stores do wipe computers every night, but McDonald came back every morning and reinstalled the software.It does seem remarkable that, as McDonald explained, none of Apple's customers were particularly phased by being faced with pictures of other people staring at computers though it might have made them dismiss it,being on a strange machine inside the Apple store. Mashable reported that McDonald had eventually installed the software on as many as 100 computers in the Apple store."That's a lot of network traffic, and he learned that Apple monitors traffic in its stores when he received a photo from a Cupertino computer of what appeared to be an Apple technician. The technician had apparently traced the traffic to the site McDonald used to upload the program to Apple Store computers — and installed it himself." It's safe to assume that the visit from four secret service men was triggered by Apple.Despite the assumptions about this kind of covert photography, one legal expert advised that customers in an Apple store have no reasonable expectation of privacy. "How is this different to being photographed out in the mall, on the beach, at the ballgame?" media law and ethics tutor Craig LaMay told theSydney Morning Herald.No updates as yet on those investigations, but there was a rather cryptictweet on Sundayin which he nodded to the ambiguity of comment threads."Thinking about comment threads as a modern exercise in Anekantavada/the Jain parable of theblind men and the elephant."
One of the most interesting things about the current apps ecosystem is the way it's flinging creative companies from different industries into the same battleground.Music labels, film studios, book publishers, TV companies and a range of previously separate games firms (social, casual, mobile, console) are all thrown together into a melting pot of competition and potential collaboration.Northern Irish company Straandlooper is a good example of the opportunities here. It has a 20-year history making animated TV shows, but in June 2010 chanced its arm as an iOS developer with adventure gameHector: Badge of Carnage, based on a script for TV with the less Apple-friendly title Hector: Fat Arse of the Law. It was a point'n'click adventure starring a detective inspector described as "part criminalist, part kebab-fiend, all cop"."It was initially developed under a programme from Northern Ireland Screen, with the idea being to do a TV/DVD feature based on a spoof of a TV cop show," says Straandlooper managing director Richard Morss."But looking a the property and the difficulty of breaking something that size in the TV market, we thought the game would be a better way to start, then secured some funding to produce it. What we want to do is make sure everything has the potential to go either way – into games or more conventional linear content – to get as many bites of the cherry as we can."When it was released in 2010, Hector: Badge of Carnage won critical acclaim for its rollicking humour, and according to Morss it sold well despite competition on the App Store from famous names like The Secret of Monkey Island in its point'n'click adventure genre. So much so, that Straandlooper has since signed a publishing deal to develop two more Hector games, which will be released by Telltale Games – the same company that has been reviving the Monkey Island brand for iOS and other platforms."It will get the game in front of a much wider range of people," says Morss. "iPhone was a great vehicle for a small indie company to self-publish and reach a niche audience, but the gatekeepers on bigger platforms are harder to get past. The Telltale deal enables us to reach a wider audience across PC and Mac, and eventually PlayStation. It also strategically feeds back into the core IP, and will enable us to do other stuff outside the gaming arena."Morss is candid about the difficulty of persuading broadcasters to commission TV shows based on IP like Hector, or another property created by Straandlooper called Lifeboat Luke. The latter has been released as a series of five-minute 'spotisode' apps on iPhone."It has not created the same storm, as there are a lot of large players out there in the kids market with known brands," he says."This hasn't got a pre-existing broadcast profile in the UK, but if nobody's seen it, it's not stale. You can publish on the App Store and be a truly independent producer: if you can find the money to make something, you can do it. It's important there are those spaces, as the broadcast industry develops less new IP with independent producers."
Altec Lansing Orbit Stereo speakers, ready for actionWhat do you expect from portable speakers that you can plug into your computer? On the whole, you expect lousy sound, clunky speakers that don't fit easily into any sort of portable package, and fiddly wires that won't wind up. And did I mention the lousy sound?That's been my general experience of portable computer speakers down the years. You either get excellent sound, and you need a small wagon to transport them; or you can pop them in your bag, but when you start playing sound through them, people look around, wondering how a bee got into the room.And now the good news: Altec Lansing's Orbit USB Stereo 2.0 speakers do the lot. They have fantastic sound but they also pack together into a neat, portable package which fits together cleverly so that you don't have to worry about trailing wires.Not only that, but the design elegantly contains its own stands for the speakers which packs away too.So, first things first. There's a little fold-over metal stand to angle them upwards. A nice touch: little rubber rings around the metal so they won't scratch any surface they're placed on. The Orbit Stereo speakers connect via USB, so they're powered. And that's some power. The sound is bigger than you would expect from their size – each about as large as a small drinking glass. The bass is well-defined, and the treble is clear. Crank the volume up, and the sound stays clean – no distortion. When it comes to the sound, the Orbit speakers are up there with the best and bulkiest ones you'll find, except they're not bulky.It's when you come to put them away that things get really neat. Most portable speaker systems leave you with wires trailing here and there to get snagged on whatever you put them into. Not so here. The wires wrap neatly into the base of each speaker. Then the pair are placed end to end (speaker side facing outwards): a quick rotating and they're locked together so that the wires aren't going anywhere, and aren't showing either. The metal stand folds back over the top to get out of the way too. Finally, there's a little cloth carry bag.Altec Lansing Orbit Stereo speakers ready to travelAnd that's it: portable and good sound. You may have thought you'd never find it, but these speakers manage it. And the price is excellent too: just over £30 for great sound you can carry around.All in favour:big sound, neat inbuilt stands, clever design to clip together for moving around, excellent price.All against:honestly? nothing.Price:£32.39 at AmazonBuyAltec Lansing's Orbit Stereo speakers on Amazon&gt;&gt;
What has the Web done to friendship, a feature of functioning society that both keeps us accountable to one another and provides us with the emotional support we psychologically need? Do we devalue our close friends by widening our social circles out to hundreds of "friends" on social networks? Can the Web serve as a replacement mechanic for the bonding that happens with face-to-face experience? Or does it connect us with people we'd never have met otherwise?This fortnight'sUntangling the Webcolumn delves into the function of friendship, and the form it takes online.Have you unexpectedly made a bff online, or has a social network left you with emotional anemia? Send your thoughts and stories to aleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk or ping me on twitter@alekskwith the hashtag #friendship.Follow theUntangling the Web tumblogfor all the research and interviews that will feed the column over the next two weeks.
Tuesday morning, here we come.
