My mammoth graphics post earlier this week didnt leave a lot of room to talk about the developers I met at the Bradford Animation Festival. So here goes. Charles Cecil was there to give a keynote speech on his career, concentrating mostly on the evolution of the Broken Sword series. Revolution Software, at the moment, consists of a small group of longterm Cecil compatriots and he claims nothing is in development right now, but wouldn't rule out a new edition to the Sword series. When asked about whether a DS or PSP version would work well he was very enthusiastic - it seemed as though this is something he's considered...Introversion were there to speak about indie development. When I introduced them to a packed auditorium of animation students hoping to break into the games industry I was shocked that a massive majority of the audience hadn't heard of Introversion and hadn't played Uplink, Darwinia or Defcon. To me, this was like a roomful of music biz hopefuls confessing ignorance to - oooh I don't know - Hot Chip, We Are Scientists or Editors. It showed a surprising and rather depressing lack of industry knowledge beyond the obvious mainstream hits.Anyway, Introversion duo Mark Morris and John Knottenbelt talked about how to create innovative games with small teams and, vitally, how to distribute the results. Steam has helped rather a lot in this respect. We also discovered that Defcon came out of lead programmer Chris Delay's' creative frustration while plugging away 18 hours a day on Darwinia. He decided to have a break - not by leaving his computer and doing something else, but by seeing if he could write a new title in 24 hours. He failed, but the basics of Defon were put in place and 200 or so days later it was finished.Anyway, the chaps are currently working on a Mac version of Defcon and are hoping to achieve online multiplayer interoperability between the Mac and PC versions - that should happen by March. I also know that Chris has startedthinkingabout their next game...I also bumped into a group from Sumo Digital - responsible for the stunning home conversions of OutRun 2 and the PSP versions of TOCA. They currently finishing off Virtua Tennis 3 on Xbox 360 (complete with four-player online, of course) and Go! Sudoku on PS3's downloadable games service. They're also wrapping up the Japanese version of OutRun on the PS2. This iteration removes the online mode (not popular over there apparently) but adds support for Logitech's force feedback steering wheel. It has also been tweaked to run at a consistent 60 frames-per-second.Finally, I heard some rumours that Sumo is working on a PSP downloadable game that should be out before Christmas. More on that later, hopefully. They also wanted me to mention the fact that their forthcoming TOCA 3 translation for PSP features support for in-game MP3 playing, so you can use your own music as a soundtrack. "We slaved over that like fools for two weeks!" exclaimed producer Steven Lycett...
In last week's issue, Charles Arthur recommended deleting spam mail unread. How can you delete an item without first clicking on it, ie "reading" it? Brian Nicol, Tom Fletcher and othersThere shouldn't be a problem with "reading" email even with Outlook Express, if it's a current patched version, though I'd generally recommend Thunderbird, The Bat or another email program. However, the simple answer is to turn off the Preview Pane (under View|Layout|Preview Pane). After that, you can scroll down and select any number of messages and delete them at once.Some people keep their inboxes empty by moving the emails they want to keep to separate folders called Home, Work or whatever. If you do this, you can select all the remaining messages (Ctrl-A) and delete them.Even better, use free Mailwasher (www.mailwasher.net) software to delete the spam on the server. However, I recommend against using the option to "bounce" spam already received.
What is a megapixel? Adam MursA pixel is a "picture element" or, crudely, a dot on a screen, and a megapixel is a million dots. A typical screen display is 1,280 pixels across by 1,024 pixels down, which gives 1,310,720 pixels or 1.3 megapixels. This would be an SXGA (Super Extended Graphics Array) screen.More commonly, megapixels are used to refer to the maximum resolution that can be captured by a digital camera. For example, a 5 megapixel camera can typically take a photo that is 2,560 pixels wide and 1,920 pixels high, recording 4,915,200 pixels. This provides more resolution than a 1.3 megapixel camera, and enables you to make a larger colour print while retaining the same sharpness.
I am the victim of a new breed of websites making money off free software --www.freedownloadhq.com. They sent me an email confirming my payment, but I have not received any software and I would like to get a refund. Zuzana BallayovaAssuming you paid by credit card, your best bet is to reclaim the money via a chargeback. The more general point is always to search for information about a company before you make a purchase, rather than after the purchase has gone wrong.
SpyBot has turned up a load of BackWeb Lite entries. Could this be in connection with using Kodak EasyShare? If so, what should I remove? John MorganBackWeb is a legitimate program used to update software over the net, and Kodak's EasyShare has probably installed it. Logitech and Hewlett-Packard have also used BackWeb, though some users consider it spyware. It should be possible to remove BackWeb using Windows' Add or Remove Programs utility, and this is preferable to using a spyware remover.
Why are calculator and phone number-pads different? Gavin EvansI don't think anyone knows for sure. However, adding machine and calculator keyboards have had 789 across the top for as long as I can remember, which predates electronic calculators. Phone companies started with 1 at the top of the dial, and their push-button phones started with 123 at the top. I suspect it's just different industries with different traditions. For more information, seewww.vcalc.net/Keyboard.htm.Backchat: Roy Wilson says: "The Post Office Engineering Department (pre-BT) used to test everything about the telecom system" and "the 123 layout produced the least errors". Bev Pease says that in the US, "the Bell Labs folk, and others, did huge amounts of research" with the same result. Andrew Emmerson notes that desktop calculators and adding machines "were used by skilled clerks often called comptometer operators" and the "adding up" keypad layout was very efficient for them. However, "human factors tests with all manner of different keypad layouts proved repeatedly on both sides of the Atlantic that the 'counting down' scheme pleased telephone users best".
"Taking the Origami principle to heart, Fujitsu reckon they've got the ultimate UMPC licked, with this swish design for a laptop which literally folds in half to fit your pocket," reportsT3 magazine."Toting extra keys inside for gaming, the half-pint lappy also packs in a finger print reader, so all your data's secure should it slip down the back of a stranger's sofa."Comment: This seems to be a non-working concept unit but T3 has a short video on YouTube that shows how it could work.
Look, it's an excuse. Allow me my American-themed fun for just one short day. No deeply political meaning intended.Here are a few turkey-themes games to say thanks for each and every one of you:Turkey ShooterShoot the turkeys. That simple.Turkey Drop"Riley dared his friend Hungry Harry to eat an entire turkey by himself. Help Harry show Riley why they don't call him Hungry Harry for nothing!"Turkey to GoCollect feathers, avoid forks and headbutt corn for extra points.Turkey TroubleYou're a cooped up roughneck turkey incarcerated by the Taterpeople. Escape with your band of merry poultry. Most amusing.Turkey Farm"Don't become a turkey dinner! That's the object of Turkey Farm. You must help the turkey disable Farmer Giblet's security system and escape his wrath in this classic game of espionage."
Why, will they sue us if we don't? Hang on, though - the record label does seem to have acquired a habit of late of firing off lawsuits in every direction. Last Friday, it sued MySpace, claiming that the site "encourages" people to upload songs and videos, breaking copyright as they do so. Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, which owns the site, has "turned MySpace Videos into a vast virtual warehouse for pirated copies of music videos and songs", Universal's lawyers alleged as they sought damages of $150,000 (&pound;79,000) per song or video posted, and cited 60 alleged violations. If it succeeds, that's $9m - not a bad return on a day's surfing.On Tuesday, the lawyers were back again with another suit against MySpace, this time over the leaking there of Jay-Z's upcoming album.In September, Universal's chief executive Doug Morris let fly at YouTube (along with MySpace), claiming that copyright infringement there meant it owed "millions of dollars" for hosting music videos. Then earlier this week, Bank of America got a cease-and-desist letter from, yes, Universal over a video (posted on, yes, YouTube, via stereogum.com) in which an employee sang a version of U2's "One", but with altered lyrics to celebrate (we think that's the word) its acquisition of MBNA.Is it just us, or does it sound like Universal's lawyers spend their days surfing social sites asking each other, "Hey, is that one of our songs?"Universal, you'll recall, was the company which dallied on licensing its music to Microsoft for the new Zune player until the software giant agreed to pay a levy of $1 per player. Why? Because, said Morris this month: "These devices are just repositories for stolen music, and they all know it." (We're not sure which "they" he meant: the owners or the vendors of players.)Clearly, it's a tough life running the world's biggest music company. But for those struggling artists on its books, there's some recompense: they'll get half of the $1 from each Zune sale. We guess the lawyers get the rest. After all, with all this surfing, their monitors must be nearly worn out.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dreams of a Europe-wide "free data" zone faded this week as EU institutions prepared to water down a key piece of new legislation. Final amendments to the Inspire directive, which would force governments to make available for free data relevant to environmental protection, will instead allow public bodies to continue to charge for such information.If agreed, the wording will be a victory for British policy on public-sector information - and for organisations such as Ordnance Survey, whose commercial future was threatened by the plan.Opinion among British MEPs split along party lines. The Conservative defence spokesman Geoffrey Van Orden, who had opposed Inspire on national security grounds, welcomed the new wording as an "acceptable compromise". For the Greens, Caroline Lucas described the amendments as "counterproductive to the idea of ordinary people taking responsibility for environmental protection".Inspire (infrastructure for spatial information in the EU) was conceived three years ago. The intention is to fill in gaps and remove inconsistencies between Europe's geographic databases. Today, a hill recorded as 1,000 metres high in Luxembourg might appear as 1,002.3 metres high in Germany. Such discrepancies can hinder planning for floods and other environmental disasters - and cause chaos when construction projects such as bridges and tunnels cross borders.A single, searchable portalAs a first step toward harmonisation, Inspire will require member states to make geographic databases available online, searchable via a single geoportal. Almost everyone agrees that this is a good idea. Over the past year, however, Inspire has become a battleground between campaigners for public-sector information to be made freely available and governments anxious to protect revenues from the sale of geographical data. The most vociferous advocate of the latter group is the UK, which designates its state mapping agencies, Ordnance Survey and the UK Hydrographic Office, as commercially self-standing trading funds.EU legislative bodies have mirrored this split, with the European parliament leaning towards free data and the Council of Ministers, representing governments, towards charging.Ordnance Survey has been raising concerns about Inspire since February last year, when it claimed that it "could be interpreted as banning the receipt of cash for cartographic work". In June, lobbying went into overdrive when the European parliament voted for amendments backing free data. Amendments tabled by the Belgian MEP Frieda Brepoels would have stopped mapping agencies from using copyright to block access to data and from charging customers more than the cost of handling their requests.Following that vote, Conservative MEPs raised the spectre of Britain being forced to make available information that could be of use to terrorists, such as details of the routes of nuclear submarines. "Charging may not be the way they do it in Belgium or wherever," said Caroline Jackson, Conservative MEP for the south-west of England, "but we think each country should be able to decide for itself."They also pointed out that the directive would force Ordnance Survey to revert to its taxpayer-funded model, as it was until 1999. "If Inspire goes through, it will lead to a degradation of data quality and coverage", a sympathetic article in The Times quoted Vanessa Lawrence, Ordnance Survey's head, as saying.Free data 'unacceptable'The council of ministers agreed that free data was unacceptable. The department for environment, food and rural affairs, which led the UK's work on Inspire, threatened to kill the whole directive unless it protected trading funds. In European lawmaking, conflict between the parliament and the council triggers a conciliation process under which a compromise must be agreed by a set deadline. In the case of Inspire, this was midnight on Tuesday. As Technology Guardian went to press, MEPs meeting in Brussels appeared ready to approve a compromise suggested by the European Commission.This amends several clauses to take into account "the need to protect the financial viability of public authorities, in particular those who have a duty to raise revenue". Paragraphs allow member states to ensure that Inspire's measures are "feasible and proportionate in terms of their likely costs and benefits". Public authorities will be allowed to apply charges for "very large volumes of real-time data" and suspend access to data as an emergency measure.Most importantly from Ordnance Survey's point of view, the proposed compromise says that governments may allow public authorities which supply geographic data to charge for it, provided that charges are "kept to the minimum necessary to protect the financial viability of public authorities".Ordnance Survey said that it "supports the aspirations of Inspire, and in general terms, would welcome agreement on Inspire, which is both practical and proportionate to allow us to play our part in making the European Spatial Data Infrastructure a reality."Although on the surface the Inspire compromise is a blow for free data, the negotiations have had the important effect of raising awareness of the issue among politicians. Rufus Pollock, a campaigner for the Open Knowledge Foundation (okfn.org) looks on the bright side. "Inspire has put things on the agenda that were never there before."With the end of the dispute in sight, Britain's environment minister Ian Pearson was in a conciliatory mood, saying: "The UK recognises that access to good-quality spatial data is necessary to help address the significant environmental challenges we face, such as climate change."Despite his opposition, Van Orden says he has sympathy with freeing data for the benefit of the knowledge economy. "Of course we want to make data as freely available as possible, but there are always going to be reasons of national security for withholding some items."&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday November 29 2006Andrew Zymer, referred to in the article below, is in fact Andrew Zimmer.Nagging can be annoying, but it also helps us get things done. Andrew Zimmer sells it. Based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, he has invented a location-based reminder programme for BlackBerrys, which he calls Naggie (www.naggie.com). The idea is pretty simple: you program a reminder, or "nag", with an address attached to it into your handheld. Naggie then finds the longitude and latitude of that address. So whenever you arrive, the GPS chip on your handheld knows you're there, the nag is activated and you're reminded of what you needed to do.In theory, you then email your boss as soon you get to the office, or pick up that birthday card when you walk into the supermarket, or whatever it is. Naggie is just one example of how location-based information, or information delivered to our phones, which we trigger by our arrival at a particular place, may change the way we live our lives. In the case of location-based reminders, we might no longer have excuses for not doing something. Except, perhaps, "my GPS signal failed".Searchable user tagsNavizon (www.navizon.com) a software company based in Manhattan, sells what it calls its Wireless Positioning System. As well as a Buddy Tracker, which lets your phone or laptop show you exactly where your friends who have consented to be tracked are on a map, Navizon's WPS also lets you search the area around you by keyword. This search works remotely from your phone. When you type in a keyword, a function call to Navizon's API scans the Golden Pages, Google and MSN local search to find shops or places that match what you typed. A small map is then sent to your phone.Another feature of Navizon's package is that you can add a geotag to a place of interest, allowing other users to be alerted to something you've highlighted, as they pass through that area. Or you can search through the tags which other users have left. Along with the location of a place, and some simple keywords (eg restaurant, Italian, dining) you can leave some comments. Suddenly that terrible meal you had has become a cautionary tale on someone else's mobile phone, and since it's triggered when they're in that area, probably not a minute too soon.And you may not even need to have GPS enabled to use WPS. This is because although it works almost identically to GPS, instead of triangulating the signal from satellites, it uses the signal from Wi-Fi access points and cell towers. The programme will work on any Wi-Fi enabled laptop and on phones using the Windows or Symbian operating systems. However you'll need to be in an area that is covered by the Navizon database. (You can check atwww.searcharoundme.com.)It costs $19.99 (&pound;10.54) to download Navizon's WPS for your laptop or handheld device, but GPS-enabled users can get it for free, because Navizon needs them to help create their map of Wi-Fi points and cell towers. By mapping cell towers and Wi-Fi points automatically as you travel around, you can even earn money.Users get two points for every Wi-Fi point mapped and 10 points for every cell tower. For every 10,000 points, you earn $19.99. Navizon president Cyril Houri claims he knows a taxi driver in Manhattan who earns $100 a day this way. Navizon has also created an API which it calls its web locator. This Java applet lets website developers embed location searches in their web pages, so visitors to a site can be located, or locate places around them.Houri explains: "The web locator is like a virtual GPS, sent to the client computer for the time of the transaction. Every single brand that has a store locator could include a web locator like this, to allow their customers to find the nearest branch."This also creates new advertising opportunities. Say you're looking for the closest Starbucks around you, we could suggest that maybe with your coffee you want a cookie, and then show you the places that sell cookies nearby. Or perhaps you are conducting an important financial transaction, your bank could check that you are at your own address, and if you are they allow the transaction to go ahead".A new outlet for spammers?As useful as some of these services are, do we really want Starbucks or even our bank using tracking technology, even if it is supposed to make things easier? Will our location soon be just another front on which we are bombarded with annoying ads and spam? And what's to stop shops posting glowing comments about themselves, disguised as user-generated tags?Perhaps the key is that we can turn off the function to receive tags, or set a very strict filter for them. However, if email has taught us anything, it's that the spammers always find a way. For the moment at least, you don't need to worry about spam. There are just a handful of GPS-enabled phones on sale in the UK - and, for better or worse, the location-based information they provide is tightly controlled. One of the most anticipated is Benefon's Twig, due for release before Christmas, at a cost of &pound;330 SIM-free.Twig is one of the few GPS phones available in the UK to come with a friend-finder. However, finding your friends is not possible in real time, at least from the phone itself. Instead you send location texts to another Twig user. You then receive a map showing where they are, which helps you to get there. Or if your Twig-using friends have consented, you can look up their whereabouts on the Twig website.While these location texts seem handy, they're not really that different from the more traditional text asking, "Where R U?" The other drawback with the GPS phones on offer is that all the maps are preloaded, with content dictated by the manufacturer.So while you can tag as many places as you like, other users won't be able to see your tags, nor you theirs. This removes a major part of the fun.In fact, all the software on current GPS phones is preloaded. But if this changes, and we're allowed to tinker around with things, the phones could quickly become a lot more interesting.For example, one site plots geotagged Wikipedia entries on to Google Earth (www.webkuehn.de/hobbys/wikipedia/geokoordinaten/index_en.htm). If these Wikipedia entries could be sent to us as we passed through the corresponding areas, it would be like having a tour guide in our mobile phone.Similarly, when the tags and opinions we attach to places appear on our networks for others to see, location-based information becomes user-generated content. Every place that we visit could then come tagged with the opinions and experiences of others and it would be up to us to decide who we believed.A vast array of information now lies dormant, whether on Wikipedia or in peoples' heads. Soon we may be able to receive this information on our phones, when we need it most. The local knowledge we accumulate daily has massive potential if it can be harnessed like this.The next big thing on your mobile phone? Location, location, location.&#183; Bloggers who are tagging the worldEverything happens somewhere, though we're not always sure where. With geotagging, we are sure. Geotagging is the process of adding geographical coordinates (latitude and longitude) to another piece of information, such as a news story, blog post, website or photograph. When we add a geotag to a file or piece of information, we link that file with the place with precision accuracy. If someone want to find where a photo was taken, where an event took place or where a website is based, they can feed the geocoordinates into one of the many mapping programmes and zoom in to have a look. Often geotags will open up a location automatically in Google Earth or Yahoo Maps.Photos are one of the most commonly geotagged media. Sites like Flickr or Zooomr allow users to attach location tags to the pictures they store, so when you look at someone's photo, you can click a link which opens up a map and shows you where in the world it was taken. Since so many photos are shared on sites like Flickr, users can browse a map and look at photos of a place simply by clicking on it. While one geotagged picture or event cannot tell us much, many collated together can tell us a lot more. Geotags relating to similar events or happenings are gathered and plotted on to maps of the Earth, allowing users to look for trends or patterns. There are now many geotagging blogs, or geoblogs (which aren't about geology) such aswww.geobloggers.com, which show a thriving subculture of people using the information from tagged photos and files to make some very interesting deductions about which part of the world is the most photographed on Flickr, or what spot at a famous landmark is producing the most popular photos.Ronan Fitzgerald&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too.. with phones that tell you about where you are, analysis on Apple and the iPhone, how Europe missed its chance to give us all free data, Ofcom's public consultation - should it get rid of FM and AM for DAB (have your say) - plus Second Life creator Philip Rosedale's reaction to the "Copybot" that threatens to undermine his virtual world and much more.Tell me when I get thereSoftware that nags you to buy milk at the supermarket or can search for local Italian restaurants - and user reviews of them - is the next big thing, says Ronan Fitzgerald.Britain poised for victory in BrusselsA compromise on EU rules to harmonise geographic details would let Ordnance Survey continue charging for its information.The future of UK radio is now in your handsThe industry regulator Ofcom is throwing the debate on British radio formats over to the public.Gadgets:Samsung SGH-D830Samsung has produced what might be its most impressive ultra-slim mobile yet in the D830. The handset is less than 1cm thick, which makes it even slimmer than the latest Motorola RAZRs - and, at the time of writing at least, the thinnest in the world.Vodafone Mobile Connect modemUntil now, mobile cards for laptop PCs have been designed to fit into a PCMCIA card slot. But there is a growing number of notebooks that don't have this slot.Canon Digital Ixus 900TiNot that long ago Canon hinted it was dropping out of the race to squeeze as many pixels as possible on to its cameras. So it is surprising to see the arrival of the 900Ti, a robust titanium-finished compact snapper that is capable of talking 10 megapixel images.Geeks and commanders meet on the battlefieldKeith Stuart: Last week a discussion took place in London concerning the future of war. It wasn't organised by some shadowy government agency or by a big news media outlet. It was organised by EA Games.Newly Asked QuestionsCan you say anything nice about Universal Music?Why, will they sue us if we don't? Hang on, though - the record label does seem to have acquired a habit of late of firing off lawsuits in every direction.Just how much pornography is there online?Not so much as some people might want you to think. According to a study carried out for the US Department of Justice, about 1.1% of the sites indexed by Google and Microsoft are "sexually explicit".Apple ready to rock the phone worldVictor Keegan: Renewed reports that Apple is to launch its long awaited iPhone in the first half of next year may prompt a lot of people to delay the purchase of their next phone or music player until then, if only because there is no point in buying two devices when one will do.TechnobileMat Smith: Too many buttons on peripherals is not a good thing. Unpimp my keyboard and mouse.The duplicitous inhabitants of Second LifeRogue software that lets objects be duplicated freely threatens the very nature of the online world.What else can we do to stop the spammers?How engineers tamed the internet's Tower of BabelNew standards mean that all the world's languages can now finally be used on the world wide web.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesOnline retail booms | Boring days at Kaspersky | Small wonder | Overdose on Hollyoaks | More shares in Microsoft | Worm eats Second Life | Dixons sells Links
If you are concerned about the future of radio in the UK, it's time to get involved. Ofcom has just published a discussion document, The Future of Radio, and is looking for comments by December 14. There are some dramatic changes up for consideration, such as replacing AM radio with Digital Radio Mondiale and replacing FM with DAB. These could render hundreds of millions of radio sets obsolete, and either make radio sound much better or - as with DAB - worse.Ofcom stresses that nothing has been decided. The purpose of the discussion document is merely to establish the area for debate. It will be followed next year by a full consultation document, which will look at "policy solutions". Ofcom said: "The discussion document looks at what we believe should be considered going forward. Are there additional areas that we should look at?"Anyone who has been following the DAB (digital audio broadcasting) saga will have no doubt that there are. In particular, Ofcom is simply ignoring the whole issue of sound quality. This is a disaster in view of the BBC's apparently diminishing interest in the topic and the commercial stations' continuing lack of interest. Only Ofcom, the industry's regulator, can set minimum standards to ensure that listeners can receive high-quality sound.The problem is that people choose their radio stations for content rather than sound quality. Those who joined Jimmy Saville's Under The Bedclothes club on Radio Luxembourg or tuned in to pirate stations such as Radio Caroline listened in spite of the sound quality because they wanted to hear programmes the BBC did not provide. This doesn't mean they would not have preferred better sound. When they have a choice, such as when ripping their own CDs for PC or iPod playback, users clearly do care.The current argument is about the World DAB Forum's adoption of the AAC+ codec to replace the old MP2 used by DAB in the UK. Ofcom says it has no plans to move to AAC+ - it plans to roll out another DAB multiplex based on obsolete technology. Steve Green, a Hi-Fi World columnist who runs the digitalradiotech.co.uk website, says this is "a ridiculous idea, because it makes the switchover [to AAC+] harder to achieve, and it will prolong the date before we can switch off the old services".For comparison, Australia adopted AAC+ before the new standard was announced, and Bakom, the Swiss regulator, has already changed tack. After inviting bids for three MP2 radio stations on its new DAB multiplex, Bakom has decided to offer eight stations in the more efficient AAC+ format instead.Ironically, Ofcom's discussion document suggests that Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) is one option to replace AM radio, as a complement to DAB. DRM already uses AAC, so dual DRM/DAB radios could soon become a convenient replacement for AM/FM radios. T-Mobile is already selling a Morphy Richards DAB/DRM radio in Germany, while Sangean has a triple-formatFM-RDS/DAB/DRM modelbased on a new chipset from Radioscape in Cambridge.There are several options for the spectrum now occupied by FM radio stations. At present there are five blocks for BBC Radios 1 to 4 and Classic FM, plus five blocks for local radio. Ofcom suggests there could instead be 11 blocks for DAB or DMB (Digital Multimedia Broadcasting, ie including TV), or five blocks of DVB-H (radio or TV for handhelds) "or something not yet thought of".There's nothing fundamentally wrong with using FM space for DAB; it's more efficient. The problem today comes from adding more stations and reducing the broadcast quality of existing stations - even transmitting stereo music stations in mono - to fit them all in. Adding TV, which requires far more bandwidth, could make radio sound even worse.Green says: "It is totally unacceptable to even consider switching off FM unless there is regulation in place to ensure that listeners get at the very least the same audio quality level on digital radio as they receive on FM, and preferably it should be significantly higher. This is the 21st century, after all. If they can't beat 1960s FM there is something very wrong."The way Ofcom is going, Green says he'd put a large bet on the UK getting digital radio with the worst audio quality in Europe. We already have the worst average DAB quality in the world.www.ofcom.org.uk/consult/condocs/radio_future&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft wants people to build applications on top of Office, but with Office 2007, they'll have to use the new ribbon-based user interface (UI) or else they'll integrate poorly and look ridiculous. After months of nagging, Microsoft has finally unveiled the solution. Jenson Harris, who led the ribbon UI design,writes on his blog:Today, we're announcing a licensing program for the 2007 Microsoft Office system user interface which allows virtually anyone to obtain a royalty-free license to use the new Office UI in a software product, including the Ribbon, galleries, the Mini Toolbar, and the rest of the user interface.Basically you sign up for a free perpetual license in exchange for agreeing to follow Microsoft's UI guidelines. Harris adds:You can use the UI in open source projects as long as the license terms are consistent with our license. You can use it on any platform: Windows, Mac, Linux, etc. If you're an ISV, you can build and sell a set of controls based on the new Office UI.There's only one limitation: if you are building a program which directly competes with Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, or Access (the Microsoft applications with the new UI), you can't obtain the royalty-free license.Harris has madea video for Channel 9, the channel for Microsoft developers. There's alsoa press release and a Q&amp;A, and aFAQ.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Talking of clever bundles, Microsoft hasannouncedthat it'll have an Xbox 360 Gears of War bundle out in Europe for Christmas - retail price will be around GBP300. It's a sensible move in the ongoing battle to break the nerve of next-gen 'floating voters' all over the country. Gears is by far the most hyped 360 game available and a true benchmark in the looming graphics war.
More Nintendo announcements... The company hasconfirmedsome details of Wii Play, the mini-game package being bundled with controllers for the European launch. There are nine titles in the collection, covering all the casual gaming basics - duck hunting, tank battles, ping pong, billiards and, erm, posing. The latter appears in Pose Mii a puzzle game in which players, "make their Mii characters fit into the shapes in the Wii bubbles". It has psychedelic colours apparently, so will be excellent.Blimey, it's no wonder, third-party publishers have been edgy about Nintendo's generous launch philosophy. With Wii Sports coming with the console, Wii PLay coming with that vital extra controller (a sensible bundle considering gamers have baulked at the peripheral's likely GBP34 price tag), plus Zelda out on launch day, it's going to bemonthsbefore most owners will be venturing into their local game retailer for new purchases.
Google is now worth more than millions of American companies -- more than all but 13, in fact, now its shares have gone above $500 each. At $150 billion, it's now worth more than IBM, Hewlett-Packard and all other technology companies except Microsoft and Cisco, reportsThe New York Times.Further, the paper points out that Google's co-founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page are now "the 12th and 13th richest people in the United States, according to Forbes magazine -- and, at 33, the youngest in the top 400. Their share holdings alone are worth more than $15 billion each, on top of the more than $2 billion each in cash they have received for selling some shares already."Another bubble?Google's stock price is not at the extreme level of the turn of the millennium. Google's value today is only slightly higher than the $150 billion that Yahoo reached in January 2000. That year Yahoo only earned a profit of $71 million on sales of $1.1 billion; Google, in contrast, is expected to record profits of $2.8 billion this year on gross revenue of $10 billion.
"Sony Corp. may have missed its goal of having 400,000 PlayStation 3 consoles in U.S. stores for the video-game player's Nov. 17 debut, analysts said. The number of machines available was 'even lower than expected,' Kaufman Bros. Equity Research analyst Todd Mitchell said today in a research note. Analysts including Michael Savner at Banc of America Securities and Anthony Gikas at Piper Jaffray &amp; Co. also predicted a shortfall," according toBloomberg.More than half the 150 stores checked by Kaufman Bros. said they wouldn't have enough units to cover preorders, according to a Nov. 16 research note by retail analyst SooAnn Roberts. She predicts Sony will ship no more than 200,000 units to the US this year. Savner said in a Nov. 7 report that Sony would miss its target. Gikas said in a Nov. 16 note that he expected 200,000 PlayStation 3s available at the U.S. launch and 400,000 by year- end.Comment: If the analysts are right, these are silly amounts. So far, Sony has "launched" in the Japan and the US with a number of machines that would be more suitable for Canada. Is it really going to go through with a farce of a European launch or announce now a delay until November 2007 or even March 2008?Sony said it would do a global launch, and went back on that. It mocked Microsoft for doing two models and then did exactly the same thing. It said the PlayStation 3 was cheap and then cut the price for the Japanese launch. The whole operation has been a shambles pretty much from top to bottom.Come on, Sony, how about saying what you are going to do and then actually doing it, instead of screwing it up?
The PS3 has received a mauling from some of the mainstream US press. BothTimemagazine and theNew York Times(reg needed) are critical of the newly released console, describing it is as half-finished and not worth the hype. And to be honest, it's hard to argue with a lot of what they say even if they ignore the areas - browser, store- where the PS3 does well.The launch games that I've played have been solid rather than sensational - though the same could be said of the Xbox 360's launch list. But the biggest problem is online which lacks far too many features and feels tacked on rather than integral to the experience as it is on the 360. Of course, one of the few benefits of having a delayed European launch is that some of these issues may have been ironed out. Myrecent chatwith Sony's Phil Harrison essentially confirmed that Europeans can expect upgrades to the PS3 prior to launch. Whether it will fix all the online and other issues remains to be seen.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Nintendo has announced that six DS titles have now shifted over one million copies each in Europe. A triumphant press release yelps:"Nintendo's Touch! Generations range has sparked the imagination of people around the world. Sales of the innovative software continue to soar across Europe with Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training: How old is your brain? shattering the one million mark. Animal Crossing: Wild World, which lets you experience a joyful and exciting second life, has also attracted over a million people to its world and puppy phenomenon Nintendogs has sold over 4 million copies in Europe.The company is quick to recognise the contribution its Touch games have made in widening the userbase of the console - apparently 44% of DS owners are women. Traditional games have performed well, too:"Nintendo's gaming titles have seen similar success with the portly plumber, Mario, enjoying three huge hits with New Super Mario Bros., and Super Mario 64 both breaking the one million sales mark and Mario Kart DS selling over 1.5 million copies."The DS itself has now shifted seven million units throughout the continent.
"I'll admit it--I was in love with the Nintendo Wii long before we'd ever met. And then, a few seconds after I touched those strange, new motion-sensing controllers, months of giddy anticipation vanished. I've played and won 14-hour-long Halo tournaments. I was a bird-slaughtering Duck Hunt master back when Times Square still had arcades. But the Wii, which is being marketed as the ideal system for newbies, made me feel like an incompetent novice. I don't blame myself. The ugly truth is that the Wii's already-legendary motion-detection system doesn't work very well," saysSlate.Later, the story says:To account for the console's lack of precision, some titles incorporate a lock-on button that does the aiming for you. But for the most part, the Wii compensates for its lousy motion detection by coddling users. Months after my run-in with the sci-fi drones, I got a taste of console condescension while playing the new Legend of Zelda game at a sprawling Wii press preview. During a quest to catch a magical fish, the onscreen directions told me to cast my line by swinging the right controller back, then forward. And when the fish bit, a graphic showed me how to make a reeling motion with the nunchuk. I was annoyed when I couldn't shoot straight, but this was worse. The Wii is T-ball for gamers.Update: Slate also thinksWii is the best. Or at least, it's another rave for Wii Sports and the wavable Wiimote.
"Howard Stringer, you have a problem. Your company's new video game system just isn't that great," saysThe New York Times review.Measured in megaflops, gigabytes and other technical benchmarks, the PlayStation 3 is certainly the world's most powerful game console. It falls far short, however, of providing the world's most engaging overall entertainment experience. There is a big difference, and Sony seems to have confused one for the other.The PS3, which was introduced in North America on Friday with a hefty $599 price tag for the top version, certainly delivers gorgeous graphics. But they are not discernibly prettier than the Xbox 360's. More important, the whole PlayStation 3 system is surprisingly clunky to use and simply does not provide many basic functions that users have come to expect, especially online.
The 2007Women in Gamesconference has issued their call for papers for their April event, "New Platforms, New Players, New Perspectives", at the University of Wales. This'll be their fourth year celebrating the contributions of the fairer sex to interactive play, and if you'd like to get involved, there are a few options:Submissions can be made within the following categories: full paper, short paper, poster, panel or student forum. All submissions will be anonymously peer-reviewed by the Women in Games steering committee.disclaimer: I'm a member of that steering committeeGeneral strands of interest to the committee:1. The Big Game There are a handful of games that have broken out to become international bestsellers that appeal to all types of player and are commonly acknowledged to be mass market. We invite detailed analysis and readings of games in this category in order to better understand why and how these titles transcend existing markets.2. Other Players We all play in different ways and from different contexts, and yet the notion of mass market often caters to the lowest common denominator, chasing the tail of last year¹s top sellers to justify huge development budgets. In our fractured post modern environment the possibility for cheaper product focussed at niche markets is growing. This strand seeks to explore a range of play contexts and styles in order to expose and celebrate other players.3. Non-Games The interrelationship between play and digital games cannot be taken as read; many game tasks are repetitive and tedious, more like work than play. At the same time there is much digital play that takes place outside the game frame. This strand calls for submissions that explore the ways in which playfulness can open up possibilities for new form of experience.4. The Performance of Play It has been 20 years since Brenda Laurel¹s initial research linking computers and theatre; further work has recently emerged celebrating performance aspects of game play within the context of digital game form. We invite contributions that explore what performance means in the game play context.5. Situated Play/ers We would be particularly interested in presentations or workshops that looked at games in the context of digital consumption more generally. Here we would welcome contributions from those interested in studying games in relation to broader issues around domestic leisure forms particularly those which are able to draw from or develop the work in feminist media studies and research from within the field of study of ICT uses and practices. We are also actively seeking to encourage wider considerations of embodiment and aesthetic practices in game play.As well as the battery of academics we hope will submit, WiG's interested in encouraging industry participants to contribute.More information is available on their website. Submission deadline's 26 January. That'll keep you busy over the holidays!
Great news for creaky old 8bit veterans - German developer10tacle Studios(do you see what they did there?) has bought the rights to create PSP and DS versions of legendary dig-'em-up,Boulder Dash. The eighties puzzler has recently appeared on mobile phones to reasonable effect, but we're (well, I'm) hoping for something more substantial from the handheld console conversions. 10tacle's managing director, Alexandra Gerb, is promising a modernisation of the brand - let's just pray he's not talking about 3D...Here's thefull press release.
Just got back from the excellent Bradford Animation Festival where I was hosting two days of videogame events. It was good fun. I got to chat with Charles Cecil and William Latham and finally met the chaps from Introversion Software. It was also interesting to see how the organisers of an animation event perceived the games industry - and to talk a lot about where advances in graphics are taking game development.So here's a bunch of stuff from the event, seamlessly mixed in with my speech notes and some other stuff on graphics. This is a long post so you might want to make a cup of tea...One element everyone seemed keen to explore was the gradual homogenisation of the movie, videogame and animation industries. On a basic working level, they're all using the same tools. Software packages like 3D Studio Max, Maya and Motion Builder are used throughout the entertainment industry - the latter, now a key element of preparing motion capture data for use in-game, actually evolved from FilmBox, previously a key movie-making package.Consequently, we're seeing a regular flow of staff between the industries. A lot of traditional animators, computer animators and digital effects experts are now switching from TV and movies into games. Before Bradford, I was speaking to Jolyon Webb, head animator at Blitz Games'TruSimstudio, who told me they're seeing a lot of show reels from TV animators, who often find themselves out of work when a series ends.However,Michael Cawooda senior animator at Rare also gave an excellent keynote in which he talked about the snobbery young animators regularly exhibit towards the games industry, viewing it very much as a poor cousin to the glamour of movie work. He tells the story of a friend who refused to consider game development, instead spending seven years trying to break into movies - the sum reward for his efforts? Six weeks unpaid work experience at a TV company...Meanwhile, there was talk of a growing collaborative spirit between the different media. We know that videogame versions of movies such as Lord of the Rings and King Kong used CG data taken directly from the films themselves. With King Kong, movie director Peter Jackson personally oversaw the videogame translation, sharing lots of background details with the game's publisher, Ubisoft - elements that he couldn't fit into the film, but which fleshed out the interactive environment of the game. The movie's visual effects company Weta Ltd was also involved in game conversion.Screenwriters from the movie industry are now regularly employed to add stronger narrative and emotional elements to games. And Peter Jackson is certainly not the only movie director to take an active interest in interactive entertainment. Steven Spielberg has, of course, signed up to direct two videogames for EA, and the Wachowski Brothers were heavily involved in the videogame spin-offs of their Matrix movies - although they probably wish they hadn't. George Lucas sees videogames as a vital, intrinsic part of the Star Wars universe, often using game narratives to explore the plot lines - and gaping plot holes - that exist between the movies.In financial terms, too, game production is now very similar to making mainstream movies. The budget for a triple A game is now around fifteen to twenty million pounds and at that price a game needs to shift around two million copies to break even.In such an expensive environment it's not surprising that several projects have been conceived from the foundations up as cross-media initiatives - the marketing potential alone must be a key driver. Rare, for example, is just about to release Viva Piñata its cartoon-style game which will also be an animated TV series. There was talk of the two projects sharing visual assets - however, I've heard scurrilous reports from one developer who claimed almostnographics were passed from one to the other - only a few pieces of character art cropped up in both.In my (mercifully short) opening speech, I brought up Oddworld founder, Lorne Lanning, who has just announced Citizen Siege, a project which will simultaneously be released as an animated movie and videogame. He claims both will be createdentirelyfrom one CG database. We'll see.Lorne Lanning also predicts that machinima - the creation of animated entertainment using game engines - will be common on television in five years. Hmm, judging by the machinima on show at Bradford, there's a lot of work to do. While makers have moved away from game satires and comedy sketches toward political themes (there are lots dealing with Iraq for example) there's still something weird, stilted and unintentionally amusing about the use of Sims characters in serious animated drama.BAF did give out its first Machinima award, though, honouringThe Days After, by Apollo Productions. Created using GTA San Andreas this moody short film follows the last survivors of devastating plague spending their final days watching each other from the safety of separate skyscrapers.Another running theme through BAF Game 06 was how advances in technology are changing the nature of videogames. Well, clearly the advent of hugely powerful multi-core processors in both PCs and next-gen consoles is having a profound effect on how games look and play.Ever greater visual realism is the obvious consequence, but we're also seeing more advanced physics implemented behind the scenes so that 3D objects behave and interact realistically. The breathtaking collisions in MotorStorm, where vehicles explode into pieces with chassis parts, tyres and suspension springs whizzing off in all directions, is very vivid example.Character animation is also progressing hugely. Developers are now combining motion-captured data and keyframed loops with complex, physics-driven procedural animation, creating bodies that react realistically and accurately to their environments.Endorphin, the 3D character animation package used by many developers, now features a behavioral animation system allowing characters to react in real-time, to game situations.Take the train-top fight scene from the forthcoming Indiana Jones game. If your character is knocked off the roof, he'll grip onto the edge of the carriage with his hands while his feet desperately flail around for a supportive platform. This all happens in real-time and never looks the same twice. (Although Cawood reckons this still looks awkward and unrealistic).Increasingly, artists are thinking about their character models as living organisms, complete with full skeletal and muscular systems. The physics engineHavok, another hugely popular piece of middleware, supports bone structures with real-time inverse kinematics so a character's footsteps accurately reflect the terrain they're on. The days of limbs disappearing through other scenic objects and uneven surfaces are over.Greater complexity means more expressive models. In the near-future, characters will communicate non-verbally, through body language and facial expressions. "We're moving away from the autism of repeated animations" says Webb. "We'll see constantly, dynamically changing movement. A character's walk will reveal his or her moods, their fear..." To some extent this is already happening. In EA's forthcoming military shooter, Army of Two, your computer-controlled partner communicates through signals and facial expressions rather than relying solely on a voice actor.At last year's E3 French developer Quantic Dream showed off a demo of a game entitled Heavy Rain - the short sequence involved little more than a female character talking directly to camera. But the character model was incredibly detailed, featuring dynamic hair, dilating pupils, facial motion-capture and even real-time wrinkles with underlying muscle simulation. The team's goal was to create a next-gen character able to express complex emotions. They wanted to know if game characters will ever illicit the same kind of emotional responses as movie actors. Over the next few years, we will certainly find out.
Ok, afterinitial disappointment- the lazily designed macho characters still grate - I've been warming to Gears of War over the weekend. Once you've got over the fact that this is just another game - albeit a very polished one - then Gears of War makes sense. And let's face it, if 30 odd years of videogames has taught us anything it's that aliens are there to be shot at. Of course, GoW involves as much crouching behind walls as it does extraterrestrial carnage. Co-op is a particular treat though and makes you wish there were more opportunities for cooperation on Xbox Live. Personally I'm far more excited about Alan Wake but Gears is better than I initially thought. How has Gears of War been for you?
Isiah "Triforce" Johnson (R) talks with Reggie Fils-Aime, president of Nintendo of America, after being the first customer to purchase a Nintendo Wii video game system during the official launch of the Nintendo Wii at the Toys "R" Us store in Times Square New York November 19, 2006. Photo: REUTERS/Lucas JacksonReuters has reported the successful launchof the Nintendo Wii in America, as haveAPand hundreds of papers and TV stations.According toGamesIndustry.biz:Speaking to Reuters, Fils-Aime predicted that Nintendo will hit the target by early December, and go on to sell another million Wii units by the second week of January. He said that a life span of between four and six years for the console would be "just about right".Amazon.co.uk says: "You can pre-order your [Wii] at Amazon.co.uk from tomorrow, November 21, during business hours (9am - 5pm GMT). We will stop taking pre-orders once we've pre-sold all the consoles Nintendo has allocated to us for release day. Order early to avoid disappointment!"
Taking apart a PlayStyation 3 might be just about the most interesting game currently available for it, and now you canLook Inside Sony's PlayStation 3 with Semiconductor Insightswithout even buying one ;-)Comment: The PS3 is a monster. No wonder it's more expensive than a PC....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft is delivering Internet Explorer 7 via its auto-update service, and you may already have it installed. If not, it's a good idea, if only for security reasons. (Bear in mind that running Firefox or Opera is not a total solution, because parts of IE are accessed by other software even if you don't actually run the browser yourself.)During installation, you get to choose a search engine, so you can simply tick to retain the one you used before. After that, it's probably best to go to the Tools icon on the toolbar and select Menu Bar. This brings back the drop-down menu for File, Edit, View, Favorites, Tools etc.Another tip: create a Favorites folder with your five most-used sites. Then when you go to the Favorites Center (Alt-C or the star on the far left) you can load all of them at once.Any other thoughts?
"This adorable pink Floating Duck Radio keeps the music nearby at all times whether in the tub or floating in the pool. Fully waterproof, it operates on three "AAA" batteries (not included), the head rotates for on/off volume control, the AM/FM switch is on the topside, and the tail twists for full bandwidth station selection," says the site. It costs $19.95.Comment: Terrible colour. Why isn't it yellow?Link fromGizmodo.
Game Life, one of Wired's blogs, has done a (YouTube) video showing the process ofgetting a Nintendo Wii onlineand using Wii Points to buy and download a couple of games. "It's all utterly painless. Except for that part where I gave them $50. That hurt a little."
Popular Science's Web site has published a set of 15 photos showingthe inside of Nintendo's Wii. It says: "The plan was simple: carefully disassemble the little white box and controllers for a detailed inside look, then re-assemble it with ease and get back to where we left off, working up a sweat bludgeoning our little cartoon selves in Wii Sports Boxing. But the Wii proved to be one tough nut to crack. Due to Nintendo's special proprietary screws, we had to resort to brute force. And in the process of doing so, our precious white beacon of joy was rendered unplayable, forever."
Quite a few people have sent emailes and phoned up about the media furore over the forthcoming Sony survival horror title Rule of Rose, a game which pits is teenage protagonist against a gang of unruly (and perhaps sadistic) orphans. The biggest surge came after last Friday'sTimesfront page spread, demanding that the game - which features "alleged overtones of lesbianism and sadomasochism" according to the paper - be banned in the UK. Waves of negativity about the product have emanated from other areas of the EU, in particular criticisms from the Italian Justice Minister Franco Frattini.The game will not be released in the US, a telling signal that the culture of interactive fear has permeated that country's governing body. Publishers in the States are aguably wary of the in the increasing attacks on game properties since 2005's Hot Coffee scandal re-focussed attention on the content of computer games.While Rule of Rose has received a 16+ PEGI rating on this side of the Atlantic, parents groups are still concerned. I argue that they've forgotten what it's like to be a kid.The ideas behind Rule of Rose are similar to Grimm Bros fairy tales, Alice in Wonderland, Edward Gorey and many other reflections of the dark side of children's imaginations. I sincerely doubt that if we lived in a world only of Teletubbies that kids would stop playing Ring Around the Roses in the school playground. Kids are dark, and that's exciting.In an interview withGamasutra, the developers explained their intentions with the game:We wanted to depict the darker side of children. Not really dark, per se, but if you really think about kids, they aren't really afraid of the same things that adults are, and often aren't aware of the consequences. Something that may seem benign to them may seem wrong or frightening to adults, but it's really just a form of innocence....We sort of wanted to show not only how scary adults can be from a child's perspective, because that's been touched on many times, but also how scary children can be from an adult's perspective. We want to see that contrast.Sadly, Rule of Rose has not received particularly positive reviews. It's unfortunate that a sub-par game has the attention of the media, as it becomes more difficult to stand behind a product which offers little. You can decide when it's released over here on 24 November.
iPodmods hasa Zune stripdown. It says: "This disassembly guide is a great reference for replacing: Zune batteries, Zune LCD screens, Zune Hard drives, Zune casings &amp; much more."We have found that the Zune battery is the same as the iPod Video 60/80GB battery. We can start upgrades for existing Zune customers now. We have also found that the new ZIF drives from Toshiba will work in the Zune players. You will be able to upgrade your 30GB Zune to a 40GB right away. We have not found a way to insert the 60GB or 80GB drives yet, as the back panel would not fit back on if we did this.
"The word is Toys R Us is stocked with 5,000 7,000 of the dang things for the launch, so there are going to be a lot of people going home happy this evening," saysEngadget. Lots of pictures, of somewhat variable quality.
VW Beetle CabrioletPrice:&pound;19,440Miles per gallon:34Seats:4Good for:Being seen inBad for:Seeing out ofLike most thirtysomethings, my fondest memories of the VW Beetle are teenage ones, when the rattling rustbuckets from the Sixties were the wheels du jour for indie kids. My schoolfriend Paula and I used to travel in her orange bug. The only thing that worked on the dashboard was the stereo (lucky, because you had to turn the volume right up before Morrissey's wailing drowned out that of the engine), the suspension was so bad that it felt like your intestines had pins and needles after a lengthy drive, and the intense smell of petrol meant that we only ever smoked with our heads stuck out the windows.It was cold, uncomfortable and daft, but then being committed to style rather than content often is. So I felt oddly miffed when Beetle production started again in 1998. It was cheating, surely, to rework that cute little design icon for drivers who wanted the look without any of the misery of repair bills. Luckily, when I was faced with a charcoal grey Beetle Cabriolet, my principles went out of the window (well, the windows are so easy to operate, you see, with that central one-touch mechanism; and it's brilliant the way you can make all four wind down into the doorframe when you put the roof down ...). Yes, the car's more rounded, more comfortable and a little smug, but these days, frankly, so am I.My weekend with the car was my first wedding anniversary. My husband, Johnny, and I were off to a friend's wedding in Stroud and a stay in a posh hotel. On the drive down we found the car's design as tricky as the original's: the curved bonnet and extended dashboard are bad enough, but the Cabriolet's rear screen (which may be glass and heated, but is still tiny) makes it feel as if you're driving a rubber dingy while wearing a balaclava; it did little for my motoring confidence. But it was reassuring that my first row of my second year of marriage was over a CD player rather than anything more existential. The Cabriolet has a rather unnecessary two, one of them an armrest-mounted six CD autochanger. We couldn't make either of them work.Other than that, there was little to bicker about. For such a dinky machine it had real power. My eyes had glazed when Johnny tried to explain what turbo meant, but the idea of fuel injection acting like MSG in a Chinese meal suddenly made sense on the M4. And the Beetle wasn't just nippy, it was also pretty. So pretty, in fact, that it was spontaneously admired by my 70-year-old father-in-law, a four-year-old bridesmaid and a teenage hotel porter in just one day.Back in London, we took our friend Niru out for a drive with the top down (the roof mechanism required some grappling). Niru leant forward from the back seat and muttered in my ear, 'Everyone's watching, they think you're a tosser in this car.' He was right: pedestrians' gazes slid enviously down the Cabriolet's shape. Did they think we were tossers? Probably. But just as I was prepared to suffer for its predecessor, I'm prepared to suffer now, in a different way, for the new, smug, but rather marvellous VW Beetle.&#183;Martin Love returns next week
CNet has a big two-part interview with Microsoft chairman Bill Gates:Ushering in Zune, spiffing up OfficeandGates on Vista, Linux and more. In the second part, Gates tries to make it clear that Microsoft isn't against (small f) free software or source code sharing, and does both.The only thing you see a disagreement on is that we think people should be careful about which licensing model they use, because it means you're breaking this cycle. Now (Free Software Foundation head Richard) Stallman, he is truly pure; unlike many people who sort of try to act that way, he's pure. In V3 (version three of the General Public License) he's going to really make it clear that there's the world of "can never be (commercialized)"--nobody can ever make money on it, you know, build Web services or things. At least he's pure.
The Gamasutra website posed itsQuestion of the Week: Are Games Industry Professionals Buying PlayStation 3 or Wii?The result is eight pages of comments and an overwhelming vote for the Nintendo Wii.One thing that comes up is that Nintendo is supplying games companies direct, while Sony apparently isn't. Anonymous says:I've secured a Wii through a company deal to get the console directly from Nintendo. I had planned to get one anyway, but was going to wait until I had tried one first, but couldn't pass up the deal. Especially since it meant I wouldn't have to wait in any lines anywhere. I'm still not convinced that the PS3 is worth $600, so I'll be holding off on that indefinitely.Apart from the huge number of Wii-lovers, there are users who already have an Xbox 360 (and probably a PC) and don't see the PS3 as adding anything useful, especially at the price. Chad Yurchak, Goodkey Show Services comments:I'm buying the Nintendo Wii, by standing in a queue. I already own an Xbox 360, so I've taken care of my HD content. I support HD DVD over Blu Ray. I think Nintendo's future looks very promising and I view the PS3 as the next Sony flop, like Beta, MiniDisc and UMD.Dale Mulcahy, Activision, adds:Neither, I'm happy with my 360. The supposed benefit of a Blu-Ray player in the PS3 isn't enough to make me break the bank to buy it. And despite the weak graphics and lack of HD support, I was tempted to buy the Wii. But then Nintendo packed in a game I didn't want and vied to charge me fifty bucks for it. I've already bought the 360, and there's more games for it than I have time to play, so getting another system would just be gluttonous.Finally, another Anonymous says:Where's the 3rd option? I'm saving my money for Gears of War and an HD-DVD drive for my 360, and staying away from these two consoles for now. I may get a Wii at a later date after I play one and see how it feels to wave my arms around for a few hours of serious gaming, but I don't for see getting a PS3; I'll stick with my 360 thank you very much.
A fascinating leaked memo from Brad Garlinghouse, a Yahoo senior vice president, points out that the company doesn't actually have a clue about where it's going. There's duplication - even competition between different bits of the company. So what's to be done?Garlinghouse writes:We want to do everything and be everything -- to everyone. We've known this for years, talk about it incessantly, but do nothing to fundamentally address it. We are scared to be left out. We are reactive instead of charting an unwavering course. We are separated into silos that far too frequently don't talk to each other. And when we do talk, it isn't to collaborate on a clearly focused strategy, but rather to argue and fight about ownership, strategies and tactics.He also points to a list - and it's a long one - of things where there is clear duplication:YME [Yahoo Music Entertainment] vs. MusicmatchFlickr vs. [Yahoo] PhotosYMG video vs. Search videoDeli.cio.us vs. mywebMessenger and plug-ins vs. Sidebar and widgetsSocial media vs. 360 and GroupsFront page vs. YMGGlobal strategy from BU'vs. Global strategy from Int'lEven if you don't know what the last three are, you can see that's a list which is about four, five, six items too long.Among his recommendations: cull 15-20% of the staff.It's going to be tough. Might this call the end of the bubble that Yahoo really inflated about a year ago with the purchase of del.icio.us?You can read thememo in full at the Wall Street Journal.
MySpace is popular partly for its "user generated" content, which often means commercial content, only stolen. That's something you might get away with as a small, poor and obscure site, but it becomes increasingly hard when you're a Web giant owned by News Corp with Google stumping up almost $1 billion to sell your ad space.Now the world's largest music company -- Vivendi's Universal Music Group -- has filed a lawsuit in California following the breakdown of talks with News Corp.Reuters says:The lawsuit accuses MySpace of allowing users to upload videos illegally and taking part in the infringement by re-formatting the videos to be played back or sent to others.The Reuters story also says: "Last month Universal Music sued two smaller video sharing sites, Sony Pictures Entertainment's Grouper and independent site Bolt.com."On Friday, MySpace said in apress releasethat it "plans to launch a new tool for copyright holders that makes it even easier and faster to remove content they allege is unauthorized. The tool is being tested with FOX and MLB Advanced Media and will be expanded to include other verified copyright holders."
For a whole week's posts on one page, clickhere
Skoda RoomsterPrice&#163;14,710Top speed106mphAcceleration0-62 in 13 secondsConsumption40.9mpgEco rating7/10At the wheelNoddyTop gadgetiPod adapterIn a wordRoomyCombining the sweet simplicity of a child's drawing of an ambulance with all the native &eacute;lan of a transporter for show dogs, the new Skoda Roomster appears to be pitching for space in that group of lovably eccentric family cars whose shining example is the Fiat Multipla (chief design inspiration: a pond ornament).But isn't it a bit early for Skoda to be attempting humour? Only in the past decade, since its adoption by VW, has it been possible to mention the legendary former Czechoslovakian car outlet in general conversation without sniggering and attempting a gag about motorised waste skips. People at Skoda know only too intimately what it is like to be the butt of every car joke going, and you could hardly have blamed them if they had spent a few more years quietly putting out new Octavias and Fabias and contentedly living as proof that there is life after both communism and satire.Alternatively, this heart-warmingly mad car is the ultimate proof of Skoda's new self-certainty, an operational confidence witnessed in the very name "Roomster", which is as arch a 50s jive-talk reference as you are likely to see emblazoned across the boot of a five-seat multi-purpose vehicle in 2006.Moreover, with the Roomster, Skoda seem to be proposing nothing less than a revolution in the way we think about a car's interior. Hitherto, you or I may have found ourselves referring unthinkingly to the "front" and "back" of our cars - as in, "Hop in the front, I'll give you a lift", or "Come on, kids - in the back".Here, though, in possibly the boldest piece of rebranding you will come across outside the one that reinvented Skoda, the front of the car becomes the "Driving Room" and the back is designated the "Living Room". The idea being that, while the Roomster's Driving Room contains the things you need for driving (a seat, some pedals, a steering wheel, a cup holder), the Living Room is fitted with the things you need for living (another seat, big windows, another cup holder).So many questions tremble thrillingly in the air at this point. If a Driving Room and a Living Room are now possible, can a fully operational Little Room be far behind? Also, who will be the first middle-class family to knock through between their Roomster's Living Room and its Driving Room? ("We just wanted to create a big downstairs space in which the whole family could be together.")This decision to think about the car as two separate zones, with separate needs, at least explains why the Roomster looks like two different cars that have backed into each other at high speed and fused. Form appears to have taken on function and, after a bloody scrap, lost by two falls and a submission.But that's OK. The car is smooth enough, comfortable enough, cheap enough and, most important of all in the circumstances, it's full of convertible space. Indeed, with the optional, floor-mounted bracing system, you can rig the back of the car to rack up two bicycles. Hey presto - your Living Room is a bike shed. Now, that's jive.
MondayPS3 multimedia stuffOne world to link us all?TuesdayMore PS3Next-gen pranksters cause Wikipedia lockdownWednesdayTV critic prefers games (news at 10)ThursdayWomen love LuminesIntriducing gamesblog's (fabulous) vlogReviewsFridayNintendo MP3Sony loses cash on each PS3 sold
Over at eWeek, Ryan Naraine (with Joe Stewart of Secureworks) has aremarkable articleabout the source of the recent surge in spam: a Russian-controlled botnet containing about 70,000 machines, half of which have Windows XP's Security Pack 2 installed.It comes with agraphics slideshow, including the telltale story of SP2:Howcome, when SP2 is meant to be so secure? Because (says acommenter on Ed Bott's blog) people let malware onto their machines by installing ActiveX components and so on.It fleshes out some points that we made inWhy spam is out of control, particularly about the peer-to-peer botnet:In all, computers in 166 countries are part of the botnet, with the United States accounting for more than half of the infections.And you wonder why it gets through to you?Even the spam messages come with a unique component. The messages are both text- and image-based and a lot of effort has been put into evading spam filters. For example, each SpamThru client works as its own spam engine, downloading a template containing the spam and random phrases to use as hash-busters, random "from" names, and a list of several hundred e-mail addresses to send to.Stewart discovered that the image files in the templates are modified with every e-mail message sent, allowing the spammer to change the width and height. The image-based spam also includes random pixels at the bottom, specifically to defeat anti-spam technologies that reject mail based on a static image.By the way, we've had dozens of letters with suggestions on how to stop spam, following Thursday'sSix steps to stopping spam. Still haven't seen any to beat port 25 filtering, though.
When The Carphone Warehouse boss Charles Dunstone started hiscorporate blogearlier this year, he was hailed as a cutting-edge chief executive; a man prepared to open up the inner workings of his company to the wider world and willing to communicate directly with his customers.But that was April, when Britain's biggest mobile phones retailer was riding high on a wave of favourable publicity about its "free" TalkTalk broadband offer.Scroll forward a few months and the web is full of tales of"My TalkTalk Hell"as the group struggles to cope with the demand it so badly under-estimated, leaving thousands of customers angry and frustrated.So what did Dunstone do at the height of the crisis? He simply stopped blogging. From September 1 until earlier this week - two and a half months - he failed to make a single entry. His post this Monday largely consists of an apology for his lengthy absence and a reassurance that the broadband supply problems are being worked out.According to online marketing and communications consultant Debbie Weil, author ofThe Corporate Blogging Book,Dunstone committed the worst mistake a blogger can make: to start a blog and then abandon it, whether through lack of time or lack of inspiration."It makes you look lame," says Weil. "It's important to post regular entries, even if it's only a few lines. An absence of more than two or three weeks is an eternity in the blogosphere."Technoratiputs the number of blogs at 60m and says there are over 175,000 new blogs every day. Over 1.6m posts are made a day, equivalent to more than 18 updates every second.As Weil points out, the rapid growth of the blogosphere means counting them is rapidly becoming a "quaint practice".The first wave of blogs were personal - and often self-indulgent - the second and third waves have been written by consultants, academics, small business owners and, increasingly, by bigger companies and corporations.But corporate blogs are still in their infancy, particularly in the UK where even Dunstone's irregular postings are a rarity for a chief executive. Although many companies have internal blogs, corporate blogs are estimated to account for fewer than 5% of total numbers.In the US, 40 of the Fortune 500 corporations are now blogging, according to theFortune 500 Business Blogging Index. That is just 8% of the total but it has risen from just 24 companies, or less than 5%, six months ago.Weil believes that, just as no company now could afford to be without a website, the corporate blog is rapidly becoming a necessity. In time, she says, blogs will replace static, brochure-like home pages."Blogs make a company more human," she says. "They can also be a great recruiting tool.""If you want to be seen as a cool place to work, then you need to have a blog. And it's not just about being cool; it shows that you believe in being open and transparent. Customers also prefer to deal with a company that is not just a faceless entity."They are also a powerful, low-cost way to get found by the search engines - as AOL vice chairman Ted Leonsis has recently proved. He started his ownblogwhen he was frustrated at not appearing on the first results page when he Googled himself last year. Often making several entries a day, and sprinkling it liberally with links and celebrity mentions, his blog now comes up first in a google search of his name. And he's become hooked on blogging.As well as CEO and senior executives, there are increasing numbers of company-sanctioned employee bloggers. One of the best-known and most popular of these isRobert Scoble, who built up a following when he blogged at Microsoft. He now works for a start-up podcast company but his blog remains one of the most popular.He wrote his most recent post yesterday from a 700-strong queue outside a San Fransisco store, where Sony's PlayStation 3 was going on sale at midnight.Back in Britain, FTSE 100 chief executives are notably absent from the blogosphere but smaller companies, such asEnglish Cut, the blog from Savile Row tailor Thomas Mahon, have enthusiastically embraced the new way of communicating with customers.Mahon got into blogging after a pub conversation with a friend(read the MediaGuardian story) and says the advantage for smaller companies is that "they're cheap, direct, and can reach users wherever they may be"."So naturally, blogs are now becoming a tool for small companies that might not have big marketing budgets."Another British business blogger is Richard Charkin, chief executive of Macmillan publishing, with hisCharkin Blog.The key to effective blogging is to avoid corporate-speak at all costs, says Weil. No blog is better than a boring blog."Ghost-blogging" is considered a no-no in the blogosphere and any CEO who only pretends to write their own blog while employing a professional writer on the quiet will get found out in the end, she warns.But it is perfectly acceptable to hire a "blogging editor" to knock the words into shape, she says.The very best blogs, however, are written by those with a natural talent for communicating, such asJonathan Schwartzof Sun Microsystems, who was the first Fortune 500 CEO blogger.Schwartz has also just been instrumental in the first official communication being posted to a blog by the chairman of America's Securities and Exchange Commission, Christopher Cox.The Sun Microsystems CEO had asked the SEC to allow blogs to be used as a way to post corporate information to shareholders. As well as mailing a letter to Schwartz, the SEC chief posted hisresponseon Schwartz's blog.He says he was "intrigued" by the idea and told Schwarz he would welcome further discussions on the subject.Schwartz, who now publishes his blog in 10 languages, says it has become "the single most effective vehicle to communicate" with investors, journalists and analysts.Debbie Weil's Top 10 Tips for Corporate Bloggers1.Choose the right topic2.Find your voice3.Invite a conversation4.Package what you write (10 tips, five rules, seven ways)5.Always, always link6.Write for web readers7.Write for Google searchers8.Publish consistently9.Take risks10.Have fun&#183;The Corporate Blogging Book by Debbie Weil is published by Piatkus at &#163;14.99. To order a copy for &#163;13.99 with free UK p&p; go towww.guardianbookshop.co.ukor call 0870 836 0875.What's your favourite corporate blog? We have 10 copies of the book to give away to the first 10 Guardian Unlimited Business readers who send us a link to their favourite site.&#183;Email your entries tobusiness.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk
A man was jailed at the Old Bailey today for Britain's first "web rage" attack on another internet user.Paul Gibbons, 47, traced John Jones, 43, after they exchanged insults in a chatroom. He was armed with a pickaxe handle and was with a man with a machete.Mr Jones, who had gone to the door of his home in Clacton-on-Sea, Essex, with a knife, was disarmed and had his neck cut by Gibbons.Gibbons, unemployed, of Southwark, south London, was jailed for two-and-a half years for unlawful wounding.He pleaded guiltylast month, when the prosecution agreed not to proceed with charges of attempted murder and threats to kill.After that hearing, police warned internet users not to put personal details from which they could be traced on the web."It is accepted by the prosecution that Mr Jones taunted you and dared you to go to his house where you would be greeted with weapons," Judge Richard Hawkins told Gibbons.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
