Despite its hefty flight simulator lineage, IL-2 Sturmovik's console incarnation is determined to welcome casual players alongside goggle-wearing armchair pilots. It's the second world war again, and whether you're fighting over the steppe around Stalingrad or the rolling English countryside, default arcade mode lets you waltz through the waves of invading Luftwaffe with the game preventing stalls and ensuring more of your machine gun fire arrives on target.Upgrade to realistic or the brutally strict simulator mode and you'll discover why flight school takes years rather than a 20-minute tutorial. The fighters and bombers you fly are rendered in immaculate detail complete with realistic damage, complemented by a rousing orchestral soundtrack and voice acting with a distinct, "Chocks away, Ginger" flavour.• 505 Games, &pound;29.99-&pound;39.99
Once Elvis was the chosen subject of the world's worst artists/lunatics; now there's a new king in the kingdom of the disturbingly crap painting, the leader of the free world President Barack Obama, who is depicted in a sequence of horrific masterpieces (some of which may actually be of Pee Wee Herman) as half alien/half humanoid, with a third eye in his forehead, emerging from the sea (six-pack glinting), taking an oath with hands the size of shovels. None are good but some are clever - in one moving portait Obama's teeth are replaced by the White House. Poignant.
Remember the1984 Kindle sagafrom a couple of months ago? Users of Amazon's Kindle suddenly found that copies of George Orwell books weresecretly being removed from their electronic readers, after a cock-up that allowed the book to go on sale despite copyright restrictions. The companyeventually apologised, but it's not over yet.Amazon has apparently contacted those customers who were affected, offering them new copies of the book or $30.Engadget has a copy of one of the emails. Nothing to do with aclass action lawsuit being taken against it, the company says.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Most of us, at one time or another, have done something we've regretted. Really regretted. Regretted enough to think, 'sweet Jesus, if only I could go back in time and absolutely NOT do that'. But, then imagine that you're given the chance to correct a calamitous error in your life - it's a complex decision because every action, every mistake, has consequences, often both good and bad; any one who's read Ray Bradbury's classic short story, A Sound of Thunder, will know as much.So, if you had the chance to remove a key videogame series from the history of electronic entertainment, what would it be? What would the world of gaming be better without?Forget about totally obscure titles, that's no fun - what's the biggest brand we can afford to lose for the good of games in general? And what do you think the consequences of its removal would be?Can we, for example, afford to obliterate the Turok series of dinosaur blasters? The loathsome Postal? The silly Dragon's Lair?Who goes? You decide...
&bull; Microsoft is breathing a quiet sigh of relief today, after an American appeals court stayed the injunctionthat would have seen it have to stop selling Word. No word on whether Clippy has been similarly resurrected.&bull; More legal stuff! It's been a busy couple of weeks for those involved in Google Books settlement, but expect a flurry of activity today as the deadline for filing legal positions arrives. Latest twists? Google roped in a number of groups to say thatdigitising books was good for the disenfranchised readers of the worldand the Authors Guildlaunched  a scathing attack on Amazon.&bull; Friday comes again, which has got to be full of win - wherever you look at it from. I'm going to leave you for the weekend withthis brilliant video of the history of visual effects, viaKottke. Worth geeking out to.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
With the deadline drawing closer in the dispute over theGoogle Books settlement(representations to the New York court overseeing the case have to be made by the end of this week) the battle between the two sides is growing more fierce by the day.Yesterday Amazontook a pop at its rival, while today Google held its own press conference with organisations that support its deal with US authors and publishers - which I reported earlier as anattempt to sidestep the substantial issueof whether they have the right to act on behalf ofallauthors and publishers in the states.Now, however, one of the groups that proposed the settlement in question - the Authors Guild - has come out with both arms swinging, as well as a couple of feet too. On its website,the guild took a shot at Amazonin an angry post entitled "Amazon accused someone else of monopolizing bookselling".Amazon's hypocrisy is breathtaking.  It dominates online bookselling and the fledgling e-book industry.  At this moment it's trying to cement its control of the e-book industry by routinely selling e-books at a loss.  It won't do that forever, of course.  Eventually, when enough readers are locked in to its Kindle, everyone in the industry expects Amazon to squeeze publishers and authors.  The results could be devastating for the economics of authorship.Amazon apparently fears that Google could upend its plans.  Amazon needn't worry, really:  this agreement is about out-of-print books.  Its lock on the online distribution of in-print books, unfortunately, seems secureFierce words. With a seething rant like that, perhaps the AG is even prepared to get its teeth in on the action as well as its limbs.And it's fair to question Amazon's motives. I can't imagine they're acting from entirely pure motives. But that doesn't necessarily mean they're wrong, does it? And although Amazon does dominate the book selling market almost entirely, we have yet to see that there is any legislative or contractual monopoly that makes it so - just a rapacious and scarily effective business.There is also the question of whether this case is worth worrying about, since it only applies to American organisations. The German government certainly thinks so, objecting to Google's $125m deal when itoffered its own representation to the court. But why? For a start, once something's on the internet in one country, we all know that it's everywhere.And the settlement covers all books published in the US, wherever the author is based. In fact, I think it also applies to booksaboutthe US - at least on this morning's conference call one of the speakers pointed out that Google has already started scanning lots of books in Latin America (and it's been scanning books at the Bodleian in Oxford for years).If you want a view from the front line, you could do an awful lot worse thanthis post by British author Nick Harkaway, who points out why he's concerned.I think that this deal is a mistake. I'm not comfortable with being in a standardised bundle which can't be negotiated, and I'm not happy being in a long-term relationship with Google without ever having dealt with them directly.I'm troubled by the Book Registry, the business of the secret clause and the lack of control over ads. I'm not happy with the monopolistic aspect of the Settlement.But above all else, I think the way this has been done – by bypassing standard practice and arranging an opt-out situation, by cutting a private deal rather than legislating, by linking a fight over past infringement to the creation of an information/literary powerhouse (not that Google wasn't already a powerhouse) is alarming. It's not how this stuff should happen, and it shouldn't stand. We should not endorse it.Worth reading in full.
An American court has granted a request by software giant Microsoft to continue selling its Word software, putting off an injunction that threatened to block sales of the company's flagship program.Last month a federal courtgranted Canadian company i4i an injunction against Microsoftover the way Word uses a computer language called XML - a method which i4i says is covered by one of its patents. Judge Leonard Davis, of thenotoriously litigation-friendly Eastern District court in Texas, awarded the company almost $300m and ordered Microsoft to stop selling Word.However, after hearing motions from Microsoft, the US court of appeals has stayed the injunction, allowing the maker of Windows to continue selling one of its most popular products.The court also assented to Microsoft's request to expedite the appeal hearing, which will now be held later this month in an attempt to resolve the case quickly."We are happy with the result and look forward to presenting our arguments on the main issues on September 23," said a Microsoft spokesman.Doug Cawley of law firm McKool Smith, who is leading the case on behalf of  i4i, said that he was not overly concerned with the decision."A stay pending appeal is not unusual, and i4i remains confident that the jury and Judge Davis made the correct decision," he told the Guardian.The company had previously come in for criticism for choosing Texas as the venue for its action against Microsoft, which is incorporated in Washington. At the time Cawley said that it was because it was a so-called "rocket docket" where cases are heard quickly."I4i sued in Tyler, Texas because the time to trial is short," he said, rejecting claims that it had anything to do with the history of the Eastern District - which has one of the best records of finding for plaintiffs in patent cases across the whole of the US."In fact, Judge Davis in Tyler worked his way through school as a computer programmer and systems analyst, so he is familiar with this type of technology," he said.
Google today attempted to rally supporters of its deal with the US publishing industry, in an effort to combat growing criticism of the $125m (£76m) agreement.In a press conference today, Google said its settlement with the Association of American Publishers and the Authors Guild -which was first agreed to last year- would allow millions of books to be digitised, proving many people with the chance to access information that was otherwise unavailable to them."The obvious social justice and social utility impact that the book project is going to have ... are getting lost in the discussion," said Professor Lateef Mtima, director of the Institute of Intellectual Property &amp; Social Justice at Howard University, a pioneering black college in Washington.He suggested it would help "so many segments of our society today who for decades have been left out of the communication exchange, who have been on the wrong side of the digital divide".Under the terms of the proposed deal, Google would pay $125m for the right to legally to digitise millions of books still under copyright - and agree to split the proceeds from selling those books with publishers and authors.However, a number of companies, organisations and governments havepublicly opposed the deal in recent weeks- submitting documents opposing the terms of the agreement to the US federal court that is investigating it.In response torecent criticism from internet rival Amazon, Google brought out representatives of a variety of groups that support the settlement, including the US Students Association and the American Association of People with Disabilities."Part of opportunity is access to information - and that is a barrier that blind people face," said Chris Danielson of the National Federation for the Blind. "Even with existing services we probably have access to only 5% of the books that are published each year in the United States.""The Google books settlement ... will give us access to millions of titles, thereby giving blind people more access to more books than we have ever had in all of human history. It is critically important that this be considered in any discussion of the Google books project."However, critics of the deal said that this does not address their concerns with the settlement - which are not about whether digitising books is useful, but whether the specific terms of the deal will hamper innovation and damage authors.Because the settlement is the result of a class-action lawsuit brought by the two groups against Google, US law dictates that the terms of the deal apply to everyone who could be affected - whether or not they support it. Opponents of the deal say this creates a dangerous situation where many thousands of authors could have their rights signed away by organisations who do not represent them without even realising it.That has led to the creation of the Open Book Alliance, a group including Amazon, the New York Library Association, the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America and the Internet Archive. They suggest that Google is attempting to reframe the discussion to avoid the fine print of the settlement."The Open Book Alliance supports increased access to digital books, and applauds not only the efforts of its members, including the Internet Archive, as well as Google to foster availability of information," said OBA spokesman Peter Brantley. "But the settlement supposes that there would be a monopoly for providing access to 20th century literature."Brantley added that the terms of the agreement meant that Google and the Book Rights Registry - a collection society that would be created as part of the settlement - would "decide who gets to read online".The deadline for filing submissions related to the case is tomorrow, and more groups are expected to make representations against the deal - including two of Google's other online competitors, Microsoft and Yahoo.
The California merger of two of the world's biggest database and software companies ran into a hurdle today when the European commission announced an in-depth investigation of Oracle's proposed takeover of Sun Microsystems.Only two weeks after the US authorities gave a green light to the deal, Neelie Kroes, the EU's competition commissioner, said initial inquiries had raised worries about the impact on the databases market.The $7.4bn (£4.6bn) proposed takeover in California was blessed last month by the US justice department, but Brussels announced a 90-day investigation to be completed by January, halting the merger at least temporarily."The transaction would bring together two major competitors in the market for databases," said the commission. "The database market is highly concentrated, with the three main competitors of proprietary databases – Oracle, IBM and Microsoft – controlling approximately 85% of the market in terms of revenue. Oracle is the market leader in proprietary databases, while Sun's MySQL database product is the leading open-source database."The regulator feared the Oracle that the takeover could skew the market for databases. Today's move reinforced Kroes's reputation as the toughest scrutineer of some of the world's leading companies. Brussels has been engaged in a long-running dispute with Microsoft over its dominance of the market for internet browsers."The commission has to examine very carefully the effects on competition in Europe when the world's leading proprietary database company proposes to take over the world's leading open-source database company," said Kroes. "The commission has an obligation to ensure customers would not face reduced choice or higher prices as a result of this takeover."The European investigation is expected to concentrate on the effect of Oracle obtaining control of the open-source MySQL, the industry leader bought by Sun last year.Jonathan Todd, Kroes' spokesman, told journalists that the commission would seek to ensure that open-source software designers would still be able to develop software based on the MySQL database.Other leading software companies, such as Microsoft and Germany's SAP, had criticised the proposed Oracle takeover, arguing that the deal could lead to price increases for databases.Todd stressed that the US and European investigations were focusing on different aspects and impacts of the acquisition. While Brussels was concerned with competition in the database market, the Americans had examined Sun's Java programming language and the implications of the takeover for Java's licensing. Todd said this was not an issue for the EU.The commission said it had already found that both companies' databases were in direct competition in many sectors: "The commission will therefore address a number of issues, including Oracle's incentive to further develop MySQL, as an open-source database."
The European Commission's Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes says: "The commission has to examine very carefully the effects on competition in Europe when the world's leading proprietary database company proposes to take over the world's leading open source database company." (Quoted fromBloomberg.)The US Justice Department has already cleared the $7.4bn deal, which involves two American companies. However, so many American companies have used "anti-trust tourism" for their own competitive ends -- getting the EU to act against American rivals -- that they can't really complain about European interference in US affairs.Neelie's concerns are, as usual, clueless, and could well be commercially damaging -- she wants to shovel sand into the engine of the European economy. Perhaps someone could explain to her that it's perfectly acceptable to produce proprietary software. Indeed, many hundreds of thousands of European jobs, and almost all of Europe's software industry, depends on its production.Unfortunately, Neelie and her crew obviously don't understand that "open source" is not the same as "open standards", and nor is it the opposite of "proprietary".The key standard for databases is the open standard forSQL (Structured Query Language), which both Oracle and MySQL and many other databases support. If the EC wants to do something useful, it could mandate an SQL interoperability standard for European government purchasing. (Database vendors may have some proprietary elements to their implementation of the open SQL standard, which can hinder making queries across multiple databases.)What competition needs is a choice of interoperable SQL databases. Interfering in themeans of productionof these SQL databases is none of the EC's business.If the EC rules against the takeover, Sun might try to spin off MySQL. It's a trivial part of Sun's turnover (there's no money in free software), and Sun only bought it in January last year. Although it paid a ludicrous amount for the company (roughly $1bn), it has little chance of selling it to anyone else, especially since, in the words of MySQL's founder and original developerMichael Widenius:Sun's acquisition of MySQL did not go smoothly; most of the MySQL leaders (both commercial and project) have left Sun and the people who are left are sitting with their CV and ready to press send.In fact, there's no evidence that Oracle would be a worse custodian for MySQL than Sun, which has made a pig's ear of both OpenOffice and the MySQL takeover. Indeed, Oracle already supports some open source database projects, such as BerkeleyDB and InnoDB. For example,Oracle's Open Source FAQ pagepoints out that:Oracle continues to develop and offer Berkeley DB as an open source product. Oracle Berkeley DB is the most widely used open source database in the world with deployments estimated at more than 200 million.andCreated by Oracle subsidiary Innobase Oy, InnoDB is the leading transactional storage engine for the popular MySQL open source database. Innobase also develops and distributes the InnoDB Plugin, Embedded InnoDB and InnoDB Hot Backup.I'm not that big aLarry Ellisonfan, but I can't see that MySQL would be worse off at Oracle than it has been at Sun.Either way, Sun is inlong term decline, and it has alreadyshopped itself around the usual suspectswithout finding any other company willing to save it -- not even IBM. Presumably even an organisation as consistently stupid as the EC's competition department should be able to figure out that Sun going to the wall is likely to prove more damaging than Oracle getting custody of MySQL.Since the intention is to decide by 19 January, they have four months to figure it out.
Android is gaining in popularity as a means of accessing the mobile web - and doing so at the expense of RIM's BlackBerry and Windows Mobile, according toAdMob's June data.Though the iPhone is far ahead in the smartphone stakes when it comes to mobile web requests (unsurprising, given the unlimited data contracts that its users get in the US and UK; and other countries?), Google's platform is making a good fist of it.TheAndroidandme websitepoints to the numbers suggesting that Android is making 7% of web requests (that'snotthe same as market share in terms of handsets sold, let's emphasise) in the UK, "more than the BlackBerry and Windows Mobile combined".With 25% month-on-month growth, the share of web requests grew past Windows Mobile and now stands, worldwide, at 5% - though that's behind RIM and far behind Symbian, with 34%. And that of course is well behind the iPhone, which despite its comparatively small number of sales (compared to Symbian, that is) has a 47% share.Not that the iPhone is the love of everyone: theNew York Times reportsthat its ability to slurp up data and thus stretch AT&amp;T's network to the limits is causing annoyance in the US.Possibly the same thing is the reason for the repeated complaints about O2's data service in the UK in recent weeks...Though as a separate data point, here's Larvalabscomplaining about the amazingly low sell-through of paid-for apps on the Android platform. With a graph of August sales, they comment:That's a $62.39 daily average. Very difficult to buy the summer home at this rate. It appears this isn't just our problem. To see examples from other companies just look in the market, a sales range is listed right in the summary of the app. A good example is the well known game Trism, which sold over $250,000 in it's first two months on the iPhone. On Android it has sold, to date, less than 500 copies. That's $1,046 total earnings, max.Which may go to show that.. iPhone owners have more money?
When I got my hands on the US version of Sony's Reader more than two and half years ago, I was so smitten that I had to quell my enthusiasm. So I added that although the screen was the best I had experienced it probably wouldn't work on a beach. The next day I received an email from Australia saying: "It works alright on Bondi, mate". Well, the new versions – a six-inch one with a touchscreen (£249), a five-inch pocketable alternative (£179) and later on in the UK, a wireless version to compete with Amazon's Kindle – are even better. The trouble is, the past couple of years have seen an explosion of rival devices, led by the Kindle (still not available in the UK) which in turn are being challenged by larger-screen smartphones, led by Apple's iPhone.And still to come is Plastic Logic's larger eReader, made of flexible plastic, for reading business documents as well as books and newspapers. Which device size will win is anyone's guess. Sony's six-inch Reader Touch, which I have been testing, can hold up to 350 books and has a two-week battery life (charged through the USB port of a PC or Mac).It is lighter, faster and more powerful than previous versions. You can turn pages either by pressing buttons or by swishing your fingers across the screen. This didn't work regularly for me but others seemed to have no problems. You can take notes or press on a word with finger or stylus for a dictionary definition to appear at the bottom of the screen but again this rarely worked for me.One morning I read it with a Guardian on one side and an iPod Touch (with the free  Classic application open) on the other. The paper was the easiest to read, not least because you can browse but the words stood out more sharply on the iPod. Although the Sony Reader – rumoured to be a candidates for Rupert Murdoch's paid-for digital papers – had four more lines and two or three more words a line, this is not really a problem.Curiously, the shrinking in size of e-readers while increasing their usability, also draws attention to the flexibility of the iPhone, boosting the case for having one rather than two devices. The iPhone's effortless turning of pages, needing only your thumb, was easier than waiting a fraction of a second as the Reader turned black for a page turn, even though the actual reading experience on the Sony is better (except in darker rooms, where a phone thrives).In broad daylight or on a beach, the Sony Reader would knock spots off a phone. Unless I get another email from Bondi in the morning.Pros:Good reading experience, long battery life, holds 350 booksCons:Still quite expensive, lots of competitive devices including phoneshttp://bit.ly/sonyreader\
If Gordon Brown is pondering where all the new jobs are going to come from, he could do a lot worse than send one of his minions on a tour of the country's still-booming entrepreneurial networks. At the weekend, when I sometimes crawl out of my cave to go networking, I went to one of my favourites,MiniBar, a monthly cosmopolitan gathering of hundreds of wannabe entrepreneurs that is nearly always oversubscribed. It takes place off Brick Lane, Whitechapel, in a disused brewery in Jack-the-Ripper country.I was thinking of writing about dating sites, and the first person I see has "Talktome" on his shirt. "Hi," I say, "Are you a dating startup?" "No, I just want people to talk to me," he replied shyly. I listen to his pitch then interrupt a young couple. He tells me he is starting a peer-to-peer foreign exchange site –peepex.com– the first in the world, where buyers are lined up with sellers to cut out the middlemen. "Wow," I replied, "You mean aZopafor the foreign exchanges, cutting out intermediaries as Zopa does with banks? Why didn't I think of that?"I stop Christian Ahlert, the German founder of MiniBar, who is passing by. "Do you know these guys? They are starting the world's first peer-to-peer market for foreign exchange transactions." "Oh," he replies, "I've just met someone outside who is doing the same." He rushes out and brings back Todd Veri, the Canadian chief executive ofMidpoint &amp; Transfer, who is indeed doing that from a London base. He asks me to name any foreign exchange companies that are publicly quoted. I can't think of any. "Do you know why?" he asks, and answers himself: "Because they are making so much money". His plan is to line up buyers with one or more sellers and price currency transactions at the middle point of the inter-bank rate. Midpoint takes a small, flat-rate commission. I move on, chatting to a man setting up a crowdsourcing site for workers in IT who can be located when someone has a problem to solve, and also a couple who will be pitching at the next MiniBar for their startup,whatschoolnext.co.uk, to help alleviate the fears of parents whose kids are changing schools.Next I bump into James de Rin, whose startupcrowdsourcecapital.co.uklinks ideas up to the support – and share capital – of online crowds, thereby bypassing the stock exchange and other intermediaries. Wow, again. When he heard I was a journalist he told me to peer into the future of newspapers atpayyattention.com, which links readers and writers in a social network of newly fashionable micro-payments. Then Vikram Shah, founder of the London entertainment sitemlist.co.ukand a dotcom veteran, motions me to sit down before the official pitches begin. He tells me his son, a standup comedian, has just got into Cambridge to study politics. Amazing, the lengths they go to to get new material these days.Standing out among a slew of interesting five-minute pitches wasmendeley.com, billed as an iTunes for scientific research papers, which again prompted the ultimate compliment – why didn't someone think of that before? You can manage your own research papers from any computer and search others and link up with other researchers. No wonder that some of the world's major universities have already signed up. The founders point out that public research papers reflect the science of two years ago, and if that gap could be cut down it could have a big impact on economic growth. Mendeley pitched shortly aftermixcloud.com, which aims to democratise radio, andpicfog.com, a fascinating Twitter-linked site that searches images in real time. Snaps taken of the guy pitching at MiniBar appeared on the screen behind while he was talking.When I headed home, it was with a feeling that I had overdosed on new ideas. I wouldn't be surprised if several world-class companies emerged from the startups I encountered that night. The recession may still be on but there is no recession in ideas.twitter.com/vickeegan
Oh, those ministers. Always spending their time tweeting - can't they listen to John Humphrys and just find something better to do - and now they want to hire someone to get them on Facebook! At least if you read the headlines today you could think so...Daily Telegraph:Whitehall expands 'Twittercrat' empireThe government has been criticised for wasting taxpayers' money after launching a job advert for what has been dubbed a 'deputy Twittercrat'...Daily Mail:Ministers seek £120000-a-year 'Twittercrat' to help themThe deputy director of digital engagement will push Labour's policies on social networking sites such as Facebook, MySpace, Bebo and Twitter...Daily Express:THE 'TWITTERCRAT' ON £118000 A YEAR (AND YOU'RE PAYING)TAXPAYERS' cash is being squandered on a new Government internet communications director dubbed a deputy Twittercrat, it emerged last night ..Public Service:Now they want a deputy TwittercratThe government is recruiting for a deputy director of digital communications, which has already been branded as a "deputy Twittercrat".(You have to love that "they" in "they want a deputy Twittercrat". Especially in a publication called Public Service, which describes itself as "The information portal for the public sector" - which one has to assume means that it's going to be read by people in the public sector, who are surely "they" in the sense of being public servants..)Only one problem. Well, a few. Asthe Cabinet Office points out in a firmly-worded rebuttal, a lot of that coverage is simply wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong.As it says, "every single story contained inaccuracies, from basic facts about the vacancy to fundamental details of what the job is all about."The job: deputy director of digital communications for the Cabinet Office.The coverage described it as a "non-job" and a "spin doctor" (it can't be both, of course). Which has rather annoyed the Cabinet Office.Some of the government's complaints seem hairsplitting:The vacancy described does not exist. The Cabinet Office has not and is not advertising for a Deputy Director of Digital Engagement. We are seeking to recruit a Deputy Director of Digital Communications for the Cabinet Office. This is not a new post, it is merely filling an existing vacancy.OK, but to be fair it's not clear whether the post is new from thejob advert itself, which talks about restructuring of the "communication group".And that's only the beginning of the mandarin-ese (or possibly bureaucrat-ese). The first remark is that the requirement areRe-engineering the digital services offered from tactical level web publishing of content to strategic digital support delivering effective online communications aligned to audience needs and clear objectives – throughout the policy lifecycle.Sic.The second requirement:Extending the reach of digital campaigns from within a departmental website to a. pan government; b. cross civil service; c. confidently engaging with audiences on non governmental online channelsIt's actually quite easy to see how that could be interpreted as a "spin doctor" who is going to be a "Twittercrat". (Possibly it's a key requirement for a £118K job that you're able to feel your way through the twaddle in the job advert and figure out what theyactuallywant.) Though if you then read further, you learn that the appointee willlead the development and delivery of a detailed website strategy encompassing the technical and communications future of the entire online estate, supporting the drive for website rationalisation and enabling the rapid uptake of digital engagement activities throughout communications and beyond.That at least is broadly comprehensible. If you're thinking of applying for the job (closing date 9 September!) then the Cabinet Office rebuke to the papers is actually more informative than the job advert:The successful applicant will be in charge of the Civil Service and Cabinet Office websites, as well as six other high-traffic Government sites. In the past month alone the Civil Service site has received more than 500,000 visits and more than four million page views; it is wrong to suggest, as one paper does, that the task of running such a large site is a "non-job".  With 80 per cent of the British population using the internet regularly, people rightly expect the Government to have a high-quality presence online.Ah. Much easier to understand.Still, the Cabinet Office isn't pleased:Because they've got the job title wrong the newspapers go on to link the post to the recently appointed Director of Digital Engagement and claim that the job is for a "Twittercrat", someone who will be paid to teach the Government how to use social media such as Twitter, Facebook and Bebo. This is not the case.Tom Watson MP, a former minister at the Cabinet Office,remarked (on Twitter)that "Old media have problem with the word "digital" when added (or not) to "engagement"". Though arguably it's more of a problem with job adverts that are written in a language orthogonal to English.It's worth revisiting our interview with Andrew Stott, the government's Director of Digital Engagement (to whom the appointee here will emphaticallynotreport - though they might nod at each other in the corridor) inHow Andrew Stott is setting Whitehall a-Twitter, where we noted that "On the government's new media agenda, Stott is unapologetic about Whitehall (and politicians) using all the tools in the Web 2.0 box to reach people who are not getting information through traditional media. He says that there is a legitimate role for Twitter in drawing attention to announcements, and for answering frequently asked questions."Which includes, no doubt, "why aretheyhiring a spin doctor for Twitter?" To which he can at least now point to the rapid response unit - aka the Cabinet Office's web pages.The key point to take away though is that this is the government talking directly to the people who actually pay for it, and explaining itself - rather than having its message distorted (or at least inaccurately reported, whether intentionally or not) by the media. And that must be a good thing. Clarity is always better than obscurity. Though perhaps the people writing the job descriptions could also keep that in mind.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Is YouTubegetting ready to stream movies for money? According to theWall Street Journal, which reports howHollywood studios are looking to use YouTube as a pay-to-play option. No secret, really - and there are plenty of on-demand services out there already. But YouTube is obviously a big, big name that wants to start making money soon. That report comes alongside the news that YouTube has ceased its battle with Britain's music collection agencies,meaning that music videos are back.&bull; Following Trevor Baylis's argument thatinventors should get more legal support from the government, one of Microsoft's top lawyers has put the cat among the pigeons, arguing thatthere should be a global patent system. It's a controversial point of view - especially considering the criticisms levied at the the USPTO on a regular basis. More discussion atReadWriteWebandCNet.&bull; This week'sTechnology Guardianis in print, featuringa behind-the-scenes look at the Singularity University in California, what's really going onwith Wolfram Alpha, and we look at the implications of aleaked document from the Ordnance Surveyabout the costs of going open. All that and more for just 90p.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
My laptop has had it and I would like to replace it. Should I buy now or wait until the end of October to get a computer with Windows 7 pre-installed?Jonathan MoshinskyIt depends how urgently you need a new laptop. It now appears that Microsoft will ship a European version of Windows 7 complete with browser options that will upgrade Vista in exactly the same way as the rest of the world, and this works well. This means you can buy a Vista laptop now, get a voucher for a free copy of Windows 7, and upgrade it without doing a "clean installation". However, a clean installation is usually better, so if you are not in a hurry, it's better to wait.When buying a PC to run Windows 7, the points to watch for are: (a) a 64-bit version of Vista; (b) full support for DX11 graphics; and (c) a processor that supports Data Execution Prevention and hardware virtualisation, for Windows 7's XP mode. RunningGRC's SecurAblewill tell you about these.But, as always, it will take time for the market to move on from XP-level hardware to PCs specifically designed for Windows 7.
Someone sent me an email that says: "If you should ever be forced by a robber or someone to withdraw money from an ATM, you can notify the police by entering your PIN in reverse." It seems like an urban myth to me …Alan BraddockSeveral hoax-checking web sites say this is false includingSnopesandHoax-Slayer. It seems that Joseph Zingher from Chicago started developing such a technology in 1994 and there have been attempts to encourage its adoption in the US, without much success.
Is there any reason why Hibernate should not be the default way of closing down a PC — especially a laptop?Leon CohenI recommend setting Hibernate as the default for both laptops and desktops, because your PC starts quickly with all your programs still loaded. Basically, Hibernate saves everything in your PC's memory to a disk file called hiberfil.sys, then reloads it when you wake it up.However, not all Windows software behaves correctly, especially when it comes to releasing resources. This can lead to PCs gradually slowing down over a period of time. It helps if you close down both Internet Explorer and Firefox roughly twice a week, and I still prefer to reboot Windows XP every week or two, to give software a clean start. If you don't use your PC continuously and intensively, of course, then you should be able to go longer between restarts.
I have received an email that requires editing for spelling errors, etc. Is there any way I can move it to Word/OneNote?Patrick BurkeThe usual way to transfer any kind of text is to copy and paste it into a word processor such as Microsoft Word (Ctrl-C, Ctrl-V). You can choose to use Paste Special if you want unformatted text or a particular kind of formatting.But I often select the email in my mail software, hold down the right mouse button, drag it to the desktop and select Copy from the drop-down menu. This creates an .eml file containing just that message, and its headers. If you press F2 and change the file extension to .txt then you can edit it in Notepad or another plain text editor. If you drop it into Microsoft Word, that displays the "rich text" version of the email, if there is one.The drag-and-drop approach is also a handy way to copy a small number of important emails to a backup folder (for example, in Windows Explorer). However, it doesn't work with web-based email systems.
Windows fails repeatedly to install some important updates and attributes, and gives Error Code 80070005. This seems to be a common problem. Is there a relatively straightforward solution, and why doesn't Microsoft do something?Clive WilsonThat's a catch-all error code that usually means a program on your PC has blocked the installation of the update: in two words, Access Denied. Often this is a security program that wants to stop anything from messing about with your essential files. Microsoft can't provide a generic fix because it doesn't know which programs are blocking the update, or why.Microsoft support document 947366 (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/947366) covers the problem, but it could not be described as straightforward. Updating your security software might help. If not, you could uninstall all your security programs (except the firewall), get Windows up to date, then reinstall the ones you still want – or new ones.
The movement opposing Google's $125m deal for the rights to digitise millions of books has gained even more momentum, after Amazon called the agreement "dangerous".The internet retailer, which has its own project to scan in books, said in an American court filing that Google's deal with US publishers and authors represented a dangerous precedent that could damage innovation and hinder copyright law."The proposed settlement usurps the role of Congress in legislating solutions to the complex issues raised by the interplay between new technologies and the nation's copyright laws," the company said in a 41-page document lodged with a US federal court in New York.The controversy surrounds the proposed settlement between Google and the Association of American Publishers and the Authors' Guild, the terms of which would see Google get the rights to digitise millions of books still under copyright in exchange for $125m and a share of the proceeds.The agreement would also see the creation of a new organisation in the US called the Book Rights Registry, which would have responsibility for tracking down authors and some control over pricing. Opponents have said the could create a cartel, and that the settlement is illegal because it potentially gives away the rights of thousands of authors who are not represented by the parties involved.Amazon called the situation a potential "cartel structure that leaves the public susceptible to abuses"."The problem with the proposed settlement from an antitrust perspective is that it rushes to create this cartel while avoiding all restrictions that would cage its power to prevent harm to the public interest," it said. "The proposed settlement creates a pricing mechanism that is fraught with the dangers associated with price-fixing."The Seattle-based company is already a member of the Open Book Alliance -   a group of companies and organisations opposed to the deal - but its comments are the strongest message yet that Google's rivals and others will do their best to block the agreement.Peter Brantley, who is the head of the Open Book Alliance,told the Guardian last weekthat it was important for the future of the publishing world for action to be taken now."We think that digitising analogue material and making it available for search is an important ability for gaining access to information that might otherwise be locked up," he said. "But the settlement is a very different creature from the application Google had originally created."As well as the alliance, others who have voiced their opposition include the families of famous authors and artists such as Arlo Guthrie and John Steinbeck."It would be a shame to have to go back to congress and/or the courts in a few years to ask them to split up a monopoly when we have the chance to stop it in its tracks right now," said Gail Steinbeck, the daughter-in-law of the writer, earlier this year.Google has said that it does not believe the settlement represents an exclusive deal that violates competition law, and said that many groups opposing the deal are merely jealous competitors."The Google books settlement is injecting more competition into the digital books space, so it's understandable why our competitors might fight hard to prevent more competition," Google spokesman Gabriel Stricker said.But Amazon's attack is just the latest in a series of official positions against the settlement, with a deadline this Friday for submissions to the New York judge who is overseeing the case.Microsoft and Yahoo are expected to file their own protests before the end of the week, while the German government yesterday filed its own objection to the settlement.
Thousands of music videos pulled from YouTube in a royalties dispute will go back online after peace broke out today between the website and the music industry.A new licensing deal withPRS for Music, the trade body that collects music royalties, has brought the six-month dispute to an end.It began whenYouTubeaccused the PRS of proposing exorbitant new payment terms and led to the website fending off criticism from the PRS, which felt it was punishing British music fans by removing videos in the quest for greater profits.Thousands of music videos are now being reinstated after being blocked from the site by YouTube's parent company Google during the licensing wrangle.But while this conflict has been resolved, another dispute has erupted over the digital future of the music industry.A rift has opened between music's creators and its record labels, with a broad alliance of musicians, songwriters and producers fiercely criticising the business secretary Lord Mandelson's plans to cut off the broadband connections of internet users who illegally download music.In a statement seen by the Guardian, a coalition of bodies representing a range of stars including Sir Paul McCartney, Sir Elton John and Damon Albarn attacks the proposals as expensive, illogical and "extraordinarily negative".TheFeatured Artists Coalition(FAC), theBritish Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors(Basca) and theMusic Producers Guild(MPG) have joined forces to oppose the proposals to reintroduce the threat of disconnection for persistent file sharers, which was ruled out in the government's Digital Britain report in June.The plans have already been attacked by privacy campaigners, internet service providers and a range of MPs, some of whom accuse the business secretary of being influenced by secret meetings with senior figures from the music and film industry, a charge he denies.The coalition accuses the government of being backward looking, saying there is "little support from logic" in proposals to cut off file sharers – a move welcomed by the record companies andUK Music, the umbrella body for the entire industry.The statement says: "We vehemently oppose the proposals being made and suggest that the stick is now in danger of being way out of proportion to the carrot. The failure of 30,000 US lawsuits against consumers and the cessation of the pursuit of that policy should be demonstration enough that this is not a policy that any future-minded UK government should pursue."There has been an explosion in file sharing in the last decade, with albums being swapped hundreds of thousands of times over the internet – Lady Gaga's The Fame was swapped 388,000 times on P2P site Pirate Bay within seven days of its release. But there is little agreement in the music industry about how the problem should be tackled.TheBPI, the body representing record labels, argues that the UK's 7 million file sharers cost the industry an estimated £200m a year and called Mandelson's proposals "a step forward".But Patrick Racklow, the chief executive of Basca, said those involved in music had to look for new ways of licensing new music technologies, rather than fighting them. "The problems the music industry faces will not be dealt with effectively through legislation," he said. "We can't support these proposals because we don't think it will work, it will cost too much and is far too blunt a tool."Research suggesting that people who file share also buy more music provided hope, he said. "The music industry is quite a scary place to be at the moment and we don't know what it will look like in 10 years' time, but if we find ways of licensing, new ways of doing things will evolve. What we can't do is try to push things forward by looking back."Deals such as the one struck between YouTube and PRS, as well as licensing agreements with music-streaming websites such as Spotify and We7, may provide light at the end of the tunnel for the industry, proving that compromises can be made if consumer demands are considered.Patrick Walker, YouTube's director of video partnerships, said the dispute had been regrettable, but that the service was committed to building relationships with the music industry. "This deal provides a positive example that people can come together with the objective of satisfying user demands," he said. "It is a very fast-moving area and we need to make sure we don't retrench but remain flexible so that everyone can benefit."Andrew Shaw, the managing director of broadcast and online at PRS, said the organisation was delighted that music videos were back on YouTube. "We hope it is the first of many deals with other services so that music can get out there in whatever way people want to listen to it, while making sure our members get paid," he said.Both organisations were vague about the agreement, but music industry analyst Mark Mulligan, vice-president of Forrester Research, said the disclosure that a lump-sum deal had been reached suggested the terms were more favourable to YouTube than PRS.The YouTube deal and the musicians' condemnation of plans to prosecute file sharers were indicative of the fundamental power shift happening in the music industry, he said."We are in a period of transition, and traditional business models are being reassessed," he said. "The position of the record labels is inherently weaker because of the falling value of recorded music and that gives the other people in the equation, including artists, managers and producers, more power. What we are seeing here is those players flexing their muscles, which is only possible because the record labels are weakening."Sound and fury: industry's uphill struggleIn 1999 the music business was booming, CDs were flying off the shelves and, even if the Backstreet Boys were at the top of the charts, the music industry felt like a good place to be. Few people were aware that at the Northeastern University in Boston student Shawn Fanning was creating an online music file sharing service that would transform the music landscape forever. Napster – as the service was called – allowed people to easily share their MP3 files, cutting out the record labels and paying little heed to copyright. For a music industry which had long complained that home taping was killing music, this was devastation of a different order.Napster was soon followed by similar websites KaZaA and Gnutella and, as the potential of filesharing to undermine the record sales became clear, the music industry's reaction was quick and brutal.In 2001 Napster was shut down by a US court order, but it had paved the way for other peer-to-peer file-sharing programmes, which continue to plague record labels today. A year later Apple's iPod was launched, instantly allowing music fans to carry hundreds of albums with them in digital form. It was followed in 2003 by the launch of the iTunes store, providing a legal online store for people to buy digital music. It was arguably too late. Profits were plummeting, and by 2007 British album sales had dropped 10.4% on the previous year.In 2004 global revenue from CD and DVD sales was around $32bn (£20bn), by 2008 that had dropped to $22bn and by 2012 it is expected to drop to about $11bn.New ways of getting music online began to appear. MySpace debuted in 2004, providing a new platform for bands to interact directly with fans, allowing them to post music that could be listened to instantly. In the same year, digital single sales surpassed physical single sales for the first time. In 2008 Spotify, a legal ad-funded online streaming service, was launched allowing music fans to listen to hundreds of thousands of tracks and albums instantly, and for free.Video games like Guitar Hero, released in 2005, began boosting music sales for some artists. As CD sales continue to fall today artists are making more money than ever from concerts – figures from PRS for Music revealed that UK music tour revenues increased by 30% last year. As a result, record labels are increasingly trying to sign artists on "360º contracts" that take a cut of merchandising, live music, and sponsorship deals.The industry continues to look for new ways to make money in the digital age. In June the cable company Virgin Media announced the launch of an unlimited download service in partnership with the world's largest music company, Universal, which would allow subscribers to stream and download as many tracks as they want for £10-£15 a month.
Google's YouTube is talking to movie studios --  Lions Gate, Sony and Warner Bros are mentioned -- about streaming new movies for a rental fee, according to a report inThe Wall Street Journal. The new service would compete with Apple, Amazon and Netflix, among others. Some movies might also be free with adverts. The story says:People familiar with the matter say that new movie rentals are likely to be around $3.99, the price Apple Inc.'s iTunes charges for new movie rentals. The companies hope to keep pricing on par with what consumers pay for video-on-demand for new titles, these people say.The Journal warns that: "Negotiations are continuing and there are no guarantees a deal will be struck."However, the story also quotes a YouTube spokesman saying that the company is always working to expand on "its great relationships with movie studios and on the selection and types of videos we offer our community".YouTube loses money, so it makes sense for it to try paid-for movies. And once it has your credit card details, it will find it easier to sell you other things as well.Since new movies are already available online in pirated versions, it also makes sense for the studios to expand the number of legal, paid-for services. The cash would help offset the decline in DVD sales, which the story says are expected to fall by about $850 million this year to $12.9 billion.Whether new movies would be available outside the US is another matter. A lot of today's "torrenting" seems to be driven by viewers outside the US, who don't want to wait for the official regional availability of new movies and TV series. However, the movies studios probably aren't ready to move to global marketing to a global internet.
Whether you like the idea or not, in-game advertising is big business and it's only going to get bigger. Earlier this year, Screen Digest predicted that the sector would be worth over £1bn by 2014 - commercial messages now appear in everything from PC casual titles to iPhone games and big console blockbusters. Once, it was all about getting a logo in at the start or end of a game, but the latest technologies from specialist agencies likeMassiveandDouble Fusioninvolve inserting billboards, videos and even 3D objects into virtual environments.All very well, but do people look at these invasive messages? Well, according to anarticleon the MIT website today, game violence is a good way to garner interest:A team of European and U.S. researchers found ads displayed along with violent scenes to be more memorable to players than those shown with nonviolent content, even though players spent less time looking at them. The results are contrary to expectations stemming from research on television, where violence has been shown to decrease attention to advertisements. Developing a better understanding of the way advertising works in games could help game companies enhance their advertising strategies.The team based at the University of Luxembourg created a simple driving game named AdRacer in which players needed to drive over targets to gain points, while adverts were displayed unobtrusively on roadside billboards. In one version of the game, the targets were just symbols, in another, players had to run over pedestrians to increase their scores. Apparently, "Those who played a violent version of the game [...] demonstrated significantly better recall of advertised brands than those who played the regular version."The problem is, although the violence seems to trigger something in the mechanism of human memory - it's not always good news for the advertiser; the connotations can be rather destructive,negativelyimpacting the gamer's opinion of the brand.Other research has indicated that interactive advertising may be the answer. From the MIT feature:Research published this month in the International Journal of Advertising backs up this claim. A team led by Thomas Mackay from Monash University in Australia found that driving a virtual car of a specific brand resulted in a significant opinion change in favor of the brand among casual game players.Indeed, high performance Japanese cars like the Subaru Impreza and Nissan Skyline have received a boost in Western sales thanks to their appearance in the Gran Turismo series. Several manufacturers have even revealed new models and prototypes within the best-selling racing simulation, before sending them out to motoring exhibitions. Elsewhere, clothing brands and furniture retailers have made their latest lines available in games like The Sims, and in online communities: Italian fashion brand Diesel has a store in PlayStation 3's Home community (morehere), while EA produced aspecial add-on packfor its 'life simulator' Sims 2 filled exclusively with virtual Ikea products.The key message, then, is that ads have to be malleable, useful or at least active within the game world to get noticed and remembered. As web advertisers are discovering, simply displaying a message on the digital screen is not enough -according to a recent surveyby Saatchi and Saatchi banner ads  only generate a 0.15% average response rate. These days marketers are talking about the "attraction economy" in which consumers are seduced into long-term interactive brand relationships - it's all about emotional connection rather than shoving a logo in your face. And game worlds are going to be a great platform for this, because they are environments in which the target audience is already emotionally invested.Violence points the way, but positive interaction with advertising messages is probably the future. One day the model from the latest Diet Coke advert may pop up as a helpful non-player character in a sports sim, or you'll get a TomTom avatar to accompany you in open-world adventures. Last year Obama became the first major political figure to advertise in a game, but it was just on billboards. For the next election he'll probably jump right into your car during GTA V and hit you with his latest health care reform initiatives as you shoot up the neighbourhood...
How time flies. It's three years since I reported in the Guardian that, in the quest for "transformed", IT-based government, ministers wereplanning to overturn a basic principle of data protection.My report followed a briefing from a cabinet office official who told me it had been decided that sharing personal data was fine unless it had been explicitly prevented. This policy, couched in more cautious language than my report, featured in a"vision statement"in September 2006.My article mentioned that the new policy had emerged from a cabinet committee called Misc 31. That reference intrigued at least one reader. In April 2007, David Bowden, a solicitor who operates under the name Lobby and Law, put in a request for six sets of information concerning Misc 31, including minutes since the committee was formed.Bowden must have realised he was pushing his luck – ministerial communications enjoy an infamous exemption from the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). However, he argued that exemptions are not mandatory and that there was a strong public interest in the issue.The information commissioner's office wasn't impressed. Turning down the initial request, it ruled that although there was a public interest in greater accountability, the conventions of cabinet government came first. "Great weight" was attached to the protection of collective responsibility, the polite fiction that all ministers agree with every government line.&nbsp;Revelations of ministerial exchanges, as well as "any differences of opinion" would put that in peril.Bowden took his case to the information tribunal. He claimed 25 grounds of appeal, including, provocatively, that Misc 31's work looked like an attempt to cook up, behind closed doors, a data regime contravening European laws. This, he claimed, amounted to a prima facie case of wrongdoing – in which case the FOIA would support disclosure.The cabinet office didn't like that one bit. At the appeal tribunal, it fielded evidence from a senior mandarin, Dr Robin Fellgett. He dismissed the wrongdoing claim, saying the work of Misc 31 "proceeded on an understanding that any data-sharing had to be in accordance with the Data Protection Act". Fellgett said ministers would be reluctant to put forward dissenting views if they knew they were to be made public.The tribunal agreed, ruling that the type of information Bowden wanted represented a classic illustration of the "safe space" needed for making government policy. As you'll have guessed by now, the appeal was turned down.So, there we have it. Misc 31 was wound up in 2007, when Gordon Brown became prime minister, and has not been directly replaced.&nbsp;It looks as though we will have to wait until 2037  to find out what was discussed.Is this the end of the matter? I don't think so. The tribunal's report includes the extraordinary statement that there was no compelling public interest in disclosing Misc 31 papers because "there is no doubt in the tribunal's view that the public was sufficiently well informed not only about the fact of Misc 31's existence, but also of its aims and functions".Flatteringly, one reason for this assertion was my 2006 Guardian report;&nbsp;the tribunal also cited the 2005 Transformational Government strategy itself.This is not good enough. The debate about information sharing by public bodies should concern a lot more people than readers of government papers, or even the Guardian. Ministers are always calling for a mature public debate on the topic. As the information tribunal reminds us, the conventions of cabinet government mean that a cabinet committee is not the right place to hold such a public debate. So, where is?• This article was amended on 3 September 2009. The original headline referred to Misc 13. This has been corrected.
Best of British iawardsThe Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is running theiawardsto promote innovation. The deadline for entries is 16 September.Finding MaemoNokia has pre-announced theN900, a touchscreen camera phone with a slide-out keyboard. It runs its Maemo version of Linux.Whither Europeana?The European Commission has launched a public consultation on the future ofEuropeana, its digital library.Mobile 14.4MbpsVodafonesays it has started rolling out 14.4Mbps mobile broadband in the areas of greatest demand, starting with parts of London, Birmingham and Liverpool.Headset for the hard of hearingGeemarc Telecom has launched a hearing-aid-compatibleCLA3 headsetthat it says will help hearing-impaired people use services such as Skype.51 varietiesGoogle Translatenow handles 51 languages. The nine new ones include Irish, Welsh and Yiddish.Live long and pongFirebox is sellinglicensed Star Trek colognesincluding, for her, Pon Farr "named after the Vulcan mating cycle".Promoting UtrechtUtrecht University is "crowdsourcing" its next advertising campaign by runninga €2,200 competitionat CreatAd.Jack Schofield
Waiting for Windows 7?My laptop has had it and I would like to replace it. Should I buy now or wait until the end of October to get a computer with Windows 7 pre-installed?Jonathan MoshinskyJack Schofield replies:It depends how urgently you need a new laptop. It now appears that Microsoft will ship a European version of Windows 7 complete with browser options that will upgrade Vista in exactly the same way as the rest of the world, and this works well. This means you can buy a Vista laptop now, get a voucher for a free copy of Windows 7, and upgrade it without doing a "clean installation". However, a clean installation is usually better, so if you are not in a hurry, it's better to wait.When buying a PC to run Windows 7, the points to watch for are: (a) a 64-bit version of Vista; (b) full support for DX11 graphics; and (c) a processor that supports Date Execution Prevention and hardware virtualisation, for Windows 7's XP mode. RunningGRC's SecurAblewill tell you about these.But, as always, it will take time for the&nbsp;market to move on from XP-level hardware to PCs specifically designed for Windows&nbsp;7.Safety pinSomeone sent me an email that says: "If&nbsp;you should ever be forced by a robber or someone to withdraw money from an ATM, you can notify the police by entering your PIN in reverse." It seems like an urban myth to me …Alan BraddockJS:Several hoax-checking web sites say this is false includingSnopesandHoax-Slayer. It seems that Joseph Zingher from Chicago started developing such a technology in 1994 and there have been attempts to encourage its adoption in the US, without much success.Hibernate; wake laterIs there any reason why Hibernate should not be the default way of closing down a PC — especially a laptop?Leon CohenJS:I recommend setting Hibernate as the default for both laptops and desktops, because your PC starts quickly with all your programs still loaded. Basically, Hibernate saves everything in your PC's memory to a disk file called hiberfil.sys, then reloads it when you wake it up. However, not all Windows software behaves correctly, especially when it comes to releasing resources. This can lead to PCs slowing down. It helps if you close down both Internet Explorer and Firefox roughly twice a week, and I still prefer to reboot Windows XP every week or two, to give software a clean start. If you don't use your PC continuously and intensively, of course, then you should be able to go longer between restarts.Email editsI have received an email that requires editing for spelling errors, etc. Is there any way I can move it to Word/OneNote?Patrick BurkeJS:The usual way to transfer any kind of text is to copy and paste it into a word processor such as Microsoft Word. You can choose to use Paste Special if you want unformatted text or a particular kind of formatting.But I often select the email in my mail software, hold down the right mouse button, drag it to the desktop and select Copy from the drop-down menu. This creates an .eml file containing just that message, and its headers. If you press F2 and change the file extension to .txt then you can edit it in Notepad or another plain text editor. If you drop it into Microsoft Word, that also displays the "rich text" version of the email, if there is one. The drag-and-drop approach is also a handy way to copy a small number of important emails to a backup folder. However, it doesn't work with web-based email systems.Updates not installedWindows fails repeatedly to install some important updates and attributes, and gives Error Code 80070005. This seems to be a common problem. Is there a relatively straightforward solution, and why doesn't Microsoft do something?Clive WilsonJS:That's a catch-all error code that usually means a program on your PC has blocked the installation of the update: in two words, Access Denied. Often this is a security program that wants to stop anything from messing about with your essential files. Microsoft can't provide a generic fix because it doesn't know which programs are blocking the update, or why.Microsoft support document 947366covers the problem , but it could not be described as straightforward. Updating your security software might help. If not, you could uninstall all your security programs, get Windows up to date, then reinstall the ones you still want – or new ones.Backchat• Last week, we suggested Mark Ottaway cleaned out his old laptop to help prevent crashes. Scott Hamilton says the idea of fluff and dust causing "shorts" is improbable but "the dust may of course affect cooling and the resulting overheating can cause failures. Your last sentence is more to the point. After more than 50 years working with electronic systems, my overriding experience is that cables and connectors are the primary sources of faults, and there are many hundreds of contacts involved, particularly with memory boards and with units peripheral to the motherboard. If Mark Ottaway feels confident, he can try at least wiggling all the cable connectors to see if this recovers a bad contact and stops the system crashing."
Ordnance Survey estimates that moving to a free data model would cost government a total of £367.1m in its first five years, compared with £181.2m for its present plans to move to a hybrid model, according to a leaked briefing to its minister.The briefing, marked "Confidential advice to Ministers – For the minister and private office only", appearedon the Wikileaks website, and seems to have been made prior to OS's announcement, in May, of its plans to move to a hybrid model with a commercial trading entity that will sell or license OS-branded products. That implies the minister in question was Iain Wright, who was minister in charge of OS for two years until a reshuffle in June.However, it is still unclear how OS justifies its claim – made in public in May by its chair, Sir Rob Margetts – that moving to a free data model, as proposed by the Free Our Data campaign, would "cost the government in the first five years between £500m and £1bn", when the document itself shows the cumulative cost of the free data model to the government to be £367m in the first five years, compared with £181m for the hybrid model that OS now intends to proceed with.When the Guardian asked OS to explain, it responded that the document was one of "many communications" made during the Trading Funds Assessment between June 2008 and April 2009 that was "continually updated" in that time, and declined to comment further.It added: "We recognise that the campaign for 'free data' continues but the government has made its decision."The Free Our Data campaign, which aims to make government-collected non-personal data available for free commercial reuse, contends that this is an unsatisfactory response. The calculations that underpinned Margetts's claim have never been made public – unlike a Trading Funds report by a team at Cambridge, commissioned by the government, which last year estimated that moving OS to a free model wouldbenefit the UK economy by £168m, while costing the government £12m overall – a 13-fold gearing on the government's costs, which would more than offset the cost through corporation tax revenues on the enlarged economy.However, OS has never discussed the Trading Funds report, and its calculations are not referred to – nor refuted – in the leaked document.The document carries the names of Margetts, OS's chair; Vanessa Lawrence, its chief executive; and Charlie Villar, a member of the Shareholder Executive, the Treasury organisation that aims to extract value for money from government-owned organisations, such as "trading funds" (self-funding government-owned organisations) like OS. The briefing appears to be slides from a presentation, rather than a self-contained explanation of the logic behind its assertions.It deals with the perceived need for the OS's business model– where presently it makes a profit from charges for licences to use its mapping data – to change because, it says, of "exponential growth in the use of geographic data into many new markets in both the public and private sector", as well as "technological change" – but also, noticeably, because "Government is changing PSI [public sector information] policy".The "changing PSI policy" refers to the intense pressure OS came under from the Cabinet Office at the end of last year over its restrictive licensing policy, following the publication of the Trading Funds report – which led, in turn, to the Trading Funds Assessment, of which the briefing is part.The key element in the presentation comes where the claimed costs of the different models – the existing, utility (or free data) and proposed hybrid – are compared. But here OS does not seem to be straightforward. Both utility and hybrid models would involve restructuring, because staff and equipment have to be reassigned. However only the utility model is shown as incurring £24.7m of restructuring costs – though these are not explained.The investment and restructuring costs for the hybrid model and the existing model are both shown as "n/a" – not applicable – implying zero cost. But a note to the figures says: "In year 1 of the hybrid model, the 'cost to government' rises temporarily [from £24.6m to £48.4m, a total of £23.8m] due to the need to use surplus cash to fund investment and restructuring." The difference between the two is thus not the apparent £50m, but around £25m.There are also other notable flaws in OS's arguments about the benefits of the hybrid model and the claimed disadvantages of the utility model. Its own estimates show the present cost of running OS as £93.3m in the current year. For the utility model, it is £92m in its first year, falling to £71m in the fifth year; for the hybrid model it is £95.2m in the first year and £101.2m in the fifth.If the £71m cost of the utility model is the strict cost of compiling and preparing digital map data (which is all the utility need do: printing paper maps could be done by competing private firms from the data), then OS is suggesting hybrid model costs will balloon to £30m more than that. That raises the question of what that money will be spent on.The presentation also claims the hybrid revenues will grow from £117.5m now, to £134.5m in five years' time – up by 44%. This suggests a compound annual growth of nearly 3%, which would be remarkable during the recession in which the document was prepared.By contrast the OS forecast of the utility model shows costs of between £52m and £60m over the five years – as would be predicted by the removal of OS's licensing income, to be replaced by central government funding.As with the OS's internal comparison of international models for funding national geographical bodies – which Tthe Guardian has managed, through Freedom of Information requests, to get almost fully published – the leaked document does not stand up to detailed examination. The Guardian has now challenged OS to explain Sir Rob's claims explicitly, as it has never released any data to back them up.Michael Nicholson of Intelligent Addressing, which has been urging a utility-style model for OS, said: "The advice appears to have been based upon an unbalanced economic analysis and the resultant pot pourri of solutions offers little real medium-term certainty to either OS or its market. OS needs a straightforward business modelwhich enables it to compete fairly … (if it is to do so) and the market needs to be offered clear commercial ground rules, not simply concessions and short-term compromises."Ordnance Survey said in a statement: "The confidential advice to ministers that has appeared on the internet is just one example of the many communications that took place between the Board of Ordnance Survey and ministers during this period as a new business strategy for Ordnance Survey was being developed. We are disappointed to find that this document has been published on the internet.This was a confidential document which was continually updated during this period. We will not be commenting further on this leaked confidential document."You can view theOS's estimatesonline as a PDF  . Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog: freeourdata.org.uk/blog
It's a hot and sticky summer afternoon in Silicon Valley, and a group of students are chatting over drinks and food, having just completed the final presentations for their course. On the surface, the scenes of jollity and relief are familiar from institutions around the world. Here, though, things are different because these are no ordinary graduates: they are the first class to pass through the Singularity University.The brainchild of the futurist Ray Kurzweil and his friend Peter Diamandis, the pioneer of personal space flight and founder of the X Prize Foundation, the Singularity University is meant to be a summer camp for people to learn about emerging technologies from the experts. It's a nine-week hothouse that allows a hand-picked selection of bright thinkers to get in cutting edge thinking from some of the world's most talented technologists.Over the summer, 40 students with diverse backgrounds – among them medicine, physics, computing and law – were brought together and given an intensive training course in the most important futuristic ideas. The ultimate objective? As its slogan says: "Preparing humanity for accelerating technological change."Raised eyebrowsIt is a lofty and ambitious goal. When it was formally announced at the TED (Technology, Entertainment, Design) conference this year, the idea raised some eyebrows. Kurzweil, after all, has a reputation as something of a maverick – he believes that computers will become independently intelligent in the near future, for example – and some were concerned that the idea of a crash course in the future was a gimmick. However, the project gained a number of backers and more than $2m in funding. It was reality.Housed on Moffett Federal Airfield, a former naval base around 30 miles south of San Francisco that is now used as a research centre by Nasa, the Singularity programme ran in a building that is used regularly by the agency's International Space University (which provided the model for SU).Its location is apposite, providing a physical reminder of the impact of technology over generations. Across the campus from Singularity classes is Hangar One, an enormous shed built to house dirigibles in the 1930s that covers 8 acres under its roof — making it one of the largest free standing structures in the world.Next door, Nasa's Ames pioneers aeronautical research, and if that wasn't enough, then  just down the road stand the headquarters of Google. Indeed, the Moffett Field airstrip is where Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin choose to land their customised 767 when they zip in from their travels around the globe.Over the past nine weeks, the students have attended classes from more than 100 faculty advisers and speakers, who have given their time for free as part of the experiment. The subjects included biotechnology, space research, artificial intelligence and nanotech; visitors included luminaries such as Vint Cerf and Bob Metcalfe, often called the "fathers of the internet", as well as the Nobel laureate physicist George Smoot and 21st-century success stories such as the game design legend Will Wright and billionaire investor Peter Thiel.The students (or their sponsors) have paid $25,000 (£15,000) each to attend this hi-tech summer camp. The cost was not a deterrent, however: staff had to sift through more than 1,200 applications, says Salim Ismail, the executive director of the project."We clearly hit some sort of zeitgeist in the way academics and leading thinkers are considering these areas," he says. "They have an extraordinary academic background – some of them are qualified to teach some of the courses."Picking the first student body was a very particular job. There is a largely balanced gender ratio, an international tendency and the average age is 31. But most difficult, says Ismail, was picking out a broad mix of skills."Clearly, if we had 40 nanotechnologists, it wouldn't be a good mix. So we thought carefully about how many of each discipline we wanted in that founding class – and I think we've succeeded: they're a frightening bunch."The real point, he says, is to arm the students with the tools they need to go out and make a difference in the world, using the smartest and fastest-growing technologies to overcome some of the planet's major problems.And it's not only the students who will benefit from the programme. Tara Lemmey of Lens Ventures is an investor, entrepreneur and former head of the Electronic Frontier Foundation who has been running one of the project's academic tracks. She believes the experience was almost as illuminating for those who taught classes and gave talks as it was for the students."We learned from each other," she says. "We learned how to think about engaging people, the hard questions that come up. The students are covering so much subject matter, and we don't as the faculty — we cover ours and sit in as many as we can. So it's a real mashup of some of the most interesting, provocative ideas."The first stage of the course involved a wide range of lectures, talks and discussions that touched briefly on a variety of topics. After that, students could take a deeper look at more particular subject areas. After this came the final project phase, which lasted a couple of weeks.It was intended to be a way for the students to put the things they had learned: with the appropriately grand goal of outlining a business or service that could help change the lives of a billion people within 10 years.This part of the scheme was intended to let the students demonstrate what they had learned, rather than produce blunt commercial pitches – but by the time the presentations came along, some of the students were clearly eyeing investment from the gaggle of venture capitalists gathered in the audience.Business chopsGettaround, a peer-to-peer car-sharing system that helps people make money from their vehicles – a polished concept complete with technology demo – certainly had business chops, but it remained unclear quite how it would revolutionise the lives of billions.Another team, One Global Voice, put forward plans for a software platform that would help entrepreneurs in emerging economies build SMS applications. Xidar, a team including two Britons – the entrepreneur Simon Daniel and the banker-turned-neuroscientist Laurence Hayes – proposed a suite of emergency systems that would help save lives during a major disaster.One of the most intriguing projects, though, was Acasa, a scheme to build houses using 3D printing technology. The concept boiled down to a portable, programmable gantry that piped concrete into customised patterns, building up layer upon layer of material until the shell of a building was complete. The system, its creators said, would take just a handful of people to operate it and could build an entire house in less than two days: they plan to form a company and try to raise money to help build houses on a large scale in the developing world.One of the Acasa team, Marianne Ryan, who is finishing a degree at the University of Michigan's School of Information, said that approaching huge problems became far easier through the unique combination of experts with different backgrounds."To begin with, I was an interdisciplinary person," she says. "The one area I did not know a lot about was medicine, bio-informatics, human enhancement – so that was what I was looking forward to learning a lot more about."It was interesting, because I do have some colleagues here who are already doctors or are doing PhDs in bioinformatics – I thought it would be really challenging to develop a curriculum that would speak to them as well as to me. Somehow they managed to find the sweet spot."Let off steamTheir presentations done, the class could let off a little steam. In the shadow of Hangar One, Sofya Yampolsky, a graduate student from New York with a background in arts and future studies, explains how her sense of perspective and scale had drastically altered since she began the course."There was so much to learn that it was difficult to believe that you could actually retain everything you'd heard – but a salient point was calling a friend of mine back in Boston," she says."All of a sudden all these facts kept  surfacing about nanotech and networks and computing that I didn't anticipate that I'd retained."She adds: "I don't think there's such a thing as a normal life after SU. It just changes the way you see the world.  Now when someone says anything less than a billion people, it doesn't seem  like a big deal. The numbers, the scale,  has drastically changed. The vision is so much bigger."With results like that, Ismail says the inaugural class has gone as well as anybody could have predicted."The students have been phenomenal, we've attracted some of the top thinkers in the world, every week or two we've had some extraordinary figure come by and chat with the students," he says.Still, he adds, this year is a work in progress. In the winter, the organisation will run a course and next year it plans to expand the summer course to accommodate 120 students – a threefold increase. Will that change what happens? Will Singularity University have to tweak the scheme?"We're tweaking almost non-stop," he smiles. "This is essentially a real-time institution."Hear Bobbie Johnson's interviews with SU students: guardian.co.uk/ techweekly
Based on the consensus from around the internet, yes. Better still, if you've been tardy and haven't upgraded from Mac OS X 10.4 (aka Tiger) you can now upgrade all the way to Snow Leopard (10.6) for just the £25 that Snow Leopard costs in the shops – no need to buy the intermediate Leopard software. See, you've saved yourself an entire £85 over the one year and 10 months of Leopard's life.Some people have expressed their annoyance at the pricing of the software upgrade: $29 in the US, which would translate to £21 (including VAT) in the UK. So what is that extra £4 – representing nearly a 20% markup – going on? Apple, which is reported to have the most profitable (per square foot) retail shop in London thanks to its Regent Street store, hasn't commented.Unlike Windows there's no confusing Heinz-like 57 varieties (Windows Vista Home Premium/Professional/Ultimate) to choose from. You want the client version, you buy it. And to top it all, if you want to install it on more than one machine, Apple doesn't seem to take any measures to prevent it – meaning the £39 "family" pack for a five-install version is a salve to your conscience, and Apple's bank balance, rather than a necessity.All three, apparently, are examples of Apple's munificence, though at Microsoft they would be seen as extreme incompetence. No matter: there seem to be plenty of happy Snow Leopard users out there, all reporting that "it's faster".But there are a couple of potholes. If your machine doesn't have 1GB RAM, then Snow Leopard simply won't install – as waspointed out on the Guardian Technology blog by maxmg: he wanted to put it on his two-year-old Mac Mini.) And, of course, it won't install if you have a PowerPC processor-based machine.As for software, Snow Leopard – given its purpose as a speed boost compared to its predecessor – apparently produces very few incompatibilities with existing third-party software. Theunofficial Snow Leopard compatibility listshows a very long (user-generated) list which is almost all green ticks (for fully compatible) – though it would be useful if the list could be sorted by OK, broken, unknown and minor issues.The question, though still unanswered, is why Apple chose to release Snow Leopard ahead of its announced date, which was September. A software release that is not only focused simply on speed, but also comes out early – in August, the dead days of product releases?Perhaps because it is trying to save some thunder for 9 September, when it is widely (nay confidently) expected to release a new slew of iPods. And why let boring stuff such as software get in the way of Apple's real money-making machine?Charles Arthur
Wolfram Researchlaunched its "computational knowledge engine" Alpha to mixed reviews in May. However, founder Conrad Wolfram says the launch of Alpha is only the first step of a multi-decade project.Alpha already draws on more than two decades of work onthe technical computing application Mathematica, the flagship product of Wolfram Research. The application is well-known in academic circles where it is used to perform complex calculations, manipulate data and create graphs and visualisations, but the average internet user is probably not aware of it.Many reviews compared Alpha unfavourably with general search engines such as Google, but that is like saying that a screwdriver is a bad hammer.Greg Sterling, contributing editor at the blog Search Engine Landwrote: "By juxtaposing itself with Google or positioning itself as superior to Google in a number of ways, Wolfram created some confusion (and disappointment) in the market."Alpha and Google are different tools that do different things. Alpha is best thought of as an answers engine rather than a search engine. Alpha doesn't search the web, it queries andperforms calculations on some 10tn pieces of mathematical, geometric, financial, chemical, historical and astronomical data. The data sets are curated by the Wolfram Research and have been available in Mathematica since version six, which was launched in May 2007.It's a system that can perform complex calculations on real-time information such as financial data, but it requires specialist knowledge to unlock its power. With Alpha, Wolfram hopes to unleash this power to the wider world on the web.The language processAlpha is built in Mathematica. It takes the computation engine and curated data sets of Mathematica and adds natural language processing. This allows people to enter questions and receive answers from an automated presentation system built largely in Mathematica.Mathematica users probably instantly understood how to get the most from Alpha because they knew how to create queries and perform calculations using the application. Mathematica users also knew the data that was available to them. Mathematica can draw on so much data that "it is probably more information than people can find," Wolfram said.By allowing people to ask the system questions, it will allow users unfamiliar with Mathematica to get the answers they want. Mathematica's creator, and Conrad's brother, Stephen Wolfram, described Alpha as the "ultimate 'discovery interface' for Mathematica" allowing people to "sloppily mix all sorts of notations with fragments of natural language". However, the natural language processing engine that interprets the questions needs work.In a recent blog post, Stephen Wolfram said: "Close to half the time that Wolfram Alpha doesn't give a result, it's not because it doesn't have the necessary knowledge, or can't do the necessary computation. It's because it doesn't understand what's being asked."They knew the natural language processing engine needed work, but also that they needed more data.&nbsp;"We went about as far as we could go without data provided by users' queries," Conrad Wolfram says. And since its release, they have hundreds of thousands of queries to analyse in order to improve the service.Recently Stephen Wolfram said, "In just a couple of months, we've reduced the 'fall-through rate' of queries we don't understand by 10%."Alpha is part of a decades long and much larger project of Mathematica started by Stephen Wolfram in the 1980s. It is probably best thought of as an extension of Wolfram Research's effort to bring technical computing and scientific knowledge, if not to the masses, to a much wider audience.Conrad Wolfram said Alpha is also part of a "business ecosystem of data providers that is starting to take shape", which is democratising knowledge. Governments, scientists, the media and financial businesses are starting to provide data and also easier access to it in the form of machine-readable formats accessed by APIs.Knowledge is powerThe company announced its intention to create an API for Alpha when it launched, and the API launch is "not too far away", according to Wolfram. It will provide access to individual items and to modules, allowing what Wolfram describes as "knowledge-based computing". The modules or pods are the elements automatically generated from an Alpha query.Wolfram Research has developed an expertise in "holding and organising data", Wolfram says, and the company believes it can provide data management services to other companies and governments. Wolfram Research will also launch a subscription-based professional version of Alpha, allowing users to combine their own private data with the publicly available data sets included in Alpha.He also sees possibilities for journalism using "charticles". Graphs drawing on updated or even real-time data could be embedded in articles. This is already common on financial news sites, but it could be added to a wider range of articles as the data becomes available.Wolfram Alpha is not a short-term web play but part of a larger, longer-term and ambitious project. Conrad Wolfram described it as "democratising expertise".Google says its mission isto "organise the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful". Wolfram Research is trying to make scientific and mathematical knowledge more accessible.Stephen Wolfram said of Alpha when it launched that: "If the past is a guide, it'll be quite a few years before we understand the full implications of all these possibilities."Wolfram Research has learned much to improve its answer engine in the months since launch. In using it, I've found I'm learning how to use it and also reminding myself of long ago maths and science lessons. It will be interesting to see how Alpha learns – but also what we learn from it.
I have, in effect, been living under a videogames rock for the past three months. My self-imposed exile at the hands of a looming PhD thesis submission date and the subsequent two weeks in a recovery position has rendered my bleeding-edge knowledge of computer gaming obsolete. When confronted with the headlines announcing trends, new releases and banal news, I feel like an OAP outpaced by the young whippersnappers who've staked out their turf in my neighbourhood: "Get offa my patch you little devils!" I want to shout, while shaking a gnarled PlayStation 1 controller at them. "Whateva, grandma," they'd throw back, casually cool with their Wiimotes and iPhones. Harumph.But out of the cacophony I have been able to glean that gaming news doesn't move nearly as fast as the headlines would have you believe.For example, a review of the news since mid-June indicates the industry has continued to descend to hell in a handbasket. Even though gamers are playing more than ever, economically we're spiralling towards virtual Armageddon, on a pathway to a digital implosion that could render the worldwide development community obsolete.There are a couple of familiar indicators: the month-on-month downward arrows on the graphs that dominate analysts' blog posts and research reports, and publishers' interminable reliance on sequels, copycats and licences. The only new trend I sense is resignation – even from more optimistic markets such as the USA and Canada – and a booming secondhand market.The past three months have also continued to usher in the leftfield approaches to play that started after Nintendo announced the Wiimote several years ago. Innovations such as augmented reality, a gimmick-gone-good that imports 3D objects into physical space using technological smoke and mirrors, and the integration of social networking into traditional console products extend engagement to different levels with new players while keeping the older, core gamers happy.The downloadable game business model has remained bullish, with storming results from Valve over the summer and announcements of more publishers willing to try it out.So it seems in the three months I've been pondering theory rather than pounding the controller, not a lot has changed. Thank goodness. It's reassuring to know eye-grabbing headlines are designed to do only that, and that they don't belie any seismic shifts. Perhaps, realising the slowness of this fast-paced industry is an indicator that I'm getting older. I'm happy to leave the hysteria to the kiddies. If it means I can take more holidays, they are welcome to it.
Just after I'd bought my first terabyte hard drive, up comes a blog post about assembling cheap petabytes of storage (1 petabyte = 1,048,576 gigabytes). Backblaze says it provides unlimited storage for only $5 per month, so,the post says, "After looking at several overpriced commercial solutions, we decided to build our own custom Backblaze Storage Pods: 67 terabyte 4U servers for $7,867".Like similar systems, Storage Pods are just a way of packing bunches of cheap hard drives together. And since Backblaze's photo shows them stacking pods, the built-in fans presumably provide sufficient cooling -- at least in the context of, I'd assume, an air-conditioned data centre.Plenty of questions could be raised about Backblaze's approach: not just cooling but how reliable the Pods are, and how you're supposed to deal with failing drives. But the more interesting bit was why they decided to build, and open source, their own design. Tim Nufire writes:Before realizing that we had to solve this storage problem ourselves, we considered Amazon S3, Dell or Sun Servers, NetApp Filers, EMC SAN, etc. As we investigated these traditional off-the-shelf solutions, we became increasingly disillusioned by the expense. When you strip away the marketing terms and fancy logos from any storage solution, data ends up on a hard drive. But when we priced various off-the-shelf solutions, the cost was 10 times as much (or more) than the raw hard drives.The accompanying chart puts the price of a petabyte of raw drives at $81,000, and Backblaze pods at $117,000. "This translates to just three-tenths of one penny per gigabyte per month over the course of three years." A commercial alternative could cost $826,000 (Dell) to $1m (Sun).The scary bit is that using Amazon's S3 cloud computing service would cost $2.8m over three years, and I don't think Amazon is the high-price supplier. (Microsoft's Azure, for example, costs more.)Twas ever thus, of course. If you're old enough to have rented a TV set or a VCR, for example, or a car or a flat, you'll know that the initial costs are relatively low, but become infinitely high over an infinite time period. Renting avoids the up-front cap-ex because you don't have to spend $1m with Sun, but you will inevitably pay much more for the hardware in the long run. If you didn't, the cloud company would go bust (possibly taking your data with it into oblivion -- or possibly to Nigeria).Cloud computing companies can make some cost savings from their much greater utilisation of resources, and that's certainly true for processing power and memory. But they can't save much on hard drive space without moving your data offline, perhaps to tape, and you could do that yourself. Basically, your data fills just as much space in the cloud as it does on your own hard drives.There is, of course, much more to cloud computing than there is to online data storage. The problem is that you really can't do much with cloud computing unless you also store your data online, so you don't have much flexibility in that respect.And as we know, when you don't have a choice, that's exactly where you are going to get overcharged.
The Finnish telecom giant launched the unlimited-music downloads Nokia X6 and the N97 Lite today to add to the launch of the N900 last week.The X6 is basically the old Xpress Music phones in a new guise, but is far enough removed from its predecessor to generate some excitement. Like the Xpress, you can download an unlimited amount of songs, it is much more elegant, and has a terrific 32GB memory space, which makes up for the fact that you can't transfer any of the files to another device. And to be on the safe side, there's also the X3, not as good but one-third the price.How do the products stand up to scrutiny? The X6 is the aesthete's phone,and beneath its delicate features it has a pretty impressive processor speed, making for easy management of applications. The touchscreen has iPhone-like sensitivity.Contrast this with the N900. You might wonder why Nokia felt the need to put a keyboard in an otherwise decent-looking phone, but you get your answer when you toy with the touchscreen. It is much harder to use – in fact, the Nokia employee demonstrating it had turned off the touchscreen keyboard. "I prefer the manual keyboard," he said, before trying to save it mumbling something about sweat on his fingers. Too late, mate.When I tried using it myself, the phone refused to respond to my touch at all. I finally got the knack of it, but couldn't help contrasting it with the X6. Apparently the advantage is you can use a stylus with ease with the N900 – useful for drawing pictures if you're that way inclined.But to be fair, Nokia is quite clear that this is a mobile internet device of sorts rather than a smart phone. In its category, there are few phones that do a better job. It has some excellent features, and with its 600 Mhz processor, runs most applications really well – I opened about seven or eight at random, without eliciting any delay or complaint from the device.Attention to detail is also great, with a little pop-up tool that tells you when you've received a message on another window and a tool option for cutting and pasting text using the touchscreen facility. Managing your files and pictures is also made easy.The next weapon in the armoury is the N97 Lite, which is a stripped-down version of the excellent N97. This is probably the bottom-up approach, catering to consumers who aspire to be in the smartphone category. Though a price has not yet been released, it promises to be a lot cheaper than the N97.On the whole, it is a really aggressive push on the part of Nokia to get back in the game. On first impressions, I would say it could well be successful – I really liked the X6 and the N97 Lite. The jury is still out however on the N900.
Until recently, camera phones have been the snapshot camera's poor relation, but some have reached the point where they can take serious pictures, even at night. That, at least, is Nokia's sales pitch for the N86. It commissioned David Bailey to produceAlive at Night, an exhibition of photographs taken with the mobile phone to promote its launch on Orange.The brief was to photograph a selection of people who work in London at night. These included a cocktail waitress, a paramedic, a butcher, a baker, and some burlesque dancers.It wasn't a huge challenge. The N86 is more advanced than most small digital cameras: 8 megapixel sensor, large-aperture (f/2.4) Carl Zeiss Tessar lens, mechanical shutter speeds of up to 1/1000th of a second, automatic motion blur reduction and built-in flash. In any case, you'd expect someone with Bailey's experience to come up with the goods. Which he did.I wasn't sure whether I was disappointed  by the show at The Old Dairy in Bloomsbury, London. The pictures are terrific. However, most look as though they could have been taken with a 35mm camera – particularly my favourite, the portrait of the French singer and Volupté entertainment manager Joss Cantius.Maybe this was the point: it shows you can use an N86 instead of a "proper" camera. On the other hand, the pictures didn't have any distinctive quality that might make a photographer choose an N86.Cameras do influence the way you take pictures: you get different results using a Box Brownie or a Leica; a Polaroid or a large-format plate camera on a tripod. But the N86's main attraction seems to be the obvious one: you can use it when you've left your real cameras at home.Bailey says the N86 "didn't really change anything because – this might sound pretentious – I don't take pictures, I make pictures. You don't just stand there and take a picture: a chimpanzee could do that."However, he reckons that with digital rather than film "you get a loss of quality, because when you blow it up, it goes to pixels, which is not the same as grain. It's a different technology. It's a different way of looking at the world."For me, a camera phone is a notebook or scanner, to remind me of something. If there's a book I want to buy, I'll take a quick picture of it. That's where small digital cameras work for me. [Digital] is great for snaps and things like that, it's fine for street photography, but I can't see myself doing portraits on it."Well, perhaps not for Vogue, but he just had, for Alive at Night. I asked Cantius how the shoot went. "It was very easy," she says, "because he's a really good director of photography. But I was quite surprised about the quality of the picture."Given the popularity of digital cameras and camera phones, many would appear to share her view. Matt Gibbs, account director at the market research company GfK Retail and Technology, says that "overall sales of cameras are a lot higher now than they've been in the past, so digital photography has been good for cameras".And he doesn't see mobiles replacing pure cameras. Gibbs adds: "There's obviously going to be a group of people who say, 'We don't need to buy cameras any more because we've got the technology on our mobile phones.' But when you look at the sheer numbers involved, it's hard to see cannibalisation. Something like 15m camera phones have been sold this year [in  the UK], compared with 3m or so digital cameras. I think it would have caused a  far greater decrease than the 7% or 8% decline we've seen in digital camera sales."Mobile phones are seen as a threat to many standalone devices: PDAs, MP3 players, GPS and satnav devices, handheld games consoles and electronic book readers. But the mobile's impact has been variable."The way I look at it is that mobile phones are gaining technological advantages in terms of capabilities and picture quality, but digital cameras are not standing still," says Gibbs."We're seeing things like superzoom cameras, face detection, touch screens and things like that. That's keeping clear blue water between the different devices, to some extent."Meanwhile, Bailey remains unimpressed by the rise of digital cameras, or by the iPhone becoming the most popular camera on Flickr. "What's Flickr?" he asks."To me, digital is the best thing that's happened because it's made what I do more unique," says Bailey. "Everybody else's pictures look the same."This is like a repeat of when Kodak brought out the Box Brownie over a hundred years ago, and [some people] said, 'It's the end of photography: no one will take a proper picture ever again.' The same thing happened with Polaroid cameras, then it happened with the digital cameras, and now it's happening with the digital camera on a phone."It's funny how in the end, technology doesn't always make things better, it just makes things more accessible. It doesn't make photography any better. But in the end, it's good: it adds another tool. Anything that makes people think or go in a new direction, it's good."
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, has admitted it was slow to react to the rise of new devices, such as the iPhone, and has launched a major offensive to win back market share from its rivals Apple and Research in Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry email device."We have an aggressive plan now," Kai Oistamo, the Finnish company's executive vice-president for mobile phones, said at the Nokia World conference today. "But if you go back a few years, the market changed suddenly and we were not fast enough changing with it.""To a large extent, that is behind us now and we have got our act together," he added.The company is hoping to capitalise on its unlimited music service with the launch of three new products today – two revamped devices that use the music service, and a "lite" version of the touchscreen N97. They follow last week's launch of the N900, the first smartphone ever made by Nokia, which uses the open-source Linux operating system, and its first ever laptop, the Nokia 3G netbook.Analysts immediately greeted the N900 as Nokia's first really compelling device that can compete in the high-end smartphone category now dominated by BlackBerry and the iPhone.Oistamo said Nokia had already clawed back a share in the smartphone market in the past six months, possibly on the back of the N97. Previously, he said, it had been hit hard by rival products.Nokia has also beaten rivals to become the first phone manufacturer to announce the launch of a netbook, and hopes to get a head start in that market. While the netbook's retail price is likely to be €575 (£506), the company has a deal with O2 in Germany under which  customers can buy the laptop for just €250 if they sign a long-term contract. Similar deals are expected in other European markets. The netbook is to be launched in the fourth quarter, using the new Windows 7 operating system.At the conference Nokia's chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo said the string of product launches in the past week marked a "transformational" moment for Nokia. He said the company would attempt to grab more ground in the smartphone market while continuing to cater to different product categories.He also stressed the importance of Nokia's expanding services business, which is built around its Ovi suite of mobile music, maps, games and other services and is intended to be the company's answer to iTunes, reiterating the firm's target of reaching 300m active Ovi users before 2012. It currently has 55m.However, Nokia's Comes With Music service has failed to connect with consumers. Many people are reportedly confused by its marketing, which appears to target serious music fans even though the product is a perfect choice for parents who are worried that their children might be downloading tracks illegally at home.To inject some sparkle back into the music service, Nokia today launched two new music phones: the X3, which has a slide-out number pad, and the X6 touchscreen phone. Both have more storage capacity than their predecessors, and the X6 is able to play about 35 hours of music before the battery runs out.The launch of the N97 Mini, which is smaller and less powerful than its predecessor, is aimed at a a wider market: at €450, it is more affordable for the mobile operators, who subsidise the cost of phones in many markets.
This week, Bobbie Johnson visits a new academic institution that has an ambitious goal - to change the world. TheSingularity Universitywas launched this year at the TED conference in California by the futurist Ray Kurzweil, and it is dedicated to teaching cutting-edge technologies and future studies.The campus is in Mountain View, California, and we meet the executive director of the university, Salim Ismail. Ismail discusses the skills that are needed to manage the future and, therefore, the skills that future politicians and policymakers will need.Bobbie also speaks to a few of the 40 students that have paid $25,000 to study at Singularity U to hear about their experiences, and finds out from one that she is nonchalant about now working on projects that would affect only one billion people.There's also this week's news - with details ofeBay selling a stake in Skype,Facebook tightening its privacy rules,a new call for tax breaks for the games industry, and an apology from Microsoft after its Polish armdigitally altered an image of a black man to make him white in a promotional image.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Google has apologised after its Gmail service was knocked offline for almost two hours yesterday.The company admitted the failure of Gmail on Tuesday evening was a "big deal" for a "majority" of its millions of domestic and business users.Google said the outage was caused when some of its servers were taken offline for routine maintenance and its other computers became overloaded with traffic. It said it would to do everything to ensure that the problem did not happen again.According to the New York Times blogGadgetwise, Google engineers faced extra difficulties in fixing the problem because the company uses Gmail internally.It was the third Gmail outage this year, after four hours in February and 20 minutes in May.The free version of Gmail is the world's third most popular email program with about 149 million users worldwide in June, ranking behind the free email services offered by Microsoft and Yahoo, according to data from comScore.Businesses are increasingly using Google's services because they are delivered over the internet instead of being managed in-house. That can save companies money and buy them more storage than they could otherwise afford. But many companies are sceptical about outsourcing such critical tasks.Google argues that web-based services are more reliable than those handled in-house, but big outages like yesterday's add another challenge to selling Gmail services to business.Despite the outage, Gmail is generally regarded well by web users. According to  analysis bySysomosyesterday, 36% of social media users regarded Gmail in a positive way, 44% were neutral and only 20% negative.
Last year wereported on the work of Babak Parviz, an electrical engineer at the University of Washington who is building bionic contact lenses - little gizmos you can pop in your eye that contain tiny circuits and LED displays.Now Parviz has written adetailed account of his work in IEEE Spectrum, which is well worth a read. In it he outlines some of the work his team has done, as well as the problems they are facing (including the manufacturing process and safety).There's definite potential to use these for augmented reality, he suggests - and since there'slots of chatter about AR at the moment, it's a useful angle to draw some attention to his research. But it's also worth noting that augmentation doesn't have to be flashy or highly visible in order to be effective:Besides visual enhancement, noninvasive monitoring of the wearer's biomarkers and health indicators could be a huge future market. We've built several simple sensors that can detect the concentration of a molecule, such as glucose. Sensors built onto lenses would let diabetic wearers keep tabs on blood-sugar levels without needing to prick a finger. The glucose detectors we're evaluating now are a mere glimmer of what will be possible in the next 5 to 10 years.Clearly a long, long way to go until a technology like this becomes mass market. But there's progress being made.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
So the PS3 Slim launched yesterday - did you get one? I'm planning to take a look at one later this week but anecdotal reports from friends suggest that the Slim, "looks better under the telly" than the original. Deeper analysis to come. Yesterday also saw the release of the latest PS3 firmware. Like all big console updates - and this is a fairly big one, at least cosmetically - it will take a while to get used to. To me it feels more cluttered than before. Less minimalistic, more shiny. The PSN Store gets far more prominence too and points at that download future we all know is coming. Any PS3 users here downoaded yet? If so what do you think?Want more PS3 news? Oh go on then. In the US at least it seems the average PS3 owner is ahigh earning 28 year-old male.Right now, it's primarily male. The average age is 28 years old, in usually the middle- to higher-income range. They over-index against those with graduate degrees. But it's expanding. What we're finding ever since we've introduced services like the video download service, we're getting more of the household on the PlayStation Network. Some of the top rentals and sales on the video side have been content that probably doesn't appeal exactly to that 28-year-old male. It's more those movies that are geared toward women.Surprised? Thought not. Anyway, so what do you think about the Slim and the 3.0 firmware so far?
Rockstar released the first trailer from its latest downloadable GTA IV episode last night. Due out on October 29, The Ballad of Gay Tony follows the fortunes of Anthony 'Gay Tony' Prince as he struggles to maintain his nightclub empire; players, though, take control of Tony's bodyguard, Luis Lopez.It looks like the adventure may be recalling the excesses of GTA: Vice City - the trailer is packed with Michael Bay-style explosions, parachute jumps, helicopter gunships and synchronised disco dancing. Inevitably, someone also loses their trousers. Scarface meets Studio 54 viaDisco Bloodbath.This episode will, of course, also make up part of the forthcoming retail release,Grand Theft Auto: Episodes from Liberty City, which also contains previous instalment, The Lost and Damned, and won't require the main GTA IV code to run.So what do you think?
&bull; Plenty of chatter today abouteBay's deal to sell 65% of Skype to private investors. Over atPaidContent, they have some more information on how the purchase breaks down, whileOm MaliksayseBay shareholders should be mad that it's selling for so little.&bull; America's National Football League has told players and officials that theycan't use Twitter during games, reports theAP.No mention of iton the NFL's official Twitter account- perhaps no surprise - but some players, includingCincinnati Bengals player Chad Ochocinco, are more than a little irritated by it.&bull; Since Andy Baio'sWaxy blogpointed me in the direction of a neat little one-button running game calledCanablt, I've spent rather too much time playing it. Now you can too!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Today's least unexpected news - it turns out that sales of the Xbox 360 Elite jumped 43% over the bank holiday. Microsoft dropped the price of its top-of-the-range console iteration to £199 on Friday prompting a rush of interest; however as Gamesindustry.bizpointed out:Although a GBP 50 difference looks impressive on store shelves, Microsoft has stopped including a HDMI cable as standard in the package. The company also raised the price of its Arcade unit from GBP 129 to 159, and is phasing out the GBP 179 Premium SKU.It's a good day for Xbox stats - the XBLA shooterShadow Complexhas just broken Arcade sales figures, attracting over 200,000 downloads in its first week of availability. Developed by Chair Entertainment Group, the studio bought last year by Epic Games on the strength of its debut download, Undertow, it's a cunning cross between Castlevania and Super Metroid. It's also further proof that, at least as far as downloadable games go, 2D is alive and well. In your face James Cameron!
Rockstar has announced that it's bringing GTA: Chinatown Wars and the music creation appBeateratorto the iPhone and iPod touch. The former was originally released on the Nintendo DS to huge critical acclaim earlier this year, while the latter is due on PSP and PlayStation Network at the end of the month. Both were originally created by the Rockstar Leeds studio and will arrive on Apple's handsets this autumn.There's no word yet on any new features, but it looks like we can expect reasonably straightforward conversions of both titles. It would be fun to see a version Chinatown Wars that exploits some of the functionality of the iPhone, perhaps texting you with drug deals throughout the day - though this could lead to some tricky misunderstandings. With Beaterator, though users will be able to share their tracks with others via the Rockstar Social Club, there must surely be a way of getting the best user-generated music onto the iTunes Store...Whatever the case, it's another indication that iPhone is now being fully integrated into publisher release plans. EA has so far led the assault with high profile translations of Sims 3 and Spore, but 2K Games is doing well with Civilization Revolution; as is Lucas Arts with Secret of Monkey Island.The question is - how will official titles in familiar genres fair against specifically-designed iPhone lookalikes? Chinatown Wars is likely to be priced in the £5.99 region, but it'll be up against established mobile variations such as Gameloft's Gangstar: West Coast Hustle (£3.99 - and full 3D!), Apex Designs' Payback and Tag Games' Car Jack Streets. Will brand loyalty carry across into the less predictable iPhone sector? Oh okay, with Chinatown Wars I think we know the answer.
Is that MySpace in the rear-view mirror, Twitter users may wonder? Why, yes, it is, at least in the UK. According to Hitwise, the web research company, the number of UK visits to Twitter exceeded that for MySpace in the UK for the last week of August.Twitter had more visits than MySpace in the UK in the final week of August 2009. Source: HitwiseAs Hitwise puts it, "for the week ending 29/08/09 Twitter.com picked up 1 in every 400 UK Internet visits and ranked as the 27th most visited website in the UK, one position above MySpace."That's some shocking graph though for the progress (or lack of it) for MySpace in the UK - but it fits withwhat we have written before about its fading attractioncompared to Facebook and, yes, Twitter.AsRobin Goad of Hitwise notes, "If anything, Twitter is even more popular than our numbers imply, as we are only measuring traffic to the main Twitter website. If the people accessing their Twitter accounts via mobile phones and third party applications (such as Twitterrific, Twitterfeed and Tweetdeck) were included, the numbers would be even higher. Of course, MySpace also picks up a significant amount of traffic outside of the MySpace.com domain, particularly via mobile platforms."That "Twitter is bigger than you think" comes from what we could call the API effect, where lots -perhaps as much as 80%- of the traffic doesn't go through its website, but through its API. (And that's an interesting admission by Hitwise, noted for future reference, that it measures browser traffic, not port 80 traffic, when it does its statistics. Thanks, Robin.)However, a couple of pinches of salt with which to season this:a) school's out. Possibly many of MySpace's core users are school-age, and are off on holidays doing non-computer things. (Well, you can hope.)b) work's not out. Twitter users skew older, so they may still be around and using their accounts, which could have pushed up the numbers.Overall though it all looks dangerously like a trend for MySpace. After all the staff clearouts and other actions, it remains to be seen whether it's going to be able to turn that around. In which case Rupert Murdoch isreallygoing to need those paywalls to work.
Online auction house eBay has sold a 65% stake in Skype to an investment consortium that includes the founder of Netscape, in a deal that values the internet telephony group at $2.75bn (£1.9bn).Following a year-long review in which eBay considered the possibility of floating Skype, which it snapped up almost exactly four years ago, the company has decided to pocket $1.9bn in cash and retain a 35% stake in the business.But the value placed on the deal is $350m less than eBay paid for Skype, and there are also doubts that the online auctioneer even owns the underlying technology that powers the service. The company is currently locked in a legal battle in the UK courts with Joltid, a company owned by Skype's original founders, which claims it actually has the rights to the technology.Founded in 2003 by Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, the entrepreneurs behind filesharing service Kazaa who then went on to launch online TV service Joost, Skype uses people's internet connections to make calls at greatly reduced cost. Only when people want to call "out" to existing phone numbers or mobile phones are significant costs incurred and these are paid for by its customers.The company generated revenues of $551m in 2008, a 44% increase compared with 2007, with 405 million registered users, and eBay reckons it will make more than $1bn in 2011.When eBay bought the business it had revenues of just $7m but the business has never sat easily with the company's investors, many of whom have criticised its lack of strategic fit with the rest of the company.A full-scale review of eBay's future was launched after the retirement in March last year of the auction company's veteran boss, Meg Whitman.The consortium buying the stake is made up of private investment group Silver Lake; UK firm Index Ventures, which was an early investor in Skype; Andreessen Horowitz, a recently launched venture capital firm led by Netscape founder Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz; and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB)."We are extremely fortunate to have such a talented and seasoned group invest in our company," said the Skype chief executive, Josh Silverman. "This is a group of investors and industry veterans that have a strong track record of taking the technology companies they own to the next level. With their know-how helping to guide our vision, Skype is poised to enter the next phase of its growth and development.""There is no doubt in my mind that the talented players that make up this investment group will enable strong growth of Skype in the years to come," added the eBay chief executive, John Donahoe. "This transaction allows us to unlock both immediate and long-term value while benefiting from talented partners to help Skype accelerate its growth momentum."Shares in eBay rose more than 3% on news of the sale, but there are fears that Skype may not be the technological powerhouse that its new owners hope.In March, eBay filed a claim against Joltid – founded by Zennström and Friis – in the English high court. Joltid, which owns the key technologies for Skype, then "purported to terminate the licence agreement". Without the licence, Skype may be worthless because it will be unable to run legally – or might have to pay hefty licence fees to Joltid to keep it going.Joltid alleges that Skype "should not possess, use or modify certain software source code" and that eBay has disclosed some of that code in US patent cases following court orders. It is seeking to revoke Skype's licence on the basis of copyright infringement and misuse of confidential information.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Something of a departure here for IO Interactive, previously best known as the developer of the Hitman games. Mini Ninjas is about as far from shaven-headed assassins as you get: it's a Manga-style action-adventure effort in which you pilot Hiro, a young boy pressed into service as a ninja, who must hack and slash his way past hordes of evil samurai in a quest to free his village from the grip of dark forces.It may sound like a plot we've come across all too often, but Mini Ninjas feels fresh and original. It looks fantastic, with crisp, stylised graphics, and manages the considerable feat of being endlessly cute without ever approaching tweeness. The gameplay can primarily be described as hack-n-slash: Hiro is a demon with a blade, and as he progresses, he amasses a library of magic attacks. And he also frees the other mini-ninjas dispatched before him, each of which have particular attributes (such as brute strength or deadly accuracy with arrows) – you can switch between them at any time.No such game would be complete without boss-battles and Mini Ninjas duly obliges. Like the rest of the game, they aren't enormously challenging: you deal with extraneous enemies, manoeuvre into the correct position, and unleash sequences of prescribed button-presses. But they are amusing – one boss, for example, has a fart-attack you must dodge, which will delight youngsters.Clever touches abound: the samurai have been magically created from animals, so revert to their original form instead of dying; freeing caged animals earns you experience points which level you up, bring more health and the ability to take out more enemies at a go in the well thought-out focus mode. You have to seek out shrines to obtain spells, which aren't served up until you present an anemone as an offering. You can pick flowers and mushrooms, and turn them into potions, and there are plenty of collectables. Fruit shaken from bushes and trees restores depleted health.The overall effect is almost Zen-like: Mini Ninjas' constant charm renders it&nbsp;calming and even relaxing to play. Which ought to go down well with the parents of games-obsessed youngsters prone to incipient hyperactivity. Indeed, any parent watching Mini Ninjas being played will find it hard to resist the temptation to have a go over their own, at which point their offspring may find it tricky to regain control of the gamepad.
