For those who like to play games on the move, E3 featured an almost bewildering amount of new handheld hardware and software. By common consent, Nintendo's DS was one of the stars of the show; Sony's Portable PlayStation (PSP) was certainly the sexiest item of hardware in evidence. Lesser players such as Nokia, Tapwave and Gametrac also created a splash.Nintendo's DS (which, the company claims, stands for "Developers' System" rather then the widely presumed "Dual Screen") positively bristles with technology. Resembling an oversized Game Boy Advance SP, it has a screen in each half of its clamshell, the bottom of which is touch-sensitive. It has Bluetooth-style wireless local area networking and is Wi-Fi-compatible, opening the way for online gaming. It has two cartridge slots - one for DS games and one for Game Boy games - and even two processors.At Nintendo's press conference the day before the show opened, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata claimed dramatically that: "The DS will change gaming," yet little evidence was provided to back up the statement. However, hands-on time with several DS demos suggested that it will, indeed, revolutionise handheld gaming.Many used the touch-screen as an input mechanism - for example, a version of Metroid Prime allowed users to fire by tapping with a stylus and change the game's viewpoint by dragging the stylus; meanwhile, the top screen displayed the game's map. A version of Mario involved four players racing each other to catch stars, whose position appeared on a top-down map on the top screen; an air-hockey game stitched the two screens into one display. And a super-minimal version of Pac-Man, called Pac-Pix, allowed you to draw a Pac-Man, determining his size and direction, then change his direction by drawing lines on the touch-screen.Somewhat annoyingly, the Nintendo DS will be launched in Japan and the US at Christmas, but will not reach Europe until early next year. However, Iwata maintained that: "The gap will be smaller than it has been in the past." No pricing has been announced, but Nintendo says it will be "reasonable".Which is unlikely to be the case for Sony's PSP. Sony remained tight-lipped about how much it will cost when it arrives in mid-2005, but it will probably cost in the vicinity of &#163;200 to &#163;250. The PSP is large for a handheld, but much of its surface area is taken up by an impressively   crisp TFT screen, and its sleek design will make it appeal to those who must have the latest gadget. It will have USB and Wi-Fi connectivity and, thanks to a powerful Sony-made processor, will run games that are roughly on a par with the PlayStation 2 in graphical terms.While the PSP is certainly the most ambitious handheld in gaming history, some question marks do surround it. Much of its allure stems from its ability to play back DVDs, yet it uses a proprietary format that Sony has dubbed Universal Media Disk (UMD). It is unclear whether there will be a decent library of UMD DVDs - or games - available at launch. Sony announced that an impressive list of publishers will make games for the machine, and that there will be versions of Gran Turismo 4 and Metal Gear Solid (renamed Metal Gear Acid) for the PSP, but it will surely be some time before the machine acquires a significant amount of original games, rather than ports from other platforms. The PSP, with a plethora of tiny buttons, also looks rather delicate.Nokia, whose recently released QD successfully eliminated the original N-Gage's most glaring design flaws, announced an impressive array of new games. Previously unannounced N-Gage titles include the platform's   first beat-'em-up, HudsonSoft's legendary King Of Fighters; SSX: Out Of Bounds and Fifa 2005 from Electronic Arts; and the role-playing games Rift and Xanadu Next.More importantly, Nokia gave the first demonstrations of what it hopes will be a "killer app" for the N-Gage, the self-published second world war action-strategy game Pathway To Glory. Whether it will drive sales of the handset remains to be seen, but Pathway To Glory was impressively addictive. It supports at least six local players at a time and, through GPRS connectivity, will support a form of massive multiplay. It uses an innovative form of turn-based gameplay, in which you have a certain amount of time in which to move your troops and vehicles, before your opponent's turn starts.Nokia allowed show attendees to try out a number of other games for   the first time, notably Pocket Kingdom: Own The World, a turn-based action-strategy game from Sega, which will be a true massively multiplayer online game; a version of the much-loved first-person shooter Call Of Duty; the impressive-looking Crash: Nitro Kart; Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004, which allows you to challenge up to three friends - who need not necessarily be in the same country - via GPRS; The Sims: Bustin' Out; and Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Jungle Storm. There is no doubt that Nokia has drastically improved the quality of the N-Gage's software library, and is at last bringing out games that take advantage of the machine's blend of mobile phone and gaming capabilities.The show's unique machine, however, was UK company Gametrac's Gizmondo, which is due to reach the shops in September, initially in Toys "R" Us stores, priced at a rather hefty &#163;199. Not only does the Windows CE machine run games, video and MP3s, it also has a camera and, bizarrely, GPS satellite tracking built in. You can also use it to send short messages (SMS) and multimedia messages (MMS), and it has Bluetooth.Unfortunately, Gizmondo fails to convince. The company claims to be working on a game that employs GPS, but its presence seems pointless. And despite its Windows CE compatibility, the games lack sophistication.Gizmondo is not the only obscure handheld gaming machine due to reach the UK soon. In autumn, it will be joined by Tapwave's Zodiac, which is on sale in the US and can be purchased fromwww.tapwave.com. The Zodiac is well-made and attractive with a decent games portfolio that includes Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4, Doom II, Spyhunter, Altered Beast, Duke Nukem and a plethora of mini-games. Two versions of the machine with different amounts of memory go on sale at a hefty $299 and $399.Tapwave promises that Bluetooth and Wi-Fi cards will soon become available for the Zodiac, and the company appears to have half-decent support from games developers and publishers. It will be interesting to see how much it costs when it reaches British shops.The inescapable conclusion that can be drawn from E3 is that a new age of handheld gaming is approaching. Nintendo, of course, has owned the handheld market for decades - selling, it claims, a staggering 168m units of all Game Boy variants to date. And while the innovative DS should keep it comfortably at the top of the market, new competition, with varying degrees of credibility, is beginning to breathe down its neck.
"Several users of the search engine's Gmail Web-based e-mail service noticed Tuesday that their storage limits had quietly been raised to 1 million megabytes, or 1 terabyte. That's four times the typical capacity of a new high-end PC's hard drive. The Gmail service still is in testing, and it wasn't immediately clear how widely Google will offer the higher storage limit, under what conditions, or to which users," reportsCNet.
"Apple Computer got hit by a double whammy this week when a security researcher publicized a pair of flaws in Mac OS X that when used together could let attackers place a malicious program on a Mac and then run the file. The flaws could be used to create a virus that spreads through a Web link sent via e-mail messages. An attacker would have to also create a Web site with special programming," reportsCNet."Security information service Secunia rated the issue 'extremely critical,' on Tuesday, because online discussions have pointed out many different ways to exploit the flaws. Secunia recommended that Mac users avoid visiting untrusted Web sites and said Mac administrators and others avoid surfing the Internet while signed on to their networks as privileged users."Comment: The Secunia advisory ishere.Update, Monday:Infoworldreports: "Apple issued a patch for the 'help' flaw on Friday, but the fix leaves the 'disk' problem unpatched, experts said. 'Mac users are as vulnerable now, as before the patch was released,' Niels Henrik Rasmussen, chief executive of security firm Secunia told us. ... A temporary fix is to modify the Mac's Internet preferences, turning off the option to open 'safe' files after downloading and adding a helper application for the 'disk' and 'disks' protocols, the company said in its advisory."
Internet giant AOL has joined the escalating UK broadband price wars, slashing the prices of its high speed internet services and revealing ambitious plans for video on demand and internet telephony.AOL, which said today it had more than 325,000 UK broadband subscribers, has introduced a new budget service at £19.99 a month for an always-on 256kbps connection, which is around five times faster than a normal dial-up internet service.The major internet service providers are pumping tens of millions of pounds into developing and marketing  broadband services in an effort to take high-speed access to the masses and make high quality video and music downloads a reality.France Telecom-owned Wanadoo, formerly Freeserve, last week unveiled a £17.99 service that offers subscribers a 512kbps connection, 10 times faster than dial-up, but limits the amount of data they can download in a month to 2Gb. BT has also launched a similar service, priced at £19.99 and limited to 1Gb.But AOL, which also cut the price of its standard 512kbps Broadband Gold service to £24.99 a month and reduced the price of its fastest 1Mb offering to £29.99, today said it was taking a different approach to its rivals."AOL has always delivered flat-rate services to its members where ever possible, because they value the certainty of a fixed monthly fee without hidden costs," said the UK chief executive, Karen Thomson."Our in depth research shows that very few customers have any idea or interest in what a one or two gigabyte capacity imposed by some providers actually means in terms of usage," she added.An AOL spokesman claimed that if a broadband subscriber simply listened to an hour of streamed internet radio each day they would breach the 1Gb limit imposed by some other providers.But companies which impose capacity limits on users say it is sufficient for most subscribers and point out that heavy users can always upgrade to their other internet services.AOL has also followed the lead of BT and Wanadoo in announcing it is working on the launch of a video-on-demand service over broadband lines.A spokesman said the company was talking to a range of broadcasters and Hollywood studios, including its sister Time Warner companies, about providing high-quality, on-demand content to PC screens.It will also launch a Voice over IP (VoIP) service within 12 months that will provide AOL subscribers with free or cheap calls over the internet not only to other PCs but also to landlines and mobile phones.There are now more than 4.6 million broadband subscribers in the UK over BT's ADSL lines and through cable providers NTL and Telewest.Under pressure from regulator Ofcom, BT recently further cut the amount it charges rivals to lease its lines and last week promised it would slash the amount it charges rival telcos to access its local exchanges by up to 70%.BT announced today that nine out of 10 UK homes and businesses were able to subscribe to broadband and reaffirmed its push to extend the service to more rural areas.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The feverish excitement created by the initial public offering of Google on Wall Street proved too much for some investors hoping to climb on board.A business development manager for BT has pleaded guilty to a scheme in which he swindled wealthy New Yorkers out of almost $3m (&#163;1.7m) by pretending he had access to shares in the planned flotation.The defendant, Dutchman Shamoon Rafiq, spent up to $350,000 of the cash in a three-month spree in New York nightclubs, on strippers, expensive watches for friends and $100 tips to waiters and hotel staff, according to prosecutors. He could spend up to five years in prison.Rafiq, who worked in New York, claimed in meetings with investors that he could get hold of "preferred stock", available only to Google founders and friends, for $12. He claimed to be a venture capitalist and a friend of the Google founders from their days at Stanford University.At least five investors took the bait. They included a lawyer for a European telecommunications company, an investment banker, a senior brokerage executive and the chairman of a global telecommunications firm.They wired Mr Rafiq $500,000 and agreed to invest a total of $2.8m. The scheme unravelled after the investment banker grew suspicious and demanded his money back. The Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Rafiq in March.Prosecutors are opposing Rafiq's request to serve his sentence in the Netherlands.The Google flotation is the most eagerly anticipated event in the technology sector since the bursting of the internet bubble of the late 1990s. The internet search engine announced plans to join the stock market last month and is aiming to raise $2.7bn. It is likely to have a market value of about $20bn.But the planned flotation has not been free of controversy. The founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page have structured the IPO with two classes of shares giving themselves special voting privileges.They are also bypassing the usual method of selling shares and holding a public auction of the stock.
AOL announces today...AOL UK today introduced a new portfolio of broadband services designed to deliver choice, clarity and value to UK Internet users by focusing on straightforward pricing with no upfront fees, no capacity limits and no surcharges for 'heavy' usage – plus a free customer helpline.AOL UK, which has more than 325,000 broadband subscribers, has also broken the £20 barrier with its new entry-level broadband service, which will cost just £19.99 a month for an always-on connection at up to 256Kbps downstream and upstream.AOL Broadband Gold (up to 512Kbps) will now cost £24.99 instead of £27.99 a month and AOL Broadband Platinum (up to 1Mbps), previously £34.99 a month, will now cost £29.99 - a market-leading price."
Sammy, Japan's biggest maker of gambling machines, said yesterday it would take control of computer games developer Sega, best known for Sonic the Hedgehog, in a deal worth 165bn yen (&#163;800m).By combining Sammy's slot machine and pachinko (gambling machine) concerns with Sega's software expertise, the holding company's combined annual sales will exceed &#165;440bn, overtaking rival Konami."We still lack killer contents, and Sega's history and library of software will help us a great deal," Sammy's chief executive, Hajime Satomi, told reporters.Sega has suffered recently from intense competition in the computer games industry but yesterday showed it had turned the corner by announcing annual profits almost three times higher than the previous year's.The takeover has reportedly caused concern among Sega employees, and analysts have speculated that Mr Satomi will try to make cost savings in research and development.Sammy took a 22.4% stake in Sega at the end of last year and made its first takeover attempt. Although the bid failed, Sammy's holding led to Mr Satomi becoming chairman of Sega in February.Yesterday Mr Satomi said the combined company could generate one trillion yen in revenues, though he did not say how long that would take.The two firms said in a statement they planned to set up a new holding company, Sega Sammy Holdings, in October. Sammy shareholders will control 72% of the new company.Yesterday Sega announced a group net profit of &#165;8.76bn for 2003-04, compared with &#165;3.05bn the year before. Revenues dropped 3% from a year ago to &#165;191bn.Sega attributed its latest annual figures to the success of its arcade games business. It estimated sales would rise 6.7% to &#165;204bn this year but conceded the merger could result in lower profits for 2004-05.Sammy, meanwhile, reported a 40% increase in annual net profit, thanks to a 52% rise in sales - a trend the company predicted would continue into the current business year.Sega has concentrated on games software development since 2001 when it was forced to take its loss-making Dreamcast game console off the market amid competition from Sony and Nintendo. Sega has lost &#165;191bn since 1998.Sammy produces machines for pachinko, a vertical pinball-like game and a national obsession in Japan.The deal is designed to help Sammy consolidate its foothold in the intensely competitive pachinko sector, one of few legal avenues for gaming in Japan, by incorporating Sega characters and technology into its machines, while branching out into the arcade games sector.The initial merger talks last year broke down due to disagreements over management style, and terms and conditions.Though titles such as OutRun 2 - a racing game - have brought Sega success in the arcade business, it has lost out in the crucial sports games genre to other software developers such as Electronic Arts, maker of the hugely popular NBA Live basketball title.But Sega has been able to make up for its weaknesses by slashing promotional, development and other costs in its video game software division.
"A study challenging the origins of Linux states that the open-source software frequently is taken or adapted from material owned by other companies and individuals. It also directly questions Linus Torvalds' claim to be the inventor of Linux. The information is contained in a book by Kenneth Brown, president the Alexis de Tocqueville Institution. Portions of the book will be released later this week," writesJay Wrolstad of www.enterprise-linux-it.com."Among the conclusions is that there is a high probability that Linux is a derivative work, based on previous operating systems -- including, but not limited to, Unix and Minux," [Gregory Fossedal, a Tocqueville senior fellow] told NewsFactor.Excerpts from Brown's book will be published at www.adti.net beginning on Thursday.Comment: "Minux" should be Minix, obviously....Ken Brown also wrotePatents and the Penguin.
Hewlett-Packard Co. today announced its second-quarter 2004 financial results, including revenue of $20.1 billion, an increase of 12% over last year's Q2 revenue of $18 billion," reportsComputerworld."In an announcement after the financial markets closed today, HP said it posted net income of $1.1 billion."Comment: According to the official statement,here: "Personal Systems revenue totaled $6.0 billion, up 17% year-over-year, with strong growth across all regions and categories. Desktop revenue increased 14% year-over-year, while notebooks grew 26%. This is the third consecutive quarter that PC year-over-year revenue growth surpassed HP's nearest competitor. Personal Systems reported an operating profit of $45 million, up from $23 million in the prior year period."The PC division had more or less the same revenue as the Imaging and Printing division ($6.1 billion) but that made vastly more profit ($953 million).The Computerworld headline says "HP's Q2 earnings reach $20.1B" which would be nice. Of course, it means revenues, not profits.
Reads a bit like the Onion, butAP reports..."A team of rocketeers led by a Bloomington, Minn., man has claimed success in their goal of launching the first amateur rocket into space, sending a 21-foot rocket an estimated 70 miles above the Nevada desert.Ky Michaelson, 65, a former Hollywood stuntman, had been working since 1995 to blast an amateur rocket into space, defined as 62 miles above the earth. His first two attempts, in 2000 and 2002, failed. The third time was the charm.[...]Michaelson's 4-year-old son is named Buddy Rocketman Michaelson, and Michaelson says his son calls himself "Rocketman Buddy." He also has a 6-year-old daughter, Miracle.Now that he's reached his longtime goal, Michaelson says, he plans to return home to Minnesota and spend the summer with his wife, Jodi, and their children. They plan to rent a motor-home and visit Alaska."
The announcement last week that every English hospital will soon store and transmit x-rays digitally, rather than print out (and lose) the traditional films, was met with some scepticism by radiologists. As one put it: "Our new system will be delivered by Lord Lucan riding on Shergar, and will no doubt die in mysterious circumstances."The NHS has a chequered past when it comes to installing new IT programmes, so the omens for Pacs - Picture Archive and Communication Systems - are not great. There is also a certain irony in putting so much money into the presentation of x-rays when many units are still understaffed and using dangerously outdated equipment to take them. But if Pacs works as well as it has in the 25 pilot hospitals, will we miss our old x -rays?For some doctors, there is an emotional attachment to a tangible film. As one radiologist observed: "It's nice to handle a proper, physical radiograph. And I prefer to magnify things by bringing them closer to my eyes rather than by computer enhancement."Displaying an X-ray has an element of performance art; the satisfying clunk when you put it up on to the box, the brisk click of the switch and the sudden revelation to the semi-circle of eager medical students, all desperate to spot the abnormality. The effect is lessened when you realise it is the wrong x-ray, and the wrong way up, but it is a lot more fun than letting the computer do all the work.As a student, I can remember running down to x-ray to pick up a film hot off the press with the same enthusiasm with which you would pick up your holiday snaps. Would you be the first to bring back news of the kidney stone to your boss and pick up three brownie points? You soon learned that NHS radiology departments don't quite have the same consumer culture as Photoquick. There is no guarantee that your film will be turned round in an hour. If you got past the receptionist, the film might already have been lost, or the radiographer was at an emergency or, if you were really unlucky, a bolshy consultant radiologist would give you a lecture on the inappropriateness of your request and the dangers of unnecessary x-ray exposure.For patients, being able to see your innards up on the white screen has always had a huge cultural and placebo significance, but it is not always good medicine. Each year, we give a 1.5 million back-pain sufferers an X-ray of the spine, often for no better reason than the patient demands it or the doctor is at the end of his tether. On the plus side, patients take comfort from seeing their normal x-rays up on screen, but in only 1% does it alter the course of treatment. The dose used in a spinal x-ray is 120 times higher than a chest x-ray, and although the individual risk is low, unnecessary spine x-rays cause around nine deaths a year.In one casualty department I worked in, the demand for unnecessary x-rays was so high we considered turning the machines off and making fake x-ray sounds behind the screen   ("Zzzzzz" and "clunk"), then presenting patients with an entirely normal, pre-prepared set of x-rays for their obviously unbroken ankle, spine, or whatever. Sadly, it didn't get past the ethics committee. Whether the lack of a hard-copy x-ray to ponder over will reduce demand remains to be seen, but many patients are suspicious of computer-generated images. "Have my kidneys been doctored, Doctor?"A more dubious advantage of hand-held x-rays, at least for doctors, is that they can be deliberately lost. This may be the cynical act of a desperately competitive junior doctor who "finds" the x-ray at the last minute to save the day and secure a good reference from his grateful boss. But usually, it is to cover your tracks. When I trained, the culture was very   much "burn the notes, bury the x-rays, see you in court if you dare". With digital x-rays, any attempt to tamper or destroy should leave a trail of evidence.This isn't to say that we should blame everyone for their mistakes - there is a huge difference between misinterpreting an emergency x-ray under pressure in a dank hospital cupboard at 3am and the leisurely but ruthless dissection of a computer image in court 10 years later. But a great advantage of Pacs is that not only will it not lose x-rays, but it shouldn't display them wrongly. A key failing in the tragic "wrong kidney" case was that the x-ray was placed the wrong way round in the operating theatre.Perhaps the strongest case for ditching the old x-rays is the cost to the NHS of the ones that go missing. Operations, appointments and procedures are delayed and cancelled, and nurses and junior doctors are shouted at to the point of tears, until it emerges that the x-rays have slipped down the back of Mabel's nightie and are stuck to her buttocks with unnatural force.As for the poor radiologists who have to dictate the reports, most spend 10 minutes looking at the x-rays and three hours sorting through big brown folders to fish out the relevant film which is always in the wrong order or envelope. All of this is done in the dark, which is why radiologists can be a sullen bunch with a high incidence of rickets and depression.Contrast this with the happy consultants using the new Pacs system. "It's absolutely fabulous - the quality of the pictures is great, they are available instantaneously and they never go missing. To go back to the old films would be negligent," says one.In new Labour's NHS, the dream is for staff to be able to access anyone's digitally encrypted notes and investigations from anywhere in the NHS, and patients to ponder their own from a home computer. You can also book outpatient appointments and log treatment preferences in their own personal "health space". If you haven't got a computer, a smart card will let you access all your health records from a cash-point machine. Plug in the wrong Pin number and who knows whose ovaries you could stumble across?Back on earth, I suspect Pacs will be brought in on the cheap, and that the software and screens necessary to make it work will be confined largely to x-ray departments. Rolling it out into wards, theatres and outpatient departments, never mind GP surgeries and patients' homes, will cost substantially more than the NHS can afford. My guess is that the old films are here to stay for at least another 10 years, which means plenty of opportunity for getting them the wrong way round and losing them when things go pear-shaped. But at least there should be a master copy somewhere on a large computer hidden deep in the x-ray department - if you are brave enough to go and find it.
A Dutchman who pleaded guilty to swindling wealthy New Yorkers by promising an inside track to Google stock and then blowing $350,000 (£198,000) of their money in a three-month spending spree on hotels, restaurants and gambling, could face more than five years in prison, it emerged today.Late last year, as speculation grew that the internet search engine company would go public, Shamoon Rafiq began meeting investors in New York and telling them he was a venture capitalist and a college friend of Google's founders, prosecutors said.Mr Rafiq, who was working as a business development manager for British Telecom in the city, offered the lure of "preferred stock", available to the founders' friends and families at the pre-flotation price of $12 a share.At least five investors, including a lawyer for a European telecommunications company, an investment banker, a senior brokerage executive and the chairman of a global telecommunications firm, wired $500,000 to his  bank accounts.Mr Rafiq could be sentenced to more than five years in prison for wire fraud under the terms of his agreement with prosecutors. The sentence would be two years less than he might have faced had he lost at trial.Prosecutors are opposing Mr Rafiq's request to serve his sentence in the Netherlands under the terms of an international treaty governing Dutch citizens convicted in the US.The scam began to unravel when the investment banker became suspicious and demanded his money back. The FBI arrested Mr Rafiq in New York in March.Authorities said Mr Rafiq had spent the funds on a lavish lifestyle, including New York nightclubs, strippers, $100 tips for restaurant and hotel employees, and expensive watches for his friends.Google filed its long-awaited plans for an initial public offering last month, aiming to raise $2.7bn with an offering that is expected to give it a market value of at least $20bn.
"Hitachi is planning to double production of hard-disk drives at its plant in Prachinburi, Thailand, the company has announced. ... Production of the company's 4GB capacity 1-inch Microdrive disk drives, which are found in digital music players such as Apple Computer's iPod Mini, will see the largest increase in percentage terms, said John Osterhout, director of marketing for Microdrive at HGST," according toIDG News Service."We are seeing very strong demand for 1-inch drives," he said. "They take up a small percentage of the factory today but we will be expanding capacity from 200,000 units per month in the first quarter (of this year) to several million in the fourth quarter of this year so it's a very rapid expansion in capacity. Fuelling the very strong growth is demand from customers who are building these drives into small MP3 players."Comment: The Microdrive format was originally developed by IBM, which sold its loss-making hard disk operations to Hitachi. It has no connection with the antique Sinclair "floppy tape" format used in the QL and ICL One Per Desk.
Once Google launched its ownweblog, It was only a matter of time beforethis kind of piecewould appear. As News.com reports, Google's discovered it can't say anything too controversial on its weblog. There's a big difference, they've discovered, between what you can post on your personal confessional, and what you can post on a corporate one - especially the blog of a company that's about to ask investors to make a significant, multi-billion dollar leap of faith.I suspect this ties in with Danny O'Brien's brilliant essay from last year,public, private and secret, which does a great job of explaining the new importance ofregisterin the blogging world. It could be that the corporate register just won't be very interesting at all.
Boeing, the troubled US plane-maker, is stealing a march on its European rival, Airbus, by seizing control of a market worth up to $2bn (&#163;1.1bn) a year in ten years: broadband in the skies.Today an Airbus A340, flying from Munich to Los Angeles on flight LH452, will allow passengers to connect their lap-tops or mobiles to wireless broadband at 35,000ft.The connection to the web, enabling passengers to send emails and link up with their company's intranet, is provided by Boeing via a series of satellites.Scott Carson, president of Connexion by Boeing, says 50 aircraft will offer internet access by the end of this year and 150 by the end of 2005. Lufthansa is offering a flat rate of $29.95 for an entire flight, including access to its free FlyNet portal giving news, weather and travel information.The German carrier, which has installed FlyNet on five A340s and plans to equip its entire long-haul fleet of 80 Airbus and Boeing jets by the spring of 2006, is one of four airlines to sign up to Boeing which has lost its traditional dominance in plane sales to its European rival.Mr Carson, who has signed deals with SAS, JAL and All Nippon Airways, said he was in talks with Singapore Airlines, China Airlines and British Airways to offer the same service.Three US carriers were about to sign up until the September 2001 terrorist attacks sent the American aviation industry into a decline but Mr Carson says one US customer should emerge by the end of the year.BA, which concluded a commercial service trial a year ago, is in protracted talks with Boeing which says the new service reduces the weight and number of wires in the traditional cabin, cutting fuel consumption.Mr Carson says the service is targeted at the male executive aged under 54 and earning more than $150,000 a year, with 62% of business travellers saying they are very interested in broadband in-flight access.The cost of the basic three-hour connection should be $14.95, though Lufthansa is offering 30 minutes at $9.95, charging 25 cents a minute thereafter.Mr Carson, who has easily outdistanced Airbus, whose own offering lags far behind, says the service will later this year offer "live" rebroadcast TV. He says it will also be extended to ships from mid-2005 while airline crews will control flight operations better, including security.
One day, when historians pen the history of Sony, they'll highlight May 2004 as a key month in the company's life.Over in the US the company unveiled Connect, its music download service, and took the wraps off its portable gaming device, the PSP. Here in Europe it has been parading its flagship ultra light notebook computer, the Vaio X505.In spite of all this innovation, at its press conference this week in Brussels the gathered journalists were only really only interested in one product - Sony's answer to the iPod, the Vaio Pocket Series VGF-AP1.After several years of taking a head-in-the-sand approach to the hard disk personal audio market, almost certainly the result of pressure from the company's music label, Sony is now set to launch a product that could be the first to chip away at the iconic Apple player's huge market share.While other companies, notably Philips and Samsung, have only tinkered with the hard disk player format by offering virtual facsimilies of the iPod, Sony has thrown out the rulebook and come up with a genuinely innovative device.So: is it likely to break the Apple monopoly when it debuts in the UK in the autumn?DesignThe most striking thing about the VGF-AP1 is its form factor. It is larger and heavier (200g) than the slimline iPod and sports an ergonomic shape, in that the right hand end of the player is designed to be gripped by fingers and a thumb.Most of that extra bulk is to accommodate a 2.2inch TFT LCD screen. The screen - a real innovation in personal audio -  not only displays the player's operational interface, but can also show the cover art of the album that is being listened to. In another neat touch owners can transfer images to the VGF-AP1, either from their PC (via a USB 2.0 connection) or direct from a digital camera. These images can then be stored and viewed on the device.The other notable design innovation, or quirk depending on your point of view, is a 25 button pad that controls the main interface. The jury is out on how effective it is. Personally, I prefer the more elegant wheel of the iPod.FeaturesSony hasn't yet decided which accessories will accompany the player, but did confirm it will come with a neat remote control complete with screen and a pair of quality earphones.Unlike the iPod, which is available with three different storage sizes, the VGF-AP1 will only go on sale with a 20Gb hard disk.In terms of features, the player is slightly under specified, with no niceities like an FM tuner, integrated Wi-Fi or direct encoding from CD players. The player is also only compatible with a limited number of audio formats.Naturally it works best with Sony's Atrac 3 format. Music in this format can be downloaded via Sony's Connect download site (which launches in the UK in June) or via its SonicStage 2 software, which accompanies the player that turns CD tracks into Atrac 3 files. Unlike the original SonicStage the new version converts MP3 files into Atrac 3 on the fly as users transfer the tracks to the player. This is a huge leap on from having to convert huge numbers of MP3s to Atrac 3 before porting them to the device.Sony claims that transferring MP3s to Atrac 3 doesn't impact on the sound quality of the files. But, seeing as the compressed MP3 files have to be decompressed and then compressed again it would, however, be surprising if some fidelity wasn't lost along the way.The SonicStage software can also convert Windows Media Audio files to Atrac 3, but, in bad news for iTunes fans, it isn't compatible with AAC.Another intriguing feature is the VGF-AP1's intelligent playlist facility. The player apparently logs each time a track is chosen, and according to Sony, can remember tracks that a user has played at a certain time of day.So, you can get soothing songs for the evening, or brisk ones for exercising, for example. Alternatively it can recall which tracks the user played regularly over a period of time, so it can offer up songs that regularly cropped up on playlists months before.PerformanceGiven Sony's audio heritage it would be a major surprise if the VGF-AP1 didn't deliver a quality performance. In a very brief audition the VGF-AP1 sounded excellent. I would say that it delivers a great deal more from the lower frequencies than its competitors, though it is hard to say if overall its performance is superior to the iPod.The VGF-AP1 has one other major trump card. While the iPod delivers around eight hours before its rechargeable battery gives up the ghost, the VGF-AP1 apparently plays for at least twenty hours. Off the record, the company is claiming that it is actually a great deal more than this.VerdictOverall the VGF-AP1 is an impressive debut in the hard disk audio market. The colour screen is a genuine innovation, the battery life is excellent and the sound performance spot on. So will I be swapping it for my iPod come the autumn? I'm afraid not.The iPod's weaknesses, notably its battery life and lack of Windows Audio compatibility, are well documented, and if these are major concerns for a buyer the Sony VGF-AP1 is clearly a better bet than the iPod.With pocket space at a premium however, the bulk and size of the VGF-AP1 really works against it. And while the colour screen is undeniably cute, it is something I am happy to live without. Besides, it will be amazing if the next gen iPod doesn't also feature one.Still the VGF-AP1 certainly fires a warning shot across Apple's bows. Over to you Mr Jobs.-- Sony's VGF-AP1 will reach the UK in the autumn. The company hasn't given any indications of pricing yet.
"RESEARCHERS at the Queensland University of Technology have discovered an easily-exploited vulnerability which can be used to take down most 802.11 wireless networks. The flaw operates at lower network layers than most previously-discovered security flaws in 802.11 networking, and affect any network operating at the 2.4GHz frequency - which is the sole frequency used by the most popular wireless protocol, 802.11b," reportsAustralian IT.eEye Digital Securityhas also reported a "critical vulnerability in the Symantec firewall product line that would allow a remote, anonymous attacker to execute arbitrary code on a system running an affected version of the product." That brings the number of Symantec firewall flaws eEye has reported since April 23 up to five. Seehere. Symantec haspatches.Microsoft also released a patch this month for the relatively minor (by Microsoft standards) vulnerability in its Help and Support Center code (ie hcp:// pages), aseWeekreports.
With no news on successors to the PlayStation, Xbox or Gamecube, this year's E3 show in Los Angeles has been dominated by two handheld announcements.Both Sony's PSP (PlayStation Portable) and Nintendo's DS systems are small, sexy and technically impressive. Both are due out in Europe early next year. But despite these, and some other superficial similarities, these machines are aimed at different audiences.The PSP is clearly going for the same market as Apple's iPod - gadget fans in their 20s and 30s. It has 802.11b wireless networking as well as a USB2 port, but the most impressive feature is the TFT screen. At 4.5 inches wide it takes up a lot of the machine and early impressions show it handled video and game playback well.A hands-on test revealed the PSP to be surprisingly light - it weighs 260 grams - although its width makes it more of a bag than a pocket item.The early demos show that the PSP graphics are not far off PlayStation 2 standard. But, unlike the Nintendo DS, there seems to be less innovation in the games themselves, with PS2 conversions and brand extensions more than likely.However its smart design and movie/MP3 playback are certain to make PSP a consumer must-have when released next March.Nintendo's DS, on the other hand, is a pure games machine. Its innovative use of dual screens looks set to offer some unique gaming content, and the early demos showed the potential. In one demo players need to "draw" a Pac-Man with their finger or stylus which then moves around the screen eating ghosts.In another players sketch clouds underneath a falling Mario, which drift up to the top screen buffeting the famous plumber. Then there was a version of first person shooter Metroid where players fired using their stylus or finger on the screen.Whether these concepts will forge decent games remains to be seen, but Nintendo can't be accused of stasis.  The DS includes a Bluetooth-style short range connection plus WiFi, although plans for both remain under wraps.But it wasn't just Sony and Nintendo who were pushing new handheld devices. Tucked away in the corner of the main hall was a new "handheld entertainment system" that plays games, movies and MP3s. This is even more impressive when you consider its origin - this baby is English and will be launching in the UK first.Coming across as slightly fatter Game Boy Advance, the Gizmondo uses a 400mhz arm processor and takes SD memory cards. Game graphics were solid enough - think Game Boy Advance standard - but the potential is in the use of GPS mapping. One of the launch games, Colors, promises to use GPS with players encouraged to meet outside the game.At the moment only a couple of small developers are onboard but Gizmondo are announcing more soon. Despite this the chances of the gadget gaining a foothold in the face of the PSP storm are minimal.The other handheld in evidence was Nokia's NGage, already in its second iteration. The QD, as it is called, is smaller and better designed than the original. Cosmetically it looks more stylish and crucially you can now load games without taking the batteries out. N-Gage has had a poor start but with  some more original content on the way - such as the multiplayer Pocket Kingdoms - the future looks brighter.E3 2004 showed that handhelds will be a crucial gaming battleground in the coming years. Initial impressions suggest the PSP has more style and the DS has more substance, but whatever happens the grip of the original Game Boy on the market looks to be under serious threat.
The Agereports that: "A 21-year-old German man has been arrested and charged under the country's computer sabotage law for creating a malicious computer code, says a media release from anti-virus company Sophos. The suspect was apprehended in the southern town of Waldshut on Friday. He admitted responsibility for creating the Agobot Trojan, it says."This follows but is unrelated to the arrest of Sven Jaschan last week -- he confessed to creating and distributing the Sasser worm -- and raids on five homes in northern Germany on Tuesday in connection with the Netsky worm, asReutersreports.
"Yahoo announced the improved mail service at its annual analysts meeting in San Francisco. The Sunnyvale company used the daylong event to tout its status as the top Internet Web site and to lay out a road map for its growth," reports theMercury News."Storage limits for free mail users will jump from 4 megabytes to 100 megabytes, while premium users who pay an annual fee will get 'unlimited' storage."
In the latest quarter, Dell increased its revenues by 21% to $11.5 billion, while profits grew by 22% to $731 million. "Dell executives pointed out that the company delivered its seventh straight quarter of 20% or greater year-over-year growth," reportsCNet."The impressive first-quarter performance was carried by strong product shipment volumes, which rose 25% overall from the same quarter a year ago. Dell said its fastest growth came from the Asia-Pacific/Japan region, where it recorded a 38% quarterly increase. In other strong performances, the computer maker's product shipments to Europe, the Middle East and Africa jumped by some 37%."
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server . . .Current Host:Jason28Current Topic:the prime minister's political crisis over the war in Iraq has fuelled rumours that he will step aside and allow Gordon Brown to fight the next election as premier. Is it really time for Tony Blair to go? Is Brown the man to replace him? What do you think?LadeezMan:BliarBronco:lol u spellt it wrongHost_Jason28: then I travelled around the states for a while, spent some time in chileLadeezMan:I did it on purpose B. LIAR cos hes a LIAR GET ITGayleO:I'd really like to check out eastern europe this summerBronco:u not funnyLadeezMan:your laughing thoHost_Jason28:you should go, its greatBronco:@ u, not w/uLadeezMan:moronGayleO:it will be if I can raise the cashBronco:personal abuse Chris2LadeezMan:Chris2 aint here moronPashmina has entered the NewsRoomHost_Jason28:u should come on this bike tour were doingPashmina:hi roomBronco:weres Chris2GayleO:sounds intresting!Pashmina:who is Jason28!!!Host_Jason28:welcome to the NewsRoom. Today's topic is Blair quittingPashmina:Blair is quitting!!!!LadeezMan:no BliarBronco:so not funnyGayleO:where u goingHost_Jason28:thru france &amp; spain, maybe even portugalPashmina:where is Chris2!Host_Jason28:dunno. I'm just hosting for like a weekGayleO:sounds fantasticPashmina:why rnt u hosting thenBronco:he chatting people up all dayHost_Jason28:so maybe we should meet for coffee GayleOLadeezMan:GayleO describe yr selfGayleO:26, 4'11, dark moustacheHost_Jason28:let's return to the topicPashmina:I think I know u fr school - Gayle O'Brian!GayleO:no my name's patLadeezMan:then why do u call yr self Gayle OGayleO:no its "gay leo" because I'm gay &amp; I'm a leoHost_Jason28:so who thinks blair should resign?LadeezMan:so are u a boy or a girlGayleO:does it matter?LadeezMan:noPashmina:I wonder wot happend to little hairy gayle&gt;connection to server has been terminated . . .
"Amid the thousands of new products at the Electronic Entertainment Expo featuring shooting, racing, punching, slashing and pummeling, a handful of upcoming titles like The Sims 2 and Playboy: The Mansion have focused on 'love' -- or at least the physical act of it -- as the player's main goal," reports AP."Brian Bilicki, lead software engineer [on the new Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude], anticipates an uproar. He said it's hypocritical that showing a cartoon woman's breasts is regarded as taboo in an industry that embraces so many grotesquely violent games like Manhunt and Grand Theft Auto III."
"Worldwide shipments of personal video recorders more than tripled in 2003 as the gadgets finally caught on with consumers, research released by In-Stat/MDR indicated on Thursday," saysCNet."Worldwide unit shipments of PVR products grew from 1.5 million in 2002 to 4.6 million in 2003, In-Stat/MDR said. The company expects that figure to hit 11 million in 2004."
Wired Newsreports that technology company executives are piling in behind President Bush's campaign for reelection."From Microsoft's Steve Ballmer to Cisco Systems' John Chambers to IBM's Samuel Palmisano, chief executives of the nation's largest tech firms have written checks to the Bush campaign this election cycle. While there are exceptions -- such as Apple Computer's Steve Jobs, a non-contributor recently named by John Kerry's presidential campaign as an economic adviser -- people familiar with technology leaders' political spending habits say industry heavyweights are predominantly backing the incumbent president."For those of you fearing your technology idols don't share your political views, there may be an explanation - "some political analysts are uncertain whether it's Bush's positions on the issues or his status as a sitting president that's inspiring executives to contribute this election year," reports the site.
It's not just wannabe movie stars who flock to the streets of Los Angeles, hoping to find the answer to their prayers somewhere in the baking city that sprawls beneath the Hollywood sign.Every year, thousands of games enthusiasts flock to the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in downtown LA, in the hope that the world's most prolific games show will make a few of their gaming dreams come true.
	
While last year's E3 was all about hype rather than substance, with the announcement of the PlayStation X and Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) accompanied by a lot of spin and not much else, it's hoped that the show is going to produce something a bit more tangible this time around.
	
E3 2004 in particular looks like it's shaping up to be the year of the handheld, with the recent announcement of Nintendo's Dual Screen "DS", Nokia's new-and-improved N-Gage QD - only seven months after the original, no less - and the highly-anticipated hardware debut of the Sony PSP.
	
It also looks like being the show where gamers finally learn the release dates for some of their most sought-after sequels: Half Life 2, Doom III and Halo 2. Half-Life 2 in particular has been hit by a number of setbacks, including leaked code, pirated Russian versions of the game and even dawn raids by the FBI on the home of a suspected hacker. Valve's futuristic first-person shooter now seems to be at the stage where no-one - not even the developer itself, it seems - quite knows when the game is hitting the shelves. Hopefully E3 can provide some answers.Although the show only lasts three days, games publishers both big and small use the run up to E3 to take advantage of a gaming media who are on the edge of their seats, in order to tout their upcoming wares and reveal a few surprises before the show.
Nintendo has already announced its new NES-themed GBA SP "Classic" Edition, which pays homage to the NES console that first made its debut under the name of Famicom in Japan 20 years ago. Although those who still rue the day that their partner made them sell their NES to free up attic-space will look fondly on the NES SP's retro grey strips and red buttons, it's the tie-in release of 8 Classic NES titles that should capture a new audience. Well-loved titles like Pac Man, Super Mario Bros and The Legend of Zelda will test out how timeless their appeal really is, when released along with the NES SP this July.It seems that Microsoft is also cashing-in on the retro scene after the company announced this week that it would be providing a new feature for Xbox Live dubbed the "Arcade".This will allow players to download games such as DigDug and Poker, as well as classic arcade, driving and trivia games. "These games are easy to get into, they're a total blast and they are perfect for the gamer who doesn't have a lot of time and just needs a quick fix," claimed J. Allard, head of the Xbox platform group.This idea of rejuvenating the halcyon days of gaming through new technology is a shrewd move by Microsoft and Nintendo. While both the GPA SP and Xbox Live have well-established audiences, the simplistic gameplay purity of titles like Bejewelled will undoubtedly help open the platforms for the currently much-sought-after wider gaming audience. Perhaps we'll see that looking to the past is sometimes the best way of moving forward.
Blogger's founder Evan (Ev) Williams, who now works for Google, says: "The focus is on lowering the barrier to blogging: it's about making it free and easy. We're making it bigger and better and easier for more people."The most obvious changes are the introduction of built-in comment, so visitors to a blog can leave their comment to the author's posts - and a profile or "about me" page. Also, all users can now publish things by sending email to their blog: this was a feature of the paid-for version of Blogger, which has now disappeared. "Pretty much anyone on the internet can send an email," says Williams, "so anyone can post to their blog. It extends the reach to cellphones and wireless devices."And to encourage people to use more photos, Blogger has done a deal with Picasa and the Hello.com website. Its Windows software makes posting a photo just like sending it by instant messaging.Online:Are you still focusing on people coming in at the low end, rather than the ones who want a more sophisticated system, and are looking at moving to things like Movable Type?EW:Our focus is definitely on the   mainstream internet user, and blogging is just reaching that population. There will always be users who demand a lot more control and want things running on their own server, and we're not going to focus on those needs. However, if you look at the reasons why people have switched, comments was probably the biggest reason. For the vast majority of users, that and other features in the new release, such as conditional tags, put it on a par, feature-wise, while still being easy to use and free. With this release, we're putting in all the things that were paid-for &#91;in Blogger Pro&#93; and making them free.Online:Hosting photos is attractive, but is there a limit on volume, and what if people want to post the sort of pictures you don't want to host?EW:That's possible. We wanted to make it easy for people with digital cameras who have nice pictures to share. We'll deal with whatever challenges come up but we think we can handle that. And there's no limit on storage.Online:Did you think about integrating the Blogger profile page with Orkut, Google's social networking service?EW:Yes. We haven't done it yet. Both teams are really heads down on   making their products as good as they can be, and we'll look at integration if we think it improves the user experience.Online:Blogging software has a lot of potential business uses on intranets as a way of organising and tracking projects - which is how Google uses it internally. Are you doing anything to encourage that kind of use, rather than the "publish my thoughts" type of blogging?EW:We've been looking at that for years, and we've been looking at an enterprise blogging product. It increases communication, knowledge sharing and seems to be a pretty useful thing. It complements Google's Search Appliance... But personal publishing on the web is still our passion, and that's our focus right now. You can just go to Blogger and start a blog: you don't have to publish it!Online:How does Blogger fit into the global whole that is Google, Gmail, Blogger, Orkut, Froogle, the directory and so on?EW:Google's larger mission is about organising the world's information and making it universally accessible. Blogs organise information from a personal perspective. Also, Google likes to have more content and more links on the web, because that's how   people find stuff. It wasn't the strategy to integrate &#91;Blogger&#93;, but they thought it was a good thing and wanted to support it.Online:Do you have a view on Atom versus RSS &#91;Really Simple Syndication&#93;, the rival systems for sending out headlines and things, and what is happening to the Blogger API &#91;applications programming interface&#93;?EW:Just recently we released site feeds for all of our users, which previously we only had for the small subset of Blogger Pro users. We went with Atom feeds for everybody - they're on new blogs by default - because of the ease of use and simplicity. We didn't want to confuse people with having to choose a format. A big reason we got involved with Atom wasn't because we wanted to replace RSS, but we thought the API was really important. We created the Blogger 1.0 API several   years ago but we needed to evolve. From the beginning, Atom was a feed format and an API. That often gets overlooked. That's the strongest argument for us. We dropped our plans for a new Blogger API to support this new, more open feed format.
Kick-off in the Euro 2004 football tournament in Portugal next month will fill the nation's pubs with fans, glued to the action on the big screen.But, for the first time, there may also be a few watching goals on much smaller screens as well. Subscribers to T-Mobile who own high-end GPRS (not 3G) phones with video playback facilities will be able to review the key moments in a game, including goals, controversial incidents and red/yellow card fouls - only minutes after they have happened - on their mobile phones.It is a very significant development for T-Mobile, and it is also something of a watershed for sport video on mobiles. T-Mobile's rivals - especially 3 and Vodafone - will be monitoring what happens closely.T-Mobile has priced the service competitively. For &#163;5, subscribers will be offered all the video action for their team, no matter how far they progress in the tournament.Supporting the video is a range of services, including an innovative option that enables the phone to act as a kind of ticker with the latest news pushed to the handset over wireless application protocol (Wap). T-Mobile is also offering football themed downloadable games, wallpaper, ringtones and videos of classic goals.For T-Mobile, Euro 2004 presents a golden opportunity to tempt users into upgrading to video handsets. To access the clips, a suitably equipped handset is required. There are only a small number, including top-end Nokias and the newly launched flagship Sharp TM100.But will punters be impressed by   what they see? There remain issues as to whether video over GPRS is a satisfactory experience for the consumer. Picture refresh rates are very low - which can cause blurring and distortion with fast-moving objects. Experiments showing sports videos over GPRS have been disastrous, as the few viewers who took a peek at O2's Rugby Union World Cup video action can testify.However, T-Mobile points to the improved quality of the handsets. A spokesperson says phones such as the Sharp TM100 are a better vehicle for video because of the higher resolution and richer colour screen. "If you own a video phone already, then &#163;5 isn't much of a gamble."The story of sports video on mobile in the UK has been dominated by one network - 3. From its launch in March last year, the company has delivered highlights not only of Premiership football matches, but golf, rugby and cricket.In theory, the extra bandwidth offered by 3G networks should boost the quality of the service. Yet from the outset, the company's service was dogged with controversy. First, the terms of the deal the network agreed with the Premiership meant subscribers had to wait until hours after the game before seeing clips.There were also problems with the quality of the footage - no small matter when subscribers are paying   as much as &#163;2.50 per clip. And, perhaps most importantly, 3 subscribers could only watch clips from a small number of Premiership games.All that is set to change for the new Premiership season starting in August, following a re-negotiation of rights by 3 and the other networks   committed to showing live football via 3G Vodafone.Both will now show footage from every game, as well as offer clips of incidents and goals, not long after they have taken place. As 3's marketing director, Graeme Oxby, acknowledges: "For a sports service via   mobile to be successful, it has to offer live. up-to-the-minute coverage."So, having invested large sums of money to secure 3G licences, is football on video the technology's killer application - a use that will help networks recoup some of their outlay?Christopher Nicholson, lead analyst at Oraca, thinks it could certainly help establish Vodafone's 3G services while extending 3's user base."The networks are desperate to get people to experience 3G and in football they have a service with strong appeal. It is an obvious pitch to football-loving 18 to 40-year-old males who are not only cash rich enough to view the goals, but are also happy to upgrade their handsets to do so."In the short term, though, Nicholson thinks that "pricing of the service is everything". "Phone networks are notoriously bad at getting prices right for this type of service," he adds. "If they can stop themselves from being greedy and charge around 50p a goal. it really should be successful."Not everyone agrees with Nicholson's prognosis. "It is unclear whether football is such a key driver for mobile as it was in pay TV," says Nick George, head of media at A D Little. "People who are really into football find the time to watch it at the ground, or on TV. Mobile might complement it, but user experience will never be as good."In the early nineties, Sky harnessed football fan loyalty to build a TV network. Whether Vodafone and 3 can pull off a similar trick using goals on the phone remains to be seen. Ironically, a good experience this summer for users of their rival network - T-Mobile - aided by a few high scoring games, will probably help.
Internet service providers are failing in their duty to protect users from illegitimate content and at the same time haphazardly censoring sites without recourse to appeal for those affected, it emerged today.Two studies from Oxford University, the result of two and half years of research, show internet giants are too inconsistent in their approach to regulating the web, at times eager to censor sites when users complain and on other occasions failing to take responsibility for the material they host.In a "mystery shopper" test, researchers contacted ISPs and under the current "notice of take down" legislation complained that John Stuart Mill's seminal anti-copyright text On Liberty was infringing copyright.A complaint against a fan site dedicated to the author resulted in the offending page being taken down, when even a cursory check of the content would have shown that it did not breach copyright.Current copyright law protects authors and their estates for just 70 years after the death of an artist or author death and JS Mills died in 1873.Dr Damian Tambini of Oxford's Programme on Comparative Law and Media Policy said ISPs tended to pursue a "hear no evil, see no evil" approach when it came to regulating the content on their servers.Under current rules they only become responsible for  content once somebody complains about it and usually censor it without a proper investigation."Self-regulation of the media is not new. The printed press, broadcasting and film censorship all have provided models that internet providers can use."But unlike most press regulators ISPs do not always appear fully aware that they are responsible for the fundamental rights of their users to receive and impart ideas," said Dr Tambini."Self-regulation of the media requires higher standards of governance than other forms of self-regulation."If sites are being taken down there must be strict guidelines on due process and appeal. ISPs must exercise all due care in preventing illegal and harmful content from reaching the vulnerable, but also have a duty to uphold speech freedoms," he added.The report recommends the internet is regulated along similar lines to advertising and the premium rate telephony industry, with self-regulation in co-operation with a statutory body such as Ofcom.Dr Tambini said that ISPs, often subsidiaries of major telecom companies, failed to devote sufficient resources to regulating the industry.And the fragmented and diverse number of ISPs, from small scale providers to large players such as BT, AOL and France Telecom, also made it difficult to reach a consensus, he argued."ISPs and content providers must demonstrate their commitment to self-regulation by submitting to regulatory audit - simply demonstrating that they have the resources to meet their self-imposed regulatory obligations," he said.The report also recommends that European ISPs follow the lead of their US counterparts in investigating claims of illegal or harmful content more seriously and introduce appeal procedures to allow those sites affected to have their material reintroduced.A number of MPs, including Labour's internet expert Derek Wyatt, have called for legislation making ISPs statutorily responsible for the material held on their servers. The reports stop short of recommending legislation, instead favouring a voluntary pan-European approach.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Last week, the PC industry gathered in Seattle for the annual Windows Hardware Engineering Conference. The main purpose is to discuss the kind of systems people will be selling in two or three years. In this case, wishful thinking suggests 64-bit desktop PCs with 3D graphics running the next version of Windows XP, code-named Longhorn.Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, attempting to seduce the assembled geeks, promised "a really wonderful transition" to 64-bit computing, and pleaded with them to start writing 64-bit drivers to make the forthcoming hardware of practical use. It would be nice, but it's a good bet they won't. They are far more likely to repeat the mistakes they made with XP drivers.For the more immediate future, Microsoft laid out its road map of forthcoming developments. The most important is Windows XP Service Pack 2, which will make XP more secure on the net. This long-overdue lockdown would have been even more useful if it wasn't a year late. At the same time, we should get XP Tablet PC Edition 2005 (codenamed Lonestar) and XP Media Center Edition 2005 (Symphony), followed by a 32-bit compatible XP 64-Bit Edition. There will also be new versions of Windows CE 5.0 (Macallan) for smartphones, Pocket PCs and portable media players from a range of companies, plus a new version of Windows Media Player.The arrival of SP2, new versions of utilities such as WMP, and better wireless networking should prompt a new version of Windows   XP, which I've already discussed here as XP Reloaded. It's not clear what Microsoft plans to do, but a "second edition" of XP would be easy to justify.Forthcoming server software includes Service Pack 1 for Windows Server 2003 and Windows Small Business Server 2003, plus Windows Server 2003 64-Bit Edition, and Virtual Server 2005.All of these enhancements are scheduled to appear before the end of this year, mostly free.Windows Server 2003's SP1 will also include Windows PE, or Preinstallation Environment. It's a bunch of code that runs from a UFD (USB Flash drive) and can restart a dead or broken system. Microsoft reckons that, with PE, you will be able to throw away your boot floppies. But home users will not get it until Longhorn appears,   and that has not even reached beta (test) status. This will push Longhorn to late 2006, if not later.On the hardware side, Intel made the shock announcement that it has stopped the development of Tejas, the next version of the Pentium 4, and will instead accelerate the work it was doing on dual-core processors (see Inside IT News).Texas Instruments demonstrated a Split-Chassis PC platform, which allows the parts of a PC to be divided between two boxes, connected by TI's 2.5Gbps XIO2000 PCI-Express-to-PCI Bridge. The idea - which has been tried before - is to put the user-touched parts of the PC on the desktop while putting the bulky bits on the floor. But since it is now possible to make PCs very small, this may be an idea whose time has already gone.Links  Jack Schofield's columnMicrosoft WinHECwww.microsoft.com/whdc/winhecWindows Home Concept white paperwww.windowsfordevices.com/files/misc/whc.pdfPress coveragewww.winsupersite.comwww.extremetech.com/category2/0,1556,42141,00.asphttp://news.com.com/2009-1012_3-5205819.htmlwww.microsoft-watch.com/article2/0,1995,1588196,00.asp
Yahoo spamI have been happily using Yahoo email for ages, and the spam has (mostly) filtered neatly into the Bulk mail folder. This week, I have been swamped by spam, which has sneaked into my Inbox at a terrifying rate, and this necessitates laborious individual deletion.David PughJack Schofield replies:With web-based mail services, you have direct access to your mailbox so there is no simple way to filter it before or during the download, as there is with POP3 mail clients such as Outlook Express, Thunderbird and The Bat! My workaround is to create a new folder called Realmail and move things that are not spam to that folder. Go to Yahoo's Mail Options section and look under General Preferences: this lets you set the number of messages displayed on each page between 10 and 200. If you display 100 at a time, you can tick the box in the header (next to Sender) to select them all, then click Delete to delete them all at once. The same approach works with Hotmail and other web-based services. However, if you decide to collect mail using a POP3 program, I'd recommend Mailwasher or SpamPal or both.Just checkingHow would I find out whether I have a keystroke logger on my PC?Mani BJS:There is no foolproof approach, but the popular anti-virus and anti-Trojan programs will find the common keyloggers that are sometimes    dropped by viruses. If you are more suspicious, there'sPest Patrol, which is good, andAnti-Keylogger, which I have not tried. However, a keylogger will probably record keystrokes in some kind of file, and it may be possible to detect this.For example, disconnect your PC from the internet, clear out all temporary files, reboot and leave it running overnight. In the morning, create and save a few large text files in Notepad (or simple text editor), then search the whole drive for files created or modified in the past hour. Make sure the search includes system and/or hidden files, and double check the folders that hold temporary files. If there are any files you do not recognise, see what they contain and what created them.Stop itI have two anti-spyware programs, an anti-spam program plus an anti-virus program. Do I need a firewall program?David GardnerJS:Absolutely! A firewall is needed to block things such as internet worms (Blaster etc), keep out would-be hackers, and block communications from rogue programs and Trojans that have not been detected by your other programs. There are free PC firewalls for personal use available from Sygate, Kerio and Zone Labs (Zone Alarm).Wrong countryI am based in England and use Eclipse as my ISP, but periodically Internet Explorer 6 seems to think I am in Germany and gives me the German Google page. I just want to stick to the English version.Thomas HaworthJS:Some sites use the language setting in Internet Explorer, which you can find by going to Tools|Internet Options|General and clicking the Languages button at the bottom. However, Google uses the nationality of the IP (Internet Protocol) address,    and does not always get it correct. Clicking the "Go to Google.com" link at the bottom of the Google page should take you to the US version, or you can try settingwww.google.co.ukas your default home page. Otherwise, try usingwww.google.com/ncrorwww.google.co.uk/ncr(for "no country redirection"). If all else fails,www.google.com/intl/enshould always bring up an English language version of Google.Backchat&#183;Several readers paid forEnigma SpyHunterwith no hyphen) when they should have been downloading the freeSpyBot Search &amp; Destroywith hyphen). You could try asking for a refund, but it seems reasonable to use the program if you have paid for it. SpyHunter has been accused of producing "false positives", but since mal-ware programs often try to look like legitimate ones, they probably all do.&#183;Brian O'Shea was switching to Internet Explorer because of the number of sites that don't work properly with alternative browsers. Jason Boissiere from software giant Computer Associates says: "I use Mozilla and Firefox, and for both browsers the ieview plug-in adds a context menu item to 'Open this page in IE'. Very handy when you hit badly formatted sites." (seehttp://ieview.mozdev.org).&#183;Jim McAllister wanted a freeware or shareware program that would display digital photographs stored on a CD without having to install software. Paddy Gaunt says: "Because (as you say) some of the auto-run and HTML editing is tricky, we have developed a product that kind of does everything for you." See:www.conference-cd.com. It's not free. Simon Pugh adds: "Slides! is a great free slide viewer for the Mac and has been updated to work on OS 10.3.3." Go tohttp://richardk.info/slides.
Rise of Nations: Thrones &amp; PatriotsPC, &#163;19.99 Big Huge Games/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Last year's Rise of Nations gave a kick to the real-time strategy genre. By combining the turn-based depth of Civilization with the arcade action of Age of Empires, we finally got an RTS to be excited about. So let's not be too upset that the mission pack is essentially more of the same.Thrones &amp; Patriots manages to correct the original's two main shortcomings. Instead of one sprawling but featureless single-player campaign, you get four based on historical events.Playing as Alexander the Great or Napoleon, or recreating the cold war or conquest of America adds depth and replay value to the campaigns, especially when combined with the new units and strategies. You can play as colonial (and later Republican) Americans - a much criticised omission from the first game - as well as Dutch, Iroquois, Lakota, Persian and Indian (of the Asian variety).Each race has strengths and weaknesses that seem more pronounced and influential. The Americans get military upgrades quicker, making their soldiers more potent, whereas the navel-gazing Dutch benefit from free boats. It's not realistic, but it makes for a perfectly balanced game - especially when up against multiple human opponents online.Levels still takes ages to load and you can't help wishing there were more to the intermediary map-screens (a readout of historical events while the next battle loads, for instance) but this is usually the stuff of sequels. So although the score seems excessive - as it can do when   reviewing great mission packs - if the best RTS just got better, what choice do you have?Mike AnderieszSudekiXbox, &#163;39.99 Climax/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Sudeki - created by British developer Climax - is Microsoft's attempt to take on Final Fantasy. And its aim - to create an epic on a par with the Final Fantasy games but with real-time, rather than turn-based, gameplay - has been partially achieved.Sudeki looks impressive, although the cinematics lack the anime-style coolness of the Final Fantasy games. You play fighter Tal, but as the game progresses, you assemble a team of characters, each with different abilities, and must often switch among them to solve puzzles.Sadly, the puzzles in the earlier levels are cliched, although they are enlivened by the odd gimmick, such as the need to switch to a particular character to detect ghost items. The combat and magic systems, however, are more successful, mixing combos with melee weapons and two levels of special attacks that are accompanied by glorious visual effects.Whether Sudeki will convince fans of role-playing games to buy an Xbox remains to be seen, but it is great fun, and technologically impressive.Steve BoxerFight Night 2004PS2, Xbox EA Sports,&#42;&#42;&#42;Considering the sport's appeal to men, it is surprising there aren't more boxing games around. Nipping in with a swift jab is EA Sports with Fight Night 2004. With a wide selection of pugilists - 32, across all divisions - Fight Night has all the glitz and glamour associated with an EA Sports title. But whereas on Fifa games, for example, the presentation conceals below-par action, Fight Night puts up a good show.Not that iffy controls help. Fight Night 2004 lets players use the right analogue joystick to "swing" punches. So, rather than hammering buttons to throw an uppercut, you glide the stick around. Some of the time it works well, making you feel part of the action and a bit sweaty. However, the imprecise nature of the stick leads to frustration, and patience is required in harder bouts.Luckily, the career mode goes some way to rectifying these issues. And, by allowing players to create their own boxer, Fight Night adds longevity as you build your way to the top. The multiplayer lets you indulge in post-pub pummelling with friends.Fight Night 2004 is a good start for EA's new franchise. With a tightening up of the controls, the inevitable 2005 will be a real contender.Greg Howson
The bleeping sound tells you you're about to play a variation on one of the classics - Space Invaders. But when the graphics appear, it isn't green aliens advancing at you, but white blocks with dollar signs on them. And you shoot at them with... well, the disembodied head of a smiling George W. Bush. Pump enough bullets out of W's cranium and you clear the screen to leave the message: "You've saved the country from John Kerry's tax plans."John Kerry: Tax Invadersisn't the only anti-Kerry videogame you will find on gop.com, the web presence of the Republican National Committee (RNC). There's alsoKerry vs Kerry, a boxing game with commentary from Don King. It shows the Democrat challenger fighting himself, to illustrate the way he has contradicted himself on various issues.These games aren't much fun to play, even if you are a Bush supporter. Nevertheless, it's significant that a major political party now sees games as a useful campaigning tool. Presumably, the RNC thinks Tax Invaders will get Bush's economic policy across to "the kids". But it's hard to say for certain because, so far, the RNC has not talked about the games to the press and they didn't respond to a request for an interview.However, others are talking about this new campaign strategy - in particular, Ian Bogost and Gonzalo Frasca, two game designers/ researchers who contribute toWater Cooler Games, a blog set up in October to track the development of "video games with an agenda". "I believe in this medium as a more efficient   means of communicating social and political messages," says Bogost. "So I'm encouraged when anybody tries it, whatever their political persuasion."Unfortunately, the games aren't that good, says Frasca. "They look like they were programmed by Bush himself." In particular, Tax Invaders, with its South Park image of bullets flying out of George Bush's head, seems ill conceived. "Knowing his trigger-happy approach to international politics," says Frasca, "this is something that may well backfire."Last year, Gonzalo and Frasca created a web-based game for Howard Dean's nomination campaign. Players were cast as Dean campaigners, trying to get the vote out in Iowa, the first big primary. The idea was to communicate a conceptual idea about growing a grassroots movement from the bottom up, says Bogost. In the end, 100,000 people played. Feedback was good. "People said they understood the idea more and that they were motivated to participate."Bogost has a background in advertising and interactive media. Frasca ran his own games studio and has researched the idea that games could help people think about the everyday politics of their lives. His essay on the subject, Videogames of the Oppressed, is included in First Person, a new anthology of theoretical writing about games just published by MIT Press.Bogost argues in favour of games that deliver specific political commentary. "When you're playing a game, you are the actor," says Bogost. "Reading an editorial about why it's not a good idea to send missiles into Iraq as a solution for terrorism will be more difficult to get into rhetorically, than giving you the missile and saying, you fire it."That's exactly whatSeptember 12thdoes. A controversial "news game" created by Frasca and a team of Uruguayan programmers, it shows a crowded town, where Arab terrorists mingle with ordinary people. Your job is to get terrorists without killing civilians. But no matter how carefully you aim, you end up with some collateral damage. When that happens, lots more terrorists appear. Think of it as SimChomsky.Frasca says the idea was to play around with gaming conventions. The sniper rifle is meant to suggest the idea of a surgical strike, but when you fire, in Frasca's words "you create a big mess". And, in contrast to most games, you can't shoot constantly - you are forced to wait and see the results of each missile fired. So players are denied their thumb candy and forced to think instead.Critics complain that the game simplifies a complex situation, that it   is no fun to play and not really a computer game at all, more a kind of interactive political cartoon. "With news gaming," says Frasca, "we are trying to explore a genre somewhere between the game and the political cartoon. These games make a point rather than entertain. If the game is too good, the message might become invisible."There are hundreds of web-based games inspired by 9/11 and the war on terror. Many are simple Flash-based affairs and can be found onNew Grounds. "For political video games, September 11 was the trigger," says Frasca. "If it had happened in the sixties, people would have grabbed their guitar and written a song about it. Now they're making games."Technology writerClive Thompsonhas argued that simple Flash games are like online graffiti, quick and dirty personal messages delivered in the language of the web. Certainly, most   of the 9/11 games on New Grounds feel like so much adolescent scrawl - crude revenge fantasies centring on beating up Osama bin Laden.That said, some seem to share some of the aims of September 12th, such as New York Defender, created by French outfitUzinagazand played by more than 1.5m people since October 2001. The game shows the Twin Towers intact. Planes approach them and you have to shoot them down before impact. Easy at first - but so many planes come, you can't get them all, so you always lose.Uzinagaz's Jonathan Pitcher says they didn't set out to make a political point. "We only meant to fight our feeling of impotence. We reacted to September 11 like kindergarten children, by drawing planes crashing into buildings. It's just some kind of release. But looking back, we find there is a political statement to it. Since there is no way to win this game, you could say that   violence cannot stop violence. Or that you cannot win against terror by using force." That said, Pitcher does not buy the news game idea. "Books, not games, are a good way to deliver a political message."Molleindustria, a team of Italian "cognitive workers" takes the opposite view. Its site features games such as TuboFlex, which is about surviving in the dynamic labour market (more fun than it sounds) and Orgasm Simulator, in which you play a woman trying to keep her boyfriend happy by faking an orgasm.Like Frasca, the team suggests that playing with expectations makes gamers think. "In the real world, there's no opportunity for flexible workers to move up the job ladder. In TuboFlex, we show this by creating a frustratingly random level structure, in which there is no progression." Though you can't win, Molleindustria's games are fun because of the amusing graphics. Humour balances the limited gameplay in political games, suggests a spokesperson. "But we do believe it's time to get rid of the obligatory connection between videogames and fun - what we call 'dictatorship of entertainment'."Molleindustria says that activist games first appeared as alternative media flourished online after the anti-corporate protests in Seattle in 1999. For some time, campaigning groups have used Flash movies to spread their ideas virally online. Moving into games was the next logical step. Hence sites such asGlobal Arcade, which uses variations on classic games such as Pong to satirise globalisation. Similarly, the long-running British siteUrban 75features anti-corporate cover versions of old gaming classics. As Urban 75's Mike Slocombe says, his Brick a Brand is basically a variation on Breakout. After indicating their "brick-throwing ability" - student, protester or anarchist players get to bounce bricks at familiar-looking brand logos.The natural home here for political gaming (the site hosts the satirical beat-'em-up, Downing Street Fighter), Urban75 could perhaps lay claim to have pioneered the genre of interactive political cartoons, with its Punch/Slap games. Online since 1996, these simple Java animations let players virtually punch politicians and celebs by clicking on their faces. A click comically distorts the (over) familiar face."They're horrendously simple but phenomenally popular," says Slocombe, who sees the games on his site as a bit of cheeky irreverence. The hope is that they might draw people into the Urban 75 community where they could find out more about the issues.In contrast, Frasca and Bogost think political games might be a way for games in general to develop into more complex expressive forms. Two days after the Madrid bombs, Frasca created Madrid, a game where you try to help candles - held by crowds commemorating the dead - burn a little brighter by clicking on them. "At first, people were critical about the idea of making a game about this, but then they realised the game was about solidarity and hope. I got many emails from people saying it was the first time they were moved by a game," says Frasca.
The trouble with 3's 3G mobiles is that they are too big, eat up battery life and are missing key features. Well, not any more, for their latest handset, LG's U8110, is far and away the smallest and lightest 3G handset (if you don't include the 3G lite Nokia 7600). It features a clamshell design that's a tad bigger than existing GPRS handsets.The U8110 works well, too. Videophone calls are reasonably good quality and, unlike previous handsets, you don't need a headset to hear the other person. Football clips look OK, though not as good as on the larger Motorola 3 phones. Screen quality is excellent, battery life at 140 minutes' talk time is better than rival 3G phones. There is also a neat VGA camera, and 3's Today on 3 video portal is simple to use.This is the first 3 phone to offer POP3 email, but there's still no proper web access. There's an MP3 player, but with storage limited to a non-expandable 14MB, not much room for anything else. Nevertheless, it is a big leap forward for 3.www.three.co.uk
If you haven't already, forget about third generation mobile phones. The most exciting thing      happening in telephony is Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP. This is where voice calls are      transmitted over a data network far more cheaply than they would be over the normal phone      network.In the US, the main VoIP players, such as Vonage and Packet8, are new entrants stealing a march on      dozy incumbents. With a wide variety of features and calling plans that included unlimited national      and international calls from as little as $50 a month, their services are attractive.While VoIP services have been available in the UK, mostly through American firms, for years, they      have been targeted at "early adopters", people like me, who are happy to have a new gadget but are      less bothered about whether it works. My experiments with VoIP services had been embarrassing. My      callers always thought I was calling from a wind-tunnel or from the bottom of a well.But in the UK, the first firm to launch a consumer-friendly VoIP is BT. As any student of economics      will tell you, this doesn't make sense. A firm with a large market share and concomitant market      power doesn't have the same incentive to innovate as companies in a genuinely competitive market. Why try risky new products when you can milk boring old ones?And VoIP isn't just a slight improvement. It is a classic disruptive innovation like the advent of the      PC, and the sort of thing that heralds extinction among firms tied to doing things "the old way".       To meet that challenge, VoIP will need widespread adoption. So is it ready for the mainstream? And      what on earth is BT doing first out of the gate?The answer to the first question is no: VoIP is still a geeks' toy. In spite of immaculate presentation      and packaging and a free, 24-hour helpline, my BT Broadband Voice connection still doesn't work.Even if I could get it to work, BT has hamstrung it. Calls are expensive: certainly more so than the      telephony offerings from companies such as Carphone Warehouse or Toucan. And you can only call      21 countries internationally. VoIP does offer benefits for businesses, such as integrating phone      calls with data applications but, for the consumer, the real benefit is around price and convenience.      Broadband Voice offers neither.This suggests an answer to the second question. BT has launched a VoIP service as a pre-emptive      defence. Its VoIP service is a predatory move, an incremental improvement designed not to shake up      its telephone business but to scare off rivals, placate investors and, maybe, build a tiny business.       No matter. VoIP will ring in big changes. And it will be new entrants who will be shaking things up.Already, 12% of international telephony traffic is carried over cost-effective VoIP networks, and      that number will rise. American firms are poised to bring consumer-friendly VoIP services to the UK.      And, without a doubt, a bunch of home-grown players will get in on the act. And perhaps we will get      phone calls at a price more appropriate to their cost. Zero, or close to it.
It was almost as if the dotcom crash had never happened yesterday as a technology company that has yet to produce its first commercial product but is backed by a billionaire, saw its shares rise by almost a third on their stock market debut.Shares in Newport Networks ended the day at 93.5p after being placed by Evolution Beeson Gregory at 71p each.The shares topped &#163;1 at one point in early dealings and in vestor demand for the stock was so strong that the issue, which raised &#163;27m, is understood to have been about nine times oversubscribed.Newport, set up in September 2000, has developed technology that enables voice calls to be made over the internet - something known as voice over internet protocol or VOIP - for significantly less than a traditional phone call.The technology has been around for years but is only now gaining acceptance with telecoms companies and other prospective operators such as internet service providers.Cable operators in the US are already offering Voip services while companies this side of the Atlantic, from BT and Wanadoo to start-up Skype, are either already using the technology or plan to in the near future.Newport reckons its product - to be released in July - solves many of the technical problems, usually centred on quality of service, that have plagued early Voip applications.Although the time for the technology may have come much of the success of yesterday's float is due to the involvement of Welsh billionaire Sir Terry Matthews.In 1986 Sir Terry, Newport's non-executive chairman, founded Newbridge Networks, which grew to become a communications technology heavyweight. He sold it to Alcatel at the height of the tech boom in 2000 for $7.1bn (&#163;4bn). Newport's chief executive John Everard worked for Newbridge for more than 10 years.In a note on the flotation yesterday Charles Stanley analyst Ian Mitchell added a note of caution: "The final remaining question surrounds whether the float will capture the imagination of investors excited by the potential for Voip."However, being asked to consider that question, combined with the lack of products and revenues in the flotation of a company hoping to take advantage of an emerging technology, will have a familiar ring to investors still recovering from the excesses of 2000."
Sci-fi wordhuntThe science fiction genre has its own vocabulary, and a project is now underway to help gather citations for the Oxford English Dictionary (OED) for words that were first used in science fiction stories. A huge number of words are covered, from 3-di to zero-gravity. There are also guidelines to help you contribute your own citations, and a graph to show which decade has been responsible for the most new words.www.jessesword.com/SFSpot backFirst everybody goes nuts over Google's share offering, and now the Spot - a smash-hit online soap opera from the mid 1990s - is back. Is this a warning that we're about to go through another boom/bust cycle, or are we merely moving to a higher life stage where extremely popular IPOs (initial public offerings) and online soap operas can live without fear of an economic meltdown? And as long as we're talking about booms, check out the Google IPO Central site for the latest on the big stock offering.www.thespot.comwww.google-ipo.comEats cars and leavesRobosaurus 40-foot robot eats cars! (Well, it's car-nivorous.) Robosaurus spouts 20-foot flame! Robosaurus can come to your event, eat cars and hold a banner! Robosaurus sells videotapes and oddly 1970s T-shirt at website! You fear Robosaurus!www.robosaurus.comQuiz timeIf you want to get into your own head, don't bother with those "Who Am I?" questions. They're so 20th century. Instead, explore what you are. Just ask Google: "What Kind of * Are You?" (including the quotes). You'll get pointers to hundreds of quizzes, including What Kind Of Frog Are You?, What Kind of Coffee Are You? and What kind of VW are you? Don't you feel so much better?http://allaboutfrogs.orgwww.yournewromance.com/coffeequiz.htmlwww.crackedwindshield.com/vwquiz.htmlMusic mixIf you like the musical mash-ups that are drifting all over the net, check out this Flash application. It's a nice little jam concocted entirely out of Windows sounds and some goofing around with the Sound Recorder utility. If only the default error sound could always be this entertaining. If you like this sort of thing, perhaps you would enjoy the Videogame Music Archive, which offers more than 16,000 video game music files in glorious Midi.http://pyandre.free.fr/windows_mix.swfwww.vgmusic.comRomance coveredNot all romance books have swooning women and swarthy men on the covers but, after reviewing the winners of the All About Romance worst covers of 2003 contest, you may wish they did. Winners include an oddly posed baby, a sheep-headed wolf and, oh yeah, a swarthy pirate. Arr. Arrgh. If that contest completely bent your brain, bomp it back to normal by checking out what books people are talking about in their blogs: a minimum of romance, a maximum of geekiness, politics and the occasional representation of pop culture.http://www.likesbooks.com/coverballot/2003www.technorati.com/cosmos/products.htmlFruit stickersWhen I think mellow music, I don't think about mango and banana stickers, but this site does, so turn your speakers down, or groove like a muppet while reviewing this collection of more than 10,000 banana, mango, citrus, and melon stickers.http://users.belgacom.net/fruit.stickersHello EarthThe Cities Collection is a collection of city photographs taken from outer space. For the most breathtaking photos, check out the registered cities list first. Niagara Falls from up high is quite a sight.http://users.belgacom.net/fruit.stickersNew &amp; notedHome Food Safetywww.homefoodsafety.orgTextMonkey Text Utilitywww.boxersoftware.com/textmonkey.htmKwickee Bitesizewww.kwickee.comSix of the best: Online gamesYeti Sportswww.yetisports.orgOrisinal Gameshttp://ferryhalim.com/orisinalAdult Swim: Carl's Strip Pokerwww.adultswim.com/games/athf_strippokerBejeweledwww.popcap.com/gamepopup.php?theGame=diamondmineMakai Mediawww.makaimedia.comKiller poolwww.redsquarepool.com&#183;Tara Calishain publishes theResearchBuzz! Newsletter, runs thePR Bop! websiteand co-wrote the book Google Hacks.l
Off messageI wonder if Dave Birch is aware that there is another, sneakier issue regarding camera phones (Second Sight, May 6).  Two months ago, I got a Vodafone-branded Nokia 6600. I took a photo of friends at Kew Gardens, tried to send it to their son as an MMS (multimedia message), but failed miserably to make this work. When I was convinced I had followed all the (printed) directions, I finally called Vodafone to inquire what I was doing wrong. They informed me that the file I was trying to send was "too big".Because I had taken the photo in high-resolution mode, my file was 42K, and Vodafone has a self-imposed limit on transmission of MMS files across its network of 30K. My husband (who has been in the cellular telephony business since it was invented) and I found this astonishing on three counts:1) there is not so much as a dicky bird about this issue in the documentation supplied to me by Vodafone;2) it seems remarkable that Vodafone would brand a product whose functionality it isn't prepared to fully support, and3) surely it is missing a revenue opportunity by not charging people who want to send larger files a bit more for the privilege!Marcy CarpenterWoolly thinkingAsk Jack, May 6, included a piece on how to import bookmarks from Netscape Navigator into Internet Explorer. While the advice was relevant given the question asked, an   opportunity was missed to warn against becoming Microsoft sheep. If websites use features that only work on IE, it is the website that is at fault, not the user. A quick, polite email to the webmaster pointing out that its website does not work for a growing number of users should be welcomed by the authors!Tim RussellSurreyRemoval problemsI think Malcolm Coles (Feedback, May 6) may be a little over-optimistic about the merits of Norton Anti-Virus. Saying it could be removed without hitches may have been true in his case, but if he had looked at Symantec's technical support site and the thousands of pieces of advice on how to remove NAV when uninstallation has gone wrong, then he would realise that in many, many cases, NAV doesn't remove cleanly.The only way to completely remove NAV is to go into the Registry and manually delete keys - which is not something the average user would like, or be able, to do.Simon MidgleyGene searchRe Genes Reunited (Online, April 29): You state that registers of births, marriages and deaths from 1837 are online. Only the indexes are available online via sites such as 1837online.com and Freebmd. To access the information on the registers you still have to order a certificate - which at least can now be done online.Also, you quote census returns from 1871 - that should be 1841, although the online geographical coverage is very limited.  You seem to believe that Ancestry.co.uk was in the vanguard as far as online census data is concerned. The 1881 Census has been available on CD from the Mormons for several years, and has been free on their website for a couple of years. You compare the 1837online site and suggest that it is rivalling the freebmd.rootsweb.com site. There is one huge difference between these sites (apart from the price!). The freebmd site is indexing all the transcribed data, by name and event. The 1837online site requires you to input a date and the first three letters of the surname and then simply delivers facsimiles of the original index pages.Thus, if you are unsure of the precise date or have a surname with common letters to start with, then you will need to search through dozens of index pages (at 10p per page). You also suggest that theMormon siteallows users to build their family trees online. This is not possible. Your listing of additional links also has some errors: the Society of Genealogists site iswww.sog.org.uk, and the rootsweb site for births, marriages and deaths ishttp://freebmd.rootsweb.com.  In the 25 years that I have been researching my family history, the increasing availability of online data has made a tremendous improvement.  Note, however, that it is not simply a question of easier access, as you suggest. The real gains have been made through the availability of indexes to the data.Phil RidgwayReview rationaleI found Raphael Whittle's comments inFeedback (May 6)rather ridiculous. If you are going to ban reviews of violent games because they are at odds with the editorials and writing elsewhere in the paper, then you might also consider a ban on 18-rated films in the Friday Review.Whittle's assertion that only children play these games is incorrect, and his comparison of violence in games with international war is naive. Please continue to review any games you please, without expressing Daily Mail levels of outrage about them.Liam DonHerts
Too hotIntel is rethinking its development path following reports of heat problems in successors to the Pentium 4 and Xeon processors. Prescott, the high-end Pentium 4 released earlier this year, consumes 103 Watts, mainly because it contains 120m transistors instead of its predecessor's 55m. Intel says it will accelerate plans to produce dual-core processors. This combines two slower chips in a single package to produce a cooler-running but faster chip. Intel may also use ideas from Banias, a Pentium 4-compatible design, which first appeared in the Centrino wireless chipset for thin and light notebook PCs. This keeps areas of the chip not in use turned off to save power, which also reduces heat output. Like rival AMD and IBM PowerPC chips, the Banias and more recent Dothan versions of the Pentium also do more processing work at lower clock speeds. Intel will still accelerate the Pentium 4 up to 4GHz this year, but new numbering schemes can be expected to focus on other aspects of performance, rather than clock speed.Mono to goNovell is preparing the Mono software development platform for release next month. Mono is intended to allow Microsoft.net applications to run on Linux, Novell Netware, Apple's Mac OS, and the Sun Microsystems Solaris and HP/UX Unix environments. Novell hopes Mono will be a key component for spreading .Net across non-Microsoft operating systems, making it more competitive with Java deployments. The software is available as a beta package of open source components which includes a runtime environment and Microsoft C# compiler based on the .Net Common Language Infrastructure. The Munich local authority is using Mono to help migrate the city's network of 14,000 Windows computers to SuSE Linux. Novell bought SuSE, the German Linux company, and acquired Mono by taking over Ximian.www.go-mono.comPrinted circuitsXerox is developing a semi-conductive ink that could allow screens and wireless circuits to be printed on a newspaper page to give a roll-up internet computer. The polythiophene semiconductor ink can be used to print electrical conductors, semiconductors, and dielectrics - the main components of a circuit. Apart from the ease of using a specialised ink-jet printer, the printing can be performed at room temperatures and does not require expensive clean rooms. Cheap plastic-based   solar cells being developed by TDA Research could be used to power the printed pages. An early use for the Xerox circuits could be radio frequency identification tags that would be moulded to fit the stock items they identify.Grid unlockHewlett-Packard is selling a turnkey system to help customers plough through the reams of archived documents and emails demanded by legislation. With documents having to be stored in a retrievable form for years, it may be hard to find an email attachment out of billions of stored files. HP's StorageWorks Reference Information Storage System (RISS) is a hardware and software combination designed for long-term storage and retrieval. It also marks the first use of HP's Storage Grid architecture, which allows storage across an enterprise to be viewed as a single entity that can then be allocated according to company needs.www.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/pressBMW beamerBusinesses and BMW cars will be even more closely linked using technology from Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Oracle. At ENSA@Work in Munich, HP's European technology showcase, a BMW 7-Series sedan was shown using wireless networking to connect a Tablet PC to the internet and a corporate network. In turn, the PC can be connected to a printer using Bluetooth. The HP printer and Tablet PC are stored on armatures in the passenger armrest between the rear seats. In the boot are a secured GPRS or 3G transceiver and a Wi-Fi access point devised by Intel and using software from Oracle. The 7-Series optional extra will be available later this year.Budgets riseMore than 40% of UK IT budget holders expect budgets to increase this year, according to research by analyst firm IDC. Most will concentrate on replacing equipment, with 63% planning to replace PCs and 43% server equipment. More importantly, IDC says its survey shows the return of what it calls "improvements and innovation" spending: almost half said making improvements would be a reason for outlay in the next year. It found particular interest in security, mobility, customer relationship management software and web services.
MP3 playersLong lifeSony, which is taking on Apple in the music download market with its Connect service, is also set to take a pop at the company's iPod music player. Due on sale in Japan early next month, with no plans yet for a worldwide launch, is a 20 gigabyte MP3 player, the Vaio-Pocket VGF-AP1. The device is larger and heavier than its Apple rival, but it does feature a 2.2in colour display, which can be used for viewing images or showing album art of the music that is playing. The VGF-AP1 also beats the iPod on battery life, offering 20 hours to the iPod's claimed eight. It retails for &#165;53,500 (&#163;265).www.sony.co.ukLarge capacityIf your personal music player is not large enough to cope with your collection, Xclef may have the solution. It is set to become the first manufacturer to launch an MP3 player with an 80gigabyte hard disk, capable of storing more than 2,000 hours of music. The Xclef 500 is compatible with both MP3 and WMA files, features an internal microphone and voice recorder and an FM radio. Not surprisingly, given its huge storage, the Xclef 500 uses a 2.5in disk drive, which is significantly larger than the 1.8in drive in the iPod. Battery life is rated at 20 hours. It is expected in the UK by early summer, where it will retail for around &#163;300 to &#163;400 fromwww.advancedmp3players.co.uk.Camera phonesSnap happyO2 is hoping to use the camera phone to resurrect the British tradition of sending holiday postcards. Subscribers to the network can now send hard copies of their photos accompanied by a short message simply by sending the image, text and address details via SMS to O2. The network then creates a postcard that is sent first class to be delivered the next day in the UK no matter where the picture was taken. Compatible with all O2 camera phones, the O2 PhotoCards can be sent in more than 50 countries. They cost &#163;1.50 per card plus the cost of sending a photo message.www.O2.co.ukCamerasPrice wiseECS has released one of the cheapest two megapixel digital cameras to also feature a built-in LCD screen. The &#163;90 HS-DV202 sports a flip-up 1.5in TFT monitor, has 16MB of internal storage and features an SD card slot. The camera can also take and store 320x240 pixel video images at 15 frames per second. Other facilities include a 4x digital zoom, a self-timer and the option of using the DV202 as a USB webcam. It is on sale now.www.ecs.uk.comCanon's new cropCanon has unveiled a high-end compact five megapixel camera sporting many features that have traditionally been the preserve of digital SLR models. Due next month, the &#163;450 PowerShot S60, right, includes a 3.6x optical zoom lens, which is smaller than previous models, has the ability to record RAW files and features an SLR-style Mode Dial on top of the camera. Other facilities include quicker start-up time, a more powerful battery, VGA video capture and 13 different shooting modes. Optional accessories include a 2x tele- converter and a 40 metre depth waterproof case.www.canon.co.ukFraudMore phishingLast month, 3.1bn fraudulent emails were sent worldwide, with the vast majority being attempts at "phishing". These are fake bank communications, which try to trick recipients into passing on their security codes by linking to a fake version of the bank's website. Banks never ask for security information in emails. This is more than 10 times the volume of fraudulent emails sent last August, according to email security   firm Brightmail. A survey of 5,000 online Americans for research firm Gartner says that 57m Americans believe they have received a phishing email. Almost 2m handed out personal information - costing financial firms an estimated $1.2bn.BroadbandBT enticementsAnyone signing up for a BT broadband service before June 20 will get a transferable voucher for one return flight to their choice of 11 destinations in the US and Europe, including New York and Prague. Recipients pay only airport taxes, but the offer does not apply to customers upgrading. US flights are not allowed in July and August, and European flights may be with budget airlines. BT's broadband services can be pricey. Its cheapest, at &#163;19.99 a month for up to 1GB of data plus &#163;80 for connection and modem, compares with PlusNet's &#163;14.99 a month for a 1GB service, plus &#163;115 initially.www.bt.com/broadbandflightswww.plus.netWiFiFlying startT-Mobile has opened six Wi-Fi hotspots at Heathrow, Gatwick and Glasgow airports, to add to its 250 UK locations in Starbucks cafes, Texaco garages and hotels. Users pay &#163;1.50 for 15 minutes or &#163;5 an hour for access speeds up to 1 megabit per second, with T-Mobile phone users able to add this to their account. The firm has hotspots in executive lounges of American Airlines and United Airlines at many US and European airports, and is doing likewise at the two airlines' lounges at the UK airports.www.t-mobile.co.uk/hotspotStat of the week:Mums get things done onlineResearch suggests US women fit 38 hours of living into 24-hour days, largely due to the efficiency the net allows. New AOL/ORC data on what "moms" use the net for, right, adds further weight to the theory that mothers use the net for particularly practical purposes.
Retailing is on the verge of a revolution in terms of how it tracks products from manufacture to final sale, thanks to radio frequency identification technology (RFID), which uses tiny microchips in tags to replace bar codes. But some retailers are concerned that the revolution is being stalled because worldwide standards for the technology are still some way off.RFID chips are radio devices that emit a unique ID when scanned at close range. When pallets, crates and individual products are tagged, scanners linked to logistics databases can track goods with great accuracy. The result should be less wastage and loss in the supply chain, and more accurate stock checking and replenishment at stores.As being tested by the likes of Wal-Mart and Proctor and Gamble in the US, and Tesco and Marks &amp; Spencer in the UK, RFID is mainly being used to make the supply chain more efficient: projects that involve the large-scale tagging of individual product are more likely around 2007. But the tests, though broadly positive, have revealed problems over accuracy rates, reader range and difficulties in linking to existing product databases. Analysts from the Meta Group research company report that half of the test projects have been abandoned.Real progress will only come when the retail industry is able to pin down standards for RFID technology in the way it has for bar codes - which are now taken for granted worldwide.At a recent RFID conference in London, Tesco announced it would delay asking suppliers to put RFID chips on pallets until next year, blaming the slow development of standards.Marks &amp; Spencer, which has tested tagging in items of clothing, says it shares this concern. "There is a degree of separate development between Europe and the US and we have to be careful there isn't incompatibility," said James Stafford, head of RFID at M&amp;S. "Standards are essential for driving the cost down, improving quality through competition and increasing choice of suppliers."The problem is that RFID is far more ambitious than the bar code. Standards are needed for use of the radio frequency (known as the "air interface") in each part of the world, and for the coding system applied to tags.The most likely outcome for the air interface is the acceptance of the UHF Generation 2 standard proposed by 13 chip vendors including Philips Semiconductors and   Texas Instruments in April. Three other protocol proposals are also under consideration by the industry standards group, EPCglobal, a joint venture of the standards bodies EAN International and the Uniform Code Council. It intends to ratify a standard by September.But with standards, the devil is in the detail. For example, the proposed standard does not resolve the issue of whether readers should be smart devices running software (favoured by companies such as Microsoft) or dumb appliances that just capture data and deliver it to the network.In Europe, the use of UHF wireless is restricted, and its use for RFID applications is under the jurisdiction of the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI). According to John Falck, chairman of TG34, the ETSI group responsible for RFID standards, proposals relating to UHF Generation 2 (known simply as EN   302 208) are moving through the committee stages. He reckons they have a good chance of being fully approved by the end of the year, although the power (wattage) and functionality of the readers will vary between North America and Europe.He admits that standards in Region 3 - which includes China and Japan - may take longer, but remains optimistic. "There is likely to be critical mass with Generation 2 and that will exert a very great pressure on Region 3 to comply."Not surprisingly, there is concern that unless ETSI standards are compatible and concurrent with America's Federal Communications Commission (FCC) standards, retailers would incur increased costs by having to use tags of two frequencies.To add to the complexity, there are intellectual property considerations. Andrew Osborne, director of policy and research at E.centre, the UK marketing arm of EPCglobal, says that as a result, the standards process takes more time than some people want. "You have to be sure that no person or group will make a claim on the standard once it is developed, and it takes time to do patent searches."Some observers remain concerned.   "There is a real fear that there will be different standards in the US and Europe: it could be a VHS vs Betamax situation," says Alan Lawson, research analyst at Butler Group. And even EPCglobal has expressed concern that some retailers want the emerging standard to use "active" tags, which are more expensive than the more common "passive" tags currently in use. The advantage of active tags is that data can be amended or deleted during the product life-cycle.Meanwhile, according to Meta Group, the fear of choosing what could be the "wrong" standard is preventing companies from launching pilot projects. Meta Group also says the standards debate is being used as an excuse for delaying development by enterprise software vendors.But there may be unexpected advantages. Paul Stam de Jonge, the director responsible for RFID solutions at LogicaCMG, says that with standards in place, Europe is likely to overtake the US in RFID adoption. "The US approach is largely mandatory - Wal-Mart, for example, is mandating its suppliers conform by a set date - whereas in Europe, a more collaborative approach is reaping benefits," he says. De Jonge believes the biggest hurdle is the reliability of   the tags. "There is currently a 20% failure rate. That has to be improved before tags become a commodity."De Jonge also doubts the emerging standard will have the backwards compatibility leading vendors want. "It is difficult and expensive to develop readers that have a multifrequency feature."Despite criticism, the momentum behind RFID is likely to make progress faster than that of the bar code. "I've never seen a standard delivered on time: there is always a significant difference between the specification and adoption," says Tom Friedman, head of the US-based Retail System Alert Group. "Clearly, there are political considerations of implementing this technology, and it is important to gain user confidence, which takes time. The bar code took 25 years to get where it is today."Others point to the fact that RFID depends on a huge data infrastructure to store and respond to the massive amounts of data captured when the supply chain and in-store products are tracked. This requires the deployment of software and databases that are now only beginning to emerge. "It's going to be a field day for the storage vendors, you can guarantee that," says Friedman.
Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, had an early leaving present last month. A respected annual survey of "e-readiness" placed the UK second only to Denmark among 64 countries. The study, by the Economist Intelligence Unit and the IBM Institute for Business Value, ranks countries according to a basket of 100 measures such as the availability of broadband, the legal climate and whether its people take to e-technologies.In this year's survey, Britain joins four e-obsessed Nordic countries in the top five; the US, which once topped the league, is number six, largely because of the poor take-up of broadband. Azerbaijan takes the wooden spoon.Britain scores well in the report largely because it is Europe's most competitive broadband market, and people are willing to shop online.Pinder's target when he was appointed four years ago was to make Britain the best place in the world for e-commerce, so he's rather pleased with the result. "A photo-finish with Denmark - I can live with that," he says.Unfortunately for the e-envoy, now minding the shop while the Cabinet Office reorganises his office under a yet-to-be appointed head of e-government, another influential survey last week painted a less flattering picture. In the headline findings, anyway.The survey is management consultant Accenture's fifth scorecard of e-governments around the world. The report, which assesses the "maturity" of services by which citizens and businesses can interact with   their governments online, places Britain ninth out of 22 countries surveyed. For the fourth year in a row, Canada is top. Singapore and the US are joint second.More embarrassing than the bald ranking is that Britain's position has slipped one place since last year, to be overtaken by France. Accenture comments that Britain made "limited progress" in its e-government programme in 2003.However, behind the headline ranking is more encouraging news. Slow progress can be a sign of maturity of e-government: when administrations put official business on the internet, they start with the easy bits, such as publishing electronic versions of government brochures. The British government has more or less done that; it is now at the stage of "e-enabling"   transactions such as paying car tax. Transactions are more difficult especially if, like car tax, they involve more than one government agency.Accenture says that, while few online services changed noticeably in 2003, backroom teams were putting in essential components for the difficult bits. For example, theGovernment Gateway, a centralised registration service for e-government services, "underwent a major upgrade in April 2003 to allow end-to-end transactions between agencies as well as with their customers".The Accenture report commends the forthcoming appointment of a head of e-government (management consultancies are doing their damndest to put an alumnus in the post). It also praises Britain's explicit inten tion to reform the public service through IT rather than the more usual practice of duplicating existing ways of dealing with government, as an end to itself.Britain also gets a gold star for trying to measure what exactly it gets from e-government. "Developments such as these are important, as in recent history the United Kingdom's e-government programme came under scrutiny for its emphasis on getting as many services online as possible without clearly demonstrating the value of doing so."There is one small cloud on the horizon. Britons seem to be unimpressed with their state's e-efforts. "Our citizen survey showed that take-up continues to be an issue for the United Kingdom." Among internet users surveyed, 40% had never   visited a government website. Germany, ranking 14, does even worse: 54% of regular internet users have never visited a government site.Britons, however, take the prize for cynicism: 20% describe themselves as pessimistic about e-technologies making the government more efficient and more accountable. That is higher than in any other country surveyed.Accenture suggests that if you build a service, people will come. "Of the countries we surveyed in both 2003 and 2004, Canada and Singapore recorded the strongest growth in e-government transactional use. For example, the percentage of regular internet users who filed their taxes online jumped from 21% to 33% in Canada and from 33% to 55% in Singapore in just one year."And the number of UK internet users who say they have never visited a government site is falling. "Along with increased usage has come increased satisfaction. The number of regular internet users in the United Kingdom who rated their country's e-government performance as fair or better jumped from 48% to 65%."Accenture concludes by saying the picture of e-government in Britain "may be very different in a year's time". Changes in leadership and organisation, enhancements to the Directgov citizen portal and initiatives to drive take-up of e-government should make Britain "one of the most interesting e-government programmes to watch over the next 12 months".
In Mind Wide Open, you operate a computer that allows you to move a bike.It's using neuro feedback technology, which reads brainwave activity from outside your skull. The brain emits waves that have recognisable patterns, some associated with paying attention or falling asleep etc. You take the information read by the electrodes and give it to a computer through a USB cable. That information can control things on the screen the way a mouse or keyboard would. I tried software that tries to encourage your brain to reach more focused, attentive states. Whenever your brainwave activity shows you're paying attention, a little bicycle moves across the screen. It's one of the most extraordinary things I've experienced.   You are literally sitting there with a wired-up helmet on, and controlling something onscreen with your brain.You coined the term Googlehole?I'm a huge fan of Google but have noticed troubling things developing in Google's results. The way Google works skews the results slightly. For instance, if you try to search on a product, sites with a lot of links to them tend to rise higher in the results. The blogging world has become very powerful over Google's results, so things that are of interest to the blogging community tend to rise higher in the page rankings because of all the linking. I benefit as I'm the top result for Steven Johnson and number two for Steven!How long have you been blogging?About a year and a half. I tend not to post 25 times a day. I use it more for ideas that aren't quite big enough to   write as an article or aren't fully formed. I've become kind of addicted and now it's like the writer's version of going to the gym _ you have a workout to keep your brain sharp and you feel better for it. There's also the social connection of getting to talk to all these people, too.Is Moore's Law holding true?Moore's Lawseems to be still valid as the chips are getting faster and cheaper but I don't know if we're finding enough uses for all that power, other than games, where you could use chips that were twice as fast and cheap. The web and email aren't particularly computationally difficult. It's like we are using a nuclear power plant to drive our horse and buggy!Are we moving towards having one home server that will take care of all our computing and entertain  ment needs?I'm Mac-based, so I useiTunesto play music in parts of the house. I'm dying to get a wirelessTiVothat will let me stream pictures and TV. I use theAirPortat home.Which of the emerging technologies are you watching most closely?I wrote a piece forDiscoveraboutAibo, and people creating Aibo personalities then downloading them to their pet robot dog. An artist in New York has experimented with creating robot dog personalities as exhibits. It's not so much the idea of "the robots are coming", but the idea of the robot as a medium you can be creative within.Steven Johnson's bookmarkshttp://boingboing.netwww.plastic.comwww.buzzmachine.comwww.hyperorg.com/bloggerwww.gawker.comwww.wonkette.comwww.buzzmachine.comVisit:www.stevenberlinjohnson.com
"Get the latest word direct from the Googleplex about new technology, hot issues, and the wide world of search," it says athttp://www.google.com/googleblog/.
"In a press conference at the annual E3 video game industry trade show, Sony said Cell-based systems would be the main tool developers would use to make video games for its next generation of hardware. Sony also said the first prototype stations using the Cell chip would be built in the fourth quarter of 2004. The machines themselves will be developed by IBM, with software and development tools from Sony," reportsReuters.Comment: The Cell is intended to be "a teraflop-class microprocessor". Sony, Toshiba and IBM announced they were starting this development inMarch 2001.
"Brandon Buchan, 21, an English student at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon, bid for the MP3 player on eBay, the Star Phoenix newspaper said. The pawnshop that auctioned the device sent him an unloaded .22-calibre Smith &amp; Wesson gun and a licence by mistake," reports theBBC.
"Sony Corp threw down the gauntlet to handheld video game leader Nintendo Co Ltd on Tuesday, unveiling its new PlayStation Portable (PSP) with far-reaching multimedia capabilities. Not to be outdone, Nintendo took the wraps off its own new portable game machine, the dual-screened DS that promises to intensify a budding war in the handheld game market," reportsReuters."The PSP is the most significant hardware release in four years for Sony's game business, which accounts for two-thirds of the conglomerate's profit and has helped offset heavy losses from its mainstay electronics business. And the challenge from Microsoft Corp's Xbox and other game consoles has not gone unnoticed. The company said it would cut the price of its premier PlayStation 2 console by up to 25% in the United States to match the Xbox."
Microsoft yesterday struck a deal with games maker Electronic Arts that could kickstart a growth in online gaming.The agreement to put Electronic Arts games on to Xbox Live ends a long running feud between the two companies.The games maker will release more than a dozen games, including sport-based titles such as the NFL, to the software firm.Electronic Arts had refused to support the Xbox Live service since it was introduced in November 2002, citing concerns about the business model.Microsoft charges users a   subscription fee to access the online versions of its games. Sony's PlayStation remains the market leader in the games console market by a wide margin.The company has shifted 70m units. Microsoft has sold about 13.7m Xbox consoles, behind Nintendo, which has delivered 14m of the GameCube.Online gaming is growing rapidly in popularity and has led to the growth of internet cafes devoted to playing games such as Counter-Strike. There has also been a growth of semi-professional tournaments in countries such as the US, South Korea and Sweden.According to Jupiter Research about 58m people   play online games, with that number set to reach 113m by 2007.Microsoft chief Xbox officer Robbie Bach sealed the agreement by shaking hands with Electronic Arts president Don Mattrick in the presence of Muhammad Ali and St Louis Rams running back Marshall Faulk.
European consumers are taking to fast, always-on - or broadband - internet access more quickly than their American counterparts, according to EU research published yesterday.The number of people and businesses using broadband across the EU grew by more than 80% in the year to January 2004, and roughly 6% of the region's population now use the service.But Erkki Liikanen, European commissioner for the information society and enterprise policy, warned member governments not to be complacent."We have seen impressive rates of growth ... but the momentum needs to be maintained, particularly by ensuring competitive markets and the right regulatory conditions for investment."The findings came a day after the OECD reported that by the end of last year there were more than 82m broadband subscribers - up from only 3m at the end of 1999.It took less than half the time for broadband users to rise from 3m to 80m than for the same increase in mobile phone users.
Now appearing in its fifth incarnation, the Vauxhall Astra - which, if we're going to be personal about it, seemed to have let itself go a bit over the years and had turned into something of a lump - has been given a pricey makeover, involving cosmetic surgery, an extensive fitness regime and a dietary programme intended to promote physical and spiritual well-being. As a result, it enters middle age looking more svelte, lithe and ready for action than it ever has.It certainly looks more svelte, lithe and ready for action than anything else in the Vauxhall catalogue, with the obvious exception of that speeding two-seater tea-tray, the VX220, a car one still can't quite believe Vauxhall had the nerve to make, given the company's more central and essential commitment to providing four-wheel coathangers for the nation's travelling rep population.The Astra used to be a routine, hard-to-notice runabout - the kind of car you would be unlikely to point at on the road unless it happened to be on fire, upside down or heading directly towards you at 70mph. For the summer of 2004, though, it is wearing some eye-catching fashions, and has some edge - literally, in the form of the creases down the centre of its bonnet and along its sides, lending it a slightly tensed-up, ready-to-pounce look. It also has a sporty roof that falls away rapidly towards the back - to the point where, from the outside, you imagine that an adult passenger in the rear is going to have to sit with his chin on his stomach, though, by some Tardis-like miracle occurring within, this turns out not to be the case.The grille has a showy chrome V set into it, the headlamps are bossy little clusters of plastic and silver and the rear of the car seems to follow new guidelines developed over at Renault, wherein a car cannot be regarded as contemporary unless its back looks like some kind of fusion between a microwave oven, a home cinema set-up and the head of one of the robots from the Cadbury's Smash adverts.These changes position the Astra, looks-wise and even charisma-wise, somewhere between an Audi A3 and a Renault M&#233;gane. Which is quite a transformation when you consider that the Astra used to sit, in this regard, somewhere between a tomato gro-bag and an out-of-town shopping centre. It's taut enough to compete from a driving point of view, too, being reassuringly firm to an almost German degree, but light and easy to pedal and steer. And it seems to have more of a spring in its step than, for instance, the new VW Golf does.It could still stand to lose a few versions of itself, though. Which Astra are you going to buy? The 1.4 Expression? The 1.6 Life? Or maybe you would prefer the 1.6 Elite. No? Then how about the 2.0 Design? Then again, perhaps the 1.7 CDTi Club is more your kind of thing. Or the 1.8 SRi. Failing that, how about the 1.4 SXi? And would you like fries with that?Altogether, the Astra is available in seven different models and with six different engines, presenting the consumer with a perhaps catastrophically unwieldy bundle of 28 choices of engine-and-trim combination. And that's before you start choosing the paintwork, deciding whether to go with the rubber floor mats or the velour ones, and making up your mind whether or not to opt for an MP3-compatible hi-fi.By ticking the box to say yes to everything Vauxhall has to offer for your Astra, you can boost its price from the relatively modest entry point of &#163;10,995 to a truly guilt- inducing &#163;17,645 - although by then, presumably, the car will barely accelerate under the weight of its own supplementary spoilers and airbags.Of course, choice is freedom, and is to be cherished as such. At the same time, choice is paralysis, if you get offered too much of it, and the Astra range looks dizzyingly like too much of it.Generously sparing the Guardian a selection dilemma, Vauxhall sent along a 1.8 Design model. Design is the trim category between Club and Elite. It's two steps above Life, but two steps down from the range-topping SRi version. What with the extra skirts that drag the ground, and the Sport Switch system that enables you to punch up the performance of the throttle and the steering at the press of a button, the SRi version of the Astra seems to be altogether a teenage ramraider's idea of heaven.The Design, by contrast, is clearly intended to be the Blackburn Rovers of the Astra range - dependably competitive without ever really setting the world on fire. Yet even this Astra is trim, feisty, and determinedly youthful despite everything. And it's a Vauxhall. There's hope for all of us.The lowdownVauxhall Astra 1.8 DesignPrice:£14,995Top speed:123mphAcceleration:0-60mph in 9.8secsConsumption:36.2mpg (combined)At the wheel:Simon MayoOn the stereo:The StreetsEn route for:Chelmsford
