The US Supreme Court announced last week that it would hear Eldred v. Ashcroft - an obscure case of which I guess most people are blissfully unaware. Yet the outcome of the court's deliberations will determine how our cultural and intellectual life evolves over the rest of this century. What's at stake is nothing less than the future of ideas.How come? Well, Eric Eldred is one of those gloriously public-spirited figures who runs a website devoted to publishing literary works in the public domain. The problem that Eldred came up against is that said domain has been shrunk by the US Congress, as it has steadily increased the period during which creative works enjoy copyright protection - from the 28 years envisaged by the framers of the American Constitution to the current position of the author's life plus 70 years for individuals and 95 years for works created by corporations.This has happened by a series of ad hoc extensions. Since 1960 the process has accelerated, with Congress, egged on by lobbying and huge campaign contributions from movie studios, recording companies and publishing conglomerates, granting no fewer than 11 extensions of copyright. The last straw for Eldred was the 1998 Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act which ratcheted copyright terms up to their current absurd levels.Eldred's case has been enabled by the 'Openlaw' co-operative project orchestrated by the Berkman Center at Harvard. (See Footnotes web page for details). At issue is whether there are constitutional limits to Congress's power to extend the term of copyright. The framers of the Constitution thought and argued a lot about the question and reached a sublimely intelligent view about it. The heart of it, they reasoned, was to balance the need of authors to earn income from their   work, against society's need for the free and unimpeded flow of ideas. The balance they struck in 1790 was to grant copyright protection for 14 years with the possibility of one further extension of 14 years.Given the dynamism of American cultural and economic life in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, you'd have thought that the framers got it about right. Under the balance they engineered, creativity was rewarded while ideas circulated freely. So why did Congress tamper with it?The answer appears to be that the framers thought mainly in terms of individual creativity and did not foresee the rise of corporations based almost entirely on intellectual property. And companies do not take lightly to the wasting of their main assets, so they lean heavily on legislators. To take one example: without the Extension Act, Disney's copyright on Mickey Mouse would have expired in 2003 and the rights to Pluto, Goofy and Donald Duck a few years after that.It's tempting to, er, caricature this issue as a row about cartoon characters, but in fact it goes right to the heart of what makes a creative society tick. We all borrow ideas   from one another all the time: imagine how few songs would be composed if songwriters had to pay for every song they'd ever listened to.In a non-digital age, the control exercised by copyright on the circulation of ideas was relatively loose - simply because it was difficult to enforce at the level of the individual. But in a digital world, it is technically possible to track every single access to a document, song or movie and Disney &amp; Co plan to exploit that to the full. That's why copyright terms must be shortened, why Congress's extensions must be rejected and why the Supreme Court's deliberations in the autumn matter to us all.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
They may have been snubbed at the Brit Awards last week but cartoon rock band Gorillaz will make their own kind of history later this month when they will be the first group to launch an interactive TV game on the PlayJam channel.This is the latest attempt by the band, brainchild of Blur's Damon Albarn and cartoonist Jamie Hewlett, to become a multimedia phenomenon. Their record company, EMI, said it may look at similar formats for other artists if the game succeeds.
Wal-Mart is now selling cheap PCs without an operating system (iewithout Windows) or a monitor. Not getting XP Home Edition saves $98.(As a comment points out, so doesNovatechin the UK, and probably many other firms. But Wal-Mart is different: it's the world's biggest supermarket chain -- like Tesco, but bigger.)
UK PC salesfell by 5%last year, according to research firm IDC. This is slightlyworse than averagefor EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa). The top 5 PC companies in the UK last year were Dell, Compaq, NEC (Packard Bell), HP and Tiny. The top 5 in EMEA were Compaq, Dell, HP, Fujitsu Siemens and IBM.
Hewlett-Packard was expected to unveil a PocketPC-basedPDA/phoneat this week's GSM conference in Cannes, according to CNet. Presumably this is the same device as the one codenamedStarfighter, mentioned by an HP product manager in Australia. Sagem and Trium have been selling similar devices in Europe since last year.
Atsushi Ishizaka, 22, turned up early to be the first person to buy a Microsoft Xbox games console from Bill Gates in Tokyo, and told Reuters he'd been in New York to buy a machine at the New York launch. The question is, will he make it to London for March 14?
The leading PC manufacturers are, it seems, only just discovering what has been obvious for years: that they will be far worse off as a result of the US government's anti-trust action. Microsoft is being compelled to offer the same prices to the top 20 PC manufacturers, which means the ones who had special deals must nowpay more. IBM's comments are awaited with interest. It complained bitterly during the trial that Microsoft had tripled the price it paid for Windows. It ended up paying about $27 a copy when the average for the biggest buyers was about $42-44. The pay-back for IBM's testimony looks like being an increase to about $46-$48 a copy. Many smaller PC manufacturers will, of course, end up paying less for Windows. However, nobody cares what small PC manufacturers say.
Colt Telecom yesterday announced plans to axe 500 jobs across Europe and close seven of its 18 web hosting centres as it warned that demand for internet and telecoms services had continued to slide.Colt's shares dropped 20% to a new record low after the company warned that revenue growth in the first three months of the current year has already slowed to a snail's pace.Like many other firms in the telecom world, Colt has suffered from a drop in demand from large corporate customers and other telecom operators. Colt makes about a third of its revenue by selling its capacity to other telecom companies, but many new entrants have been forced out of business and no longer need Colt's network.Revenue growth in the first quarter of this year will be lower than the 4% the company managed in the fourth quarter of last year."The decline in demand in the wholesale market &#91;from other operators&#93; has continued; frankly the trend accelerated in the fourth quarter and we are expecting that level of cancellations to continue into the first quarter," said chief executive Peter Manning.Colt operates a 12,500km European fibre-optic network that crosses 13 countries. Having completed its construction programme the company said yesterday it will cut 500 jobs, mostly on the European mainland, at a cost of &#163;12m. After the job losses Colt will employ 4,800 people.On top of the job losses, Colt yesterday reacted to a slump in demand for web hosting services by writing off &#163;175m from the value of its internet hosting business and parts of its network.Yesterday Colt announced underlying profits of &#163;24.6m for the year to end December, three times higher than a year earlier but slightly below what analysts had expected.
Remember, today's Online isonline.
Next generation DVDs? The BBC has the storyhere. Of course, Onlineblog readers knew about these new discs more than a month ago (below).
Here's one of the neatest browser tricks I've seen in a while. Make sure your browser is not full screen and gohere. (Thanks to Mike's Listnewsletter.)
Meeting girls is easy this way," said Amir, as he continued typing, "You can be relaxed no worries."Amir, manager of my guesthouse, and local scoundrel, is one of the 1.3m internet users in Iran. This figure has risen from just 2,000 users five years ago."In Iran it is sometimes difficult to meet girls," he went on. "But on the internet, there is no pressure." Everything, from news, to games, to chat   is now freely available. And it is easy for Iranians to connect to the internet, if they have their own computers.However, most of the cybercafes, or "Coffeenets" as they are called, were shut down by the governmennt last year. The reason: Voice Chat.No. Really. Voice Chat the instant messaging add-on that enables you speak to your buddy as well as type messages. So many people were using it, instead of their more expensive telephones, that the loss of revenue   at the nationally-owned phone company was too great for the government to bear. The police were sent to shut the cafes down, and forced those who wanted to stay in business to apply for a special licence.They had good reason to worry. Log on to Yahoo and it is easy to see their voice-chat system is dominated by Iranian users. At chat.yahoo.com the user-created chatroom listings are indicative: rooms such as "Iranian Boys and Girls in Iran", "Isfahan Love" and "IranMashad" occupy the entire first three pages.This is not to say that the government is totally against   the internet. President Khatami even had his own personal site during the 1997 elections, the results of which were announced on the web as it happened, and now most government departments have their own pages. Even the clerics in the notoriously conservative holy city of Mashad are busy building homepages. The internet, they say, is a gift to spread the word of the Prophet.And contrary to expectation, the internet in Iran is not censored: at every internet connection I tried, I was able to easily and speedily access all the main news sites and a large number of porn sites. Many Iranian ISPs are now even openly advertising themselves as "Uncensored, No Filters".While there is concern that   porn, and things offensive to Islam, are freely available, no one has yet decided to filter it. Opposition political parties are also given free reign."Thirty years ago, governments could keep information from the people," says Mohammad Ali Abtahi, President Khatami's chief of staff said recently, "Now, borders have gone away."Getting online in Iran is easy. Cards giving 10 hours' prepaid internet access, with a scratch panel to reveal the temporary username and password, are readily available. Full access to the internet can be secured for about 50p an hour. There are even UK-style unlimited usage plans, with ParsOnline, the first ISP in Iran to offer 56k dialup access, selling cards that give unlimited access for   &#163;25 a month, or every night, 2am to 10am, for less than &#163;5.Indeed, internet access, in Tehran at least, is perhaps more sophisticated than that found in the UK. ParsOnline also offer Assymetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) connections at 2Mbps, four times faster than that available to home users here, and for people out of the ADSL catchment area, there are wireless links available, running at 5Mbps, something unheard of in the UK.So, if internet access is simple to arrange, what about the computers themselves?Just off central Tehran's EnqelabStreet, in a specialist shopping arcade dedicated to hardware, sits Mighty ComputerStore. There, while copying the entire Adobe product range onto a CD-Rom for   &#163;1.50, Hamid, the manager, explained the latest craze."There's a sort of fever here in Iran," he said, "All the families who can afford it have a computer. All of the children are taking classes, and we sell a lot of educational software. Parents come in with their children and buy games."According to Hamid, the software is shipped from Malaysia, where factories specialise in cracking copy-protected software and the mass-copying of CD-Roms.According to the Business Software Alliance, the international anti-piracy organisation, last year, more than 300 Malay companies were taken to court for piracy. Their pirate versions are so cheap, and so rapidly brought to market, that original software is hard to sell: only 30% of software in Malaysia is an original copy. In Iran, that figure is close to zero - an American trade embargo means stateside software producers, including Microsoft, are prohibited from selling software in Iran.But, despite not much getting through from the United States, I found plenty of up-to-date equipment for sale: high-end graphics cards, motherboards, and network cards can be bought in a Tehran bazaar for less than you can find in the UK.But for all the hardware, software sales, voice applications and chatrooms, within Iran, one area is not being covered: e-commerce. The lack of credit cards, and a general lack of chain stores and mass distribution means an Iranian Amazon.com has yet to appear. No matter says   Hamid: "Many people have friends abroad," he says. "If I want something I have it sent to my aunt in California, who can post it to me."Internet companies are starting up, however. The government estimates that 800,000 jobs will be created in the internet field in the next five years. This is something they are very keen to encourage. Not only will it help with Iran's 12% unemployment, but an internet company requires little space, and brings in more money, than similar light industry.Such is the importance of computing to Iran's new economy, that hard drive and computer case prices are listed in the local newspapers' business sections as Commodities: Seagate SCSI drives are given the same standing as copper, or oil barrels.However, so many people are studying computing there is a fear that even with such large expansion, there will not be enough jobs to go around.Hamid again: "Everyone is going to school for such a long time," he said. "Maybe it would be better for them to learn a job first."The massive university intake, however, is transforming a generation into internet users. Every student has their own email address, and computer hire is subsidised. Once they graduate, Hamid says, they are all so used to emailing each other, and arranging their social lives with instant messaging, that they immediately buy a computer and get back online.But perhaps the best thing about the internet in Iran comes back to Amir. After he'd finished trying to chat up a girl somewhere in cyberspace he lent over his desk:"What is good," he said, "is we can talk to everyone. The politicians can argue, but the young people can always be friends on the internet."
White supremacist groups in the US have been creating and selling racist computer games with titles like "Ethnic Cleansing" and "Shoot the Blacks," according to a report out this week from the Anti-Defamation League.Abraham Foxman, ADL's national director, said the groups were both creating racist games using open source software and modifying commercially available games to make targets of particular ethnic groups.Mr Foxman said: "The difference is these games are loaded with blatantly racist messages and themes."It's a disgusting, sick perversion of the original games, where the manipulated versions give players points for killing as many non-whites and Jews as possible."One of the games, Ethnic Cleansing, is advertised as the "most politically incorrect video game ever made."Players kill black and Hispanic characters before descending into a subway station "where the Jews have hidden".Black characters make monkey and ape noises when shot. The advertisement continues: "Then if your (sic) lucky you can blow away Jews as they scream 'Oy Vey!' on your way to their command centre."Ethnic Cleansing is produced by Resistance Records, the publishing arm of the National Alliance, a white supremacist group, and retails for $14.88 (£10.50).Repeated attempts by the Guardian today to access the Resistance Records website failed.According to the ADL, Ethnic Cleansing was released last month on the US national holiday to celebrate civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr.Adverts on the site read: "Celebrate Martin Luther King day with a virtual race war!"The group reportedly has plans to produce another game based on the Turner Diaries, a white supremacist novel by the leader of the National Alliance,   William Pierce.Other games highlighted by the ADL include scenarios that allow players to run a concentration camp, available on the website of the World Church of the Creator, which describes itself as a group for "white liberation".Jon Dovey, a professor who studies gaming at the University of the West of England, said it was important to keep in mind that these games were a small part of the online community, and that action against them is possible."I'd recommend people to go to these sites and flame it, bombard it to bring it down. It's online direct action, and it's not difficult to do," he said.
BBC imitatesthe Onion(respect toNTK): "More than half of all internet users admit to losing their rag with the net at least once a week, according to a Mori study", reportsBBC News Online. "52% log off when angry, 26% boycott irritating site (sic), 11% lost their temper daily [and] 83% revisit sites they like." Shocker.
Mobile phone theft is worse than the official figures suggest, accordng toContinental Research. Of course this is not a new problem, nor is it confined to the UK (or even toParisorAmsterdam). How long before handset manufacturers and network operators do something about it? Don't hold your breath. . . .
Around the world in 197.53 seconds. An SMS message from Cannes, naturally.....
On the way, maybe: theVirtual Pen.
MGM is the first major Hollywood studio to allow its movies to be streamed over the net, reportsAP. CinemaNow ishere.
The latest version of Microsoft's Media Playerkeeps a logof the things it plays. The reasons for doing this are, of course, perfectly sensible. Not getting users to OK this idea and not giving them a simple way to delete the log is, however, downright stupid. Read Microsoft's responsehere.
Well, now we're usingBlogger Pro- Ev's decision to take credit cards sped that up. No changes to Onlineblog just yet, but I'm hoping to put a few of the cool new features to use in the near future...
The mobile phone industry is making it easier to let your fingers do the talking. At this week's big mobile show in Cannes, British software company Logica demonstrated mobile software that can interact with instant messaging on PCs. So, you will be able "chat" to friends sat at their office PC by sending an SMS from your mobile.They will be able to pick this up and reply using the instant messaging services of AOL, MSN or Yahoo, once commercial agreements are in place.Logica, a leading provider of SMS software, is just one of the companies at the 3GSM Mobile Congress, showing off instant messaging from mobiles. US-based Followap   says Vodafone will be introducing a service based on its iFollow instant messaging, at the end of this quarter.Followap's software is embedded into a soon-to-be-available Samsung phone - the S620 - and enables users to make up buddy lists of their friends and check who's online. Logica's SMS Chat product works in a similar way enabling one SMS to be sent to a group of friends.But do people really want "chat" with their fingers? "Yes," argues Gareth Price of Logica who says: "It is much more convenient if you are somewhere noisy, or if you don't want your colleagues to hear what you are saying."Services like this, which allow group conversations using text, are just one sign   that the lines between voice and text on mobiles are beginning to blur. Nasdaq-listed software company Comverse, which makes multimedia messaging software, calls this multimodality. Later this year, the company will launch software that enables text messages or emails sent to a mobile to be converted to speech.Stacy Fassberg, marketing director for Comverse, says: "If you're late for a meeting, you'll be able to listen to your text messages in the car," though listening to a com puter read out "txt msgs" might not be easy on the ear.Ms Fassberg insists that multimodality - getting mobile messages in the form you choose, irrespective of how they were created, is the way of the future. Researchers at the Yankee Group seem to agree. A recent survey suggests people would use their mobile more if they could switch between voice and text.With multimodality, you will effectively be able to "type" with your voice. For example, you will be able to   send a voicemail as a reply to an SMS, says Comverse.Compaq too is working on messaging products for its Ipaq personal digital assistant. Martin Lundst&#246;m of Multimedia Instant Messaging Technologies of Sweden, a Compaq partner, showed that using high-speed mobile services like General Packet Radio Services, a text file can be attached to a voicemail.Group chat and instant messaging products were also on display at the stands of mobile phone makers Erics son and Nokia, both founders with Motorola of the Wireless Village Initiative which is setting standards for interoperability between instant messaging and presence applications (where you can see who is online).Nokia showed Odigo.com software, but will be introducing its own later this year. Providers of instant messaging for PCs and mobile operators haven't decided how to divvy up the revenues - this might take the instant out of instant messaging.
For a while back in 2000, it looked like online multiplayer gaming would be the cash-cow the PC games industry had been praying for, with big-money prize tournaments and even talk of Olympic recognition for videogames by 2008.Sadly a string of high profile collapses and Sega's failure to bring console owners on board with Dreamcast, put a lid on such optimism. Even so, tech consultants IDC are still predicting 40m households will partake in online gaming by 2004 - a significant market by any standard.While most people appreciate that playing against 'real' opponents is a lot more challenging than playing a machine, finding such opposition is still over-complicated and bedevilled by technical issues. In reality, online games are getting bigger, far more attractive and a lot simpler to play, provided you know your way around.Almost all PC action, strategy and RPGs now feature an online component. As soon as you break open new titles like Medal of Honour you have everything you need to enter the multi-player arena by fol lowing the instructions in the box. The most accessible online games tend to be shoot-em-ups, simply because they are so well supported by eager communities of players constantly updating classic games with new graphics, levels or rules. According to games portal CSport the current top five online games are as follows.Having picked a game, you need some opponents. Here you have three options:Firstly, network a few PC's together to create a Local Area Network (LAN) or head for your local cybercafe where all the hard work is done for you. Sadly, the Playing Fields, king of LAN cafes, slipped into insolvency in January but there are still plenty of tournaments to find, including the CPL world championships complete with $100, 000 in prize money.Hardcore gamers, however, will usually opt for finding or forming a clan. A clan is a group of five or more players who have banded together to fight as a team, something which is especially effective for shoot-em-ups like Quake or Unreal Tournament. For more details about forming clans check out.Alternatively, you can simply follow the in-game links to free portals usually run by the publisher, for instance, services the hugely popular Diablo and Starcraft series, whereas the idea of a living community is taken one stage further by so-called Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games. MMORPG's are about more than half an hour of mindless blasting, creating persistent virtual worlds which remember your online persona so you can return time after time to pick up your quest where you left off. If you find shoot-em-ups too shallow for your taste, try an MMORPG for something deeper. Here are the top three and their current prices.Everquest &#163;25 + $5.95 a month.  Dark Age of  Camelot -   &#163;20 + &#163;6 per month Anarchy Online  - &#163;20 plus around $10 per month.Whatever your genre or ability, the key to a good online experience is a fast and reliable server. It is the server which determines how many players can take part at once, how many games are supported, and how fast your reactions will be translated into action. In the past this was always blighted by latency issues (or 'ping-rate') meaning that U.S players with faster connections were at a noticeable advantage to their British opponents.Finding a fast server is easier now due to gaming portals, although you will need to download a small client program to take part. Indeed, the troubles at Barrysworld and Wireplay last year indicated the days of fast and free online gaming were coming to an end and the future probably lies with premium services like Blueyonder (which offset the costs of high bandwidth and reliable servers with subscription fees.With the next generation of games consoles (Xbox and Gamecube) promising to bring online gaming to the masses and publishers increasingly drawn to the cheaper development costs, it looks like the genre is here to stay. It may not yet be the plug-and-play experience we would wish for but online gaming is getting quicker, easier and more versatile.
Artemis FowlHarry Potter now has a serious rival in the form of Artemis Fowl - a 12-year-old master criminal. Artemis Fowl is the first book by Eoin    Colfer, a 35-year-old Irish teacher who has already earned over &#163;700,000 in publishers' advances and has the book optioned by Miramax. A new site has been launched to promote the first paperback version of the book. It includes lots of background on the young protagonist and there is an impressive multiplayer game. JK Rowling, you have been warned.Open revoltThe European Copyright    Directive is due be ratified in December. Critics say it will become illegal to make unlicensed copies of MP3 files    and e-books. But already a number of protest sites have appeared on the web and, this weekend, a new pressure    group meets in Cambridge. The Campaign for Digital Rights is a loose collection of programmers, business people and libertarians, which aims to put a stop to the directive before it becomes law.It is already illegal in the US to share an electronic book in the way that you might share a paperback. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DCMA) became law in the States in 1998 and the ECD, is an attempt to harmonise international copyright. The directive's main advocates are Hollywood and the record industry. They say that now music, books and movies can be shared over the internet, the owners of the copyright need to protect themselves against piracy. But critics of the directive say that it goes way too far. Ancient rights like the right of "first sale" - the freedom to pass on copyrighted material you have paid good money for - will disappear if the directive becomes law.Cheap flightsCheapFlights.com - the flight price aggregator - has just relaunched and added a package tour section to its already enviable list of travel agents. When it comes to flights, many deals are cheaper on the carriers' own websites, but CheapFlights has gathered a reputation for offering deals from small operators, who have no site of their own.HypertextThe debate over who owns hypertext - the technology linking web pages via text and pictures - reached the US courts earlier this month. British Telecom is claiming that it invented hypertext and it says that it has a US patent, awarded in 1976 to prove it. BT is accusing 17 of the biggest US internet service providers of using its technology without paying a royalty fee. BT stands to win billions of pounds, but that would be if it had a leg to stand on. Tim Berners-Lee invented the web in 1991 while working at Cern near Geneva, but he only borrowed the idea of hypertext. Others say they invented the technology long before BT was issued with a patent. In 1968, Douglas C Engelbart claims to have invented hypertext while working at the Stanford Research Institute in California. Others say that Vannevar Bush's system of "associative linking" was the true prototype, way back in 1945. Luckily both ideas are well documented on the web. So judge for yourself.AEGreg Sidal's AE Generator is a beautiful web-based work of art that can be reproduced for a few pence. AE stands for abstract expressionism - the style of painting pioneered in the 1950s by the likes of Willem de Kooning and Jackson Pollock. AE usually requires a lot of paint and it causes even more mess. But Sidal has updated the idea and invites you to download special software that generates spill-free AE images out of multicoloured straight lines on your computer. The images are generated in an instant and some are over three-foot long and contain as many as 4000 lines. You can manipulate the thickness of the lines but essentially it is all done for you, the real point is to print out the results on standard office printers and then assemble them and put them on the wall. Simple, beautiful and cheap.GrammysLast night's Brit Awards parties might have finished hours ago, but you will have to wait until this evening to watch the awards on TV. If you can't wait that long, there should be a few backstage shenanigans online - courtesy of the backstage webcam - to keep you in suspense. And if the Brits fails to satisfy your appetite, remember, there is still the Grammys this weekend.
Hardwired"Departmental silos, patchy response from local government and bureaucratic turf wars" (Whose online is it anyway, February 7). Sounds like a typical day for government folk. Perhaps what is missing from the government's strategy to get the nation online is something that thoroughly hardwires Whitehall and our townhalls into the views and preferences of real people. Without this, e-government is in danger of becoming an expensive mess.  Hmmm, feels like Railtrack.Ian Keys and Ian Parker Local Government Networkwww.nlgn.org.ukDavid Walker (Whose online is it anyway, February 7) suggests that the message on the    homepage of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission website warning visitors of access difficulties implies that improved capacity is not seen as a priority. The commission has since changed service providers, improved bandwidth and a new look site will be available to the public shortly. The message will be disappearing soon.Judith DonaldJudith.Donald@cwgc.orgWhy do many writers, often informed ones (cf David Walker's article last week on E-government) persist in using "homepage" when they mean "website"? The home page of a website is surely the opening page, and the one you return to if you're lost somewhere deep in a (poorly-designed!) site and wish to navigate elsewhere.Alan Haleadhale@clara.co.ukWebbers uniteIf net users' needs for music, news, information etc can be had for free, who needs dot.coms (Dictatorship of the digitariat, February 14)? People avoid paying where possible. If 100 people enter a supermarket, fill their trol  leys, and are each asked at the checkout: "Do you want to pay or take these for free?", how many, given that choice, would choose to pay? Five? Three? Less? Anyone claiming most would, is clearly an idiot. Anti-piracy countermeasures, state regulation and enforcement may eventually seriously restrict obtaining material that copyrighters and shareholders want money for, but will governments risk taking on downloading "illegals"?  If these "dot.commies" correctly identify capitalism as obstructing free access, then 100m-plus people worldwide now co-operatively providing and sharing for free could also co-operate politically to dispose of the economic system trying to deter, divide and drive them into paying up. "Webheads of the world unite! You have nothing to lose but your charges".Max Hessmax@truesocialism.freeserve.co.ukThank blogI'm an avid reader of Online and now onlineblog.com. I just wanted to thank you for your article last week about    blogger.com.  It encouraged me to set up my own blog over the weekend which I enjoyed doing, and I've finally got a use for the domain name that I bought a couple of years ago. That'll get the other half off my back because she thought it was a waste of money! Feel free to visit my blog at www.hellomate.co.uk! Keep up the good work.Chris Meirickchris.meirick@ btinternet.comPsi no moreOn January 17, there was an item "Agenda Benda" suggesting that digital preservation of the Agenda files of the excellent Psions was by back up via PC. However, this still leaves the problem of software change and the difficulty of readability should anyone want to look back from perhaps as much as several decades away. The most reliable "digital" solution is to export the Agenda file as a text file. How to do this is not obvious because it is not an option in the Agenda programme menus. However, it is easily done by printing to a file (use the    "general" setting for printer). The resulting plain-text file copied to PC and stored on a suitable medium such as CD should be readable for the foreseeable future.Bob Harerhare@gn.apc.orgSky's limitAmid gloomy figures, Sky is revamping the interactive experience, writes Trevor Clawson. (Over the sea to Sky February 14) A 60-minute Sky programme contains 20 minutes of adverts. "Thank Japan!" for the video recorder. It takes 34 people to produce a once-a-month in-house self-congratulatory advert Sky "Magazine" with all the content provided for them, whereas large companies do it with approximately a tenth of this number. One wonders how many it will take to mess up the new technology with the "content" difficult to find among the ads. Is it any wonder sales are "difficult". I expect you will have many emails along these lines that are more worthy of publishing.Derek Heckleheckle@btinternet.com
Tell us a little about the internet Archive and your Wayback Machine?The idea is to try and build a library in the digital age. People are trying to figure out the role of libraries at a time when physical books are no longer as dominant as they were. Peter Lyman wrote a report to Congress on why we should archive the web and he said: "The internet is now the information resource of first resort for millions of readers."If that's true then it's a huge change _ and we have some work to do! Even before the Internet Archive and Alexa I was involved with WAIS - Wide Area Information Servers, which was the first internet publishing system. I subscribe to Raj Reddy's  idea that we have the 'opportunity to build universal access to human knowledge'.How much back up do you need for storing the archive?We recently just went over 100 Terabytes for the web collection alone. Quantity-wise, that's larger than the library of Congress. A Terabyte for one of the Wayback Machine's computers costs about $4,000 - the Moore's law   surprises me every time. The machine itself is made up of ordinary HP desktops stacked on top of each other. We take out the disk it comes with and put in a 160 Gb large disk. We archive about 10 Terabytes a month and we think about a million people have used it so far.Why did you write your own, P2, operating system?Because if you tried to run anything that deals with this magnitude on one machine simple programs would take weeks to run. You have to run it as a parallel computer and the cheapest way is 'ganging' together regular PCs.And you run solely on Open Source software?We don't buy any software at all. It's the only way to go as this stuff has to be de-bugged and we use the software very hard. Lots of proprietary systems are designed to work on one particular application and if you stretch that application too far they break. The things we use Linux  for are quite different from what the original intent of Linux was so we often have to go in and fix it...  and we're allowed to.Any favourites from the early sites you've been archiving?We have the original Heaven's Gate website, which is strange to look back on. It's also fun to look back on Amazon when it was kind of 'hokey' as you can see the evolution of web design over time. If you ever wonder who's collecting all those 'click licences' that you don't even read when you download something -we are!Current favourites sites?I use Yahoo and I get the NY Times via e-mail. There's a wonderful site called Daypop, which indexes web logs. Where do I not go on the net is probably a better question. The net's graduated from being exciting to being an appendage to my brain.
Four years ago, European Union finance ministers rejected a call by the European parliament for the introduction of an electronic euro (the e-euro) as part of the preparation for the single currency . The UK now has an opportunity to re-examine the topic. It could, perhaps, become the ultimate Blairite project: creating the first national currency for the 21st century.When Singapore announced it would be giving up on boring paper and metal money and making electronic money legal tender (in 2008), it was a significant milestone on the road to new money for the new millennium. The Singaporean public, despite the estimated   $400m it will cost to make the change, are 85% in favour of the move. One reason is because it is expected to make the economy more efficient.We don't think much about the cost of money: because the cost of notes and coins is spread so thinly, we assume it to be free. But someone, somewhere is paying for the printing presses at the Bank of England, armoured cars transporting sacks of cash from supermarket to bank, and thugs raiding building society branches with shotguns. In a world of smart cards, mobile phones and the internet it's no wonder people are beginning to think about the impact of new technology.If the government does decide to join euroland, then it should rise to the challenge to make the UK the home of the "hard e-euro": the euro that exists in electronic form only but is legal tender for certain transactions. Think about it. Why did the common European currency have to be a single currency? It would have been perfectly reasonable to allow people to choose the currency most appropriate to specific transactions. The UK (and Denmark and Sweden) will, effectively, be in this position for the foreseeable future: a European traveller might use euros in Oxford Street and I might use sterling: since we're both using our debit cards, what does it matter?The government doesn't need to mandate a specific    technology for electronic money because it can leave that to the market. Make the euro legal tender for the payment of taxes and leave it at that: let people keep bank accounts in euros, let them store euros on their smart cards and email euros to each other using PayPal. There's no need for the hard euro to physically exist at all. Throughout Europe, the banks have already decided to replace all of their credit and debit cards with "smart" cards (cards with a computer chip on them, as they have all been in France for over a decade). As phonecards, as pay television cards, inside digital mobile phones, and in many other applications, these smart cards are becoming ubiquitous and consumers seem happy with them. No wonder that some two billion will be in use in Europe shortly, at the end of the euro transition period, during   which the euro and national currencies will be in parallel circulation.If almost everyone will have smart cards, why bother with paper and metal? It isn't just about cash cost savings: the issuing of an e-euro would have additional benefits, including the issuers of electronic money having more incentive to work towards interoperability and cross-border acceptance which would hopefully mean that consumers would be able to use their cards throughout the EU (whether in retail shops or on the net), thus stimulating trade. As it has turned out, this aspect of the euro transition was an abject failure: the electronic purse (a smart card that stores digital money) has been a bit of a flop. Consumers in Holland can use Ger man notes and coins to pay in shops in Spain, but they can't use the German electronic purse (Geldkarte, of which there are 60m+ in circulation) or the Dutch electronic purse.Consumers, on the whole, do seem to be expecting such a change. A Gallup poll found that almost two-thirds of the UK population thought notes and coins would vanish in the future and almost half of those interviewed thought physical cash would disappear within a decade. One might even say if there are sections of the population who want to continue to use notes and coins, then they should pay for them: but that's for another day.In the long term, the world of smart cards and digital money might develop in interesting ways. The technological platform used for the e-euro may have wider consequences because just as the smart cards (or whatever) reduce the cost to the Central Bank of creating currency, they would similarly reduce the cost to anyone else of creating currency.While politics and economics are not the subject of this article, it is worth noting that one of the common objections to the euro is that it is not easy to operate monetary policy on averages across a currency area. It is difficult enough running a country like the UK under a single currency, even though it has relatively well-integrated regions. How do you set inter est rates: according to conditions in Reading or in Runcorn? Why not allow regions to issue their own money and set their own monetary policy? Once consumers have their smart cards, the cost of creating "Wessex shillings" or "Yorkshire brass" is trivial.I haven't any figures to hand, but I would have thought that the overwhelming majority of personal transactions are local. Therefore, as a consumer I'd have to consider the long term value of "Surrey snobs" in relation to paying for my mortgage or buying a car, but I wouldn't have to calculate exchange rates in my head every time I park the car at Woking station because the prices there would be quoted in Snobs.Why would regions bother to do this? Well, as Sir Richard Body MP has pointed out, this represents a democratisation of currencies. What's more, allowing the regional exchange rates to float would be a much more efficient and effective tool for economic stimulation than regional aid. If the value of Merseyside "moptops" falls against snobs, then people living in Surrey would naturally spend on Merseyside. It may sound crazy, but the e-euro could be the lever to change the way money works across Europe.&#183;Dave Birch is a director of Consult Hyperion whose Digital Money Forum will be held in London April 10-11.
MacIntel?Was it not once said that the Mac operating system now known as OS X would be usable on Windows systems? Is this likely ever to be possible?Robin WisemanLiverpoolJack Schofield replies:Mac OS X is a reworked version of NeXT's NextStep, which Apple obtained by buying NeXT at the end of 1996. NextStep was based on a Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) version of Unix, which also runs on Intel processors. So does Apple's version, which it calls Darwin. This is a full Unix operating system, like GNU/Linux. It does not need any Apple Macintosh code to run, and it is available free. However, as well as Darwin, OS X also includes Apple's programming interfaces and graphics systems (QuickTime, Carbon, Cocoa etc) plus the Aqua graphical user interface. Since NeXT had already developed NextStep for Intel processors, Apple could certainly convert "Mac NextStep" to Intel as well. Unfortunately, this would probably be commercial suicide unless it also changed its 1970s-style hardware-dependent business model, which is to pay for the development of its proprietary software by charging high margins for its hardware. This means Apple is unable to allow its users an alternative source of hardware, as illustrated by its abandoning of an open hardware standard called CHRP (Common Hardware Reference Platform), developed with IBM and Motorola, and the closing down of licensed Mac "clone" operations such as Power Computing's.  Incidentally, Apple rewrote Mac OS for Intel chips in the Star Trek project, in 1992, but never released it.Search by dateIs there a search engine which orders the results chronologically, ie: according to when they are published or updated? I often search for news articles on Google, and so many results seem to be historic.Deb WilsonJS:Google is not very good at news - it's one of its few major weaknesses - so I useRocketNewsorMoreoverinstead.Northern Lightlets you limit a search to the past two weeks, two days or two hours. Its Power Search feature lets you sort results by date and time. TheFT Global Archivealso lets you sort results by date, and its Refine Search page lets you choose specific dates and ranges of dates for up to five years. One great feature of the FT site is that you can limit the search to the Guardian.Googlehas recently added a headline news page, but the best its Advanced Search can do is limit results to pages updated in the past three months.No showWhenever I go to a web page which should have a picture, instead I get a box with a small red square in the corner. However, when I print the page the picture is printed.Trevor PrestonJS:Sometimes pictures fail to load, and this is what you get. Often you can get them to show up if you refresh the page (eg hit F5), or right-click inside the empty box and select Show Picture. However, if the pictures are printing then they must be downloading, so make sure you haven't got images turned off. Go to Tools|Internet Options, click the Advanced tab, and scroll    down to the Multimedia section. There's a box for Show Pictures, which should be ticked.Font directoryDo you know of a directory which illustrates the immense variety of fonts available in Microsoft Word and Publisher? I began to make my own but soon realised that it was too large a task.Jean Jones WirralJS:I don't know of a comprehensive directory, but there is a usefulTrueTypesite. (TrueType fonts are bundled free with both Windows PCs and Macs: the system was developed by Apple to break Adobe's monopoly of scalable fonts, because it considered its licensing fees too high.)Adobealso has an impressive type library.For links to lots of sites offering free fonts, seeYahoo.Grab itCould you tell me how to download a web page and then send it as an attachment?DHarrisond@aol.comJS:If you can see the web page then you have already downloaded it. All you have to do is go to the browser's File menu, click Save As, and in the "Save as type" box, select "Web Archive, single file (*.mht)". You can attach this file to an email message in the usual way. However, if the recipient can read email, they can probably save the page themselves. Just email them the address.BackchatTerry Donovan was trying to speed up his internet connection. I suggested using a short modem cable with no connectors. Richard Platt adds: "I've found that I can get a more reliable, faster connection by unplugging everything except the modem from the phone sockets. Not practical all the time, but worth it when I'm downloading a large file."
Golden SunGame Boy Advance 	£34.99Camelot/NintendoHuh? Surely not another role-playing game (RPG) where the script is more Middle America than Middle Earth? Surely not another spiky-haired teenager leaving his cutesy village for a life of adventure?Afraid so, but what Golden Sun, the first real RPG for the GBA, lacks in originality it makes up for in graphics and gratification. Set in a beautifully drawn 2D environment, your aim is to save the world (again). To achieve this you'll battle monsters, recruit party members and converse with everyone you come across.As with all good RPGs, what starts off simply soon becomes engrossingly complex. The storyline is pleasingly twisty, while the combat gets increasingly tactical. Then there are the fresher elements such as the Pokemon-style creatures which, when nurtured, can help you in your quest.The graphics also impress, with a cartoon-style clarity perfect for the platform. Even the sound, not the GBA's strong point, is listenable. Of course, the appallingly dark GBA screen does make it hard to play this on the move, while the lengthy and in-depth gameplay is not suited to ten minute goes on the bus. Still, this will appeal to anyone looking for a long-term handheld gaming challenge.Veterans of Final Fantasy and other vintage RPGs will feel right at home with the turn-based combat and punkishly coiffured characters, while the deliberately slow early pace means younger players can pick it up. Golden Sun is good enough to remove Super Mario Kart from its GBA residency, and there is no higher praise than that. (GH)Cricket 2002PlayStation 2	 £39.99EA SportsWhisper it, but the England cricket team is no longer the laughing stock of international cricket. And here's more cheer for cricket fanatics: a cricket game which is actually worth owning.In the past, cricket games have mostly been let down by overcomplicated control systems - hardly a surprise, given the game's gloriously arcane nature. 
Codemasters' Brain Lara Cricket nearly cracked the conundrum and, finally, Cricket 2002 has. There's still a learning curve which leads to initial batting collapses which, in turn, would lead to suicides in real life, but eventually, you find it is possible to play most of the shots in a modern cricketer's armouryThe PS2's four buttons determine the general type of shot and the directional buttons fine-tune it, while holding down the L1 button causes your batsman to put his back into the shot (inadvisable if the ball is on your stumps).The bowling system is easier to get to grips with than the batting, although it does require an enormous amount of dexterity: a green marker governs direction, a power meter defines speed, and you can also apply swing and spin if you have the hands of a microsurgeon or tens of hours practice behind you.As far as ancillary details go, Cricket 2002 is very impressive: Richie Benaud's lugubrious tones provide the commentary, batsmen fidget realistically between balls, different grounds are identifiable and there are bewildering numbers of teams to play as, including some composed of all-time greats.But you have to be vigilant when running between wickets (although, helpfully, the game tells you whether any runs are possible). It would be nice, too, if you could trigger certain batsmen's signature shots, such as Marcus Trescothick's slog-sweep. But those obsessed with leather and willow will lap this up. (SB)Cossacks: The Art of WarPC 				£20GSC/CDVCDV scored a surprise number one last year with Cossacks, a majestic real-time strategy (RTS) game with lots of real historical detail.With this new mission pack it is the time of epic European battles and the English civil war. You still get the same mix of gorgeous graphics, huge maps (some over 15 times the size of the original) and well-designed missions. But the biggest attraction remains the towering cities and massive armies you can build, all lovingly animated down to the last flintlock. If you ever loved playing with toy soldiers as a kid, this is definitely the game for you.In the past, RTSs were frustrated by not being able to handle large numbers of troops at once. You never felt like you were waging war when your army numbered less than 100 men. Cossacks however, can hurl thousands of units around with no sign of slowdown, resulting in an over-abundance of micro management. Sometimes, you spend hours churning out more and more soldiers or fighting off an enemy who employs the same strategy, making for exciting warfare but also highly repetitive gameplay. There is an attempt to balance this by involving intelligent allies who rush to your aid if you pay them enough, however this works erratically at best and is something the sequel will have to deliver if CDV expects to push the bar any higher.For now, fans of the Cossacks series will find much to delight here. A quality mission pack for a quality game.  (MA)
If you are lusting after a third-generation phone (3G) don't think Europe or even Japan. The serious action has moved to South Korea, which now claims to be the 3G capital of the world with 2.4m subscribers.The latest device, just released there, is the Samsung NEXiO S150, costing $1,000. A sleek, five-inch hand-held device weighing 240g, it combines a digital camera with an MP3 music player, fast web access and a global positioning chip (GPS) which can pinpoint where you are. It will be ages before devices like this reach Britain where the only whiff of 3G is    from trials on the Isle of Man Among a swathe of 3G phones launched during the past month is the Samsung X290 which weighs only 89g.I couldn't test it live but saw a demonstration in London (by Qualcomm, the US company that provides key technology) and the impressive colour cartoon animations give a good idea of what it can do.  South Koreans and Japanese are so keen to know where they are are, and even more so where their children are, that a $200 device like the CoCo Secom that does that (with facilities for backup services if required) already has over 200,000 users.The nearest Britain has to a 3G phone is Clerkenwell's own Pogo (see Online November 22) even though it uses a completely different route to get there - it manages web access using GSM at speeds up to five times faster than normal mobiles by using a unique compression technique. After a few days of testing it loses none of its appeal as a fast route to the web while you are out and    about. I managed to get to my web-based email in 90 seconds (including password) at most attempts . And having Google or your favourite news site only seconds away while you are on the move is very convenient (not to mention MP3, diary, games, messages and phone).Pogo, now available in selected Carphone Warehouse stores for &#163;299.99, will not find it easy trying to break into the market but it may be able to capitalise on a growing scepticism about the claims of new technology. Increasingly consumers won't be interested in whether a device has fancy initials driving it like Wap, GPRS or 3G. They just want something that works speedily. Pogo does.		 Victor KeeganIM on the moveInstant messaging in the UK used to be restricted to PC to PC communications. But a new IM service has just been launched by Genie, mmO2's mobile internet business, which means you no longer need to be stuck in front of your computer screen to message your friends. It allows users to hold real-time text-based conversations via their mobile phones or PCs. Genie IM - as it is called - lets you see whether your "buddies" are online and then you can start an instant two-  way communication through your PC or Wap phone using GSM and GPRS networks.  This ambitious new service is free to BT Cellnet customers and users of other UK mobile networks for three months. BT Cellnet customers can also access the service through a non-WAP enabled phone using SMS.  The mobile portal, mmO2 (a BT spin-off company) is the first of the major European mobile portals to offer this service. Executives predict that instant messaging will become more popular than email in the next few years. There are plans to roll out the new Genie IM product to Ireland, Germany, and Holland later this year. And mm02 has also announced that it's started testing multimedia messaging services (MMS) which will let you send and receive a combination of text, sounds and video as a single message. Eventually you should be able to send greetings cards at high-speeds with attached home video clips.
A website displaying a picture of a British woman's stark-naked boyfriend, built in a bid to gently blackmail him into proposing to her, has had to be taken down after attracting huge numbers of hits from internet users around the world.For a short time on Valentine's Day last week, the modesty of Stephen McPherson, 24, was on full display for all the world to see after his girlfriend, Sarah Jay, posted a naked picture of him on the internet.After rising frustration at his apparent unwillingness to set their seven-year relationship onto a more formal footing, Ms Jay, 23, decided to embarrass her boyfriend, a civil servant from London, into marriage.So on Valentine's day she set up the page, entitled Tell Him To Marry Me, which declared: "This is Stephen and he is the man I want to marry. The problem is that he doesn't quite agree so I've put his picture on the net and I am asking you to help persuade him to say YES and until he does this picture is here to stay."I love him. I want him. Please help me out."Ms Jay, also a civil servant, had intended the site to be for the eyes of the couple's closest friends only, emailing the link to "a small circle of friends". But other internet users soon found the page, and the story was picked up by the Register and FHM.com.The site rapidly achieved cult status, despite attempts by the internet provider, Lycos, to reduce the numbers of visitors with the tactical deployment of a computer-generated fig leaf. But as interest in Mr McPherson continued to rise, the site crashed and was eventually removed.An amused Register asked: "Is this internet blackmail at its finest, or the best proxy Valentine's card you'll ever read?"In an interview with the internet magazine, Ms Jay revealed: "I just thought this up for an original laugh on Valentine's Day that may get him thinking."But he's got a sense of humour so he shouldn't react too badly. It lets him know I'm serious."
Friday is a big day for Microsoft: the Xbox games console is being launched in Japan. The International Herald Tribune (here) and Reuters (atiWon) are covering the story. Historically, the Japanese simply don't buy American games consoles, so it may seem a bit of a pointless exercise, but it has to try.
Be Inc issuing Microsoftfor "for allegedly destroying its business through anti-competitive practices". Be started as a rival to Apple with the BeBox dual-processor PC, and when that proved unsuccessful, aimed its operating system at the Mac market, before porting it Intel to run alongside Windows. Apple tried to buy the company to make BeOS the replacement for its inferior Mac OS, and later the technology (not the company, as often stated) was sold to Palm Inc.
The senior police officer in charge of a controversial cannabis initiative found himself at the centre of another furore yesterday over outspoken remarks he is supposed to have made to a website renowned for its coverage of direct action protests.Commander Brian Paddick, who is in charge of policing in Lambeth, south London, toldwww.urban75.comthat "the concept of anarchism has always appealed to me".Using the chatroom name   Brian: The Commander, he also implied that certain drugs should be legalised. "What do I really think? We need to take the criminality out of it by legislation and strict control."Mr Paddick, whose candour has not always been appreciated by his bosses at Scotland Yard, used forthright language to make his points."Bottom line - screw the dealers, help the addicts ... I don't give two hoots about my promotion prospects ... do not treat all police officers as lapdogs of a corrupt capitalist system. Dogs sometimes turn on their owners."The highest ranking openly gay officer in the Met, Mr Paddick also admitted that "someone has already found out which gay club I go to and is trying to cause serious shit for me."Other senior officers at Scotland Yard indicated that a more immediate worry is the reception he will get when he returns from holiday in Australia and is summoned to headquarters.Although Mr Paddick has not broken any disciplinary codes, some at the Met believe he is "too honest for his own good" and needs to be persuaded that there are occasions when, for the sake of the force, his maverick views are best kept to himself.It will not be the first time Mr Paddick has been called to Scotland Yard to clarify his position on a sensitive matter. Last November he received unwanted headlines when he appeared to tell a committee of MPs that he was not interested in "weekend" drug users who take small amounts of cocaine and ecstasy."If I felt my officers were going into nightclubs looking for people in possession of ecstasy, then I would say to them, and   I would say publicly, they are wasting valuable police resources," he said.Mr Paddick, 43, inspired the "softly softly" drugs scheme that has been operating in Lambeth since the middle of last year.Under the initiative, people caught with a small amount of cannabis are cautioned rather than arrested; the pilot has already saved officers thousands of hours of work, but it has been severely criticised by the Police Federation and rightwing critics who believe that it sends the wrong signals to drug users. An independent   study of the scheme is expected to be published next month and the Met was hoping that Mr Paddick would keep a low profile until then.Before leaving for Australia, the borough commander told the Big Issue that he had contributed to the website, but Scotland Yard said it could not comment further until Mr Paddick returned."We cannot confirm that Commander Paddick made these remarks," said a spokesman. "He is on annual leave and there is no way of verifying the alleged comments."
Would I mind filling in for Giles Smith for a week? Are you kidding? I get a free car for a week, brand spanking new, with that gorgeous new-car smell and most probably a full tank of petrol, to drive wherever I want? Would I mind? Don't be daft, I'd be delighted.But whoa there. Hang about. That's not a car. Not enough wheels for a start. Not quite sure what it is though. It could be a motorbike, except that it looks like it's come out of the Conran shop - all chrome pipes and brushed aluminium and curves in the right places. A giant cappuccino machine?It does have Harley-Davidson written on it - there could be a clue there. It is a motorbike? The new Harley-Davidson V-Rod? But where does the key go, I wonder? And why are the wheels filled in? No, this won't do at all. Far too scary. So I hand it all over to the bike-mad travel editor - the key, the vehicle, the responsibility, everything. He'll know how to deal with it. And it might make a nice change from his scooter.For the next few days, the travel editor comes into the office with a new swagger, a big grin, and tales of awesome power, acceleration, and passersby frozen in admiration. No, this won't do either. Give me that key back - and tell me where to put it. Right, here goes. Brrrrrrrrrmmmmmmm. Good sound - and different to the look-at-me hammer-drill noise Harleys usually make. More refined.Harley-Davidsons are motorbikes for people who don't really like riding motorbikes. They're big, clumsy beasts with all the disadvantages of motorbikes (you get cold and wet, and quite often die) and none of the advantages (they're not exciting to ride, and they're awful at nipping in and out of traffic). They cost about the same as a car, too. The only good thing about Harleys is their romantic names - Night Train, Fatboy, Electra Glide - and this one doesn't even have one of them. V-Rod hardly conjures up Route 66, does it?But - and skip this paragraph if you're not into bikes, or if you're a girl - this Harley is totally different. It's the first one ever to be water-cooled. The 1,130cc V-Twin engine is virtually the same as the engine used in a superbike and produces an awful lot of power (115bhp at 8,250rpm) and torque (74 lb-ft at 7,000rpm). Which in layman's terms means that although this bike looks like it's only good for cruising slowly along Sunset Boulevard, it actually goes like the clappers - the fastest and most powerful Harley ever.Twist your right hand, and the road in front is sucked in like a piece of spaghetti. Schlerp. It's gone. The V-Rod is still not very good at going round corners, but it's better at it than any other Harley-Davidson.I've never been in or on anything that turned so many heads. It's like being Robbie Williams for the weekend. Except that most of the starers are blokes, obviously. So make that Kylie. And make her naked - that's the sort of stir I'm creating round town. Well, maybe the looks aren't all admiring - there's the odd you-sad-twat look too, but they're probably just jealous.It's fun just to park and watch from a distance as people (men) walk by, catch sight of it, stop, then walk round it, heads tilted slightly to one side. Like they're in a gallery. It's mainly to do with its extraordinary silveriness - what isn't brushed aluminium is chrome. And it's long and low, and kinda sexy, I suppose.So where to go on this ridiculous silver missile? A long straight road across the Mojave desert would be good, or the Strip in Vegas. OK then, up the M40. Motorways are boring on motorbikes so I turn off and do a lap or two of Oxfordshire, the sky reflected in the chrome. But there are too many corners in Oxfordshire, and not enough people to look at me. Also, Oxfordshire has hardly any glass-sided shops along the roads and I can't admire myself as I flash by. So I come back to town and drive the length of the King's Road, the nearest London has to a cruising strip, even though I'm about 30 years too late getting there. And I'm back to being Kylie again - so I do it again.The lowdownHarley-Davidson V-RodPrice: &#163;13,995Engine: 1,130cc V-TrimTop speed: 140mphAcceleration: 0-60 in...you don't do this for bikes, but it's about two seconds, honestAt the wheel: Chris Eubank's more successful elder brotherOn the stereo: Not a totally daft question, as some Harleys have stereos. This one doesn't thoughEn route for: Mulholland Drive&#183;Giles Smith returns next Tuesday.
What happens when five million people try to cross the border at once? You get an argument for smartcards asID cards, in Hong Kong.
Hardware on show at the GSM Congress in Cannes will include a number ofPDA-phonesbased on Microsoft PocletPC software.
Microsoft and Intel today unveiled plans designed to replicate their dominance of the PC software market in the mobile phone sector.Along with Texas Instruments, Microsoft and Intel announced their intention to produce blueprints for new mobile phones and handheld computer phones that would allow mass production of handsets by companies using standard Microsoft and Intel technology.If the plan succeeds, Microsoft and Intel could end up dominating the mobile phone industry as they do the PC market.Microsoft supplies more than 90% of PC operating systems through its Windows software, while Intel supplies most of the chips for PCs.In effect, Microsoft and Intel produce most of the brains and guts of the PC industry through their "Wintel" duopoly, and they want to do the same for mobile phones.The announcement at a telecommunications industry conference in Cannes marks a shift in Microsoft strategy.Until now, Bill Gates's company has worked with individual companies on customised software, with limited success.Now they will work to develop so-called reference designs that could establish standards for the industry.But Microsoft has so far made little headway into the mobile phone market, especially in Europe where the industry is still dominated by European players such as Ericsson and Nokia.Last year, Microsoft said it was going after the smartphone market -  lightweight phones with the capacity to display diaries, receive email and play music files -  but it lags behind Britain's Symbian.The British company is currently introducing smartphone software that can handle email, calendars and messages.Symbian is backed by four of the world's top five mobile phone makers, accounting for 70% of all handsets produced worldwide.Sony, Ericsson and Nokia have already launched their first smartphones that run on Symbian and of the top five cellphone manufacturers, only Samsung has said it will use Microsoft Windows powered Smartphone 2002 software.
Media groups have renewed their attack on the BBC's online activities, which they say are distorting the market for commercial sites operating in areas such as motoring, sport and pop music.The British internet publishers alliance - formed to protect the internet interests of media groups including Trinity Mirror, News International, Associated Newspapers and the Guardian Media Group - has written to the BBC chairman, Gavyn Davies, to complain that the BBC's online operations are crowding competitors out of the market.The letter, signed by Hugo Drayton, the chairman of the Bipa and head of Hollinger Telegraph New Media,  marks a new phase in the group's ongoing campaign against the BBC's extensive online operations.When he took over as chairman from the former Sportal chief executive, Rob Hersov, Mr Drayton said the Bipa would effectively become a single issue pressure group, lobbying for a reduction in the scope of the BBC's online operations.Bipa said it did not object to the BBC providing online news and other public services, but was concerned that commercial online publishers could not compete with well-funded sites based on brands such as Top of the Pops, Film 2002 and Top Gear.The BBC spends some £60m a year on its online and interactive activities.BBC.co.uk has become by far the most popular news website in the UK, attracting 17% of the online population during any given month.Commercial rivals, already struggling due to the combined effects of the advertising downturn and the dot.com slump, believe it is drawing users away from their sites.While acknowledging the success of the BBCi site, the Bipa suggests that over time the BBC's dominance will harm diversity.It is also concerned about the BBC's plans to launch mobile and email services, which it claims will further deprive commercial competitors of revenue.The BBC insists its commercial operations are controlled by transparent rules. In addition to its extensive BBCi site, relaunched last year, it separately operates a number of commercial sites through Beeb.com, which sits within its commercial arm, BBC Worldwide.
Compaq is the last big-name manufacturer to drop out of the once massively overhyped market for network computers: it is not making any more of its currentInternet appliances. Oracle boss Larry Ellison kicked off the original hype, and NIC, his internet appliance company, is continuing the struggle.with Senior Explorer, aimed atsenior citizens. NIC sold almost 100,000 units last year, which compares with sales of about 128 million PCs.
Approximately 1.3m mobile phones were stolen last year in the UK, a figure nearly four times higher than the 330,000 thefts officially recorded by police, according to a study released today by a market research company.Home Office research out last month estimated that the number of mobile phone thefts was likely to be more than twice the number recorded by police. However, the findings from Continental Research's annual mobile phone study are far starker.More worryingly still, the Continental study did not include thefts from children under 15 years old, although the Home Office report found that those most at risk from mobile phone theft are children aged between 11 and 16.Overall, Continental found that 4% of mobile owners aged 15 and over had had their phone stolen in the last 12 months. The Home Office study found that 1% of adults had their mobile phones stolen last year.More in line with police findings, Continental said that Londoners are over twice as likely to have had their phone stolen than mobile owners in the rest of the country, and that 11% of  those aged 15-24 have had their mobile phone stolen."We're fairly confident about our figures," said a spokesman for Continental Research, whose study was based on interviews with 2,000 mobile phone owners. "We've asked people what's happened to them."Continental also found that 600,000 mobiles were dropped down the toilet last year and another 400,000 into a drink.Other key findings from the Continental Research study are:The average amount spent each month on a mobile phone was £18.91, the first time ever that the monthly spend has risen (from £17.60 in 2000). It is still down considerably from 1996, when mobile phone users spent £36.56 a month on average.Only 9% of users subscribe to a news or sports text alert service, and those that do tend to be men under 45.About 32m adults own or use a mobile phone. 82% of 15 -24 year olds own a mobile phone.69% of mobile phone owners use a pay-as-you-go system, while 31% have a contract.Growth in mobile phones sales has recently dropped off, as ownership approaches saturation point.Orange was the most popular network last year.
Has Britain's Internet Watch Foundation forgotten the importance of retaining some sort ofcredibility? For more on this sorry saga, seeNTK.
Asimo, Honda's humanoid robot, has made its first American outing. See pictureshere.
The man who sellssnoopsoftware....
Subscriptions to internet service providers rose 11.5% in Britain last year, according to official figures released today.Subscriptions were up 0.6% in December compared to November, the report from the office of national statistics added.Dial-up connections dominated the market, with only 3% of internet subscribers having permanent connections in December.But the number of permanent connections increased by 10% between November and December, the report said.The agency's reporting on internet subscriptions began in January 2001, which serves as the base year for surveys.
AOL Time Warner is still trying to block people who useTrillianto communicate with users of AOL's proprietary Instant Messenger (below). Now it has taken to disconnecting users for "accessing the AOL network using unauthorized software", reportsPC World.com. The US government is well aware of AOL's policy, and the Federal Communications Commission raised the point when allowing the AOL-CNN-Time Warner merger. It wrotehere: "we find that the proposed merger would enable AOL Time Warner to dominate the next generation of advanced IM-based applications. To remedy this harm, we impose a condition requiring AOL Time Warner, before it may offer an advanced IM-based application that includes streaming video, to provide interoperability between its NPD-based applications and those of other providers, or to show by clear and convincing evidence that circumstances have changed such that the public interest will no longer be served by an interoperability condition." AOL also owns ICQ, amongst other things.
"Apple has long been known as a litigious company, suing many various enterprises over the years for alleged copyright and patent infringement," (that's aquote) so the latest legal attack is no surprise. The victim is theThemeXPWeb site, which has been forced to remove themes that make Windows XP look like Mac OS X. But theZD Netnews item reckons you can still download RottenApple.
Business corporations are legal individuals. And just as individuals can lose their marbles, so too can corporations. Which brings us to British Telecom, that well-known basket case, now under new management and desperately seeking commercial salvation.In a US Federal Court, lawyers for BT are suing Prodigy, a big US internet services provider, on the grounds that that every hyperlink used on every US website since the year dot utilised intellectual property patented by BT's corporate ancestors in 1976 and should therefore be subject to a licensing fee. Or, to put it more colloquially, BT is saying: 'We effectively invented the web, so pay up.' The case is a blatant attempt to seek legal endorsement of this preposterous assertion.Exhibit A in the case is US patent number 4,873,662 on 'Information handling system and terminal apparatus', granted on 10 October, 1989.Like many patents, it comes clothed in three coats of prime legal verbiage. 'Information for display at a terminal apparatus of a computer', it burbles, 'is stored in blocks, the first part of which contains the information which is actually displayed at the terminal and the second part of which contains information relating to the display and which may be used to influence the display at the time or in response to a keyboard entry signal.'It goes on like this for quite a while. US District Judge Colleen McMahon did not seem unduly impressed: 'The language of this patent is archaic. And it appears that this technology was already outmoded by the time it was patented.'Quite. The substance of the BT claim is that it owns the technology of hyperlinking, and intends to enforce its claim on the basis of a patent granted in 1989. This ignores the fact that the notion of 'associative linking' was in    the public domain from July 1945, when Vannevar Bush published his vision for what became the web in  Atlantic Monthly.The technology for implementing hyperlinking was co-invented by Douglas Engelbart and Ted Nelson in the mid-Sixties. The first working hypertext system was implemented at Brown University in 1967, and in autumn 1968, Engelbart stunned the Fall Joint Computer Conference in San Francisco with a live demonstration of a sophisticated hyperlinked system. (A video of that astonishing presentation is available on the web: see footnotes for details.)In technological terms, therefore, the BT case seems daft. So why is it spending thousands of dollars of shareholders' money on this doomed venture? One hypothesis is that the clowns simply don't know what they're doing. This is always a good bet with BT: after all, they discovered this patent by accident, while conducting a trawl of 15,000 patents the company holds.I suspect the decision to launch the suit was made by corporate lawyers who understand nothing about technology and even less about the net. The case has all the makings of a PR catastrophe. It has already aroused significant hostility in the US internet community, which sees the case as either a Microsoft-type wheeze to exert corporate control over the net, or a cynical punt on the eccentricities of the US legal system.Imagine the consequences if the case went all the way to the US Supreme Court. How would BT exact its retrospective royalties? Pursue everyone who's ever published a web page? Is it really BT strategy to ensure that a company currently loathed only at home comes to be hated everywhere?john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
I've just noticed that Channel 4 is showing the 200th edition of Frasier tonight at 10pm. If this is the same 200th edition I missed in the US last November, it's the one that features a guest appearance by a local lad who made good, William H Gates III.
Important Friday afternoon news: cats find the swirly patterns oniTunes 2more interesting than even custom-designed cat toys. It seems each pattern stays on screen for around the same length of time as my mogs' attention span - around ten seconds. Hence: complete fascination for an extended period.
Safeweb? Not very, according to thisWiredstory. (With thanks to journalist Terence Green for picking up the story.)
