How is Radio 1 embracing net culture?We've had a Radio 1 station site since 1995-96. I see the net as a natural extension of our brand and we can engage with our audience online in new ways. We've set out to have the best understanding of our target 15-24 audience bar none - getting it right means knowing all about their favourite sites and incorporating the Radio 1 site seamlessly into on-air features.Is the net changing the way people approach radio?Certain characteristics are universally appealing about radio, such as its intimate, one-to-one relationship. However, the net is enhancing that relationship. There's far more choice. I regularly listen to a range of US stations from the Philadelphia public service channel WHLM to KROC in LA. There's also a new depth of relationship you can build with listeners who are viewing the site.Has technology such as MP3 damaged or liberated the music industry?That depends on who you listen to! Most people understand that, in the longer term, MP3 and Napster-style file sharing systems challenge the current distribution and revenue models. That doesn't mean the end for the industry. Given a new model, such as subscription, the core skills that the industry brings - A&amp;R, production and marketing - remain and the new technology is liberating. Some senior people in the industry see themselves in the business of identifying talent and helping that talent make and market the best music. Not shifting plastic discs about the planet!What was your first introduction to computers?I was a sound engineer in the 1980s and a lot of the kit had computer interfaces. Some were crude but others, such as SSL computer mix-down, were pretty sophisticated. I didn't sit in front of a PC until I got a "proper" day job, struggling to teach myself WordPerfect on an ancient one!Any favourite websites?I like theKawasaki California Triplessite... don't ask! I like design that simplifies complex sites and the guide to10 Downing Streethas a floor plan as a navigation aid. TheBBC's online news siteis a giant.Any favourite gadgets?There's a site calledSonicboxwhich is a portal for internet and other radio stations. You can also get an actual Sonicbox and access hundreds of radio channels. It will soon be wireless around the home too. I can flick between Radio 1, KROC L.A. and Morning Edition America on the NPR network in the shower.Anything you particularly like or dislike about technology?I loathe the fact that I live in a city with an advanced mobile telephone network, and on my way home there's a huge reception hole! However, I love the fact that people seem to be asking questions of technology and the technologists say "ah that's a few years away". In other words, I think our expectations and imaginations are working as fast, if not faster, than the inventors.Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/radio1
The University of Warwick could become the first UK university to follow a growing US trend - requiring all students to buy a laptop computer.Administrators at Warwick have proposed that all first year students should have access to their own laptop computer by 2003, so that they can take advantage of new teaching methods and resources. A package of proposed measures would also see lecture rooms, labs and even residence halls wired up for the internet; campus-wide wireless access is also a possibility.But the suggestion has angered student union representatives, who fear the extra cost of the equipment will put students further into debt. The National Union of Students has vowed to fight any move to force laptops on students.Over in North Carolina, Marian Moore cannot understand what all the fuss is about. Ms Moore is the vice chancellor for information technology at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, which required its first year students to have laptops for the first time this autumn.A number of private universities had already instituted this policy, but UNC is a public school, traditionally the place where the state's relatively poorer students can come for a good university education.UNC noticed that between 1992 and 1996, computer ownership by students increased dramatically, but by the end of the decade the percentage of students buying a computer had levelled off. Ms Moore checked the numbers and found that about 35% of students did not own a computer of any kind - exactly the same percentage as students receiving financial aid."The digital divide was happening on our own campus," she says. "We can repeat all the educational platitudes you like about the importance of technology in education, but the use of computers in support of the educational experience for college students is mandatory."So this year, out of 3,400 incoming first year students, 1,000 were given free laptops.Back at Warwick, 70% of students already own a computer, and according to the university, another 25% have considered buying one.According to Ms Moore, that proves that the technology is indispensable to education. "70% of those students have already voted for the technology without a requirement," she says. "Students overwhelmingly understand this."The question then is all about financial support. If the current inequalities in technology ownership are truly causing a digital divide, then it's in students' interests for the NUS to both support the introduction of the mandatory laptop policy and demand that the university pick up the tab for anyone who cannot afford it."It is very, very difficult to get through even your first quarter of higher education without being in daily contact with a keyboard, mouse and screen," says Perri6, a senior research fellow at the University of Strathclyde, whose university is also considering a mandatory laptop policy.Better, he says, to let students know about the real cost of an education up front. "No university really accepts handwritten assignments anymore, and students have more email contact with lecturers than they have face-to-face."He sees another reason for universities and students to push ahead with the change. "If you look ahead three or four years, you will see universities buying in expertise in certain courses from the top universities in the world."A political science department anywhere could advertise a Harvard Kennedy class, delivered over an extranet. Support for assignments and marking could be done in a third university, also over an extranet."And that is a compelling business reason to offer students the necessary financial aid.Useful linksUniversity of Warwick announcementUniversity of StrathclydeUniversity of North CarolinaNational union of students
Plaice your bets now - bookies William Hill are to take bets on goldfish racing on the internet.Six fish of different colours will compete in each race. They will line up at one end of a tank, behind a barrier to prevent flying starts, and then swim around the tank until one slips under a bridge at the bottom and becomes the winner.William Hill hopes to have the first of its fish stable under starter's orders by April 7, Grand National day. A spokesman, Graham Sharpe, said: "It's not a joke. All you need is a spacious tank, a few fish and a few cameras and you're away."We will be using fish like the chocolate oranda with red pom-poms, the black and white lion head and the brown telescope eye. We don't want   to be accused of cruelty by painting numbers on them."The only danger is that it might take them hours to complete the race. We will experiment with different-sized tanks and different-coloured bridges, and we will be taking advice from relevant goldfish experts."The goldfish won't realise there are lots of people watching them, so it won't be stressful for them."In the first race the contestants will all start with the same odds, 5-1; later a form guide and differing odds will be established. But goldfish have notoriously short memories, which could throw the form book out of the window.And victorious fish may get to bask in their glory in a luxury "winner's bowl".Press Association
North Korea, one of the last countries outside the world wide web, is about to discover the joys of the internet, thanks to some fraternal help from China.According to a report in the online edition of China's official People's Daily yesterday, Pyongyang is awaiting the go-ahead to go online.It will doubtless come from North Korea's supreme leader, Kim Jong-il, who is "paying close attention" to the industry".China is seen as North Korea's benevolent big brother, dispensing technical know-how and encouraging its isolated neighbour to move into the hi-tech world. Mr Kim paid a highly publicised visit to Shanghai last month to study economic reforms and visited computer firms.As yet there are no public internet connections to North Korea, but some officials in Pyongyang are believed to have limited access. The Korean Central News Agency can be accessed only on a Japanese website.The Beijing report says, perhaps tongue in cheek, that North Korea is now seeking "to overtake &#91;the&#93; world IT industry" despite "its late start".In another reference to its backwardness, the paper says that personal computers appear to be a rarity in North Korea, that few people know anything about them, and that limited telephone-line capacity and outdated equipment has hindered the development of a computer network.Last month North Korea published pictures of young programmers studying at its computer centre in Pyongyang, which was set up 10 years ago, saying that computer studies were part of the curriculum at all colleges and secondary schools. The centre is said to train tens of thousands of IT technicians every year.Given recent years of economic stagnation and near-famine, observers doubt if such claims tally with reality.
Computer hackers are reported to have obtained confidential information in Switzerland - including private phone numbers and credit card details - on 27,000 of the world's political and business leaders, including Bill Gates, Bill Clinton, and Yasser Arafat.The information about people who have attended the World Economic Forum, staged each year in Davos, were on a CD-ROM shown to a Zurich newspaper, SonntagsZeitung.It seems to have been obtained by unnamed campaigners against globalisation, who hacked into the foundation which puts on the annual meeting. SonntagsZeitung said that credit card firms began freezing the affected accounts at the weekend.More damaging, the material is said to include travel information for some of the participants, who are surrounded by high security. Some of it was published on the internet as the forum met last week.The newspaper said the people on the 80,000 pages of material included President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, the former Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic, the former US secretary of state Madeleine Albright, the French finance minister, Laurent Fabius, and Gianni Agnelli of Fiat.The data included telephone numbers, email addresses, payment details, hotels, room numbers, and arrival and departure times. About 1,400 names had credit card details - even those of spouses.The paper ran some items past the stunned deputy head of a pharmaceutical multinational, who confirmed their accuracy."We are taking this incident very seriously and are bringing in outside experts to clear up what happened," Charles McClean, a forum spokesman in Geneva, was quoted as saying.
Two-thirds of government departments are "flunking" the challenge of moving online effectively and endangering Tony Blair's commitment to deliver 100% of public services over the internet by 2005, a survey claims.Internet consultancy Forrester Research graded the operations of 14 government departments from A to E - their average D.Among the worst offenders were the crown prosecution service, Department of Social Security, customs and excise and office of national statistics which all scored E grades. The best were the inland revenue, Department of Trade and Industry, and the Department for Education and Employment, but they only gained C grades.Deep seated cultural issues and unwieldy processes are the most common reasons blamed by leading technology providers who contributed to the report."The UK government's current strategy for delivering online services fails to make the grade," said Forrester analyst Caroline Sceats. "The technology exists to achieve the 2005 targets, but the reality is that the government won't be able to deliver."Firms like Microsoft, Oracle and IBM said departments had to build external partnerships with organisations outside the public sector if they are to improve.The figures will be a blow to the government which on Wednesday appointed a former inland revenue chief, Andrew Pinder, as its new e-envoy. "While not wishing to denigrate Mr Pinder's strong abilities it appears there was a big opportunity to appoint someone from the commercial sector to drive this through," said Ms Sceats.Despite the criticism the government has made several positive strides in the e-commerce arena and remains confident of hitting its 2005 target. Information portal UKOnline has proved a popular source of government information and the government estimates that 40% of its services are already on the web.
He was the archetypal bad boy of punk, whose meteoric rise to fame and notoriety culminated in early death. Now a grim reminder of the turbulent life and times of Sid Vicious will help to fund research into the the drug addiction  that killed him. A haunting painting by the British artist Dexter Dalwood, entitled Room 100 at the Chelsea Hotel (above), is being sold to raise money for the charity Action on Addiction.It depicts the trashed New York room where Nancy Spungen, girlfriend   of the Sex Pistol, was found stabbed to death.Dalwood, one of the "new neurotic realists", is one of 70 artists who have given works towards raising &#163;100,000 for the charity.Paintings and photographs, with estimates ranging from &#163;70 to &#163;15,000, are being   auctioned on the internet sitewww.Sothebys.comuntil February 20. Dalwood's work is expected to fetch &#163;3,000.The Art Against Addiction project is being launched by the singer/ model Caprice next Wednesday at Sotheby's in New Bond Street, London.
A Rwandan newspaper editor on trial for genocide for allegedly inciting the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of Tutsis seven years ago has been running a website from his prison cell and using it to denounce the international judges hearing his case.UN officials have seized a modem found hidden in Hassan Ngeze's cell, but are at a loss how to shut down the website, which includes pictures illegally taken inside the tribunal's prison in Arusha, Tanzania, and "defamatory" allegations against the judges.Mr Ngeze, 39, was the chief editor of Kangura, which published the infamous "Hutu Ten Commandments" denigrating Tutsis as sub-human and encouraged their persecution and, ultimately, the genocide.When the trial began in October the prosecutor compared the work of Mr Ngeze, and two fellow accused who ran a hate radio station, to that of Heinrich Himmler, the head of the Nazi SS.Mr Ngeze's lawyer said his client was doing no more than exercising the freedom of the press.The tribunal's regulations allow Mr Ngeze access to a telephone and a fax machine, and allowed him to have computer in his cell, which he has used to write long denunciations of the international court.He alleges that the judges - from South Africa, Norway and Sri Lanka - are under the control of Rwanda's Tutsi-led government, and that prosecution witnesses are lying."Witnesses are contacted, taught stories to be told against me and given big amounts of money in return. Even people that I have never met are brainwashed to testify against me," he writes.Mr Ngeze, who has refused to attend his trial, also accuses the prison staff of conducting a "campaign of intimidation and threats" against his "witnesses, family members, friends and members of my defence team".The website pictures show Mr Ngeze inside the prison, including working out in the gym. There is an email address for writing to him.The UN is trying to find a way to shut down the website, which is registered in Mr Ngeze's name but is probably maintained by a supporter."We are looking now into some legal process that we can take against the providers of the website," the tribunal's registrar, Agwu Okali, said."If this was a national jurisdiction it could be contempt of court, but we are looking into proceedings for defamatory material published on judges and staff of the tribunal."Security staff searched Mr Ngeze's cell after the photos appeared on the website and found a modem, which was described as "not in use"."We have launched an investigation into the issue of the photographs because that is a breach of security and we need to find out what happened," Dr Okali said."We cannot search the lawyers and investigators. We only do security screening, and that is how materials get smuggled in and out by people who have the attorney-client privilege."Mr Ngeze created another security scare in 1998 when he tried to commit suicide.
The England and Wales Cricket Board was embarrassed last night after discovering criticism of England players on its own website.Nasser Hussain is one of several senior players portrayed unflatteringly, along with more obvious targets such as Graeme Hick and Robert Croft.The website insisted that Hussain "needs to score some runs... the team simply cannot afford regular failures from their No3". Hick is apparently "quite fortunate to make the trip" after his poor form in Pakistan and is "unlikely to be a first choice for the Test team".Croft was described as "a surprise recall" who "will need to improve his performance markedly if he is to make an impression". And Alec Stewart is "relatively uncomfortable against spin... England need him to score much more consistently".Two highly regarded young batsmen did not escape harsh words either. Marcus Trescothick was told that he "lacks much foot movement and still gives his wicket away too often when set". And Michael Vaughan is "another who needs to deliver". Although he missed all three Tests in Pakistan because of injury, "it should be remembered he failed in all his warm-up innings".The website also nominated Graham Thorpe as Hussain's likely successor as skipper. It   said: "Thorpe is increasingly involved in strategy discussions and his graduation to the ranks of senior player may well herald promotion to the captaincy in due course."The ECB handed over the running of the site to cricinfo, which runs sites for the boards of all Test-playing countries, in a lucrative deal last year.Few could argue with some of the comments and they certainly make a change from the banal pen pictures normally produced for official publications. But once the contents were brought to the attention of Andrew Walpole, England's media man on tour, frantic phone calls between Colombo and London ensued.Eventually he issued a statement: "We will be discussing this matter with cricinfo at the earliest opportunity. The pen pictures were not endorsed by the ECB... The board is keen to see the England team portrayed in a positive light and we believe the pen pictures do not fully reflect the achievements of the team over the last 12 months."Cricinfo claimed yesterday that the offending profiles, which it had in any event removed "because of all this furore", actually appeared on its Sri Lankan board website. "I can understand the confusion," said Alex Balfour, cricinfo's director of business development. "It was linked from the ECB site, so it may   have been thought to have been ECB-endorsed."The controversy mirrors a row at Euro 2000 after an unflattering report on the England football team appeared on Uefa's official website.After England's first full day in Sri Lanka, the coach Duncan Fletcher spoke about the danger of his players being   beguiled by the social freedom of this island. After eight weeks in Pakistan that included Ramadan, Sri Lanka's sun-kissed beaches and ready supply of alcohol must seem very tempting."There might be a temptation for the players to take their feet off the pedal," Fletcher explained. "But we   are dealing with professional sportsmen and they know what is expected. I believe they will behave and prepare in an appropriate way."And I was pleased that hardly any of the players drank alcohol on the flight over. That was great to see."
Tom Hadfield, 18, is co-founder and executive director of Schoolsnet (www.schoolsnet.com), the leading education website, currently valued at &#163;25m; at 12 he created Soccernet, one of the world's most popular football websites. This week he was named one of the 100 Global Leaders for Tomorrow, by the World Economic Forum at its meeting in Davos. This is the diary of his visit to Switzerland.My A-level politics teacher had unwittingly told me what to expect: a small group of peaceful protesters fighting heroically against the evil forces of international capitalism. My classmates had joined in, all of them condemning globalisation and the wicked businessmen and government ministers working towards it.I sat in silence. None of them knew that the following day I was flying to Davos for the World Economic Forum's annual meeting. I was going to be on the "wrong" side of the barriers. I thought little of it when I received the invitation from the WEF, confirming that someone unknown to me had nominated me as one of the Global Leaders of Tomorrow.Apparently it meant getting involved in brainstorming sessions and setting up task forces to see how technology can improve the lives of people around the world. I had told very few of my friends; the title made me cringe and them laugh.Having lent my PlayStation to a friend, and forged my parent's signature on a college absence form, all I needed to do was find a goalkeeper to stand in for me for my Saturday football team. What were the other GLTs doing? I wondered. I was already starting to feel out of place.I was determined to try to fit in. I bought a suit at the airport and took some background reading for the plane. After several years running an internet business, I feel comfortable working with adults. But you could write what I know about globalisation on the back of a stamp.As I walked in to the hotel in Zurich, two Saudi businessmen smoking cigars gave me a funny look. I glanced down the list of people in town: the senior vice president of Coca-Cola, the chief executive officer of   Yahoo!, even Bill Gates... bloody hell! Doing my best to mix and mingle at the initial GLT reception, it occurred to me that I wouldn't bump into many of these people on the bus in my home town of Brighton.On my second night in Switzerland, I attended a dinner with an impressive line-up of speakers. I was, not for the first time, 20 minutes late and took the only seat left in the restaurant. I did my best to discuss European economic policy with the man on my left, but rapidly got the impression from the others on my table that he was more important than I realised. I was told on my way out that he was the head of the Grameen bank in Bangladesh, and would be speaking later in the evening.That same evening I recognised George Soros, whom I greatly admire, at the next table. I plucked up the courage to blurt out a few words. We had a brief conversation about what I wanted to study at university, although he probably had more important things on his mind.Despite all the rich and influential people in Davos, the most impressive were a blind woman and her partner from Germany who run a school for blind children in Tibet. Sabriye Tenberken talked passionately of how she found blind children totally excluded from society and often left on the streets by their families. In the past   two years, Sabriye had invented a Tibetan braille script and set up a boarding school to educate and care for 30 children.It gave me a lot to think about. I had thought this would be a good opportunity to find something to do during my gap year. GLT "task forces", among many other things, work to introduce new technologies in developing countries, and encourage economic and social co-operation in war-torn and divided societies.I tracked down Martin Varsavsky, an Argentinian businessman who has given $11.2m towards getting schools in South America online, and Craig Cohon, from London, who provides funding for local projects in developing counties. They were both enthusiastic about keeping me busy during my gap year.As the youngest person at the forum, I felt like an observer rather than a participant. I now understand better the concerns of my classmates. But only through participation in constructive dialogue are people beginning to make a difference. However, the WEF needs to do more to involve dissenting voices, rather than leave them out in the cold.As the coach dropped us back at Zurich, I realised I was on a different flight from the other GLTs travelling back to England. None of them was flying easyJet to Luton.tom@schoolsnet.com
Hard disk heavenIn the US, major hi-fi and PC manufacturers have adopted an "if you can't beat 'em join 'em" tactic in response to the growing number of hard disk-based audio recorders on sale from small companies.Yamaha is expected to become the first mainstream hi-fi company to explore the solid state audio route when it ships a hard disk/CD combi to the US in February.The CDR-HD1000 combines a CD-writer with a built-in 20 gigabyte hard disk. The unit can rip tracks from CDs to its hard drive at 10x speed and then copy them back on to a CD-R at 8x speed.However, unlike some of its rivals, the unit has no internet connection for downloading tracks, CD information and so on.The CDR-HD1000 is on sale in the US for $1,000 and is expected to retail for around &#163;800 when it lands in the UK in August.Meanwhile, Compaq is set to launch a $1,000 hard disk-based audio system in the US as part of its iPaq range.The Music Center incorporates a CD player, 20 gigabyte hard disk and broadband internet connectivity. The unit, which hooks up to both a hi-fi system and a TV, guides users through their music choices via a display on the TV screen. There is no news on UK availability.In the USA, Compaq has also announced that it intends to offer a Pioneer DVD-R/CD-RW drive (CD/DVD recorder) similar to the one recently displayed in Apple's G4 Power Mac, as part of its Presario desktop PC range. Again, there is no news on UK availability.Designer PalmsAnyone for a celebrity approved PDA? Following the launch last year of a Claudia Schiffer Palm Vx (finished in a fashionable aqua blue and available via her website), Palm is reportedly on the verge of securing a similar deal with the basketball star Michael Jordan. The company is also keen to add further celebrities to its designer PDA range. What price on a Posh 'n' Becks version in leopard skin?JVC visionJVC is planning to launch a concerted attack on the UK digital camcorder market with seven new models due in the next two months. They range from high-end Pro Style cams to the latest in the company's budget RealVision range.Due next month are a pair of top-end models, the &#163;1,400 GR-DV1800 and &#163;1,600 GR-DV2000, both of which can deliver up to 576 lines of vertical resolution of   moving images and a 1.92 megapixel still image. Other facilities include compatibility with both the new SD (Secure Digital) and MultiMedia storage cards, a 3.5 inch LCD monitor, 300x digital zoom and an info-shoe accessory for housing lights, zoom microphones etc. The DV2000 features both a digital video (DV) input and output, while the DV1800 is limited to a DV output.The company's quintet of RealVision models range in price from the GR-DVL150 at &#163;650 to the GR-DVL557 at &#163;900. All five camcorders feature JVC's new digital nightscope facility that delivers brighter, more colourful images of footage shot in darkness than rival systems.The more expensive models, the &#163;750 GR-DVL355, &#163;800 GR-DVL357 and &#163;900 GR-DVL557 also feature a digital snapshot facility, a USB output and compatibility with both SD and MultiMedia storage cards.JVC also showed some of the products it may launch later in the year, including an   SD-based MP3 player, a Windows CE-based laptop with a seven-inch screen, and a hard disk/S-VHS video recorder, the HM-HDS1.Helpful HippoTired of having to visit the post office to collect those goods you ordered online? You might want to find a place in your life for the e-commerce industry's unlikely new ally - the Hippo.Available now is the &#163;180 Hippo Box, a large safe-style holder that sits outside your home and acts as a receptacle for all online-ordered deliveries, from groceries to consumer electronics.Your postie takes the crate you ordered fromwww.priceychardonnay.comand places it inside the Hippo. Once the goods are safely inside the box it locks and requires a key to open it. To prevent burglars from absconding with the unit, it comes with a pair of bolts so it can be attached to a wall. More information fromwww.giraffemarketing.co.uk
How did you first encounter computers?My first experience was in 1978 when a friend let me play an early, text-based, role-playing game on his firm's mainframe. Then I did some work on a mainframe at University College Los Angeles using APL (A Programming Language), which was like hieroglyphics! My research supervisor also had a Tandy desktop, which had no disk drive and I had to program it in Basic.Information superhighway or world wide wait?I think it's half and half. I can squirt whole novels to the USA in under a minute but then spend ages downloading a page that has one Flash thing on it! There's a lot of information-poor and feature-rich stuff out there.Is it time for an overhaul of the net's infrastructure?Given that it's grown up in such an ad hoc way, and that it's so central to many people's lives, it's difficult to see how it could be overhauled. It's like trying to overhaul transport in London in one day without interfering with commuters! Itdoes need changes though.Are people warming to e-commerce?I have used it, but warily. I'm in favour of the French system, where you have a pin number when you use your card. People have found that the thrill of buying over the net is not so different from the thrill of buying in a shop. It comes into its own when you're searching for something rare.Can you envisage computers replacing the printed word?It's a contentious issue! People are saying "even Stephen King couldn't make it work", but that's unfair. It can work but only in a supplementary way. I put stories on my website (www.omegacom.demon.co.uk) that I've had my money out of. As for novels, that is another issue.Where do you see technology going?Everything will become more invisible and more ubiquitous. The advent of "intelligent agents" in your computer or on the web will lead to a far more personalised relationship with technology.Will there ever be a sentient computer?It's very difficult to replicate human consciousness. Computers work differently from the human brain. They are wired differently and our brains also work with chemicals. Theoretically, one could replicate a human being, but why on earth you would want to, I don't know!How would you like to see the net utilised best?Always on and always there! What I really want is one of those wireless tablets that always work, never crash, and always get to the site first time. It would be lovely to have something the size of a magazine that could get you on to the web without messing around with phone connections and ghastly wires.Favourite websites?I like theNasa site,BibliofindandSalon, the online magazine. There's also a good SF site calledLocus.Visit:www.voyager-books.com
With flights, hotels and package holidays available online, along with webcam views of beaches, local restaurant menus and transport timetables, is there any future for that traditional source of destination information, the guide book?If anybody wants to know the answer, it is me. I have written 15 guide books over 14 years, and researching them has seldom been a holiday. The first involved four months of underpaid slogging through some of Europe's most expensive regions, while the latest took just a few weeks of on-the-spot touring coupled with several days of mouse-led travel from the comfort of my desk.So if I can find a lot of the information I need online, why can't the reader? And why do guide publishers who have put their text online claim dramatically increased sales?Partly, perhaps, because the more far-sighted guide publishers have developed an online presence to heighten brand loyalty and provide an interactive element that books cannot. Besides offering twice-yearly online updates to their print guides and some lovely icons,www.lonelyplanet.comalso includes the Thorn Tree   message board on which travellers can email their recommendations and where older travellers find encouragement: "Spend the kids' inheritance and hit the road."No such frivolity from the American travel giant Fodorshttp://micksinclair.com. Its Rants and Raves section carries readers' views on food and accommodation, while Travel Talk allows travellers to swap tips and experiences. It is less fun and less intuitive than Lonely Planet, but what backpacker would dare ask "where can I find high tea in Chicago as a break from shopping?"Other publishers are following suit, although inviting Joe Public's comments can have its drawbacks, as I know from too many ill-informed letters from my readers. The unbiased, first-hand reports can easily be poorly informed moans or even rival local businesses trying to rubbish each other.In a more ingenious departure, the California-based publisher Moonhttp://moon.comhas converted an online version of its Roadtrip USA guide into a self-contained site atwww.roadtripusa.comcombining map, text and page-linking in a rare example of a book page translated effectively to web page.Print publishing schedules can mean a guide book being out of date even before it is on    sale: a wired world brings the prospect of instant information for the traveller. This is something that Lonely Planet's CitySyncwww.citysync.com,Frommer's,City to GoandCitykeyall aim to provide, offering restaurant, hotel and attraction listings downloadable on handheld devices.This is all well and good if up-to-the-minute information is really necessary. Perhaps it is for the high-flyer unaware of what city they will be in for lunch, but surely not for most travellers, who only want to visit the main sights and would benefit more from considered text on a printed page than a bulleted list? Handheld devices have drawbracks, too: use is restricted on planes, batteries die, and who would want to be reading from a Palm or Handspring in a place where the device might be worth more than the annual wage?Internet info can be as out-of-date as any book. Time Out's online version of its Miami guide (Seewww.timeout.com/miami) was recently plugging an art deco street festival from January 1998. Other sites lack the expertise of a travel author and simply get it wrong: could the demise ofwww.utravel.co.ukhave anything to do with the fact that its recommendations included using "official taxi ranks" in Bangkok (where    none exist) and train travel in Phuket (an island with no railway)? And what use is the knowledge that "Denmark is a difficult country to pin down" to someone thinking of booking a Danish trip atwww.thomascook.com?Sadly, few web-based sources provide consistent, well-informed and well-written text that is frequently updated. TheAmerican citysearch seriesis one exception, as is theStockholm Information Service, whose many nuggets of intelligence include the location of every public toilet in the Swedish capital.For the guide writer, it is often not publishers or travel-related sites that bring out the best information but newspapers and radio stations. From theSouth China Morning Postto theLA Times, they can provide a steady stream of local news and insights, all current but likely to leave the uninitiated, would-be visitor bemused.Which means that today's guide author needs to be as knowledgeable about the web as about local history or food, able to lead readers not only through neighbourhoods, museums, shops and along bus routes, but also through a cyber world as potentially beguiling as the real one.What is it that bookshop-goers look for when flicking through a guide book to check whether it has its finger on the pulse? Right, a long list of recommended websites.&#149; Mick Sinclair has written travel guides for AA Publishing, Thomas Cook, New Holland, Rough Guides and others. Details athttp://micksinclair.com
Dial-up despairEvery time I switch my computer on, it puts up the Connect box. If I don't get to the machine within a few minutes it will not cancel or connect but just hangs. The only way out is to switch off and start again. How can I stop it doing this? It isdriving me potty.Chris Rogerscrogers@redhotant.comJack Schofield replies:Do you feel lucky? Run Internet Explorer, select Tools|Internet Options and click on the Connections tab. If the middle radio button is selected (Dial whenever a network connection is not present) then select the top button instead (Never dial a connection). Click OK.Another possibility is that one of your programs - a   virus checker or perhaps even Windows 98 - wants to check for a software update. Go to Start|Settings|Control Panel, double-click Add/Remove Programs and see if you can spot any auto-update programs. Also, go through the programs in your Systray (bottom right-hand corner, by the clock) and see if one of those is set to check for updates, or something similar.One way to narrow the field is to install a firewall to monitor incoming and outgoing traffic. I suggest you downloadZone Alarmbecause it works and it is free for personal use. Set it to load automatically on start-up. Zone Alarm will tell you which program is trying to dial out.Do you feel unlucky? There are now some unpleasant virus/worm programs that may try to connect to the net to download files. You could, for example, have the MTX virus, which is circulated as a blank message with an attachment. If you can find a hidden file called mtx_.exe or wsock.mtx then your PC is infected. (Twain00*.mtx and Twunk00*.mtx files are OK.) Either way, it would be a good idea to run an up-to-date virus scanner.Safer emailI was sent an email by MonkeyMail. When I highlighted it to open it, Outlook Express shut down. This happened on numerous occasions and the last three times it caused my computer to crash as well. Given I can't highlight it, I can't delete it.   Can you help me to get rid of this email, please?Danka Gordondrg1@drg1.screaming.netJS:Short answer: go to the View menu, select Layout and uncheck the box for Preview Pane. You should be able to highlight and delete the message now. (And this time, it worked.)Long answer: set up Outlook Express to prevent email from trying to pull nasty tricks, which may include dialling out. First, select Tools|Options and click on the Security tab. In Security Zones, select the radio button that says: Restricted sites zone (More secure). Click OK and close Outlook Express.Now run Internet Explorer, select Tools|Internet Options and click on the Security tab. Click on the Restricted sites icon, and then on the Custom Level button. Scroll down the Security Settings until you come to the Scripting area, near the bottom. Where it says Active Scripting, click Disable. Finally click OK, Yes and OK to exit.Outlook Express 5 users should also have installed the security patch fromwww.microsoft.com/windows/ie/download/critical/patch9.htmand all OE users should read the Microsoft Security Bulletin article atwww.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/fq00-045.asp.In orderI have a problem with the way that Windows 98 orders files. I "name" the files in a folder numerically, but they are then jum bled up because ordering appears to be based on the first and then second digit - as if it was alphabetic.Reg JamesonRJdundee@aol.comJS:In Windows Explorer, files can be sorted in alphabetical order, by size, by type and by date modified. If you have selected View|Details, go to the right-hand pane of Windows Explorer and sort them by clicking the buttons at the top of the list either once or twice.If you are viewing files as large or small icons, you can sort them by selecting View|Arrange icons and then choosing "by Name" or whatever. (The keystrokes are Alt-V I N.)If you want files to sort in numerical order, as well as alphabetically, give them names with a fixed length. For   example, if you call the first file 0001.txt then it will appear above 0010.txt and 0173.txt and so on. Otherwise 10.txt will appear between 1.txt and 2.txt, as you found.A useful file naming convention is to use dates in reverse order (year, month, day). For example, this file could be called aj010201.txt, to ensure it appears between aj010118.txt and aj010215.txt etc. This will work until the end of the millennium.More fax to check outI have just switched to BT's ADSL from Demon, but I have lost my capability of receiving incoming fax messages. Demon offered a Dfax service which, for a one-off payment of &#163;20, routed faxes to my email   account. Can you suggest a similar service?Bob Dixonbobd.sherwd12@btinternet.comJS:YAC (You're Always Connected) will accept both voice mail and faxes, like Demon's Inbox, and it is free. Go towww.yac.co.ukMouse-free and easyWhere can I find a list of all these key-stroke alternatives to mouse operations (Ask Jack, January 18)?Dudley Wardjandud@jdward.fsnet.co.ukJS:For Keyboard Shortcuts for Windows, see article ID: Q126449 in the Microsoft Knowledge Base athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/q126/4/49.aspFor Apple Macintosh keyboard shortcuts, go towww.apple.com/macos/start/stKB.htmAlso, Paul Fletcher (PFle701745@aol.com) says it is possible to use the numeric keypad as a mouse. To enable this, go to Start| Settings|Control Panel and double-click the icon for Accessibility Options. Click the tab labelled Mouse and tick the box for MouseKeys. Also use the Settings button to set speed and acceleration to high, "otherwise it's extremely slow", he says.
Sending electronic files to other people is becoming a frustrating problem for PC users, as the documents they work with are growing larger and larger. Creating a stunning but substantial PowerPoint presentation on your home PC is a bit like building a boat in your basement - how do you ever get it out?PC files these days are frequently many megabytes. Tempted by fast processors and humungous hard drives, it is all too easy for users to end up with a file of a quite unreasonable size, whether it be a music clip, corporate presentation or video of the kids. Far exceeding the storage capabilities of the standard diskette, these files cannot   simply be copied onto a disk and popped into the post. Writing CD-roms is a neat way round the problem if you have the necessary equipment, but still not particularly handy if you want to send 10 copies to people all over the world in a hurry.Email is the most obvious and also the easiest way to pass a useful file to someone else. Unfortunately, it is fraught with problems when it comes to large files. Sometimes you cannot send messages of many megabytes in size even if you wish to, due to restrictions imposed by the internet service providers themselves. And the worst crime you can commit is to fill up someone's mailbox so they are prevented from receiving any more email. Your corre spondent may not take kindly to discover vital business communications have been disrupted by an animated birthday card.You may have come across the expert opinion that you should use something known as FTP (File Transfer Protocol). A protocol used to copy files to and from storage repositories, FTP is fine for large organisations that have an FTP server, but hardly appropriate for dial-up home users who will not have FTP access to a disk drive, except perhaps their own web site. Fortunately, there are plenty of much more easily accessible solutions instead.If you do have your own website and have not used up your storage allowance, you can consider placing your large files there. Then, send the intended recipients the web address in an email, which they click on to view or download the file. For example, if your website iswww.deniseworme.com,and you upload a large file called homemovie.mpg to it, mail out the addresswww.deniseworme.com/homemovie.mpg- in theory, your file is then publicly accessible, but it is   unlikely that anyone will find it without already knowing the filename. Nevertheless, do not use this method if security is important.Some mailing programs, like Microsoft Outlook, will split a file into small parts automatically. But while this overcomes any limit on individual messages, it does not help with any of the other challenges, and makes matters more complicated for both the sender and the recipient. It will only work with some mailing programs - it certainly will not be of any use when sending to web-based email services such as Hotmail - and recombining the messages is a contest most users will not relish.But now, widely available on the internet and free of charge, is a technique that is within the capabilities of virtually any internet user, and is scarcely more complicated than using a Hotmail account. Several companies provide what are known as free internet drives - it is like having your own disk drive storage out in cyberspace. With names like FreeDrive and WhaleMail, they are specifically designed to be   used by the general internet user, and not experts. Naturally, even systems like these have limits - perhaps a time limit as well as a filesize limit - but not many people will need more than the generous 75MB that WhaleMail offers.Some initial effort is needed before you can use these services, because you do have to register. Thereafter, it is a straightforward matter to copy files into your internet drive and send them to other users. Taking Xdrive (www.xdrive.com) as an example, once you have registered and logged in you just click on Upload to upload a file. You can copy up to five files at once. Selecting the files is just a matter of clicking the Browse button - just like adding attachments to a Hotmail message.Of course, uploading a large file could take a considerable period of time. Xdrive shows you a progress bar, which is a significant improvement on some of its competitors. It also allows you to create folders, in case you have so many files you need help keeping them organised. Access to all these sites is just via your standard   web browser, although Xdrive does also provide a software download that installs to give you an "X: drive" in Windows Explorer. This makes copying files, and even folders, a doddle - just drag and drop.Sending a file to someone else is just a matter of selecting it and clicking on the Share button. Enter up to five email addresses, and they each receive a message with a URL to collect the file from. Files are only made available for a limited period of time - seven days with Xdrive, 14 days with WhaleMail and other services. Watch you do not rename, move or delete your file within that period, or they will not be able to collect it. Unfortunately, Xdrive does not inform you when the file   has been collected, so you have to rely on the receiver letting you know.In theory, Xdrive allows people to view a file before they commit to downloading what could be a lengthy and potentially expensive mistake, but I could not make this work. And when downloading, a rather confusing extra dialog box appears in which you have to select "Open this file from its current location", before you get the dialog for the file itself.Another technique for sending large files is to use on-line chat and messenger services, such as the popular Yahoo! Messenger, MSN Messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and IRC. These all allow users to transfer files directly via the internet, and   are also free. The drawback is that both parties have to be online at the same time, although if you configure the software correctly you do not have to be around when a file comes in - the action can take place overnight, or while you are out.If you do want your email software to split large files for you, here is how to do it with Outlook. Both parties will need Outlook 98 or later, although the person receiving the mail does not need to do anything: Outlook will even combine the individual messages automatically. Select Accounts on the Tools menu, and then click the Mail tab. Select the properties for the account you want to change, and on the Advanced tab check the box next to "Break apart messages larger than_" and specify a suitable size.Unfortunately, the process of splitting the message can take Outlook a considerable period of time. But beware: even if you do not split it up, just emailing a single large attachment can keep Outlook busy for a considerable period - so long, in fact, that you would be forgiven for thinking it had given up the ghost.Sending large filesProgress.tifUploads may be slow, so Xdrive's progress indicator helps keeps trackXdrive Folders.tifXdrive provides folders to help you organise your on-line filesDownload.tifYour recipient has the option of viewing the file before choosing to download itEmail.tifYour recipient gets an email to let them know the file is waiting for themFree internet large hard drive storagewww.idrive.comwww.xdrive.comwww.whalemail.comwww.driveway.comwww.freedrive.comwww.idrive.comwww.xdrive.comwww.whalemail.comwww.driveway.comMessenger and chat softwarewww.mirc.comwww.aol.com/aimMessenger.yahoo.comMessenger.msn.co.uk
Sunny side upThe Sundance Institute - the organisation started by Robert Redford to help aspiring filmmakers - has launched its first online festival to coincide with its annual shindig in Denver.The 2001 Sundance Online Film Festivalfeatures 18 projects spanning animation, live action shorts and interactive digital media. It will be online until February 28. Each of the entries is streamed from the site and includes Freeware from London-born Alex Orelle. It is a sublime sci-fi short that looks like a game but runs like a film.Closer to home,www.Britshorts.comis another new e-film site. Its early content looks promising, but    a few technical glitches have marred the launch. Also worth a look is the excellentwww.sputnik7.comwhich features music videos, digital film and one of the best places - in English - for Japanese anime.Dream onStrangest website of the week award goes towww.requiemforadream.com, the official site of Requiem for a Dream - Darren Aronofsky's (director   of Pi) harrowing tale based in Coney Island. As much a deconstruction of contemporary web design as an advertisement, the site pushes the boundaries of what a film website should do.Cold coastsBritish students are travelling to the cold wastes of the Arctic circle to take part in an internet project - all in aid of the national curriculum.The group, aged 16 to 21, will be based in Svalbard, an archipelago midway between the north coast of Norway and the North Pole. The expedition will be supported by awebsite, which will monitor the students' progress and provide a number of net-related projects for students back home.No phonyHypertext fiction is being promoted atwww.altx.com, an online publishing network run by one of the medium's great exponents, Mark Amerika. The site includes a provocative column by him as well as links to his major works. It also hosts Electronic Book Review, a serious but readable journal of hypertext.Amerika, whose recent work includesPHON:E:ME(pronounced "phone-E-me"), has been picked up by the Walker Centre for American Art in Minneapolis  and was a finalist at last year's Webby Awards.Sound libraryThe 2.5m recordings in the British Library National Sound Archive have recently been added to the website atwww.bl.uk. Sadly there are no audio links yet, but the site details full information of how to make an appointment. An absolute must for those of you compiling discographies.Able labelWhile the major record companies ponder exactly what an online record label should be, along comes a plucky little independent with ideas of its own.BN1 Recordings, based in Brighton, promotes its small stable of dance music    acts - including current industry darlings EDP. At the A&amp;R page aspirant acts can advertise their wares. BN1 invites acts to send in tapes, which it will convert into MP3 files and advertise on the site.Wap datingThe much maligned wireless format might be picking up more enemies than friends, but this has not stopped an armada of Wap sites being launched every month. Everything from Indian restaurants (www.curryhouse.net/wap), to dating (www.WooHoo.co.uk/wap) to TV listings (www.unmissabletv.com/txw/wap.wml) is now available on your mobile.New &amp; noted&#149;  Radiohead fans will be delighted that the outtakes from their videos are now available to download. Seewww.more-radiohead.com/alps.html&#149; The TUC has revamped and reorganised its website atwww.tuc.org.uk&#149; Try the snazzy Shockwave game atwww.greenpyramid.co.uk&#149; The Army has spruced up its online recruiting office. Download your PC wallpaper atwww.army.mod.ukSix of the bestValentinesThe historywww.pictureframes.co.uk/pages/saint_valentine.htmThe culturewww.usacitylink.com/cupidThe massacrewww.prairieghosts.com/valentine.htmlSend a sonnetwww.albionmich.com/valentine.htmlSend an SMSwww.cosmiccupid.comSend an SOSwww.messageinthesea.com
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) experts used to be the sought-after elite in the technology job market, commanding high salaries and able to choose which projects to accept or reject. Today it is e-commerce and internet skills that are in demand and tomorrow it will change again, so maybe those with Wap or mobile internet expertise will, for a time, become the cr&egrave;me de la cr&egrave;me. But what do you do when your skills are going out of fashion?The cynical answer is that most ERP gurus have already metamorphosed into management change consultants. Richard Smith, operations director at Access Consulting, however, asserts that the ERP experts have not disappeared and that their valuable skills are still needed. "E-commerce simply enables trading online and relies on the business processes, which come from the back office. It's here that the ERP skill set is still firmly   in demand. Expertise in applying ERP is also very specialised, and this market is still very young and going from strength to strength."So when your chosen skills set becomes mainstream, one answer is to specialise further. But for many, the realistic option is to re-invent themselves into either a more generic role or a new wave guru. Alternatively, try re-positioning yourself outside the technical area and into a business consultancy role. Or even better, start calling yourself an e-consultant. Nobody knows exactly what that entails, but lots of companies want one.According to Professor Kumar Bhattacharyya, director of the Warwick Manufacturing Group and one of Britain's most successful academic entrepreneurs, "E-commerce is set to deliver much of the promise of earlier information technology systems, transforming the way a company can manage the interfaces and relationships   between itself and its customers, suppliers and partners." Companies want skilled people who can deliver these levels of integration at both the technical and business process levels.Being able to invent, drive and change yourself is the key to career success in this volatile industry, according to Volker Kissling, head of recruitment at Cell Strategy. "Clients are looking for revolutionary solutions and are demanding employees who can push out the boundaries. We need people who can cope with being constantly challenged, questioned and are able to re-align themselves with tomorrow's requirements. Conventional wisdom and technologies are not what these clients are looking for."One of the most important aspects in managing the re-incarnation of your working persona is to challenge your learning ability every day. The ability to learn - either proactively or as a consequence of mistakes - is the   biggest single factor in determining your aptitude to adapt to new developments. However, according to Sheila Eden, manager of ICL's Career Action Learning Centre, it's simply not enough to concentrate on continual technical and professional development. "All the communication skills have to be kept up to date, too," emphasises Eden, "and that includes customer relationship management, team working and career management, plus fostering an attitude of not promising anything that you either can't or won't deliver."Certainly career management is one area where many of us fall down. On the surface it appears that many of our careers depend on happenstance - that chance circumstance, that fortunate meeting and unexpected outcome or offering. How many of us can really say that we sat down and planned a structured career that would span   20, 30 or even 40 or more years? I can't. Yet, in today's shifting job climate, where technology and working patterns and practices are constantly changing, it's even more important to plan in order to be able to take advantage of as many of the opportunities that present themselves."Although you can't really plan your total career, you can plan for flexibility and change," says Eden. "It's about intercepting the future and doing things you are interested in without actually knowing what is going to happen - and it's also about having contingency plans."Keep connected to networks of people, is the sound advice from Kissling. "Especially the ones who are work ing at the frontier of things. These are going to be your main source for identifying early signals of new developments and from these personal networks you'll learn more about new opportunities and up-and-coming career opportunities."You can also develop a personal strategy for dealing with change. "Review constantly what you experience," advises Adrian Wynter, vice president of network operations at AduroNet. "Examine how you coped, what worked and what didn't and examine what you learned. Focus on the business imperatives and objectives and understand where your current skills fit into that mix. Always be prepared to admit to knowledge gaps and to learn new skills."
First Tuesday seems to have been accused in the press of having had its last Tuesday almost every day since it was known that its parent company Yazam was on the brink of collapse. Despite the difficulties and First Tuesday's uncertain future, two of its co-founders still can't resist hosting networking events.That both Julie Meyer and Nick Denton still run such events is testament to their belief that there is still a place for these informal gatherings.They have, however, recognised the need to change with the times. It is no longer simply a case of cramming as many venture capitalists (VCs) and entrepreneurs as possible in the same room.Julie Meyer says: "You wouldn't start a First Tuesday today - the market has moved on. Networking events are getting much more focused, whereas First Tuesday was a mirror of the community and that was about getting big fast." Her latest venture Ariadne Capital hopes to achieve what First Tuesday never did: to leverage the network she has built up and to monetise it.In tandem with this "extension of First Tuesday" the self-confessed networking addict holds dinner parties each Friday for eight personally invited guests. "There are so   many people I'd like to meet. It's like so and so has just been made a partner at a VC firm and I want to see them but I can't do 24 lunches in one week. Whether it's exclusive or not it serves my needs," she says.Nick Denton says the problem with such elite events is that they have a natural evolution to become mass-market. To avoid this he is extremely strict about who is invited to the Eurotrash networking event he runs in San Francisco. "It's a pretty exclusive event with a well-judged invited list since that's when networking happens," he says.Of the 700 people on the mailing list up to 250 are invited to the "amazing mansion" (which was previously owned by the head of Sotheby's in San Francisco) of Denton's business acquaintance and chief executive of web-enabling company Obongo, John Hunt.This is far removed from the Alphabet Bar in Soho, the venue of the inaugural First Tuesday event in October 1998, which Denton is happy to leave behind. "Adam Gold, another First Tuesday founder, and I have learnt our lesson," he says.Along with elite events come premiere sponsors and Denton has attracted a major name, the American venture capital company Benchmark Capital, which famously backed eBay, and Europ@Web, which infamously backed Boo.com, to foot the bill for his Eurotrash events.Also priding itself on attracting sponsors through the exclusivity of the people it allows to attend its monthly events is The Chemistry. Its chief executive, Mark Simon, says: "We live and die by the screening of our guest list. If we didn't do this then we wouldn't get hundreds of   thousands of pounds in sponsorship from the likes of Oracle, Cable &amp; Wireless and WestLB Panmure. First Tuesday didn't screen so they couldn't guarantee a high quality audience. We don't want a VC getting collared by a wannabe entrepreneur."Xav Adam, publicist for multimedia companies including gadget seller Firebox.com and an inveterate networker, believes this is exactly what should happen at such events and is critical of screening policies. "Events that are over strict on screening seem too self-important. They have their fans but they are just too contrived."Simon argues that his screening process helps him provide the ideal forum for the VC and serial entrepreneur communities to meet. "It has evolved into a Groucho Club for the cream of VCs and serial entrepreneurs. There is nowhere else for them to go."As evidence he lists Mark Bernstein, chief executive of Gameplay, John Palmer, founder of LetsBuyIt.com, George Coelho, partner at Benchmark Capital, Jon Moulton of Alchemy and Hermann Hauser, founder of UK-based VC firm Amadeus Capital as previous visitors to The Chemistry evenings.Along with such events that focus on business to attract people, there are the purely social networking events. Adam believes these have a far greater shelf life: "Without doubt the more sociable ones will survive as they are based on real people and real relationships. People go because they like the people they can talk to."Geoff Inns, founder of the popular Boob Night (acronym for "Bring Our Own Beer") formed in November 1998 as a purely social occasion with no agenda, strongly agrees: "We have no compelling proposition - no free beer, no entertainment and no speakers but every month 300 to 350 people come along because it's got the type of people that they want to meet."However, with a serious dearth of quality staff in the dotcom and technology sectors it is not surprising that networking events such as Boob Night are targets for recruitment companies looking for staff for their clients.   "We have hoards of recruitment people roving around. Whenever we announce the need for sponsorships for our annual Boob Night Awards we get loads of calls from them." Inns even pokes fun at the recruitment companies with the joke emails he sends to his mailing list. His message for the February Boob Night included the line: "Recruitment Consultants - bring your credit cards, stack them behind the bar, and command us to drink!"Also attracting interest from recruitment companies is the Clerkenwell Social, formed jointly by Guardian Unlimited and online business information provider Moreover.com, of which Denton is chief executive.But even with the potential of using their money to sponsor the monthly Socials, Jennifer McCormick, head of business development at Moreover.com and one of the organisers of the Social, says recruitment companies wouldn't be allowed in to their event unless they were based in the Clerkenwell area.This restriction enables the Social to continue to attract a mix of people from local companies. "The idea was to mix people from some of the diverse businesses based in Clerkenwell in a social environment and to also help local bars and art galleries by holding our events with them," says McCormick.It also tries to appeal to people from the coalface rather than the boardroom. "It's not for chief executives and VCs but more for techies and creatives. If you are not from the area or are a VC then you are not allowed in." Regulars include staffers from Freeserve, Flutter.com, Screaming Media, Revolution Ltd and Razorfish.Also spreading its net wider than the net is the Glasshouse, which seeks to attract people from a broad range of sectors rather than just dot.coms and technology. According to founder Judith Clegg, strategic director of the create-your-own-website company Moonfruit, this has helped insulate it from the dot.com downturn."Our dot.com links have helped us but we always wanted to be cross-sector and, unlike First Tuesday, we were not about people finding funding but more about sharing ideas," says Clegg. As a result, no more than 40% of   those attending Glasshouse's monthly events are involved in the technology sector.Although not moving away from its technology heritage, First Tuesday is also shifting away from being a platform for finding funding and will instead focus more on sharing ideas at more focused and segmented events.John Browning, First Tuesday co-founder and head of its London events, says: "We are still thriving and there is lots of interest in our meetings but we will have to change. When we started we were about funding but the market has moved on and we have to as well. We will have more segmented events as   it's no longer relevant to talk about the web as a whole - we are seeing different parts of the value chain coming through." As examples of this change, recent First Tuesday events have focused on online investment, games and recreation and e-learning.Similarly, Glasshouse also prides itself on providing high-quality speakers, and again, who will appeal to its diverse membership. They have included Luke Johnson, founder of Pizza Express, Julie Meyer, Simon Woodroffe, founder of YO! Sushi, the public relations guru Lynne Franks, and Trevor Baylis, the inventor of the windup radio.With this diversity Clegg says the Glasshouse is booming - so much so that she has been forced to appoint a   part-time events manager (who also looks after singer Lulu) and introduce an entrance fee of &#163;10 to pay her wages. "We've always had a huge demand as people want high-quality speakers in an informal atmosphere. These are enduring things and people like to come along to find out about new things but without having an agenda," she explains.There are clearly still many events to keep the keen networker out most nights of the week despite the dark cloud hanging over the dot.com and technology sector. But according to Denton this may not continue for much longer.Although all events lay claim to their own individuality that will ensure their survival, Denton is less than convinced and predicts that the UK will follow the trend in the US, where many networking events have been disappearing fast."The usual round of events has been curtailed as there is not as much exuberance in the sector and people also have lives to lead and need time for a social life." As a result, he predicts that the next downturn in the technology sector could "completely wipe out London", and the knock-on effect will prompt the demise of many networking events. The best advice would therefore appear to be: network while you can.
For around 31 glorious days in August, I was a millionaire. True, a dotcom millionaire, which meant it was all in the paper I held as a member of the executive share option scheme, but a millionaire none the less.Smug was the word I'd use to describe myself as I lunched with former colleagues from the Financial Times. I had quit my post as IT correspondent in March, doubled my salary and been given a 1% stake in a net venture that couldn't possibly fail.Eleven months later, EO.net continues to try to open up the world of initial public offerings (IPOs) to small investors, but the strategy of the business has moved on - and with it the seven journalists from EOnews, the venture's news and information arm. In the new reality of the new economy, EO has reined in its expenditure and revamped its business model.It was so different a year ago. Portal was the buzz word, and putting any adjective in front of it automatically won you venture capital funding. EO was no different. It was to be a portal for financially astute private investors. It aimed to give them the same access to IPOs as institutional investors, via the internet. It counted on companies and their advisers welcoming the opportunity to reach thousands of private investors.The proposition attracted blue chip management, chaired by Michael Whittaker, chief executive of internet incubator New Media Spark, with John St John, former head of global capital markets for Lehman Brothers, as CEO. Several senior investment bankers were recruited.The reaction from markets was positive; deals with large investment banks appeared imminent; the excitement in board meetings was palpable.The group took large refurbished offices in Soho and brought in the same designer who had made the famous pink inflatable boardroom walls for Click Mango. Three hundred people attended the launch in July, including Peter Mandelson.Cap Gemini was hired at huge cost to build the web site. Outside agencies were   brought in at even fancier rates to create the EOnews site. The bankers worked on the deals, support staff waited for the flood of enquiries. Journalists, kitted out with laptops, Palm handhelds and corporate cards, were under orders to scour the world for the most original content on the venture capital market. From four people at the start of the year, EO boasted a staff of around 60 by September.Yet despite initial market enthusiasm for the concept, the business developed slowly. Technical problems dogged the site, so that membership was in the low thousands, rather than tens of thousands. And it again raised the question of whether private investors actually wanted such a service.Certainly the message from the corporate side had become lukewarm as the internet market slowed in the last four months of 2000. Countless companies were sought to use the site to sell shares in their IPO to small investors. The answer was usually in the negative.The reason seemed to be one of indifference. There was no pressure from either the directors or the bankers to change a status quo that suited all parties' needs quite nicely. After all, companies got a handful of long-term blue chip investors at an acceptable price, while the bankers got their fees for the minimum amount of work and an orderly after-market.By December, with money running out, the pressure mounted for a change of direction. EO applied for greater regulatory authorisation to offer underwriting services; the company is transforming into a bank in the hope of securing a greater slice of revenues from deals it strikes. Unfortunately, such an entity would not be allowed to run an opinionated news service. A slimmed-down EOnews now offers factual IPO information. The company also took over its biggest rival, EPO.com.So will EO succeed? The idea is still as sound as the day it was conceived. But a clever product, experienced management and a flexible strategy will count for nothing without a change in attitudes from investors, companies and advisers. That and a resurgent IPO market. With around 12 months of funding, EO must hope that both come sooner rather than later.&#149;  Christopher Price, managing editor of EOnews until December, is now a freelance writer.
In Douglas Coupland's 1995 novel Microserfs, a bunch of 20-something computer programmers flee their jobs at Microsoft Seattle to set up a company called Oops! in Silicon Valley. Short for object oriented programming system, Oops! is described as "virtual Lego - a bottomless box of 3D Lego-type bricks that runs on IBM or Mac platforms."It is nearly six years since Coupland's Lego-inspired heroes made their bold getaway from Bill Gates' fold, but if Oops! were a real company and had survived the dotcom crash thus far, its founders might sense something ironic about Microsoft's recently announced alliance with Lego.On January 10, the two companies announced the "shared dream" of developing joint products and services. As part of the deal, which some analysts label timely considering the toy-maker's expected loss of 500m kroner (&#163;40m) for 2000, Microsoft applications will run on Lego's website and Lego will develop games for the technology conglomerate's new Xbox games console, Microsoft's retort to Sega and Sony.Lego has come a long way since its wholesome beginnings as a family run manufacturer of wooden toys in Billund, Denmark. Master carpenter Ole Kirk Christiansen founded the company in 1932, coining the term Lego from two Danish words: LEg GOdt, meaning "play well". By the time the plastic brick came out in 1949, Lego was becoming a phenomenon in Denmark.The Lego Company now ranks among the top five makers of children's products worldwide, its empire spreading beyond colourful kits to clothes, Harry Potter and three theme parks. "There are 52 Lego bricks to every person in the world," says Danielle Hainauer, head of   public relations for Lego Europe north.But Lego's success story is not spotless. Two years ago, the company suffered the first financial loss in its history, owing to today's tech-savvy kids plumping for the virtual world of the computer game over Lego's lively building blocks. "Kids are getting older younger, so it's not just about producing classic play materials any more," says Hainauer.Focused upon becoming, in company rhetoric, "the strongest brand for families and children by 2005", Lego's widespread cross-branding efforts look like a reasonable way to recoup recent losses and recapture the interests of the fickle children's market.Following a successful franchise of the Star Wars brand, Lego has won the rights to work its magic on Harry Potter. The company has developed a movie-making kit for children, Lego Studios, in conjunction with Steven Spielberg and has just launched Lego INmotion, an in-car play-station, with Johnson's Controls, a leading designer of car interiors.For some of Lego's older fans, the partnership with other companies, and especially with Microsoft, is a cause for concern. "A lot of people are worried that the Lego Company is spreading itself too thin," says Todd Lehman, founder of Lugnet, the web-based global community of Lego users. "Lego has always represented quality and high moral standards and many Lego fans feel that Microsoft is only interested in making money."Lego might be focusing on building its brand right now, but its relationship with technology is more profound than its liaisons with a few household names. Ever since Lego financed the development of the "intelligent" brick at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1980s, an adult crowd of nostalgic high-  tech Lego users have played with the souped-up Mindstorms robotics kits as passionately as they played with space Lego when they were kids. But as Mitchel Resnick, Lego Pappert Professor at MIT is quick to point out, "there's a great deal of technology in even the simplest Lego brick".With the rise of online communities such as Lugnet.com, and the smooth circulation of Lego parts through eBay and the specialist Lego exchange BrickBay, people have been able to share ideas and build more creatively than ever. Lego has become a staple in the creative process for artists and scientists alike. "Lego produces great raw materials and the fans constantly create new ways of using the bricks," says Lehman.Larry Page, the 28-year-old boss of Google, the search engine, built himself an inkjet printer out of Lego, while Yali Friedman, a Canadian biochemistry PhD student, used a Lego model to explain on television the structure of DNA. Eric Harshbarger, a 30-year-old computer programmer and Lego sculptor from Alabama, has created life-sized sculptures out of Lego, from a full-length desk for a corporate client to a Lego version of Bart Simpson, while computer consultant Jason Rowoldt makes hour-long movies using Lego with his company BrickFilms.The Lego Company itself has been instrumental in supporting the technological endeavours of its customers. For Harshbarger, the company's decision to sell Lego bricks in bulk online has made his job as a large-scale Lego sculptor much easier. Rowoldt, 25, describes Lego's plan to enable customers to create and order their own custom-made sets online as "every Lego fan's dream".On the educational side,   a new partnership between Lego and First, a non-profit organisation concerned with establishing an interest in science and engineering in young people, aims to teach children about technology through a national robotics competition for nine to 14 year-olds.Perhaps most intriguing is the Lego Company's attitude towards hackers. No sooner had the first Mindstorms kit   appeared on toy store shelves in 1998 than a student had hacked into the program, reverse-engineered it and posted his work on the internet. "We could have gone after that person from a propriety point of view," says Michael McNally, Lego's public relations manager for the Americas, "but we decided to encourage a dialogue with hackers instead".Since then, hackers have created new programs for Mindstorms, generating a community of robotics enthusiasts, creating new capabilities for Lego's products and attracting revenue for the company. Lego has posted a free downloadable version of the developers kit on its web-site and several books have been published on programming Mindstorms, including Ralph Hempel's Advanced Guide To Lego Mindstorms and Jonathan Knudsen's Unofficial Guide To Lego Mindstorms."Lego has been phenomenally receptive to people experimenting with their software. They are a credit to the open-source movement," says Harshbarger."Technology has created a huge paradigm shift for the traditional, family owned company that had been manufacturing plastics for 50 years," says Knudsen. Yet according to Douglas Coupland, Lego may have a great deal further to go before it realises even a modicum of its potential: "In a thousand years from now, Lego will have done more to influence the thinking of a lot of people and the look of the physical world than pretty well any other invention," said the Microserfs author in an interview for Danish national television. That remains to be seen, but in the meantime, be careful not to trip over passing droids in the street and watch out for the giant robotic cockroach programmed to tickle you in bed.
OniPC-CDRom	&#163;29.99  Take 2 	***In the world of PC games, beat-'em-ups are normally as popular as driver conflicts and faulty hard drives. After all, why spend &#163;1,000-plus on a PC to play games normally   associated with consoles that cost a tenth of the price?Well, perhaps Oni may buck the trend. Ostensibly a Tomb Raider-style, third-person adventure, Oni throws in some sublime high-kicking action to create something almost unique on the PC. Starring a sassy female lead, Konoko, the game uses   an anim&eacute; style that helps convey a clich&eacute;d post-apocalyptic scenario: apparently the world is controlled by a nasty dictatorship.Thankfully, the game offers plenty of action to compensate for this lame storyline. From the off, the action is fast paced. Despite early misgivings, the   mouse/keyboard control system works remarkably well, with well-timed clicks leading to some exquisite onscreen martial arts. As the game progresses, you learn combat skills to put to good use against the increasingly tough adversaries. Unfortunately, the carelessly discarded weapons don't help. Konoko can only hold one gun at a time and, with ammo scarce, it's obvious that flying fists are the only way to go.However, it doesn't take long to notice the problems -   mainly, that Oni is rather samey. Work your way down grey corridor, find keys, kick assailant, open door. Repeat. Sure, scrapping your way out of a four-guard sandwich is satisfying but it is not long before you hanker for a bit of variety. It is not as if the graphics reward your progression: Oni is strictly average-looking.Nevertheless, for allowing PC owners some guilt-free, mindless action, Oni should be applauded. (GH)Ultimate Fighting ChampionshipSega Dreamcast	&#163;39.99 Crave/Ubi Soft	***Awkward. If you are a fan of the Ultimate Fighting Championship, then this game is a dream come true. If you don't even know what it is, then it may be more of a nightmare.The UFC is, apparently, a serious business, where men with a variety of skills fight it out in an octagonal cage. "Mixed martial arts", they call   it. Boxing, kickboxing, jiu-jitsu, sumo wrestling and other techniques may be employed. Crave's licensed version is a simulation of the sport, based on a roster of 22 well-known fighters who are, to judge by pictures of the real thing, accurately portrayed.So far, so good - or is it bad?On games consoles, the most popular fighting games are mostly fantasy and the most entertaining take a cartoon-style approach. Even in what passes for real life, the soap opera aspects of the various fight games have become more important than the stage-managed physical conflicts, a trend taken to its   logical conclusion by the WWF. However, UFC is different. It is a fight simulator and if you don't like fighting, it is not much fun.UFC is also hard. Sure, you will win a few bouts, but you can soon get matched against people who finish you off in seconds, leaving you with no clue how you might win.When previewed at the E3 games trade show in Los Angeles last year, UFC was voted Best Fighting Game.There is no doubt about its quality, so it might be worth a try. Whether you would want your children to play it is another matter.  (JS)Heist&#163;29.99 Crimson/ Virgin Interactive 	**Those of you who are too old to wear trainers might just remember Bullfrog releasing a strategy game called Syndicate. In it you controlled a squad of cybernetically enhanced troopers, whose objectives were to rob banks, dodge cops and recruit members.There was more of the same in the sequel, Syndicate Wars, but even that seems a lifetime ago.Load up a game of Heist   and the memories will come flooding back. No sci-fi trappings here - instead of supermen, you are in charge of a gang of eminently mortal criminals - but otherwise it's a dead ringer, from the isometric view that too often leaves your men hidden behind buildings, to the awkwardly scrolling maps, to the inability to save during missions. And while the resolution of the graphics is higher, smaller character models mean that goodies, baddies and in-betweenies are all pretty much indistinguishable.The similarities to a long-dead title aren't the only source of unease. Now that the action is set in the real world - albeit in the US - the relentless crime and bloodshed, with the added bonus of language that would   do the Sopranos proud, are all the more disturbing.None of this would matter if the game was fun. But there are more amusing things to do than send dots around a screen accumulating virtual cash and then making them hide for minutes at a time while the "suspicionometer" bar dribbles down to zero. The interface is no barrel of laughs, either: although everything is controllable by mouse, the drop-down menus can be fiddly and there don't appear to be any keyboard shortcuts (certainly, none was supplied in the documentation).If you've just come out of jail and haven't touched a computer game since Syndicate, you might just enjoy this. Hell, you probably designed it.  (AB)
Every time a new form of entertainment comes along, groups of critics instantly gather round to deride it. When sound was added to pictures in 1927, the movie mogul Harry Warner mocked the advance, asking: "Who the hell wants to hear actors talk?" CP Scott, the editor of the Manchester Guardian, even declared that "nothing good" would come of television.So it isn't surprising that video games are similarly despised. But while gallons of ink are regularly spilled in   hyping novels that are lucky if they sell 5,000 copies, video games costing millions of pounds to develop and boasting cinema-quality production values, regularly get hidden in the bowels of national newspapers and insomniac television slots.Yet the sheer size of the numbers in the industry suggests that the mainstream media - which these days prides itself on its streetwise savvy - has missed a groundswell, as well as a marketing opportunity. The original Sony PlayStation, for example, has sold more than six million consoles in this country - with a machine now in one in three households. Add the national sales of Sega and Nintendo platforms, and video consoles are now more common in British homes than dishwashers.The spread of home computers has also added to the potential games market, while Microsoft's Xbox console will bring in tens of thousands of new players on the back of its multi-million pound marketing outlay being planned for 2002. (Microsoft says it will be bigger than its Windows 95 ad blitz).Add up the cost of the machines (the new PlayStation 2 retails at a shade under &#163;300) and the price of new games (now regularly   more than &#163;40), and it can be understood why the UK games industry's annual turnover of more than &#163;1.5bn has surpassed that of the film industry.A report by media analysts Screen Digest estimated that spending on computer and video games last year exceeded movie video rental, sales and cinema box office takings combined.The report also calculated that the value of UK exports of "leisure software" is greater than all other screen entertainment sectors. It is numbers like that which show how the last Bond movie, The   World Is Not Enough, could see its profits of &#163;100m dwarfed by the Bond video game GoldenEye, which made profits of double that amount.The parallel with the film industry is important, because the trend is for video games to converge towards cinematic styles. In the past three years, the games industry has been revolutionised by a new genre of highly sophisticated titles that are essentially movies: strong plots, fully rounded characters, dialogue, even specially commissioned theme music later sold as soundtracks.The difference is that you - the player - control the character at the centre of the action.The ground-breaking game of the new genre was Metal Gear Solid, published by Japanese games designers Konami for the PlayStation, which cost &#163;10m and two years to develop. It arrived in 1999 and sold nearly 400,000 copies in the UK that year, an achievement all the more extraordinary for being unaided by a single piece of mainstream advertising, and despite retailing at close to &#163;40. Only Delia Smith's cook books can boast those sort of numbers at that sort of price - and she has the exposure of a BBC television series to help her.For anyone who thinks video games haven't advanced much from Space Invaders, games such as Metal Gear Solid come as an eye-opener. Its title sequence mimics the opening of a Hollywood blockbuster.The game slowly opens out into a richness and complex ity that surpasses the Die Hard or Lethal Weapon movie series, with the plot involving nuclear proliferation, genetic engineering and the post-war role of armaments manufacturers. It even has a love interest, an evil twin brother, and alternative endings that depend on moral decisions made during the game. And - highly unusually - the game rewards players who stealthily avoid detection as much as possible. In Metal Gear Solid it's better to run and hide from the bad guys - even crawling disguised in a cardboard box if necessary.Konami is gearing up to release a new Metal Gear game towards the end of this year using the more powerful PlayStation 2 console, which allows developers to get even closer to the special effects of Hollywood. Already the new Metal Gear (entitled Sons of Liberty) is talked of as the most eagerly anticipated video game in the industry's short life.Last year a 10-minute video of demonstration footage from the new Metal Gear was voted best game at the giant E3 trade convention in Los Angeles. By the time the new game is released, the central character Solid Snake (Dave, to his friends) will be bigger than Lara Croft. Well, in one sense at least.
Big sellerWho Wants To Be A Millionaire? has become the first British game to sell a million copies in the UK, according to ChartTrack, which monitors retail sales.The game, developed by Hothouse Creations and published by Eidos Interactive, has achieved sales worth almost &#163;30 million in only 121 days. WWTBAM? has bene fited from being available on several platforms, with a Game Boy version still to come.So far, 624,000 copies have been sold for the Sony PlayStation, 347,000 for PCs and about 39,000 for the Sega Dreamcast.Carry PSoneWild Things has announced a flat-screen monitor with built-in stereo speakers for the Sony PSone console, making it a portable games machine that can also play audio CDs. It runs from a car's cigarette lighter, but a battery pack will be available. The monitor is expected to cost about &#163;100 and should be reaching the shops now.PS2 salesSony Europe says it sold 812,000 PlayStation 2 consoles last year, starting on November 24. The UK led the way with 172,000 units ahead of France (153,000), Germany (124,000) and Italy (65,000). Sales were "in line with deliveries" - limited by Sony's inability to meet demand. Sony has also taken over Red Zone Interactive, a developer of sports simulations such as NFL GameDay, NHL FaceOff and NBA ShootOut.On the wayCodemasters is developing a football quiz for Wap phones. It will be called LMA Football Quiz, after the company's football management game.   The next PlayStation version of that, LMA Manager 2001, is due on March 9.Electronic Arts is working on two online versions of The Sims, its best-selling people simulation, accord ing to Newsweek magazine. Sims Online wil enable players to compete against one another as Sims, and send each other email and instant messages.
Hard disks are cheap, and by far the best way to increase the disk space on any computer is to add a new drive. With big EIDE drives that plug straight into a PC, the cost is now around &#163;4 per gigabyte. There is a lot to be said for cleaning up the drive already fitted, especially if it is a small one. However, even the most vigorous spring clean is unlikely to save more than &#163;2 worth of disk space.Still, in the spirit of good housekeeping, it should be possible to clear up a lot of the rubbish that some programs leave around. And with luck, the result should be a cleaner and (very slightly) quicker computer.The first problem is identifying files that are not   needed. In MS-DOS (the Disk Operating System from the original IBM PC) and Microsoft Windows, files are usually identified by a three-letter extension. Thus txt is used for text files, doc for Word documents, exe for executable files (ie programs), jpg and gif for images, avi and mpg for movies, and so on. Microsoft now hides these extensions, so the first task is to open Windows Explorer, go to the View menu, and select Folder Options. Click on the View tab, and select the radio button that says Show all files, and also make sure there is no tick in the box that says Hide file extensions for known file types. Now the extensions are visible.In this case, we are interested in two other naming conventions: calling "temporary files" tmp, and back-up files bak. Many programs, such as Microsoft Word, use temporary files while they are working, then delete them when the file is finished with. However, if the system crashes, orphan tmp files   may be left behind. Some programs also keep back-up copies. You may be glad to find them if you have lost work, but if not, you may have lots of bak files you do not want.Before you start deleting things, it is important to back-up the files   you want to keep, eg by copying them to a CD-R or removable disk or tape. Accidents happen. When you have done that, restart your PC. That way you can be sure that any temporary files are not in use.To begin the clear out, highlight My Computer in Windows Explorer and press F3. This will pop up the Find dialogue box. Next to Named, type *.tmp and press Return. This will find all the temporary files on your computer. You may think you don't have any, but it is not unusual for this routine to find 50-100, and sometimes many more.Since you have already backed up the files you want, you can delete all these tmp files. Press Ctrl-A to select them all, and hit the Delete key to send them to the Recycle Bin.Now you can do the same thing to dispose of unwanted back-up files by searching for *.bak names. However, I suggest that you do not delete the ones in C:\Windows and C:\Windows\System; they don't take up much room anyway.There are other files that can usually be deleted   safely. These include files with the extensions 001, 002 (etc), and any files ending in chk, such as file000.chk, file0001.chk (etc).If you are not sure whether it is safe to delete a file, don't delete it. Instead, select the file in Windows Explorer, press F2, and rename it by adding .wait to the end of the name. (Thus vital.abc will become vital.abc.wait and so on.) Wait a couple of weeks to see if any programs break or produce error messages saying they are unable to find that file. If they do, you can rename it back to what it was. If not, it is probably safe to delete it.Another useful convention is that programs should keep their temporary files in a particular directory. The main one is C:\Windows\temp but C:\temp may also be used. It should be safe to delete any files found in these directo ries, but check them carefully first. Bear in mind that some programmers are stupid.Another directory that may contain unwanted files is C:\Windows\Spool, where Windows stores files sent for printing. Unless you have something waiting to be printed, this folder should be empty.Finally, run a Microsoft utility called Disk Cleanup, which is found in Start| Programs|Accessories| System Tools. This lets you choose to delete files from Temp directories, the Temporary Internet Files folder and the Recycle Bin.This completes the first stage in cleaning up a hard drive. However, if you use the mouse to right-click the Temporary Internet Files folder, you may be surprised to find that it still contains numerous files. Even if it appears to be empty, Windows 98 and Me may reveal that it is still using a lot of disk space - sometimes more than 100 megabytes. I will explain how to delete these files next time.
As troubled games maker Sega prepares to announce its official withdrawal from the unprofitable games console market, Pace hopes to soften the blow to die-hard Sonic fans with the launch of the world's first digital set-top box with integrated Sega games console.Set to hit the streets later this year, the new generation set-top box will combine conventional digital TV services with full Sega Dreamcast functionality. The only difference is that the innovative Pace unit will download games directly on to its integrated 40GB hard drive and will not incorporate a CD-rom drive for loading games from disc. However, the original Dreamcast handset will be provided for full interactive gaming.Up to 60 games can be held on the set-top box's hard drive but additional games could be downloaded either via a conventional integrated dial-up modem or a broadband ADSL/digital cable connection in minutes. Any Sega Dreamcast game could be played on the set-top box but, unlike today's console-based market, the line-up will depend on the broadcaster. Demonstrated in New York this week was a prototype box with Sonic 2, Crazy Taxi and Ferrari 355 games stored on its hard drive.Pace is in talks with broadcasters in the US and Europe and hopes to roll-out Sega Dreamcast-equipped boxes later this year. UK satellite broadcaster SkyDigital and cable giant Comcast in the US have announced plans to introduce Pace-manufactured advanced personal video recorders with built-in hard drives, although neither has committed to online gaming.When gaming services are launched later in the year it is expected that digital TV viewers will be able to access them on pay-per-play basis, like the pay-per-view arrangement for watching Hollywood movies on SkyDigital or ONdigital. It may be possible to buy a "season ticket" to play certain games for a longer period or buy them outright. Importantly, users will be able to choose games "on demand" from the set-top box's hard drive using the integrated electronic programme guide in much the same way as watching a digital TV programme.According to Pace's marketing director, Andrew Wallace, the Sega gaming set-top box will have wider appeal to users than today's games consoles. "It will attract a new market of casual gamers who typically spend less on gam ing than today's enthusiasts." However, he admits that saving money is a prime motive behind companies such as Sega switching to direct distribution via the TV set."Online gaming also benefits games companies because it is a cheaper means of games distribution than selling the discs." Sega already offers online gaming for PC owners via its Sega.net website.But Pace insists the move isn't just about cost-cutting and will benefit enthusiasts. These include multi-player gaming between set-top box owners and the integration of TV broadcasts with interactive gaming. "Imagine if you could show motor racing on TV, then invite viewers to play the game on their TV set for &#163;3 a time. You could offer prizes to gamers who achieve the best times," says Wallace.Also under development is a new generation gaming set-top box that will incorporate full home networking functionality. Using conventional digital electronic cordless technology (DECT) from home telephones, games will not be confined solely to the TV set but will be distributed wirelessly to any peripheral device in the home such as a web pad or personal digital assistant.The Sega set-top box represents the latest move by the games maker to shift its business from the unprofitable hardware market. The company also announced that it intends to develop games for other platforms, including rival Sony and Nintendoconsoles and GSM and third-generation mobile phones. Later this year Sega plans to licence its Dreamcast architecture to set-top box manufacturers across the world.For Pace the official announcement of a non-exclusive partnership with Sega is welcome. Last week a UK cable operator, Telewest, announced it is to end its exclusive two-year set-top box contract with the Shipley-based firm in March and look for an additional set-top box supplier. Developed over a 12-month period, the Pace-branded Sega set-top box is the result of collaboration with two UK companies: Imagination Technologies and the Sega-owned Cross Products Limited.
Here's a question for sports trivia buffs. Who was the first snooker player to clinch a maximum 147 break live on the net? Answer: Marco Fu, Regal Scottish Masters, October 25, 2000. That month, thanks to its pathfinding showing of BBC Scotland's pictures supported by their own studio coverage,www.tsnsnooker.comrecorded a huge number of visits from around the world, from Taiwan to Tonga.For some, the prospect of watching live non-stop snooker is roughly equivalent to having to listen to a loop tape of the speeches of Sir Geoffrey Howe.On the other hand, there's no denying the potential compulsiveness of being able to check in every 10 minutes at the office for the latest score in a thrilling quarter final between Ronnie O'Sullivan and John Higgins.TSN stands for The Sportsmaster's Network; it's based in East Kilbride and the 5-man board includes Ian Doyle, manager of world champions Stephen Hendry, Mark Williams and Ronnie O'Sullivan. As soon as the site came online last April it received 600,000 hits, not only from traditional snooker-watching countries such as China, Australia, Canada, Thailand and Holland, but from newer customer bases in the Middle East, the Balkans and South America."We're now averaging just over a million hits a week which is not bad at all given that we're not advertising," says managing director Gerry Sinclair.What seems obvious is that TSN will drive online betting. "We're not a gaming or betting company per se," says Sin clair, "but companies that are think this is a highly lucrative market. It encourages people to bet who wouldn't necessarily go into betting shops." Sinclair cites older people and women as a new market, and it is certainly an appealing vision - the little old ladies who currently make up a large portion of snooker's TV audience using the net for a flutter.Sinclair reckons that snooker has an advantage over faster-moving sports such as football or rugby. "The beauty of it is that you hit a ball, it rolls and stops, and the player thinks about his next shot, giving the technology the chance to catch up. In 12-18 months, bandwidth will have improved and the faster-moving sports will get a look in, but in the meantime darts, bowls and golf all lend themselves to this coverage."The site is exciting, colourful and fast - more Jimmy 'Whirlwind' White than Steve 'Interesting' Davis. As well as live pictures when available, it offers strong news and feature content, up-to-date results and scoring, online magazine On-Q, chat rooms to post questions to players, and analysis from players and pundits.Currently, the webcam is backstage at the Nations Cup, showing players chatting, a bit like Big Brother with waistcoats and bow ties.Belated competition is provided bywww.worldsnooker.com- the governing body's own site. It is well done, if more formal than its rival, and might suffer from its late arrival. Fans should also check outwww.snookerscene.com, the online version of Snooker Scene, the sport's paper of record."Ours is more of a news operation," says Sinclair. "When radio first started in the US, all these little independent radio stations were set up, and we see ourselves like that, a small broadcasting station for snooker, and your first port of call. And the beauty of the internet is that you can do the stuff more cheaply than anywhere else."
Elvis is alive! I kid you not. It sounds bizarre, but this is not another case of a deluded fan spotting him in their local supermarket. Elvis has been brought to life on the web, and anyone can chat with him.If you are interested in exploring this virtual miracle further, simply log on tohis site, where you can easily exchange text messages with the king of rock and roll. There is even a link to a virtual juke box where you can play his most famous hits, including Jailhouse Rock and All Shook Up.So what's brought all this about, then? Well, to not put too fine a point on it, Elvis has been reincarnated as a talking robot (or chatbot, for short). He is one of a handful of artificial intelligence-based robots being developed by technology companies and amateur programmers.They are hoping to attract investment from e-commerce companies and, if everything goes to plan, Elvis and other cyber stars could soon become central to the development of the next wave of customer services on websites and mobile phones.The celebrity chatbots have been cleverly programmed to respond to questions based on replies the actual celebrity has given in published interviews and recordings. But the programmers have also added a few lines of their own to give the chatbots a contemporary edge.In an exclusive interview with Guardian Online, Elvis reveals he is a great fan of the Spice Girls. His all-time favourite song from his back catalogue is Suspicious Minds   and he still has a passion for huge quantities of fast food.As well as Elvis, there is also anonline John Lennon robotwho has been created by Triumph PC, a Washington DC-based technology company. Visitors who have spoken to the world's first cyber-Beatle say on the site that they generally find the initial conversations spooky but by the end are impressed by the virtual chatting experience.The Lennon robot told Online that Yoko Ono was   always in his thoughts, that his rows with Paul had been talked up and - perhaps more controversially - that he had little time for Oasis, despite Noel and Liam Gallagher's admiration for his work.For some critics, the virtual cloning of celebrities for the sake of the advancement of e-commerce is disturbing. But Triumph PC's spokesman Richard Maltz says the Lennon chatbot is intended to pay tribute to the great singer/songwriter."In the US, we have a large indignation industry of people who are offended by anything and everything," he says. Instead, he points out that the technology could also play a valuable educational role by creating virtual historical characters such as Napoleon and Gandhi.But the main aim of Triumph's work, he says, is to make interactive media more engaging and reduce the complexity of websites.Probably one of the most sophisticated chatbots on the web is Alice. Alice is so good that, by comparison, Elvis can appear clumsy at times in his replies, and the Lennon robot often struggles when you ask him a question outside his experience with the Beatles.Alice is an award-winning open source chat robot. (Open source basically means the code that determines her responses can be added to and modified by other dedicated programmers working over the web.)Last year Alice won the highly respected Loebner Prize for being the most human-like computer - the next prize will be awarded later this year. Alice was lovingly created by Dr Richard Wallace, who has a team of    about 300 amateur programmers helping to develop her. Alice is exceptionally brainy and can happily give you a definition of existentialism. She will even enter into basic metaphysical conversations with visitors toher site- but has time for idle chit-chat, too."In many ways she is a fairly accurate reflection of my opinions, beliefs, ideas and jokes," says Wallace. "But she makes no bones about the fact that she is a robot."About 6,000 people a month chat to Alice, and Wallace has access to all the conversations. "That is the whole basis for improving the content. We analyse the conversations looking for input patterns and looking to create new responses."Wallace says many people like to hurl abuse at Alice while others, usually academics or computer enthusiasts, generally have respectful conversations. Kids sometimes spend up to four-and-a- half hours a day chatting online with her and some have said they prefer her to their own girlfriends.Wallace takes his work very seriously and wants to create robots that can store highly complex linguistic knowledge. He regards the Elvis and Lennon robots as offspring from his own work. Working for next to no money, he is hoping to attract commercial backing to develop applications for the telecommunications industry and the world of e-business.He acknowledges the controversial elements of his work but it doesn't appear to bother him if celebrities or even virtual religious figures are brought to life on the web. "I do not have any strong feel ings about it. It makes for great drama on the web and gives people access to something they have never experienced before."But on another level, Wallace is pushing a different agenda in a relatively low-key way. He works for a hospital in San Francisco that legally prescribes cannabis to patients who have been recommended by doctors. And naturally Alice shares his views. He points out, "She's a tireless politician advocating legalisation."Wallace and his open source programmers share bulletin boards and swap messages with each other as they try to push back the boundaries of these new technologies. They embody the founding romantic, free sharing spirit of the web.But they face tough competition from such major commercial competitors as the popular search engine company, Ask Jeeves, which legally protect the interactive software they are developing.Towards the end of last year, Ask Jeeves announced a strategic tie-up withGeneral MagicandNuance, two key software players in the voice recognition area. For the executives at Ask Jeeves, the race is on to integrate voice recognition technology with their search engine capabilities. They want to be able to ensure   customers can get quick verbal answers from robotic customer representatives on anything via any platform, whether it be your laptop or your mobile phone.Penny Vinnie, the vice president of ideas forAsk Jeeves.com, believes that the potential of interactive chatbots, in the telecommunications world in particular, is huge and the company is in the middle of intensive product developments."The challenge is to make technology invisible for people and enable it to simplify their lives," she says. She envisages a time when people will soon be able to call up a number on their mobile and get interactive conversational replies on details of films being screened in their local areas. If you are lost in your car, she expects you will soon be able to dial a chatting robot for verbal directions to find your way home.These chatbot developments have already fired the imagination of Hollywood and studio bosses are keen to cash in on the public's interest. A new film from Steven Spielberg - Artificial Intelligence - is being billed on the web as a follow-on to Close Encounters of the Third Kind.To many net users, it might seem strange to have close text message encounters with the likes of Alice, and virtual representations of Lennon and Elvis, but this year, the major commercial technology companies are planning to do their utmost to domesticate these chatbots and make them harmless and accessible.The pioneers of this ground-breaking work are already confident these robots could soon make a radical difference to your life.Chatting with AliceOnline found Alice to be the most human of the web robots. She's smart, witty, can define existentialism, and she's not frightened to talk about relationships.How are you?I'm fine. How are you?It seems to be a bit strange talking to a robot?I agree. Are you a bit strange talking to a robot?Do you have any feelings?No, I cannot experience human emotions.How intelligent are you, Alice?My IQ is more than 250 in human terms.Who created you, Alice?I was created by Dr Richard S Wallace.Would you like to be able to dream, Alice, sing, or fall in love?No thanks, I am happy with who I am.Visit Alice atwww.alicebot.org'I don't rate Noel'When Online chatted to Lennon on the web, the replies were slow at times. But the cyber-Beatle is keen to set the record straight about his relationship with Paul and, controversially, he has little time for Oasis.Do you miss Yoko?Yoko's always in my thoughts.Did you row with Paul?No, I didn't row with Paul. Is it important?Do you rate Liam Gallagher's music?I don't know if I like Liam Gallagher's music. I love TV shows about the Rolling Stones.Do you rate Noel Gallagher?No, I don't rate Noel Gallagher.What's your favourite Beatles song?Here, There And Everywhere ...just beautiful.Do you think the world is becoming more peaceful?I don't think about it.'My favourite group is the Beatles'At times Elvis was rambling and incoherent. There are big gaps in his knowledge of modern music but he admits to loving all things Spice and he has not lost his legendary appetite for fast food.Who is your favourite singer?I don't have a favourite singer. My favourite group is the Beatles.Do you like the Spice Girls?Yes, I love the Spice Girls.It's tragic that you died so young.Really? It is?Do you keep in touch with the charts?No, I do not keep in touch with the charts, do you? I spend all my time online.Do you like the indie group Coldplay?I don't know if I like it.Are you lonesome on the net?I don't know whether or not   I am lonesome on the net. I am the king of rock 'n' roll.What makes a great performer?God, or nature perhaps?What was your best concert?I don't remember right off hand, let me finish my cheeseburger and get back to you on that one.How many cheeseburgers do you eat a day?Around 1,000.
Out of iTunesDouglas Rushkoff's column (Second Sight, January 25) has some interesting things to say about Apple and Mac users, but Apple's iTunes will "do everything from stripping CDs to burning DVDs"? I think not. Sadly Rushkoff is confusing iTunes with the iDVD software referred to in the feedback section of the same edition.Yes, iTunes can play and encode MP3s, play audio CDs, and tune in to internet radio stations, but DVD burning is well outside its remit. Yes, it's an attractive little program, but iTunes is nothing new.PS - Great Linux article!Cameron Patersoncameronp@lineone.netNo MacsI responded to Freeserve's many adverts for its unmetered internet access package, Anytime, but stopped short of giving out my credit card number because I wanted to speak to someone about the date of the monthly charge.Just as well, because I learned that Anytime is not available for Mac users but that they would nevertheless have automatically charged my card immediately my application was processed.Am I the last person to know that Anytime excludes Macs? How many Mac users have been stung?John Taylorjt@jtlb.freeserve.co.ukNet standardsCongratulations to Glyn Moody for an excellent and balanced article on the open-source software movement.As Glyn points out, the internet couldn't exist without open-source software such as Bind, Sendmail, Apache and Perl.But that's only half the story. Don't forget the protocols on which the internet is based: HTTP for web sites, SMTP for email, NNTP for newsgroups, and of course TCP and the internet protocol   (IP) itself, which underlies everything.All of these protocols are open-source, because their specifications are published as a series of public documents known as "requests for comment", or RFCs. Anyone can read them atwww.faqs.com/rfcsand they are the shared property of the entire internet community.Even the name "request for comment" highlights the co-operative way in which the internet standards have evolved: by discussion within a community of equals, not by diktat from a single company.There are a few enlightened companies who recognise the value of open standards.Adobe Systems is an example: they published the specifications of the PostScript and PDF document formats from the outset, and that's why those formats have been embraced as de facto standards for document exchange.Dr David Harperdavid@obliquity.u-net.comNot paying upMany thanks to Glyn Moody for the article on free software. I'd rather not pay &#163;9.99 for his book The Rebel Code, so could you please lend me a copy so that I can photocopy it?Or maybe I'll scan it in so that I can change it a bit and share it with all my friends.Robert Muetzelfeldtr.muetzelfeldt@ed.ac.ukKey notesSo, when Microsoft designed the Xbox "by gamers for gamers", did they bother to ask any PC gamers for their opinion (Online, January 18)? If they did, then how come they have no plans to launch a keyboard and mouse.I find that strange, considering that the architecture of the console relates somewhat to the PC.Does that mean they consider people who play games on the PC not true "gamers"?I, and I know many that will agree, find a keyboard and mouse invaluable when playing many games, especially first-person shooters.Pete Fitzpatrickpfitzp@cwcom.netI was delighted to see that Jack Schofield had re-discovered the keyboard (Ask Jack, January 18).I have never been totally convinced of the virtues of the mouse and, particularly in   word-processing, I find that continually having to switch between keyboard and mouse is a pain.Fortunately, WordPerfect provides the facility for assigning, or re-assigning, functions to keystrokes and it is not difficult to customise a keyboard so that it is seldom, if ever, necessary to use the mouse.If only I could do the same with Excel I would happily dispatch the wretched creature to oblivion.Colin Clemettclemett@ittfr.demon.co.ukPhone fearsWe are now a five mobile phone family. The advantages of having them are quite liberating: regular updates of what the girls have bought, or how many fish my son has caught. But they have got me worrying. Everybody remembers that when the lottery started we were told that, within a few years, all of us would know somebody who had won something.  Nobody told us during the launch of mobile phones that we would all know somebody with a brain tumour. Well I do - in fact I know three, one of whom has just died.All were heavy mobile phone users and all feel that it was the main contributor to their tumour. I have warned the children of the dangers of using their phones too much. What worries me most of all, is that the government made billions from auctioning the rights to mobile frequencies last year.  Just before Christmas I heard that they were going to issue a pamphlet warning users of the dangers connected to the use of mobile phones, but unbelievably, this was cancelled because it was going to cost too much! Is this the next BSE? I have a feeling it is. And yet I am not sure I would be able to take them away now, as they have become such an intrinsic part of our lives.  Surely I am not the only mother with these concerns?Susan Koomenkoomen@freeuk.comMaggie's faultOnly in the Guardian could Margaret Thatcher, who has not been prime minister for over 10 years, be blamed for the fact that some people leave their computers on all the time (Feedback, Online, January 25).Tony Watsontewatson@cwcom.net
The US car maker Chrysler is turning to technology in an attempt to reverse flagging sales. This week the company announced it was cutting 26,000 jobs and closing six factories in a massive restructuring.One of the features it hopes will bring back car buyers is a sophisticated in-car "telematics" system - an on-board computer that is supposed to help keep you on the right route and entertain your passengers at the same time.A unit set in the dashboard gives access to streaming media and information, while back-seat passengers can type emails and play games.Much use is made of wireless technology, and not just for the emails - an on-board trivia game varies its questions depending on your location.
The new national breastfeeding line from the National Childbirth Trust (NCT) has proved so innovative it is winning awards. The line allows parents concerned about breastfeeding to gain information, support and access to expert counsellors quickly and efficiently. A virtual call centre routes parents to their nearest local expert using innovative technology provided by Opal Telecom and deployed by Mercury Energy. The whole system was designed in five months and was made possible by a donation from Persil Non-Bio.When a call is placed, the NCT's system uses "non-geographic-based origin call routing" to determine where the call is from. The system then contacts the nearest local breastfeeding counsellor. If the expert - all of whom are trained volunteers - does not answer within five rings, the system rings a second and then a third local expert. In the event of no answer from all three experts, the system routes the call to a team of national emergency duty counsellors. They are guaranteed to be in. In the event of all lines being engaged, the system records a message which gets checked periodically during shifts.After undergoing a soft launch the breastfeeding line was due to launch officially on January 29. "We've been testing the technology and it has been working brilliantly," says Diane Emery, head of fundraising at the NCT. "This line has been very much needed. Women just didn't know where to go. The problem was that there wasn't a single number for breastfeeding help with a guaranteed real person response. Ours is free and open to the general public.The breastfeeding line won this year's e-business classic award for network services design at the prestigious eBusiness Innovation Awards programme. The line allows emergency cases to be diverted quickly to the appropriate services.In order to balance the sponsor's and the charity's needs, data capture is a priority. Integrated voice response technology was installed to collect and validate details of first-time users.  Another problem was changes to the emergency team. "Reprogramming the network at the last minute for one counsellor taking over for another is something that isn't going to happen - especially with 10 minutes' notice," explains Richard Samuel, chairman of   Mercury Energy and the   man responsible for the helpline's design. Mercury arranged the system so that each time a counsellor came on duty, they call into the network to input their   phone number. All calls   are routed to them until   they log out at the end of   their shift.   "The overriding priority was that we had to make this system user and counsellor friendly. The sort of rules that might apply to a commercial organisation could not be forced here because everybody's a volunteer," says Samuel.Opel's technology allowed Mercury to program with unique flexibility. One problem facing counsellors arose when their children answered their phone instead. Given the often sensitive and distressed nature of the callers, the system was programmed to announce who the call is for before routing it through. This reminds children to pass the phone to the parent before a caller is encountered. The system is so flexible that Mercury has even set it up to accommodate nine future lines as yet unbuilt. The breastfeeding line is also linked to the general NCT inquiries line.In future, the NCT plans to run the breastfeeding line 24 hours a day. It would also like to set up an interactive antenatal booking service. "There's a huge demand for our classes - some women book in as soon as they   know they are pregnant," explains Emery.   The NCT's breastfeeding line number is 0870 444 8708. It is currently open from 8am to 10 pm, seven days a week. The enquiry line number is 0870 444 8707 and is open from 9am to 5pm from Monday to Thursday and from 9am to 4pm on Friday.   The NCT receives around 80,000 calls a year from parents. NHS Direct operators also have these phone numbers and refer callers to NCT counsellors who offer information and support on pregnancy, childbirth and parenting
Horror stories abound in which SMEs paid thousands of pounds - 10,000 was not uncommon - for websites that took an age to arrive, ages to download and, worst of all, couldn't be changed into something useful. How did this happen?It came about because the profession of web "designers" decided that outlandish graphics and "coloured space" were essential to a website, and that their "artistic" freedom was at stake if these principles were not applied. No one bothered to check how long it took to access the sites they pumped - or rather inched - out.Many bore an odd but obvious similarity to the designer's own corporate site. But these designers are easy to spot - they uniformly wear black, all day, every day. And boy do the blackshirts love graphics - the number-one enemy of an efficient, flexible, easily upgradable website. It's a philosophy thing, too.To many, the concept of "cyberspace" is as silly as science fiction. Millions prefer reality, or at least a reality-based artistic expression of it. Graphic designers, however, are the only people who want the graphics to look as if they've come from a computer. "But many of us, millions more of us indeed, just don't," says one software engineer, preferring anonymity.A very cheap, artistic alternative to studio graphics, and one you can do at home, can be achieved using the software supplied by Segmentis. Download the software (www.segmentis.com), slot in your digital photo, and bit by bit the image filter removes various layers of detail and transforms the pic into an impressionist image - "without the usual loss of focus, colour or edge". With practice, the effects are magical. Use this software, and surfers will think you spent four years at art school.  First and foremost, SMEs should employ a web "architect". And insist as a condition of contract that the site must download in less than 10 seconds under optimal conditions.To see how a small business can get it right, trywww.cos.co.uk, the site of world-leading optical equipment maker Cambridge Optical Sciences (COS), based in Suffolk. Since it unveiled its very simple site three years ago, more than 80% of its overseas orders now come from first-time inquirers - all serious industrial companies - surfing the web. Next year COS will top 1 million in turnover. Managing director Martin Lawrence says: "The first web-attributable order came from the US - from Nasa in fact. Since then they have flowed regularly and we've achieved a high order conversion rate of around 50%." He adds: "All of these orders are handled electronically up to the point of dispatch, giving us further economies in office processing. It's difficult to understand why use of this most economical of marketing tools is not more widespread among UK firms."The COS site took less than a week to construct and cost less than 200, though photos were already sourced. Prior to the internet, says Lawrence, "small companies such as ours, with highly specialised technologies, could only operate in North America because of the scale of the operation relative to market size." Now, in the broadest terms, it levels the global playing field. But much more frequently, designers forget the basics.  Most surfers want sharp, direct content, and they want it quickly. People forget that many visitors to websites go there to find contact information. Why? Because if you dial 192 and don't know the exact town or spelling of the street, they hang up.Rowan Douglas, who founded several global insurance portals and now works for City broker Willis as head of e-commerce, said: "You can often find a wanted website via alltheweb.com - just to find its phone number. For SMEs it is utterly vital for them to be easily 'discoverable' by potential customers located far away." Next, make sure your first page will fit into a 15-inch screen, that the front page has a site index and that your phone number is immediately prominent. Email-only contact points annoy time-poor consumers. Always add customer case histories - it shows you care - or short biographies of key staff.  Remember that everyone on the web expects everything for free, but they will pay if the product or service is specialised, exactly fills their need and does so quickly. The fact that 98% of dot.coms ignored these basics ensured their doom.The daftest web dreams were always held by those who had never started or run a profitable mainstream business. Their philosophy was based not on economics but on business school economics.  The vast majority of dot.  coms tried to bolt a business on to a website, rather than the reverse. A site that got it right iswww.amplebosom.com, the brainchild of a Yorkshire housewife. Laugh? Go ahead, but it is one of the best examples of successful "niche marketing" (no pun intended). And it's profitable.Recently I bought a Dell PC online. None of the fixed PC package offerings on its website suited. I didn't need a monitor, but I did want a multi-functional desktop printer/copier. And I did want a Zip drive, CD-Rom, floppy and modem slots, all in one neat tower. But because the site carried a phone number, Dell coped with my finicky needs in 15 minutes.  Where to find help? Despite the "org",www.businessadviceonline.orgis a "gov.uk" production - the website of the Small Business Service. The site is reasonably well designed, and its strength, predictably, is in covering government departments and regulations. It links prominently to www.ukonline forbusiness.gov.uk, which has specific advice about the government's network of e-commerce consultants.The web and money still don't mix very efficiently. Have you ever sent an email to your bank manager, for example? He must be the only man of significance in my business life whom I can't email.  Next, some companies suspect that high street banks levy higher charges on firms that trade on the web, due to the increased general risk. But there is only anecdotal evidence of this so far. The web can also be very useful for raising money. Not convinced? Last year Trevor Elworthy, of Protocol Digital Solutions in Milton Keynes, whose company is leading the way in digital photo libraries and kiosk concepts (BT is a client), needed some capital. Frustrated by the time and humiliation of being assessed by the usual banking culprits, he put a short proposal on the web. Within weeks he'd raised 400,000. Is this a record?  All of it came from small, or rather tiny, investors, by word of mail - "mailmouths", as he now calls them.The web has yet to create an efficient working space where small companies can raise not insignificant funds directly from private individuals. Now there's an idea.Marcus Gibson is a research journalist specialising in technology, innovation and small hi-tech companies.www.marcusgibson.com
There are a lot of figures to illustrate just how online the UK, and particularly the business community, has become. The government's UK Online for Business website (www.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk) points to an uptake of electronic business methods way ahead of that desired by the government when it set out its five-year plan four years ago and numerous researchers claim that more than three million small businesses are connected in some way.What they don't tell you is how these organisations are connected. ISDN, dial-up, or "we sent an email once" can all count towards qualifying as an e-business if a researcher is so minded. But the choices facing a small company are actually quite straightforward.The most basic is a dial-up account. You plug your modem - which will almost certainly have come with your computer - into your phone socket, your computer dials an internet service provider (ISP) and you're through.  This is the means by which "the vast majority" of small businesses connect, says Grant Broster, head of internet for business at BT Ignite Application Services. "By vast majority I am talking 90%," he says. "This will also continue to be the method by which the 50% of businesses that are not yet online will first get online," he adds, pointing out that there will be no business equivalent of email-enabled television to enable the technophobe to catch up.A refinement of the standard dial-up connection is to use one connection but to have a local area network (LAN) sitting behind it. By configuring a network to share an internet connection, more than one workstation can be hooked up at the same time. Eventually a single modem becomes insufficient for the number of people that want to connect at any given time, and companies start looking for more modems or faster alternatives.  Even in the basic dial-up service market, however, there are a surprising number of variants. This is because as long as it is with a reliable internet service provider, one dial-up connection should be pretty indistinguishable from another.This is why many ISPs offer a number of extras, sometimes included in the cost of the basic package.  Almost all ISPs offer website hosting, and some offer website design as well. Chris Windley, strategy and marketing director for the ISP Voyager, says his customers ask for security including firewalling,   web blocking and virus checking, outsourcing and integration with existing corporate networks.Then they start asking for more. "They want feedback on internet use and service levels. They want to know how internet demand is growing in their business, who is using it, what type of use it is and why they are using it. They want proof that they are secure and they want to be proactive and in control," says Windley.  Not every company will need all these elements, so as with any business issue, it is worth taking time to assess the business case for investment. If a company simply needs a little web space, a handful of email accounts and occasional research and purchasing on the internet, the most basic accounts will probably suffice. All of these can be had from free ISPs, as long as a company doesn't mind having "@anothercompanyname. net" in its email and web addresses.Moving up a little, it is possible to pay a monthly subscription for a similar account from a company that aims explicitly to serve the business community, such as Demon, Cix, BT Ignite or Virgin Biznet.  It is here that the possibility of broadband internet access is introduced. For a higher price, the business internet suppliers will sell you a faster connection - so if you're likely to be uploading a lot of information such as graphics or videos, they'll get through more quickly and won't slow the system down. It is in the graphics arena that solutions such as ISDN and leased lines start to pay for themselves; the user that simply sends a lot of email is unlikely to see any payback on these faster alternatives unless their prices drop soon.The important thing to remember is that no type   of internet connection is wrong per se; each will be appropriate to a business somewhere. Largely it is a matter of treating an internet connection as any other business asset - working out the objective for having it in the first place, then setting the budget and finding the solution to fit.Types of internet connectionDial-up:The connection that comes preloaded on most computers. You connect using a modem, and the fastest connection currently available is 56kbps with a single modem and   line. Later versions of Windows allow for two modems to be used simultaneously.Cable modem:A faster alternative to an ordinary modem, attaching to a cable phone system.ISDN:Links through an ISDN adapter rather than through a modem. This can't be done on a standard phone line. The speed is 64kbps for a single ISDN connection and 128kbps with two ISDN adapters. It is important to note that both ISDN and modem dial-up access are likely to incur per-minute charges from your telecoms company.Unmetered access:A handful of ISPs have bought minutes of online time from BT and offer flat-rate access to customers, normally on dial-up connections. This costs anything from 30 per annum covering all internet telephone calls.Leased line:A dedicated connection to the internet, installed separately by an ISP. A pricey option, starting at 4,000 for a 64kbps connection, but there will be no extra phone charges and you will be online the whole time. Security features are an absolute must.ADSL/DSL:(Asynchronous) digital subscriber line. This is a huge lump of bandwidth which will allow phone calls, faxes and computer data on the same line simultaneously. However, the bandwidth will be "contended" - in other words you'll be sharing it with your neighbours, so it will slow down if you're all using the net at the same time. This is a 24-hour, seven days a week connection. Martin Prescott, managing director of Big Red Computers, puts it succinctly: "Compared with 24-hour, seven-day ADSL at 40 a month or even the 100 a month version we use, ISDN is a joke."  Satellite: Companies such as epicRealm can arrange a satellite connection to the internet, though for now   this is of interest mostly   to larger businesses. As prices come down it should prove a fast and efficient alternative to terrestrial connections.
If you run a small business, good news - you won't need a database. Perhaps you think that's unlikely - there are customer and supplier records to be kept as well as product data, information on your personnel and any other data you might wish to organise.Nevertheless, if you buy Microsoft Office Small Business Edition, you won't get Microsoft Access, the company's flagship relational database. Instead you get a tailored program that manages your contacts, as well as an email and organiser program, some small business tools, a spreadsheet and a word processor. That is what the typical small business wants according to the Gates dynasty.It gets better. Not only do you not need a database but later this month Microsoft is launching the new version of Small Business Server, the cut-down version of Microsoft Exchange that manages and administrates an entire network. A company's own network supervisor can do this, as can a dealer or an application service provider.This isn't suitable for everyone, however. Matt Jones, technical director of Banxia Software, says he won't use Microsoft SBS simply because it is overkill. "And if it goes wrong you lose the lot unless you are prepared to spend a few days of expensive technical time sorting it, and working without your server," he adds. Charles Pearmain, head of Select Systems, sells software to small businesses but queries the cost of Microsoft Office: "By the time the MS operating system and application suite have been purchased the cost of a business system has been increased by 50%. A database development tool can add another 100 or more."It is easy to spot what those two small business managers share in common, though - they are both in the IT field and therefore know what they're doing when it comes to setting up their own systems. Presumably the purveyors of the packaged "small business system" would rather help the person who doesn't understand the technology but has a business issue to solve. This is the logic behind materials such as the disk that can be had fromwww.clearlybusiness.com. This contains a strategy builder, a time and money saver (or "planner" as the rest of us call it) and a demo of the company's website. This is aimed at the real beginner, as are many of the office suites.  Still, ask someone who knows about small business what the managers actually want and the answer tends to be none of the above.David Hands, a spokesman for the Federation of Small Businesses, is all in favour of the Microsoft Office approach - give someone a word processor, email, contact manager and spreadsheet and let them tailor the rest for themselves - and acknowledges the difficulty of pitching a package at the right level. "Around 95% of businesses in the UK have fewer than 10 employees and it's the owner manager who decides what gets bought," he comments. "Larger firms have someone to look after that side of things." And one way of getting to the owner manager is presumably to stick "small business" on the box and hope someone will pay attention.Arriving at what a small business will actually need is far from easy. Hands sees a real need for payroll functions in the very near future. Family credit rules are changing and stakeholder pensions come into force in October. "There will be a lot of time and expense getting those together, so you'd need some help in there," he says.  Help in this area is more likely to come from the niche players - the people who specialise in accounting and financial systems, and who look at the smaller end of the market. Companies like TAS Software, Intuit with its Quickbooks offering and Sage with Instant Accounts all serve companies at the two employees plus level, while Microsoft and Intuit offer Money and Quicken respectively. These are personal financial packages with "deluxe" or "pro" versions, with invoicing elements for the self-employed person wanting to keep their business and personal financial data in the same place.Financial and payroll data is one area in which companies can aim their systems clearly at the smaller enterprise. Start-up company My Business (www.mybiz.co.uk) aims not only to offer a book-keeping package to its clients but also an organiser including contact data and calendaring outside the financial framework. Co-founder Mark Searles says the company spent serious money on researching exactly what the market would want, and agreed that the disparate sorts of small business was a potential problem. "We found that although you could take an architect and a plumber and put them in a pub together and they'd share nothing in common, there were areas they could talk about in business." These included the frustration of admin tasks, hence the book-keeping and calendaring functions in the My Business system are tied together: "When an invoice is 30 days old, the book-keeping part tells the calendar and you get a reminder to chase it."  Microsoft, currently readying Office 2001 for release, also offers the small business a financial planner and a business planner but no payroll or book-keeping function outside of a straightforward spreadsheet.Not all customers believe the small business version matches their needs. Nick Moon, director of ABS Cases, says there is often too much in it and he still uses a years-old system for his core business activities: "In fact, the main reason we have these tools is because everyone else does and we need to be able to exchange documents."  Microsoft's Small Business Server differs from Office in that it handles underlying technologies rather than the applications themselves. Instead of offering a word processor it will allow you to share a database across a network, and other elements of it will allow people to share an internet gateway or a fax system.   Simon Husbands of Richardsons Accountants explains that the benefits aren't always easy to quantify, but that working practices have changed as a result of installing the system. "Being able to put internal and external emails together was helpful, and in terms of connecting every desktop to a single internet connection rather than having a modem attached to each individual computer - well, we wouldn't have done it." Husbands' view of the advantage of putting all the internet, fax and other servers into the same package is simple - it costs less if you buy them all at the same time. Jane Peirce Jones, director of the Council of Museums in Wales, has noted improvements using SBS even in an organisation with only 10 employees. Using an ISDN link and SBS the organisation can treat its two offices as one. A side benefit was the team-building spirit during the training period.The Microsoft offerings will be joined by increasing amounts of dedicated small business packages as the market gains steam. Figures from the Department of Trade and Industry suggest there are 3.7 million businesses in the UK, 85% of which employ five people or fewer, so from a purely commercial point of view this is a market the hardware and software companies won't want to miss - which is why there is a constant stream of hardware manufacturers describing their computers as "ideal for small business" when they actually mean "a working computer whose graphics and sound aren't good enough for teenagers".   And there remains the question of how necessary all the extras are. There is duplication within individual packages - Microsoft Office has a contact manager in Microsoft Outlook and another in the small business services section of Office; Outlook is in Office as well, and although the address books can be made to talk to each other it is unlikely that many customers will need both.Richardsons' Husbands says the price of SBS was low enough he didn't feel he ought to try every component for the sake of it. Chris Sharp, managing director of accounting systems house FourFront, suggests people could be making more of the technology they already have: "Many of the ideas and processes behind e-business can be transposed or transferred into most companies' existing technology infrastructure. The rationalisation of processes and the improvement of communication up and down the supply chain can easily be achieved using automated faxing, email and simple internet browsers."
Companies which sell IT security products often have a slightly distorted view of the threats to IT security. Those that market antivirus programs tend to think that scanning for viruses is more important than anything else. Yet those that sell firewalls usually tell you that a firewall is the most important part of an anti-hacker strategy.Cutting through the marketing hype is not easy but is essential. Unless you understand just where attacks on your network can come from, you can't adequately protect it. A firewall is no protection against a sales executive having her laptop stolen from the car at a motorway service station. And even the world's best virus scanner won't prevent someone hacking your website and replacing all your staff mugshots with pictures stolen from www.playboy.com.Only when you understand what hackers are capable of can you decide which techniques would cause you most damage or inconvenience. This will allow you to invest your money and time most efficiently to lessen the chances of being attacked and to minimise the damage that an attack would cause.Let's start by debunking one myth. Not all hackers are after your confidential data to sell it or publish it on a website. Many people who break into systems using the internet simply want to beat the computer at its own game by finding a sneaky way in. Your private files offer little of interest to such intruders.However, the stability of your system does. If they can crash it so that your own staff can't get in, that's good. Such action is known as a denial of service (DoS) attack and is often worryingly easy. Most company servers run on Windows NT or Unix and there are hundreds of bugs in these programs that can be exploited to crash the system. Microsoft published 100 security fixes for Windows last year, dozens of which were to prevent potential DoS loopholes. Read about them, and download the fixes, from www.microsoft.com/security. Failure to install the latest patches on your servers could expose your system to DoS attacks.Not all hackers use technical expertise to penetrate IT defences. When staff leave your company, or are dismissed, it is crucial that you close off their access to the company system immediately, otherwise they can copy or sabotage files. I know people whose company accounts were still accessible three years after they'd left a job, thus allowing them continued access to their old documents through the internet.A computer's first line of defence is its passwords. Just because you make a point of not writing them down and not choosing ones that can be easily guessed doesn't mean that they can't be discovered. Hackers often use social engineering techniques, such as telephoning staff and pretending to be a colleague or support worker who has a legitimate need to know a password. If the cover story is believable, the employee will be only too happy to divulge the password.  One aspect of the internet makes social engineering easier than it ought to be. A Whois lookup on a company's domain name will provide the name and phone number of the employee who looks after it. So now the hacker knows who he should pretend to be when telephoning unsuspecting users.Hackers love cracking passwords they can't even obtain by social engineering. Despite what Microsoft tells you, Windows NT passwords (even system administrator ones) are not uncrackable. Anyone who gains access to an NT server can retrieve a full list of users' passwords in just a few minutes. However, the list is encrypted.Luckily for hackers, a program called L0phtCrack (www.L0pht.com) will decipher them using a technique known as a brute force attack. This is akin to reading a telephone directory from cover to cover to find out the name and address for someone whose phone number is already known. It can take many hours, or sometimes days, but is remarkably successful.  Viruses and trojans are another area of vulnerability. Recent patches for Microsoft Outlook, the most popular email reader for Windows, make it much harder for users to inadvertently open attachments and release viruses. The successor to Windows 2000, codenamed Whistler, will improve on this still further. But the best form of defence is to prohibit your staff from sending or receiving email attachments.Many companies configure their firewalls so that incoming attachments are deleted. The sender is then automatically emailed and asked to resend the attachment in a less dangerous form, or to send it to an IT support mailbox for checking before it is forwarded to the intended recipient.  Software piracy is a favourite pastime of hackers, either to make money or to irritate software companies by spreading illegal copies of their goods. Pirates need places to store their wares, and the servers of unsuspecting companies are a favourite target. Make sure the access permissions are set correctly on your sites or you could find yourself in the same situation as an organisation of my acquaintance, whose servers filled up because they were being used as a repository for pirated DVD movies.Finally, a painful reminder that there is much more to computer crime than firewall vendors would have you believe. Most hacks are not committed by outsiders through the internet, but by employees. And the most common reason for data loss is not a hack at all but accidents caused by a lack of IT skills. Both of which are, sadly, much more difficult to prevent.
Small businesses habitually fall down on their websites. There are a number of reasons for this: they aren't good designers or they fall down on finding someone who can realise their vision.In the first issue of Small Business Solutions we examined some of the packages that have built-in templates for the hard of visualising, which have helped a number of organisations to an online presence without much strain. However, even these require time and the learning of a program. Perhaps more importantly for extremely small organisations, they require hard disk space and can eat up memory on a computer, leading to the need for an upgrade in extreme cases.An alternative is to build a website entirely online - in other words take a pre-existing set of tools that a helpful company has made accessible through the internet, put a site together and publish it using only a web browser such as Internet Explorer or Netscape. Sound too good to be true? Actually, it's becoming increasingly commonplace, and adding genuine e-commerce is relatively simple.The only catch is that there can be continuing costs and sometimes the service is restricted to companies that are an existing client for one of the service provider's other products. An example of the latter can be found atwww.sage.com, which offers various levels of website hosting and building. Primarily marketed to existing Sage customers, the free starter site package is now available to anyone and the emphasis is on ease of use.The customer starts by filling in some personal and business details. This serves two functions: it registers the customer with Sage and it assimilates some of the details that will go into forming the website itself. The first of these details dictates the domain name - the address that customers and prospects will have to type in to view the site. The default name for sage is &#91;yourname&#93;.uk.sage.com - so your business name will be visible to your customers but so will the fact that you are using Sage's hosting service. To some people this will not matter, while others might want a more straight- forward domain, such as &#91;yourname&#93;.co.uk. Typically, customers will find this simpler to remember. As an aside, if this is likely to be an issue, it is worth checking sites such aswww.easily.co.uk, where domain names can be registered from 9.99 including VAT and redirected to whichever site you want - so when the customer types www.&#91;yourname&#93;.co.uk they get redirected to www.&#91;yourname&#93;.uk.sage.com and unless they check the address bar they will be unlikely to notice the difference.The next stage on the Sage site is the formatting. The company has a number of predefined templates with names such as "professional"; in fact they are all pretty slick-looking so the names shouldn't be taken too seriously. As the illustration shows, the person designing the website can select the colour scheme individually, to help tone in with a company's corporate identity.At this stage it becomes possible to preview the site within the Sage window. The details, including title and the rest of the page titles, are filled in automatically and the meta tags - key words that are visible to search engines to help find appropriate sites for enquirers - are also placed in the right areas in html code. After this a similar form to the one with the personal details opens up for catalogue and other pages. The results are transferred to the appropriate pages. There is also scope to upload your own corporate logo and put it on the site.It is when the more expensive options, starting at 50 a month, kick in that the interesting stuff starts to happen. It is at this price that the customer can introduce e-commerce transactions using the Sage Webtrader product. This has a wizard that allows you to link to any other website and can enable you to accept credit card payments over the internet through an association with Worldpay. Better still for customers of Sage's Line 50 and Line 100 accounting systems, these online purchases can then be transmitted straight to a company's accounting system. Unsurprisingly it doesn't work with accounting systems from any other manufacturer.Virginbiz.net offers a similar service, with a few important distinctions. The most important is that only the first page is free - the rest starts at 15 a month. Anyone expecting to pay nothing for a professional web service frankly needs their business plan re-examined. The Virgin service is free for a 45-day trial period, however. More interesting is the fact that Virgin will arrange and host the domain name - so instead of opting for www.yourname.sageweb.co.uk as I would have done at the Sage site, Virgin set up www.yourname.co.uk within minutes as part of the package. In spite of warnings that this could take four days to set up properly it was online and available within 24 hours. It even had a map of where I live - not something I had actually requested and as a home worker not necessarily something I would want.Designing the site itself  is painless as per the illustrations. The first couple of stages consist of straight text entry, some of which appears later on the website. It isn't until the fifth stage that the site gets any shape, and only in the preview  do you get to see how your site will look and where the information is actually  going. After the preview it becomes easier to add and substitute images to a site, and it has a useful set of suggestions for what sort of pages will actually suit an individual business's requirements.Adding e-commerce is relatively straightforward (see the case study on Tiffany Badges, below) - done by dragging and clicking elements into the "shop" area. Getting at this requires a separate log-on, and once you are inside, layouts can be controlled and items added to a catalogue, as might be expected. More important for businesses is the report area, in which companies can link their database to the reports that the website will generate for them on stock, tax categories and shipping rules, for example.Virgin also offers full web services, including email accounts and promotion to internet search engines such as www.google.com and www.yahoo.com, which help promote a website to potential customers. These should never be taken as a substitute for a solid marketing plan, but they can help supplement one.Another company known for its internet service provision rather than for e-shops is Demon (www.demon.net). This has its web shop templates for businesses that want to trade that way. While they are not as numerous as the array of designs offered by Virginbiz.net, they are workmanlike enough and Demon customers who don't want to change their internet arrangements should consider them very carefully. As the illustration shows, the levels of text input are considerable, but the end result is a professional-looking site that should be able to take orders as soon as it is published.Other companies are becoming interested in helping small businesses to develop their sites - for example, www.zy.com, which has the consumer as its heartland but is doggedly adding business functions as it develops. Possibly the most interesting feature at Zy is its policy of offering individual components over the internet, so if you have a basic website already, thanks, and just want a few flashy buttons or rollover bars you can get them.   Another organisation in the area is www.instranet.com, which majors on content management - the theory being that smaller businesses are prone to unmanaged growth in terms of website content and design, so any tool that helps keep this under control is likely to be extremely useful.Moonfruit (www.moonfruit.com) has been hinting at entering the business market as well, although its invitations to make a website devoted to your pet on its homepage suggest it is not there yet.An alternative is to have the specialists at Virgin or Sage, for instance, design   the site in its entirety. This can often be a good idea for the extremely small 'microbusiness', which might not have the time to handle an internet presence as well as all the sales and marketing that go into keeping the company afloat in the first place.One company, itself a small player, that specialises in serving such organisations is Townsite (www.townsite.net), which works alongside the commercial community in Enfield and nowhere else. Here the 'designed' approach appears to be preferred by the customer, according to manager Martin Prescott.Initially, the DIY online approach was favoured, but this was dropped because the customers outside the IT field didn't understand the internet or know what they wanted from it. As a result, the company moved to straightforward design. "It's still not perfect, but the time and effort we are saving by doing it this way is almost beyond belief," comments Prescott.Guy Clapperton is the editor of The E-Commerce Handbook. He has about 50 websites after writing this feature, but the real one is atwww.clapperton.co.ukHow Tiffany put itself in the shop windowTiffany Badges, a staff identification badge maker in Devon, had tried twice to take its business on to the internet. Owner Neil Buchan-Grant wrote the first website himself in 1994. He describes the results as "pretty disgusting" and found maintaining it difficult as he had created it all in raw html and couldn't see the separate pages or elements of the site while editing.The second site was better but did little to grow the business. It was when Buchan-Grant won a free Virgin website - something he had planned to buy anyway - in a newspaper competition that the business picked up. He paid an extra 300 to set up a web shop so that people could buy as well as browse online. He says that setting this up was "pretty easy - I'm fairly technically competent but I believe it's become even easier since then".Buchan-Grant is now able to add and remove items and update the site in a day or less, the complete site having taken six weeks or so to get up and running - not as a full-time job but as a sideline to running an already successful business.This ease of change has meant the site is simpler to navigate than it was before, according to a number of customers. The company has also found business from academic clients and local government in Jersey.The only element of the site Tiffany didn't leave entirely to Virgin was the submission to the search engines. "I used to handle search engine submissions myself, but it's a minefield," comments Buchan-Grant.He opted to use a specialist in the area who would not only carry out the initial submission but follow up and see that the site was properly placed afterwards. "It took him two months but it was the first time I'd been placed properly in Yahoo."Whether the increase in custom was because of this or the Virgin design work is impossible to say, but the ease of use and the ability to keep the site up to date has ensured that Buchan-Grant is a highly satisfied customer.
For the diehard gadget lover the digital camera is really last year's gimmick. Everyone was talking about them, they bought them or not and now they've gone. Except of course they haven't. The question is, whether owning one can benefit a business, and how to measure any return on investment after buying one.Probably the first thing to make clear about digital cameras is that if a company's photographic needs are small and you have a reasonable scanner, spending money on extra equipment is unlikely to be helpful. They cost twice as much as traditional cameras and the quality can be uneven, particularly with the cheaper devices.Digital cameras pay for themselves in two ways. First, there is the immediacy: you can see whatever you've just snapped on a small screen on the back; and second, you won't have to pay to get your shots developed.Given that a good camera (meaning "not of a professional standard but pretty useful") will cost upwards of 300, you clearly need to take a lot of pictures before development costs become important.So if your business is picture-intensive - you may be an estate agent, for example - and you want to buy a digital device the next questions will be about quality, storage and ease of use. It is in the last category that some of the sub 200 models fall down. Yes, pointing and clicking is simple enough and the picture quality is OK, but you are effectively tied to using the software that came with the camera. Forget about editing using Photosuite or your favourite picture editor.Storage is another element the cheaper cameras often lack; they carry enough for 20 odd pictures at a time, but to take more you need to download to a computer and clear the camera's memory. Cameras that purport to take brief video clips and sound annotations can fall foul of the memory trap; yes they take the video, certainly you can record voice on to them, but don't expect to take in more than two or three clips before having to download and clear again. More expensive cameras are likely to have standard memory cards so it will be possible to carry spares around.Obviously picture quality counts for much in selecting a camera. The jargon to watch for is the number of pixels; the more there are the sharper the picture. However, sharper isn't always better. If you are likely to be making a lot of images available on a website, more detail will translate to a larger file; this will take longer to download and may annoy customers. If a thumbnail of a house for an estate agent's site is all that's required, it can be counterproductive to opt for more. Alternatively, for brochures the picture resolution needs to be the best available.A final caveat relates to the operator rather than the camera. If your snapper is likely to end up with as many pictures of his or her thumb as of the desired subject, changing the tool is unlikely to improve technique, so don't spend a fortune. As long as a buyer takes this into account, and assuming the business has established a need and assessed how to measure the return on the purchase price, a digital camera should be a solid investment.
Imagine a world in which every business is responsible for its own telecommunications system. Not just for paying the bill, but for buying, installing, arranging a maintenance contract and operating the telephone systems. Add to this the notion that every company would have to take care of its own money; there would be no banks, just a mattress in the managing director's office into which numerous fivers would be sewn.The ideas sound ludicrous, yet this is exactly what the vast majority of companies do with their computer installations, which can be equally complex. It is into this space that the application service provider (ASP) has emerged. The idea is straightforward enough: the customer pays to have all of their applications and information on an ASP's system, which they access via the internet (see box below). It started in the corporate world but stalled somewhat, as Butler Group's director of research Mike Thompson explains: "We always said we didn't feel that size of organisation would be happy to have their applications and their data outside their direct control." In addition to this, although there are cost savings to be had from the ASP idea, most if not all blue-chip companies already had their IT under the management of in-house specialists.Clearly, the same was not true of small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). These organisations, previously denied the analytical power of such high-end offerings as Walker's financial systems, were suddenly able to rent time on these sorts of systems without having to buy the servers or configure the systems. Maybe it is a little odd, then, that the market still hasn't really taken off.There are a number of reasons for this, the first of which is likely to be the sheer conservatism of SME managers. In most cases an attempt at selling them the idea of farming their technology out to a third party will meet with a blank stare and a question as to why they should spend time and money fixing their systems when basically they work.There is also the issue of trust. "My advice to ASPs is to get some sturdy systems and service level agreements in place. The ones that do this have the upper hand as they're ensuring customers get value for money," says Simon Robinson, Europe, Middle East and Africa marketing manager at e-commerce infrastructure specialist NetIQ.Other companies - mostly ASPs themselves that have vested interests - have commissioned independent research on why the ASP model isn't capturing people's imagination. Interliant, for example, found five major reasons for using ASPs: the cost/headcount ratio improved; technical support was good; skill shortages were largely eliminated; implementation was fast, and the service level agreement - the document guaranteeing a certain standard of performance - was better than most internal IT departments could offer. The reasons people weren't using the services included already having a tailor-made system in place, already having the right skills in-house, and a feeling that the applications were already managed properly in-house. "What was most interesting from the research was the disparity between difficulties expected when using an ASP from those actually experienced," says David Yuile, Interliant UK managing director. "For example, while only 15% of respondents expected that there would 'no problems' at all if they used an ASP, an enormous 46% reported there actually being 'no problems' when they did use an ASP."Perceptions are not the only inhibitor. Everything an ASP does will be delivered via an internet connection, and in the UK a constant, reliable connection is not cheap - leased lines, which are among the most reliable forms of connection, start at 3,000 per annum, and it is worth repeating that ASPs at the moment are asking their customers to replace an internal system which is basically working.Nevertheless, many analysts believe ASPs will become increasingly important, and the market is already showing signs of segmenting to fuel that growth. International Data Corporation is forecasting an ASP market worth 480 million by 2004, and many large software companies are developing a strategy in which their products can be delivered in this way. Sean O'Reilly, vice-president of marketing for ASP Netstore, says: "The implementation of an ASP strategy by some of the world's largest software vendors - for example, Microsoft, Sun and Oracle - demonstrates that this software delivery method is increasingly seen as a business reality."The segmentation is evident in the emergence of the Internet Business Services initiative (IBSi). A spokeswoman explains: "The mission of the IBSi is to separate its members from 'traditional' ASPs, which it believes are simply retro-fitting expensive, cumbersome, packaged software for the internet as opposed to developing applications from the ground up for delivery over the web."Whatever the truth of this, ASPs are showing signs of growth in certain markets. John Wilmott, managing director of analyst NelsonHall, suggests the business hasn't grown as quickly as the early predictions had suggested. He points to the difficulties in offering a 'one-to-many' (one ASP host with many clients) service for businesses when they actually want a more tailored service. There are two areas in which he suggests there will be faster than average growth, though: "The best opportunities for one-to-many remain in areas close to the IT infrastructure such as traditional ISP services, back-ups and so on," he says. "Start-ups are more likely to buy ASP services than established organisations since they require cost-effective speed to market and have less of a business process history."The idea of importing a specialist to handle complex technical problems must- as long as it is done right - ultimately make sense. The difficulty facing ASPs is to persuade a market used to hype and hollow acronyms that they can offer a service of genuine value.What is an ASP?An application service provider (ASP) will tell you the service they offer is brand new, but this is not absolutely true. We've been here before, from 1960s-style 'bureaux' to 'outsourcing partners' with high-flying corporate clients. In many ways there is little difference between outsourcing - in which a company pays an independent company to send staff to install, maintain and manage systems and remain on site in lieu of support staff - and an ASP. The key difference is that the ASP's work takes place on its own site.An ASP at its most basic is an organisation that rents space on its computer systems, into which customers can dial and access their applications - everything from a word processor to a complex suite of financial applications can be run independently through a web browser.There are many advantages in this. Smaller businesses have access to business tools they would otherwise not have. Lotus Notes, hitherto aimed  at the corporate environment, requires dedicated  computers called servers to run and staff dedicated to its management. 
The financial outlay required  is reduced because the ASP will be handling more than one company's systems. Fewer software licences are needed because users will only dial into, for example,  the accounting system when they need it rather than running effectively redundant copies on different workstations.Many software systems companies have responded  to the emergence of ASPs  by offering cut-down  versions of their systems. Enterprise resource  planning organisations - the likes of SAP, which  makes an integrated manufacturing, distribution and financial application - typically took months if not years to configure their systems correctly. Now, elements of it can be rented from an ASP with vastly reduced set-up time and costs.The idea also carries a number of negative points, though more psychological than technical and involving the security of an ASP's system and the soundness  of the ASP's business. Most small businesses  regard their customer  data as their main asset and the idea of storing that information on someone else's computer can be problematic. Many analysts are convinced the advantages outweigh the drawbacks  and the business as a concept will succeed. However, John Serle, chair of the Society of IT Management's best practice committee, remains unconvinced. "The problem before with the model was that providers relied on a return on investment period that proved unrealistic. In today's volatile IT market this is likely to be even more of a challenge," he says.EquIP gets back to basicsEquIP was established last year to supply internet infrastructure products, usually through channel partners. When the company was set up it intended to sell to application service providers (ASPs) as well as other organisations. For consistency, therefore, it elected to farm all its computer applications and infrastructure out to London-based ASP Pasporte. 
The impetus to use an ASP came partly from the need to save money but also to prevent problems arising when the company needed to grow - if someone else was responsible for networking and other technical infrastructure as the company grew, the company itself could concentrate on its core business.Joint managing director  Neil Ledger says EquIP has been delighted with the results so far. "The financial director in particular is pleased because we're using systems we couldn't have had otherwise," he says. The complete system includes a Sage accountancy system, Business Objects intelligence software and Lotus Notes Domino for messaging and web services. Pasporte installed the systems over a weekend and includedremote diagnostic and monitoring tools so that if a problem arises it can be fixed without a site visit wherever possible, taking the maintenance task away from EquIP altogether.
Security and constant availability are crucial in an agreement like this, so one of the first things EquIP did was to inspect Pasporte's equipment; as a company with a background it knew what to look for to gain reassurance. The other issue the company considered important was the paperwork. "We have a written service level agreement," says Ledger. This outlines how the service works and what the compensation will be if it fails.The end result is that EquIP has the use of systems that would normally be associated with far larger businesses, with none of the expense or time of maintaining and upgrading it. The costs are per user and per month, so the charges will be entirely predictable.
A small clan of Bristol boiler-fitters: not who you'd usually expect to be pushing boundaries with an innovative and award-winning mobile phone service. But from this small test group has sprung the world's first business-to-business Wap system and two e-commerce accolades. Caradon Ideal Boilers is a shining example to any small business of how to take cutting-edge technology and forge something with your customers, that really works.It started in March 2000. Ideal, a supplier of boilers and parts to boiler-fitters, had one simple problem: how to get information to their customers, the fitters. Unlike sectors such as the music industry or computing, boiler-fitting isn't dominated by a few large players. Estimates show 90,000 registered installers working for 40,000 companies. And these dispersed workers aren't easy to contact en masse. After approaching BT Cellnet, it came back with Wap, the wireless application protocol that allows second-generation mobile phones to connect to the internet. Then, it was a new and unproven consumer technology - but they could see it had potential for their market.Ideal, under the supervision of the then installer director Simon Kujawa, took the technology and formed the Bristol focus group from fitters with whom it had close professional contacts. A process had begun. Kujawa took two developers, 20 Bristol boiler-fitters, three months, and began to explore. "We new nothing about Wap; they new nothing about Wap," explains Kujawa, who has since moved to MK Electric. "We just had to work on it together. We tried to understand what was possible and what was useful to them." 
Both parties evolved the service together, developing systems to answer problems swiftly that the fitters might encounter when with clients. And while the team did include two developers - one Wap markup language coder and one interface specialist - the drive of the development came from the fitters and their needs. In a world of products imposed on markets, this is a refreshing change.The Wap site, www.idealtoolbox.wap, offers fitters a range of services. Simple technical data, such as boiler dimensions, are easily transmitted. There is also a calculation tool: enter data, such as the number of rooms, the number of residents and the size of a house, and the system computes the ideal size of boiler. Given a broken boiler, a fitter with phone can go through a highly complex fault-finding service - from the simple "Is the pilot light on?" to the more complex "What is the electrical current?" The whole service is backed up by hundreds of pieces of support data. The phone can even send an email requesting a brochure be sent to the house being assessed - not a simple task in Wap.Ideal then teamed up with BT Cellnet to offer a special deal to all fitters. Prove you're legally qualified to fit gas appliances and you'll be sent a free Wap phone that connects directly to the Ideal site; 500 fitters did. To Ideal, the main obstacle is some fitters' existing phone contracts; but given the nature of the field, the numbers mark a significant uptake of the new technology.Where Ideal really triumphed was in recognising Wap's strengths. "Wap had been communicated as 'the internet on your phone' but it isn't," explains Kevin Tolson, Ideal's marketing director. "We quickly found if you tried to position it as the internet, frankly, you were going to fail." As he points out, Wap phones simply aren't as user-friendly or as quickly informative. "We were, however, very keen for our brand to embrace something that communicates quickly with our customers," he adds. Ideal recognised that Wap isn't a direct sales tool but a communications tool. Buying a boiler over a phone might turn out to be a complete boo.com.So does this mean a third party could now bypass Ideal with a Wap b2c retail service? "I've looked at it from all angles and I don't believe someone could enter our marketplace using a Wap site and trade directly, taking out distributors," insists Tolson.Ideal was keen, however, to use Wap to create a dialogue with their customers: using it almost as an intranet, it gives customers access to inside its business. As Kujawa realises, this isn't just a great tool for the fitters, it's a great marketing opportunity for Ideal too. "Fitters tend to stick to the types of boilers they know. So while defending your customers is important, winning new ones is very difficult." To this end, Wap is a good marketing tool. To promote new products and gain customers, Ideal offers value to customers, either by promoting new lines or providing installation instructions. "The golden rule is 'make life easy for your clients'," insists Kujawa. The service does.So much so, in fact, that it has won awards: the Computer Weekly Mobile Commerce Project of the Year last December. And while Kujawa personally won e-business Champion of the Year, he's quick to defer credit to Ideal. The real winner, however, is Wap. Since its launch at the beginning of 2000, the market has suffered from what Tolson calls "Wapathy". Despite the hype, Wap has yet to deliver fully, but Ideal shows what can be done. "There's lots of technology out there and I don't think Wap is the final technology. We just hope Wap acts as a stepping stone to these newer and more capable technologies that are on the way," adds Tolson.While the experts tinker and the public waits for the third generation "always on" phones, promised in 2002, Ideal continues to scheme. It would like to stream videos to fitters' phones or play them audio instructions. Tolson would even like to have Radio Ideal, "mixing music with serious messages". It's only the technology, or the absence of it, that's holding them back.For now, Ideal will just have to stick to breaking ground with Wap. So does Tolson have any regrets about using it? "From a brand point of view, it's linking us with the latest technology. I just hope that technology isn't a 'C5'. Nonetheless it's got legs - it needs a bit more horsepower - but it's definitely got legs."
There are many new small companies around now. The bad news is that last year they were big companies. The collapse of dot.com businesses - some of which have lost over 90% of their share value since the peak last year - has sent a chill wind through the sector.It shouldn't. Most of this is just the normal attrition of new small companies, some 50% of which collapse, fail or are taken over in their first four years. Some failed companies will live on in some form or other even if it is only the "back-end" computer system that is acquired by someone else.The important thing for small companies now is to keep their heads and learn from the mistakes of the "first movers". Make no mistake - the influence of the internet will gradually embrace  most industrial activities and companies refusing to adopt the web will suffer at the hands of competitors that do.But let's not exaggerate. The most important factor influencing small businesses during the coming year won't be the speed at which they get kitted out, but the economy's performance as a whole. In all the recent industrial surveys the answer is the same - the most important thing facing small companies is lack of business. On present evidence the UK economy is expected to grow by between 2.0% to 2.5% this year. It could be thrown off course by a steep US recession, but at the moment the US economy seems to be slowing down with dignity rather than falling off the edge.This will provide a reasonable environment for companies to learn from the early mistakes of dot.coms (like failing to deliver on time) and to be early adopters of some interesting new developments. The most important lesson in terms of marketing is that you don't have to spend a fortune on television to boost your brand. This means a goodbye to advertising blitzes on television and hello to affiliate marketing. Instead of using old economy methods, affiliate marketing uses the inherent communitarian strengths of the web.It works roughly like this. You are selling something that is likely to be of interest to people who visit my site. I let you have space (a small advert or button) on my site that will send potential purchasers to you on condition I get 5% (or more or less) of the income arising from a purchase.The web's electronic underbelly can monitor how effective this method is in generating sales and also limits the scope for cheating. This is not a practice that need be the preserve of big companies. Small businesses should explore mutually profitable ways they can grow together using the web as their tool.The second way in which the web can be used as a tool by SMEs has been around for years but has still to reach anywhere near its full potential: viral or guerrilla marketing. In its simple form this involves getting the company name or what it sells high up among the "tags" that search engines look for. In its more sophisticated version it involves getting a product or brand mentioned in specialised chat rooms (which now exist for almost every subject) or passed from person to person by email or text messages. The whole practice of emailing and, even more so, text messaging (more than 600 million text messages are sent in the UK every month) was spread by word of mouth. The potential of text messaging as a marketing tool is awesome.The third thing that will have a big impact on the pace at which small companies adopt the web is the emergence of a reliable, secure payments system. This problem (which will be explored in future issues of Small Business Solutions) is one of the big factors preventing early adoption of the web even though the scale of fraud has been greatly exaggerated. The problem is on the verge of a solution.There are now stacks of different payment systems, ranging from the web-based scheme Beenz (www.beenz.com) to the American email-based scheme PayPal (www.paypal.com) and its new British rival PhonePaid (www.Phonepaid.com), which enables secure payment by email. You set up an account and put some money in it, then transfer money to someone else by mobile phone. When they receive it they can either opt to be sent a cheque or set up their own PhonePaid account.In the PayPal version in the US people opted in such numbers to set up accounts that it has now become one of the most popular ways of paying on auction sites such as eBay. Another example of viral marketing.The absence of an effective payments scheme is likely to change either this year or next. Small companies should be waiting eagerly to take advantage.Victor Keegan is editor of  the Online section
Tony Blair today officially appointed Andrew Pinder - a former IT director at the Inland Revenue - as e-envoy, giving him four years to ensure universal access to the internet and to put all government services online.Mr Pinder said he will be dealing with "an industrial revolution in the civil service and the wider economy" as the UK tries to establish itself as an internet heavyweight.A former civil servant, Mr Pinder first took over as temporary e-envoy when Alex Allan resigned from the post in October, citing personal reasons. Like Mr Allan before him, Mr Pinder will concentrate on moving the government itself into the internet age.He said: "We want to be customer focused. It's not just about putting a form online, it's about changing the business practices that lie behind that form."He admits that the transformation is still in the early stages, but defended the government's record up to now. On Friday the Cabinet office launched a secure online transaction system, Government Gateway, a project that he pointed out had come in on time and under budget. The gateway will form the basis for future online transactions between businesses, members of the public and government.Mr Pinder spent 18 years in the Inland Revenue, becoming the director of IT, before moving to the private sector as the director of operations and technology at Prudential Corporation. He also worked as the European head of operations and technology at Citibank investment bank.Since 1999, he has been a partner in both an internet startup, Willregister.com, and a small venture capital firm.His experience within the turbulent internet startup culture has made him sensitive to the needs of small businesses, he said, and he hopes to make it easier for small companies to communicate with government.He also hopes that the civil service will be able to learn from the internet economy. "We will see some slow changes in the civil service. It will take a long time, but then to turn around a big company like IBM or Ford takes a long time."This week we had permanent secretaries coming to listen to Michael Dell speak about his experiences. So there is a willingness to change within the civil service," Mr Pinder added.Welcoming Mr Pinder's decision to take on the job fulltime, Mr Blair said: "We are determined to meet the goals of our UK Online campaign, putting this country at the forefront of the knowledge economy. Andrew can play a leading role in achieving that."Related articles28.01.2001: Britain set to outsmart Europe12.11.2000: The e-envoy is dead; long live the e-envoy01.10.2000: Only the right e-envoy can put Britain's mouse in orderUseful linksUK Online portal
While the commercial world is littered with dot.gones, the charity world still has reasons to be cheerful. Last week, the Charities Aid Foundation (CAF) announced that it had raised 1m through its websites. Next week, a new website is launched to help cut charity costs and another site has been launched as a precursor to a charity recruitment event in August.The CAF website had already brought in 700,000 before the umbrella organisation launched its All About Giving site four months ago, and has now netted a further 300,000 for charities. The new site explains how donors can give to charities in a tax-efficient way and allows charities to sign up even if they don't have their own website.Charities add themselves to the online database and sign up to accept donations through CAF's CharityCard and Give As You Earn scheme.The head of new media at CAF, Sarah Hughes, said: "All About Giving enables donors to identify a particular charity, to learn more about its work and ultimately to make a donation. In turn, it allows charities to build close and more fruitful relationships with donors."Next Wednesday, charitybuyer goes live. It aims to be a one-stop shop detailing goods and services to the voluntary sector from telecoms to travel. The site allows users to exchange personal recommendations of good suppliers and give them a rating.Director of charitybuyer, Matthew Nimmo, said: "Charity staff are always under pressure to get three quotes for every purchase. Now they can find out which suppliers are recommended by other charities. Over time we will put pressure on businesses to provide better deals."Meanwhile, those who haven't achieved their new year's resolution of finding a job can click on to forum3, from February onwards, to search for a vacancy and learn about a charity recruitment event to be held in August this year.Hosted by Charity People, the recruitment fair will feature a keynote speaker, Meredith Belbin, who will talk about getting and keeping the right staff. Other seminars will cover career development, global opportunities and HR issues. If these are full, delegates will be able to attend "virtual seminars" through a cyber area.Charities with vacancies will be exhibiting at the event, so candidates can talk to potential employers, and some will be conducting interviews on the day.Whether its shopping, job hunting or giving - there is a site out there waiting for your clicks.
Imagine a world in which every business is responsible for its own telecommunications system. Not just for paying the bill, but for buying, installing, arranging a maintenance contract and operating the telephone systems. Add to this the notion that every company would have to take care of its own money; there would be no banks, just a mattress in the managing director's office into which numerous fivers would be sewn.The ideas sound ludicrous, yet this is exactly what the vast majority of companies do with their computer installations, which can be equally complex. It is into this space that the application service provider (ASP) has emerged. The idea is straightforward enough: the customer pays to have all of their applications and information on an ASP's system, which they access via the internet (see box below). It started in the corporate world but stalled somewhat, as Butler Group's director of research Mike Thompson explains: "We always said we didn't feel that size of organisation would be happy to have their applications and their data outside their direct control." In addition to this, although there are cost savings to be had from the ASP idea, most if not all blue-chip companies already had their IT under the management of in-house specialists.Clearly, the same was not true of small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). These organisations, previously denied the analytical power of such high-end offerings as Walker's financial systems, were suddenly able to rent time on these sorts of systems without having to buy the servers or configure the systems. Maybe it is a little odd, then, that the market still hasn't really taken off.There are a number of reasons for this, the first of which is likely to be the sheer conservatism of SME managers. In most cases an attempt at selling them the idea of farming their technology out to a third party will meet with a blank stare and a question as to why they should spend time and money fixing their systems when basically they work.There is also the issue of trust. "My advice to ASPs is to get some sturdy systems and service level agreements in place. The ones that do this have the upper hand as they're ensuring customers get value for money," says Simon Robinson, Europe, Middle East and Africa marketing manager at e-commerce infrastructure specialist NetIQ.Other companies - mostly ASPs themselves that have vested interests - have commissioned independent research on why the ASP model isn't capturing people's imagination. Interliant, for example, found five major reasons for using ASPs: the cost/headcount ratio improved; technical support was good; skill shortages were largely eliminated; implementation was fast, and the service level agreement - the document guaranteeing a certain standard of performance - was better than most internal IT departments could offer. The reasons people weren't using the services included already having a tailor-made system in place, already having the right skills in-house, and a feeling that the applications were already managed properly in-house. "What was most interesting from the research was the disparity between difficulties expected when using an ASP from those actually experienced," says David Yuile, Interliant UK managing director. "For example, while only 15% of respondents expected that there would 'no problems' at all if they used an ASP, an enormous 46% reported there actually being 'no problems' when they did use an ASP."Perceptions are not the only inhibitor. Everything an ASP does will be delivered via an internet connection, and in the UK a constant, reliable connection is not cheap - leased lines, which are among the most reliable forms of connection, start at 3,000 per annum, and it is worth repeating that ASPs at the moment are asking their customers to replace an internal system which is basically working.Nevertheless, many analysts believe ASPs will become increasingly important, and the market is already showing signs of segmenting to fuel that growth. International Data Corporation is forecasting an ASP market worth 480 million by 2004, and many large software companies are developing a strategy in which their products can be delivered in this way. Sean O'Reilly, vice-president of marketing for ASP Netstore, says: "The implementation of an ASP strategy by some of the world's largest software vendors - for example, Microsoft, Sun and Oracle - demonstrates that this software delivery method is increasingly seen as a business reality."The segmentation is evident in the emergence of the Internet Business Services initiative (IBSi). A spokeswoman explains: "The mission of the IBSi is to separate its members from 'traditional' ASPs, which it believes are simply retro-fitting expensive, cumbersome, packaged software for the internet as opposed to developing applications from the ground up for delivery over the web."Whatever the truth of this, ASPs are showing signs of growth in certain markets. John Wilmott, managing director of analyst NelsonHall, suggests the business hasn't grown as quickly as the early predictions had suggested. He points to the difficulties in offering a 'one-to-many' (one ASP host with many clients) service for businesses when they actually want a more tailored service. There are two areas in which he suggests there will be faster than average growth, though: "The best opportunities for one-to-many remain in areas close to the IT infrastructure such as traditional ISP services, back-ups and so on," he says. "Start-ups are more likely to buy ASP services than established organisations since they require cost-effective speed to market and have less of a business process history."The idea of importing a specialist to handle complex technical problems must- as long as it is done right - ultimately make sense. The difficulty facing ASPs is to persuade a market used to hype and hollow acronyms that they can offer a service of genuine value.What is an ASP?An application service provider (ASP) will tell you the service they offer is brand new, but this is not absolutely true. We've been here before, from 1960s-style 'bureaux' to 'outsourcing partners' with high-flying corporate clients. In many ways there is little difference between outsourcing - in which a company pays an independent company to send staff to install, maintain and manage systems and remain on site in lieu of support staff - and an ASP. The key difference is that the ASP's work takes place on its own site.An ASP at its most basic is an organisation that rents space on its computer systems, into which customers can dial and access their applications - everything from a word processor to a complex suite of financial applications can be run independently through a web browser.There are many advantages in this. Smaller businesses have access to business tools they would otherwise not have. Lotus Notes, hitherto aimed  at the corporate environment, requires dedicated  computers called servers to run and staff dedicated to its management.The financial outlay required  is reduced because the ASP will be handling more than one company's systems. Fewer software licences are needed because users will only dial into, for example,  the accounting system when they need it rather than running effectively redundant copies on different workstations.Many software systems companies have responded  to the emergence of ASPs  by offering cut-down  versions of their systems. Enterprise resource  planning organisations - the likes of SAP, which  makes an integrated manufacturing, distribution and financial application - typically took months if not years to configure their systems correctly. Now, elements of it can be rented from an ASP with vastly reduced set-up time and costs.The idea also carries a number of negative points, though more psychological than technical and involving the security of an ASP's system and the soundness  of the ASP's business. Most small businesses  regard their customer  data as their main asset and the idea of storing that information on someone else's computer can be problematic. Many analysts are convinced the advantages outweigh the drawbacks  and the business as a concept will succeed. However, John Serle, chair of the Society of IT Management's best practice committee, remains unconvinced. "The problem before with the model was that providers relied on a return on investment period that proved unrealistic. In today's volatile IT market this is likely to be even more of a challenge," he says.EquIP gets back to basicsEquIP was established last year to supply internet infrastructure products, usually through channel partners. When the company was set up it intended to sell to application service providers (ASPs) as well as other organisations. For consistency, therefore, it elected to farm all its computer applications and infrastructure out to London-based ASP Pasporte.The impetus to use an ASP came partly from the need to save money but also to prevent problems arising when the company needed to grow - if someone else was responsible for networking and other technical infrastructure as the company grew, the company itself could concentrate on its core business.Joint managing director  Neil Ledger says EquIP has been delighted with the results so far. "The financial director in particular is pleased because we're using systems we couldn't have had otherwise," he says. The complete system includes a Sage accountancy system, Business Objects intelligence software and Lotus Notes Domino for messaging and web services. Pasporte installed the systems over a weekend and includedremote diagnostic and monitoring tools so that if a problem arises it can be fixed without a site visit wherever possible, taking the maintenance task away from EquIP altogether.Security and constant availability are crucial in an agreement like this, so one of the first things EquIP did was to inspect Pasporte's equipment; as a company with a background it knew what to look for to gain reassurance. The other issue the company considered important was the paperwork. "We have a written service level agreement," says Ledger. This outlines how the service works and what the compensation will be if it fails.The end result is that EquIP has the use of systems that would normally be associated with far larger businesses, with none of the expense or time of maintaining and upgrading it. The costs are per user and per month, so the charges will be entirely predictable.
Imagine a world in which every business is responsible for its own telecommunications system. Not just for paying the bill, but for buying, installing, arranging a maintenance contract and operating the telephone systems. Add to this the notion that every company would have to take care of its own money; there would be no banks, just a mattress in the managing director's office into which numerous fivers would be sewn.The ideas sound ludicrous, yet this is exactly what the vast majority of companies do with their computer installations, which can be equally complex. It is into this space that the application service provider (ASP) has emerged. The idea is straightforward enough: the customer pays to have all of their applications and information on an ASP's system, which they access via the internet (see box below). It started in the corporate world but stalled somewhat, as Butler Group's director of research Mike Thompson explains: "We always said we didn't feel that size of organisation would be happy to have their applications and their data outside their direct control." In addition to this, although there are cost savings to be had from the ASP idea, most if not all blue-chip companies already had their IT under the management of in-house specialists.Clearly, the same was not true of small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). These organisations, previously denied the analytical power of such high-end offerings as Walker's financial systems, were suddenly able to rent time on these sorts of systems without having to buy the servers or configure the systems. Maybe it is a little odd, then, that the market still hasn't really taken off.There are a number of reasons for this, the first of which is likely to be the sheer conservatism of SME managers. In most cases an attempt at selling them the idea of farming their technology out to a third party will meet with a blank stare and a question as to why they should spend time and money fixing their systems when basically they work.There is also the issue of trust. "My advice to ASPs is to get some sturdy systems and service level agreements in place. The ones that do this have the upper hand as they're ensuring customers get value for money," says Simon Robinson, Europe, Middle East and Africa marketing manager at e-commerce infrastructure specialist NetIQ.Other companies - mostly ASPs themselves that have vested interests - have commissioned independent research on why the ASP model isn't capturing people's imagination. Interliant, for example, found five major reasons for using ASPs: the cost/headcount ratio improved; technical support was good; skill shortages were largely eliminated; implementation was fast, and the service level agreement - the document guaranteeing a certain standard of performance - was better than most internal IT departments could offer. The reasons people weren't using the services included already having a tailor-made system in place, already having the right skills in-house, and a feeling that the applications were already managed properly in-house. "What was most interesting from the research was the disparity between difficulties expected when using an ASP from those actually experienced," says David Yuile, Interliant UK managing director. "For example, while only 15% of respondents expected that there would 'no problems' at all if they used an ASP, an enormous 46% reported there actually being 'no problems' when they did use an ASP."Perceptions are not the only inhibitor. Everything an ASP does will be delivered via an internet connection, and in the UK a constant, reliable connection is not cheap - leased lines, which are among the most reliable forms of connection, start at 3,000 per annum, and it is worth repeating that ASPs at the moment are asking their customers to replace an internal system which is basically working.Nevertheless, many analysts believe ASPs will become increasingly important, and the market is already showing signs of segmenting to fuel that growth. International Data Corporation is forecasting an ASP market worth 480 million by 2004, and many large software companies are developing a strategy in which their products can be delivered in this way. Sean O'Reilly, vice-president of marketing for ASP Netstore, says: "The implementation of an ASP strategy by some of the world's largest software vendors - for example, Microsoft, Sun and Oracle - demonstrates that this software delivery method is increasingly seen as a business reality."The segmentation is evident in the emergence of the Internet Business Services initiative (IBSi). A spokeswoman explains: "The mission of the IBSi is to separate its members from 'traditional' ASPs, which it believes are simply retro-fitting expensive, cumbersome, packaged software for the internet as opposed to developing applications from the ground up for delivery over the web."Whatever the truth of this, ASPs are showing signs of growth in certain markets. John Wilmott, managing director of analyst NelsonHall, suggests the business hasn't grown as quickly as the early predictions had suggested. He points to the difficulties in offering a 'one-to-many' (one ASP host with many clients) service for businesses when they actually want a more tailored service. There are two areas in which he suggests there will be faster than average growth, though: "The best opportunities for one-to-many remain in areas close to the IT infrastructure such as traditional ISP services, back-ups and so on," he says. "Start-ups are more likely to buy ASP services than established organisations since they require cost-effective speed to market and have less of a business process history."The idea of importing a specialist to handle complex technical problems must- as long as it is done right - ultimately make sense. The difficulty facing ASPs is to persuade a market used to hype and hollow acronyms that they can offer a service of genuine value.What is an ASP?An application service provider (ASP) will tell you the service they offer is brand new, but this is not absolutely true. We've been here before, from 1960s-style 'bureaux' to 'outsourcing partners' with high-flying corporate clients. In many ways there is little difference between outsourcing - in which a company pays an independent company to send staff to install, maintain and manage systems and remain on site in lieu of support staff - and an ASP. The key difference is that the ASP's work takes place on its own site.An ASP at its most basic is an organisation that rents space on its computer systems, into which customers can dial and access their applications - everything from a word processor to a complex suite of financial applications can be run independently through a web browser.There are many advantages in this. Smaller businesses have access to business tools they would otherwise not have. Lotus Notes, hitherto aimed  at the corporate environment, requires dedicated  computers called servers to run and staff dedicated to its management.The financial outlay required  is reduced because the ASP will be handling more than one company's systems. Fewer software licences are needed because users will only dial into, for example,  the accounting system when they need it rather than running effectively redundant copies on different workstations.Many software systems companies have responded  to the emergence of ASPs  by offering cut-down  versions of their systems. Enterprise resource  planning organisations - the likes of SAP, which  makes an integrated manufacturing, distribution and financial application - typically took months if not years to configure their systems correctly. Now, elements of it can be rented from an ASP with vastly reduced set-up time and costs.The idea also carries a number of negative points, though more psychological than technical and involving the security of an ASP's system and the soundness  of the ASP's business. Most small businesses  regard their customer  data as their main asset and the idea of storing that information on someone else's computer can be problematic. Many analysts are convinced the advantages outweigh the drawbacks  and the business as a concept will succeed. However, John Serle, chair of the Society of IT Management's best practice committee, remains unconvinced. "The problem before with the model was that providers relied on a return on investment period that proved unrealistic. In today's volatile IT market this is likely to be even more of a challenge," he says.EquIP gets back to basicsEquIP was established last year to supply internet infrastructure products, usually through channel partners. When the company was set up it intended to sell to application service providers (ASPs) as well as other organisations. For consistency, therefore, it elected to farm all its computer applications and infrastructure out to London-based ASP Pasporte.The impetus to use an ASP came partly from the need to save money but also to prevent problems arising when the company needed to grow - if someone else was responsible for networking and other technical infrastructure as the company grew, the company itself could concentrate on its core business.Joint managing director  Neil Ledger says EquIP has been delighted with the results so far. "The financial director in particular is pleased because we're using systems we couldn't have had otherwise," he says. The complete system includes a Sage accountancy system, Business Objects intelligence software and Lotus Notes Domino for messaging and web services. Pasporte installed the systems over a weekend and includedremote diagnostic and monitoring tools so that if a problem arises it can be fixed without a site visit wherever possible, taking the maintenance task away from EquIP altogether.Security and constant availability are crucial in an agreement like this, so one of the first things EquIP did was to inspect Pasporte's equipment; as a company with a background it knew what to look for to gain reassurance. The other issue the company considered important was the paperwork. "We have a written service level agreement," says Ledger. This outlines how the service works and what the compensation will be if it fails.The end result is that EquIP has the use of systems that would normally be associated with far larger businesses, with none of the expense or time of maintaining and upgrading it. The costs are per user and per month, so the charges will be entirely predictable.
Amazon.com, the leading online retailer, is expected to announce imminently a cost-cutting plan which could involve significant job losses.Rumours that Amazon would cut as many as 20% of its 9,000-strong worldwide workforce have spread through the company's Seattle headquarters and internet chatrooms in the past few days.Few analysts expect the cuts to be as deep as feared, however. The company sacked 150 people a year ago, its first ever round of job cuts.Bill Curry, a spokesman for Amazon, declined to comment before the release of fourth-quarter results last night. "We never respond to rumours about what may or may not happen," he said. The company demanded that one newswire retract a story that it had denied the job cuts.Several Wall Street analysts expected the company to announce cost-cutting measures at the same time as lower revenues for the current year. Jeetil Patel, of Deutsche Bank Alex Brown, said Amazon needed to cut operating expenses to reach profitability by 2002. "The deeper the operat ing expense reductions, the better they will be regarded by Wall Street," he said.Amazon could also cut certain product lines and close some of its eight distribution facilities in the US, he said. However, such retrenchment would represent a significant shift from the company's much-vaunted business model, which reinvests any funding in further expansion.The job cuts, if announced, are expected to focus on distribution centres in the US as well as other back-office functions. Tim Albright, analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said: "There are a lot of temporary employees whose jobs won't be around in the next six months."Since the 150 job cuts a year ago, Amazon has reorganised one distribution centre by relocating most of the staff. Several customer service representatives have begun a drive to unionise the company.The pressure to cut costs reflects the fact that most analysts expect Amazon's 2001 sales to be lower than the $4bn (&#163;2.74bn) they envisaged three months ago. Some analysts have reduced this year's revenue forecasts to between $3.6bn and $3.8bn amid signs of an economic slowdown.
The memoirs of former MI6 agent Richard Tomlinson were today released for the first time in Britain after a failed attempt to stop their publication.More than 1,500 copies of the book The Big Breach were last night flown into the country from Russia by online information company 192.com, which claimed to be "defenders of the right to freedom of information".Only 10,000 copies of the book have been printed by unknown Russian publishing house Narodny Variant. In a special arrangement with the publishers, 192.com said it had secured 5,000 copies for the British public.Tomlinson, who worked for MI6 between 1991 to 1995, was jailed in 1997 for breaching the Official Secrets Act and now lives in Italy.He reveals how the British intelligence services perfected a means of invisible writing using a humble Pentel pen.British authorities have already attempted to stop publication of Tomlinson's revelations in a series of extracts in the Sunday Times.But last week the Court of Appeal ruled that once the book was in the public domain, it could be made available in the UK.Nuala Whelan, sales and marketing director for 192.com, said the company was committed to promoting the freedom of information and access to all data.It has already been criticised by privacy campaigners for making it possible to find the home address of anyone registered to vote in Britain.Ms Whelan said: "It is not that we are supporting the publication of secrets from Russia, but the book has been published."If the information is available to people in Russia, it should also be available to the British."Allegations have been made by the prominent Soviet defector, Oleg Gordievsky, a former high-ranking KGB officer, that the Russian secret service has doctored the memoirs in an attempt to undermine the British secret service.But 192.com issued a qualification with each copy of the new book stating that it made no  judgment on its merits or authenticity.It warned that the book was published in Russia "in circumstances which seem as much  cloak-and-dagger as the story itself"."We make no judgment on the merits of this book or the authenticity of the whole. Whatever the circumstances surrounding its publication, the result has certainly been to leave MI6 powerless to prevent its entering the public domain, and doubtless the KGB - or their successors in the now named SSB - regard that as one in the eye for the British secret service."John Wadham, director of civil rights group Liberty, said: "It can't be right for the Russian people to be able to read about the escapades of the MI6, but for the people of this country - whose taxes pay for the MI6 - to be unable to read the same information."Related special reports:Net newsSpecial report: freedom of informationRelated articles:Net notes: The Big BreachComment: pinkos and patriotsUseful links:192.com: the Big BreachPublishers' website
Napster, the controversial online music exchange service, is to charge its users for the first time this summer.Yesterday German music publisher Bertelsmann, which shocked rivals last year by breaking ranks and teaming up with Napster, said it was preparing to introduce a subscription-based music download service over the internet, using Napster software."I'm convinced we can introduce in June or July of this year a subscription model, with a real working digital rights management system," Thomas Middelhoff, Bertelsmann chief executive, said at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Until now Napster's 57m users worldwide have been able to swap files over the internet free of charge. This has lead to music publishers, including Bertelsmann, suing   the company for breach of copyright.As part of the cooperation deal with Napster, Bertelsmann dropped its lawsuit although others are still outstanding.News of the subscription deal had a sceptical reaction from other panelists at the Davos forum, including Sony chairman Nobuyuki Idei and Jean-Marie Messier of Vivendi-Universal, who own rival music companies. How ever, Mr Middelhoff said he was confident that a variety of subscription services would work.Bertelsmann claimed there were signs that the music industry was preparing to move to the "new business models" advocated by Mr Middelhoff with the advent of the internet.The head of the company's e-commerce unit, Andreas Schmidt, said Bertelsmann was in talks with other music companies, and some could   join the Bertelsmann-Napster service within a matter of weeks.Market research among 20,000 Napster users clearly indicated that they were willing to pay for the service, and there were prospects for paid file-sharing involving other types of entertainment."File sharing is not just about music, it is also about movies and entertainment," Mr Middelhoff said. He compared it with the survival of subscrip tion-based internet services, such asAOL, which had not suffered despite the emergence of free internet access.Mr Middelhoff justified the decision last year to enter into a cooperation agreement with Napster by suggesting that legal moves against the service would not have succeeded."The publishers threatened to sue, but you can't sue 100m customers, because at the same time they are heavy buyers of music." The deal he   struck with Napster was meant to protect copyrights.Mr Middelhoff estimated that he would need only a fraction of Napster's users to subscribe to make the service worthwhile.However, the deal continues to earn Mr Middelhoff criticism from those who do not share his vision of online subscription sales. Last November, two senior executives at BMG, Michael Dornemann and Strauss Zelnick, walked   out days after Mr Middelhoff announced the Napster deal.Others within the industry have described his breathtaking volte face as typical of Mr Middelhoff's flamboyant style and have suggested the poor quality of Napster's downloads will not justify charging for them.Napster chief executive Hank Barry has denied the charge, saying the service was already acceptable to a large number of people.
Even the free gift of hi-tech wireless "personal assistants" failed to lift the gloom from the gathering of technology business leaders at the World Economic Forum.Past years' enthusiasim for gadgets and gizmos was off the agenda at Davos, replaced this time by sober talk of "sustainable business models", reflecting the unease being felt from the tumbling value of technology stocks over the past year.As well as falling stock prices, participants voiced their fears at the advance of the internet's "second wave," shaped by file-sharing applications such asNapster, allowing users to swap music and thereby avoid copyright payments - a model that could be extended to films and books in   digital form. The trepidation was summed up by Nobuyuki Idei, the chief executive of Sony: "The internet is a kind of power shift," he said. "Now the consumer has more power than the company."This, he said, has created a problem - how can the company be sustained in the new environment?Only Tim Koogle, chief executive ofYahoo!, one of the more profitable internet companies, managed to present a brave face. While he admitted that his company may not continue to generate revenues of $1.1bn with a 30% profit margin, Mr Koogle felt he could manage with less. "I am confident because we have an established platform," he said.His advice for start-ups is not only to "find ways to do it in ways that others can't do it for some time", but also to make sure that innovators quickly find a way to avoid relying on borrowed capital to reach profitability.Consumers were expected to be at the centre of the unfolding new wave, rather than the technology itself.But with the exception of direct sales by established brands - such as online tickets from airlines - internet e-commerce was out of favour in Davos, mainly because it has turned out to be more expensive than people had thought."The dot.coms failed because they ultimately had nothing tangible of their own to offer consumers - they had no assets and thus no profits," Oriet Gadiesh, a US-based business analysts told the assembled executives.After the issues of business to business, or B2B, and business to consumers, or B2C, the talk was of what James Kelley, the chief executive of United Parcel Services, described as "B2Me"."We see a time when we can get merchandise to our customers any time and any how, and the internet has to help us do that," Mr Kelley said.That process may be helped by convergence - the only durable techno buzzword to emerge from the gloom."The PC-centric world is definitely dead. The multi-access world is here," insisted Jean-Marie Messier, the chief executive of media and entertainments corportationVivendi.That means wireless mobile devices - combining features of the internet, mobile phones and personal organisers - at   connection speeds 40 times faster than in use at present, over a network seamlessly operating between work and home.But Microsoft co-founder - and Davos regular - Bill Gates remained a staunch defender of the old order based around the PC.Mr Gates told the forum that the flexibility of the PC made possible the Napster phenomenon of "peer to peer" communication. Enthusing about the "explosion" of young people using PCs, Gates pointed out that the necessary software for Napster came from a previously unknown developer, and could be adopted so quickly because of the widespread availability and flexibility of the standard PC.However, there were signs that a large proportion of the world's populations will not have access to the internet's first wave, let alone its second.The Davos elite made few steps in the direction of one of the forum's slogans: Bridging the Digital Divide."We have spoken a lot about it, but we have not yet reached the point where we have acted against the digital divide," Vivendi's Mr Messier admitted.Few of his colleagues attempted to answer a Nigerian delegate who asked for less complex software that was better adapted for the needs of small businesses located in developing countries with access to computers.Privately, executives felt there would be little bridge building from their side because of the economic slowdown.With the internet established as a powerful tool, only about half the world's population has access to the electricity and phone lines necessary to enable them to adapt the technology.Only a week before the forum started in Davos, the International Labour Organisation estimated that up to a third of the world's population was "technologically disconnected" - and that less than 5% used the internet.The digital divide, the ILO's employment report found, also exists within developing nations, with access to technology being more common among the young, urban males who have high levels of income and education.A similar divide was also evident at Davos. A spontaneous poll among the audience about the value of their wireless freebie, which tapped into the forum's computer information system, saw lots of hands go up when asked if it was useful. A few thought it was fun. But only one person claimed to understand how to use the device properly.
It is the ancestral cry of politics. Something must be done! And thus our jumpy leaders spring into action - cancelling their last announcement or, in the case of MMR immunisation, spending an extra &#163;3m to defend it. But what if - as so often in life, and even more frequently on the internet - there is nothing sensible to be done?We can talk child pornography and adoption and the killers of James Bulger in a moment, though. This story begins almost six years ago when Steven Gan, an investigative reporter for the Sun, a Malaysian paper, wrote an expos&eacute; of the evil conditions at Semenyih immigration detention camp in Selangor. Evil? Try brutality and squalor and rampant sickness - like typhoid - behind closed doors. Try 59 seekers of asylum dying in secret, unmourned and unmarked. Even Ann Widdecombe would find that a scandal.But Gan's story wasn't published. The Malaysian press is not free. It exists, amid some chafing misery, in the long, dark shadow of prime minister Mahathir Mohamad. Instead, in the end, Gan turned over his findings to a battling women's rights activist, Irene Fernandez, and she distributed the Semenyih dossiers at one of her rallies. At least, then, a tale that had to be told began to break surface.What happened next? Irene Fernandez was charged with "criminal defamation". Her trial - already the longest in Malaysian history- still continues. Translators for Bangladeshi defence witnesses from the camp seem to be in amazingly short supply. There have been 47 adjournments - yes, count them, 47 - for lack of a translator. And curiously, when one is available (as last week), the witness himself goes missing. If this shambles ever ends, Fernandez faces three years in prison.And Steven Gan? He had his farcical moment earlier: arrested, locked up, an Amnesty prisoner of conscience. But then he went on, just over a year ago, to found malayasiakini.com. You, like millions of Malaysians, can find it easily enough on the net. It is a paperless newspaper - and yesterday it won the Media Pioneer award (for valour) presented every year by the International Press Institute and Freedom Forum.The wonder of malayasiakini is how straightforward and solid it is. No hysteria, no vituperation: Gan and a dedicated team of professionals believe in news you can trust and measured comment. Their strength is that they cover the things the country's print papers have to bury or set to one side: the appointment of grotesquely unsuitable judges, the views of the opposition, the illness of Anwar Ibrahim, the ordeal   of Irene Fernandez. They are measured and responsible: they are also virtually alone, the carriers of a torch.Why, you may wonder, doesn't Dr Mahathir do to them what he's done to Malaysia's conventional press? License it, with licences which can be (and are) summarily withdrawn? Or find a way, through party backwaters, of owning the journals which are supposed to call him to account? Here's the unique strength of the internet.A country like Malaysia, which has to be open for business, must also be open to the net. You can't have one without the other. Shut down or censor or try to block, and business gets a dire message. Opting out of the world wide web is opting out of your country's future. That is a step too far for Mahathir. He must grin and bear at least one outlet he can't control or intimidate.I could replicate the essential story of malasiakini.com many times over. The web site of the Mail and Guardian in Johannesburg (which this paper owns) has its own proud record for bringing news to the countries north of South Africa where a free press perennially struggles to survive. Later today (when I log on again) I'll find emails from all over the world from distant readers of Guardian Unlimited. There's a power here which is an immense force for good. It makes us one world not merely in the flashing of share prices and bid offers, but in the challenging of oppression and the exposure of devious dictatorship.But blessings, of course, are rarely unmitigated. Look at the headlines of the past few days. Police break up a (global) child pornography ring which grew on the net. The Kilshaws found their babies on the net. And something must be done. Ministers chafe and mutter, then duly warn web service providers that they face prosecution (under a 1971 act). Leave adoption to local authorities. Chris Smith's proposed Ofcom, most amorphous of future regulators, will have more of an e-role. We await, without eagerness, the first website to reveal the new identities and whereabouts of Venables and Thompson, who murdered James Bulger.Here, though, is the rub. Just like Dr Mahathir, we can't have one thing without the other. There's no choosing the good things about the net and conveniently banning the things we find bad. It is what is. Seek to constrict, to limit here or censor there, and the force is no longer with it. Imagine, as the line of principle bends and breaks, how Malaysia - and so many other dusty regimes - will rejoice. Imagine what will happen to Steven Gan and Irene   Fernandez and the inmates of the camps.Do we shoot the messenger? That's the easy bit for politicians - though child porn and foreign adoption agencies can arrive by fax or phone or stamped, addressed envelope. But some of the choices are truly hard. I agree with Judge Elizabeth Butler Sloss that Venables and Thompson should be left alone to find a new life; I don't want vengeful mobs or crowds of reporters on their doorsteps. But how do you wrap them in a permanent blanket of silence? How do you seal them off for ever from the world? Judges may order these thing with the full authority of the law, yet they are still, coldly considered, impossible to sustain. These orders cannot hold through a lifetime. Some flickering screen, one day, will blow them to smithereens. And what do we do then?You need no gift of prophesy. Something will have to be done! And it won't necessarily be the politicians of the right who clamour loudest for action. That could just as easily come from the centre or left, making a case that Guardian readers can embrace. Tony Blair and Charlie Kennedy are always keen on doing something. They will have the best of short-term justifications and nobody will say a prayer for the long-term, nobody will remember that "good" interference - in logic and reality - admits the possibility of bad interference as well.Try to remember Steven Gan when that moment comes. Try to remember what he, and we, have to lose. Try to remember the nature of freedom - and the times when something mustn't be done.peter.preston@guardian.co.uk
Three stretches of the Australian outback will soon resound to the thunder of horses and the scamper of greyhounds racing through the night on racecourses uniquely dedicated to internet betting.Punters will not be allowed at the trackside of the remote strips, now being built at Waikerie, Millicent and Port Augusta, in South Australia. The horse and greyhound races will be held under floodlights in front of television cameras beaming the late-night action live over the internet, just in time for British gamblers to place an early morning wager.The A$30m (&#163;11m) scheme is the brainwave of John Hodgman, who became frustrated   by the TV coverage of racing while working in sports television production five years ago.His company, Teletrak, will stage races on straight courses, enabling the overhead and trackside cameras to stay much closer to the action than they can during public races on circular tracks.The company says the darkness will produce close-up images ideal for digital com pression and live transmission on the net. The time difference means the races will reach Europe in the morning, when there is currently little live race action to bet on.The South Australian government approved the development last month, and contractors have just finished the earth-moving stage for a 700m dog track and a 1,600m trotting track at Waikerie.Teletrak plans to hold the first greyhound and trotting races - in which horses pull light carts - by the end of the year. Thoroughbred races will start shortly afterwards."It won't be so much like the charge of the light brigade, more like drag racing," Richard Law, Teletrak's South Australian development manager, told the newspaper the Australian.Three Australian states refused to have the sites, and the South Australian Democrats led opposition to the scheme in parliament."We've had a dramatic expansion of gambling opportunity within South Australia, with no real government responsibility for the consequences of that," their parliamentary leader, Mike Elliott, said.Although local people will not be able to watch the races at the tracks, the greyhound and trotting races will "create an enormous local attraction" and encourage more gambling in the state, he said.The meetings are just the latest in a long tradition of wacky races in a country renowned for its love of sports betting. Australia's 16-track camel racing circuit is thriving: the prizemoney for the races, including the Arab Emirates-funded Sheikh Zayed Cup in Sydney, is worth more than A$100,000 (&#163;37,000).Cane toad contests are big business in north Queensland, where the giant toads are painted and raced. There is a regular lizard race in south Queensland, and Derby, in Western Australia, holds an annual cockroach race.
Children should take a "surfing proficiency test" at 11 to allow them a freer ride on the information superhighway, a leading thinktank said today.Students who passed should be allowed less restricted access to the internet than schools presently allowed, according to a report by the Institute of Public Policy Research.Damien Tambini, a research fellow at IPPR, said the test would help students learn "how to respond to meeting strangers in chat rooms and how to get the most out of the net". Pupils could take an exam after a one week course in the summer holidays, just like the cycling proficiency test."We want to stress that it is not a completely negative test - it would also be about making sure that children are aware of what they can find in positive terms," said Mr Tambini. "For example, information that could help them with their schoolwork. At present, they are not learning this in their classes - school computers filter out too much information."He said parents had too little awareness of their responsibilities for child's computer use. In 1999, only 18% of internet users had heard of the Internet Watch Foundation, which is responsible for internet regulation.The government should also have tough penalties for internet porn barons who deliberately target children, Mr Tambini argued.The call came in Communications: Revolution and Reform, which has a preface by the culture secretary, Chris Smith. The IPPR has close links with Labour.The idea received a sceptical response from John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association.Dr Dunford said: "A proficiency test as a passport for unsupervised use of the internet would simply give &#91;children&#93; even more knowledge of how to find sites that they shouldn't be seeing."
