VOLVO V50 1.6 DRIVE£22,095MILES PER GALLON: 72.4CO2PER KM: 104 GRAMSGOOD FOR: THE QUICKBAD FOR: THE DEADThere's a little bit of Volvo in every car on the road, from the lowly three-wheel Reliant to the mighty 12-cylinder Rolls-Royce Phantom. Care to hazard a guess what it is? Nope. Me neither. It is, in fact, the seat belt. It is half a century since Volvo invented it, and since then it has been credited with saving the lives of at least a million people. Even with the advent of airbags and advanced braking systems, it is still the most important safety device in every car – and each year at least 20,000 certain fatalities live to tell that tale. Add to that figure the number spared serious injury and you realise the magnitude of the debt we owe Volvo.The engineer who invented the device was Nils Bohlin – he died, peacefully, in 2002. He'd actually been working in Saab's aviation division at the time, developing the catapult ejector seat, when Volvo approached him to create a safety device for its cars.Today, belting up for a journey is as much part of driving a car as starting the engine. But in the 1950s, despite the increasing number of road deaths, there was little attention paid to the notion of safety. One leaflet advised motorists in the case of a collision to "slide on to the floor and crouch with arms between head and instrument panel". Bohlin wanted a device that was easy to use, could be put on with one hand, was comfortable, and protected both the upper and lower parts of the body. Experiments showed that simple lap straps were almost as dangerous as wearing no belt at all and led to terrible head injuries – though they did at least stop drivers from falling out of somersaulting sports cars. By 1958 he'd perfected his "three-point V design" and the word began to spread. The honour of being the first car to have the seat belt fitted as standard went to Volvo's Amazon 120. However, in an act of heartwarming philanthropy, the Swedish car maker was so convinced of the seat belt's potential it left the patent open so that other manufacturers could install it in their cars, too, and motorists the world over could benefit.But it hasn't stopped there. A crash still represents a colossal risk, so Volvo's stated aim is to build cars which simply do not crash. To this end, it's created a raft of devices, both passive and active, to reduce the chance of a crash. Human error means that whenever a person is at the wheel, there will be the possibility of a collision. You might feel there are some drivers on the road where it is not only more likely but a certainty! Therefore Volvo has taken the matter out of our hands. The latest generation of collision-warning and pedestrian-detection systems (7,000 fatal "walkouts" occur in Europe each year) mean your car will not only alert you to the fact that you are about to crash, but if you do not respond will hit the brakes for you. If you are drunk when you get in, its Alcoguard breath detector will turn off the engine.I managed to get through my test week in one of Volvo's new eco-friendly V50s without crashing once. Luck was clearly on my side. But in the next generation of Volvos it won't matter whose side the luck is on…★martin.love@observer.co.uk
The Selvedge YardNostalgia ain't what it used to be, but with Mad Men at the forefront of retro pop culture, we appear to be entering a time when the past is regarded as cool rather than something to poke our mocking sticks at. Here, the emphasis is on collections of black and white and early colour photographs, which are accompanied by essays that sidestep the usual Wikipedia cribbed information in favour of personal thoughts. The range of topics stretches from snaps of Bob Marley playing football to Indian motorcycles to histories of denim, tattoos and the Clash's sartorial choices, the only common denominator being that it interests the author, Jon Patrick.Global Poetry SystemAttempting to make us realise that poetry is a much bigger part of the fabric of our everyday lives than we may at first imagine, the idea behind Global Poetry System is for us to identify verse in the most ordinary of places. Once we've spotted some, or made up our own – be it graffiti, birthday card verse, graveyard epitaphs or poetry that doesn't realise it's poetry – the masterplan is to give it a location and upload a video, photo or audio file to the site's Google Map. There's also a monthly theme to sharpen our poetic eye; the current one asks us to find poetry inspired by the work of pop artist Ed Ruscha (pictured).BLOG ROLL: DRAWNKatsuro by Boey. Photograph: BoeyBoeySensational black and white drawings – and the brilliant stories behind – drawn on humble polystyrene cups.Urban SketchersNetwork of artists who draw the cities where they live and places they travel to, from tube trains to refugee camps.Doodlers AnonymousCelebrating the art created by doodling on a Post-It note while on the phone to someone boring.DrawnCollaborative blog of creative ideas for illustrators and graphic artists – full of inspiring art and excellent links.yay!everydayA daily blast of artworks that click through to the strange and wonderful.Gaping VoidCartoons and lovely thoughts drawn on the back of business cards.Bad Spock DrawingsProject that asks artists to draw bad pictures of Star Trek's sexy Vulcan.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEKIn the teeth of danger, the implacable foe is defeatedHow tobrush your teeth like a spartan.A briefhistory of lesbian moments in music videos.Don't havesex with Nick Cave.The 50most interesting articles on Wikipedia.What happenednext in Up.The greatesttrainers ever.Don't playthe saxophone. Let it play you.How tosearch for four things at once.Not tocycle naked or while holding an umbrella.How theH1N1 vaccine is made.
Left 4 Dead 2, PC, Xbox 360You're one of four survivors of the zombie apocalypse whose job it is to thread your way through scenery and the onrushing horde of angry, hungry undead in search of safe rooms and eventually the helicopter to freedom. Although you can play on your own, the full panoply of human frailty exposed by the dynamics of having three real companions is what this is all about; stealing health packs and hoarding explosive ammunition won't make you the first to be rescued when you accidentally startle a witch in the darkness. While the core concept remains unchanged, levels are significantly larger, zombies fall more easily to your guns and melee weapons like the sword and chainsaw are now far from a last resort and work beautifully for a bit of rotting crowd control. Once again, the game's AI "director" ensures no two play-throughs of a scenario are alike, making this at least as relentlessly entertaining as its older brother.Valve, £39.99-£49.99LEGO Indiana Jones 2: The Adventure Continues, Nintendo DS, Nintendo Wii, PC, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360 (reviewed)LEGO Indiana Jones 2: The Adventure ContinuesAlthough the last LEGO Indiana Jones game covered all four of the Raiders films in what felt like considerable detail, this one goes large on the Crystal Skull before dipping back into all three of its forebears for all new plastic heroics. Cute wordless plot expositions featuring LEGO-man re-imaginings of classic scenes return, along with the need to smash almost everything you can see into its component bricks. But the game's structure has changed considerably, now featuring large and fully interactive hub areas from which its levels are accessed. It's a system that doesn't entirely work, with new playable characters and levels often taking way too much aimless wandering to uncover; you'll also find some of its vehicular challenges tedious in the extreme. Add this to the sheer size of the game and LEGO Indiana Jones 2 is an epic that will take serious commitment to complete, especially for its intended rather junior audience.LucasArts, £29.99-£39.99Rogue Planet, iPhone, iPod TouchRogue PlanetWhen your ship returns to Earth after a 35-year expedition to find a planet devoid of human life, it's no relief to discover that the few inhabitants you do run across are, as usual, alien robots bent on your annihilation. This sets the scene for a turn-based strategy game borrowed wholesale from the wonderful Advance Wars, in which you position troops and vehicles for combat that at no point relies on either dexterity or reaction time. At £2.99 it's a premium iPhone game, which is reflected in its elegant artwork and lack of the endearing glitches familiar to anyone who loves freebie classic Tap Defence. It's far from perfect, though, with the self-destruct button positioned right next to the move button, leading to frequent and irritating accidental kamikaze moments, while the relatively slim variety of units sometimes results in stalemate. Still, it's hard to say no to a mini-Advance Wars fix for under a fiver that you can play on your iPod.Gameloft, £2.99
In an event branded "Game for Good", Activision are donating large sums of money to War Child, a charity that protects children in war zones, based on the numbers of people playing Modern Warfare 2 on Xbox Live this weekend.Activision have promised a minimum donation of £150k, with an additional £25k for every 100k players over 600k online over the weekend, up to a maximum of £250k. Game are also pitching in with wristbands and other gubbins, the proceeds from which will all go toWar Child.Cynically, it is possible to see this as a transparent marketing exercise - especially at a time when, followingthe MailandKeith Vaz MP's attacks on MW2, Activision are in need of a bit of positive PR. There is some irony, it must be said, in a charity for the child-victims of modern warfare benefiting from people playing a simulation of modern warfare.But in a way, there's a pleasing symmetry to the project. In any case, it feels a little unfair to be too hard on Activision, who are making a genuinely sizeable donation to a worthy cause. There are far worse ways of buying good PR, and they deserve their due.Ben Knowles, Music and Entertainment Director for War Child, says that the money will: "directly enable War Child to help thousands of children in the world's worst conflict-affected countries to rebuild their lives - reconstructing schools destroyed by war, reintegrating child soldiers with their families and getting children off the streets after war has forced them to leave home."David Tyler, Marketing Director for Activision UK &amp; Ireland, is calling this "the largest ever charitable initiative the British games industry has ever launched", and he's probably right. In this area the games industry is still lagging a long way behind the film industry, where large-scale charity fundraisers and high-profile campaign tie-ins are commonplace.At the risk of sounding worthy: if this represents a move toward a games industry with a greater awareness of social responsibility, then surely that's a good thing? If nothing else, surely such an industry would make it easier to argue with those like Keith Vaz, who see games like MW2 as  a "very dangerous and violent" influence on society as a whole (and on children especially), and little else.
Google is now rolling out a new feature, which it calls Translated Search. The Official Google Blog post,Searching the global web just got a little easier, says:Translated search is great because it helps you find information from sites written in other languages. We've offered this feature in Google Translate for a while, but now we're integrating it fully into Google search, making it easier for you to find and read results from pages across the web, even if they weren't written in a language you speak.It's not obvious. To use the feature, you have to click the "Show options…" link, then look at the bottom of the menu column for "Translated search". Which in my case I have not got.Google says: "You can display results for up to five languages at once and select from 51 languages to search."Google has also made it easier to translate words between multiple languages, though this feature is presented as a dictionary athttp://www.google.com/dictionary. If you're lucky with your look-up, this will give you a result from what seems to be an actual Google dictionary. In most of the cases I tried, however, the dictionary only offered "Web definitions" --  links to words looked up on a subset of web sites. You could do something like this yourself using Google Custom Search.Of course, if Google has a definition for a word, you were already able to get it on the main search page by clicking on the [definition] link, visible in lines such asResults 1 - 10 of about 29,300,000 for dictionary [definition]. (0.11 seconds)If the [definition] link isn't there, then you might as well go tohttp://dictionary.reference.com/and get a good quality result. If it is there, then clicking it takes you to http://www.google.com/dictionary anyway.So why didn't Google just buy a decent dictionary? It's not like they couldn't afford it, and Google's obviously not averse to buying companies: it's picked up dozens, including Blogger, YouTube, Picasa, Android, FeedBurner, Keyhole (Google Earth), Last (Google Sketchup), Applied Semantics (Google AdSense), Urchin (Google Analytics), JotSpot and Writely (Google Docs).Perhaps it will, one day. At the moment, however, the attraction ofGoogle.com/dictionary is that, as I said, it makes it easier to translate words between multiple languages. You can, for example, enter a word then chooseEnglish-FrenchorEnglish-Hindior whatever and get the equivalent. It's certainly worth bearing that in mind for the times you might need it.
You no doubt caught the announcement earlier this week that EA is set to reboot its Medal of Honor FPS series next year. Single player development duties are being handled by EALA (formerly DreamWorks Interactive), while EA DICE (of Battlefield fame) will be overseeing the multiplayer functionality. The big - though not entirely surprising news - is that the action will be moving forward to the modern day - Afghanistan to be exact. As the press release asserts:"[Medal of Honor] will introduce the Tier 1 Operator: a relatively unknown entity directly under the National Command Authority who takes on missions no one else can handle. The development team has been working closely with Tier 1 Operators from the US Special Operations Community since the earliest stages of development to create the most authentic modern war experience. Inspired by real events, Medal of Honor reveals the mission of today's most elite soldier – his will, his mindset and his uncompromising professionalism."Clearly then, EA has the obscenely successful Modern Warfare very much on its sights, and CEO John Riccitiello seems confident Infinity Ward's series can be 'brought down'...The irrepressible exec told Kotaku:"I'm not saying it's going to happen tomorrow, but in the way that Activision sort of alternates sequels of Modern Warfare and Call of Duty and owns the leadership position in FPS, between Medal of Honor and Battlefield, I want it back. And we're going to get there with innovation and quality."Hmm, fighting talk, although this was my favourite part quote:"I think the Infinity Ward guys are great. It's not about them being bad for us having to be great too. I'm a fan of a lot of our competitors' products. But if you've played Modern Warfare, and you've played the first one — and you've played the last Call of Duty — it's sort of starting to feel like they're making the same game again."So that's EA accusing another company of making the same game again. Let's just take a moment to let that sink in shall we?...Okay, we're back. So, can MoH beat CoD? Considering the victory of FIFA over PES anything is possible, and let's not forget that it was EALA's series that kicked off this whole dramatic battle zone FPS sub-genre in the first place. Since then however, the studio has been mostly busy on Boom Blox and Command and Conquer sequels, while Infinity Ward has dedicated itself to perfecting the genre.There are other questions too. Do we really need a game glorifying the allied war efforts in Afghanistan? Infinity War has always been careful to fictionalise its modern-day settings, and while this could be viewed as a something of a cop out, it's also a smart way of providing realistic combat situations and equipment without becoming mired in politics.Still, a pretender to the FPS crown can only be a good thing for us gamers - if Infinity Wardwastempted to settle into a nice cosy creative rut, EA has just made that a very bad idea indeed.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My handheld Bosch blender, which has made things in the kitchen faster, smoother and more delicious.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Every day for Nigela Lawson's "go get 'em" smoothie.What additional features would you add if you could?Nothing, really – possibly more attachments, like bigger and stronger blades for example.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?New and improved, but definitely not obsolete.What always frustrates you about technology in general?It can't tell you what's wrong with it when it breaks.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?A Sagem wireless box that would never connect – the little green lights would be in a perfectly straight line and then a moment later get muddled for no reason.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Enjoy what you have, figure out how to use all the features before you run out and buy the upgraded version and have to start all over again.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Neither, really. I have a blender and a great iPod – that's enough for me.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A state-of-the-art toaster, designed by the makers of Porsche cars. Never has bread been so great. It was a gift from my techno whizz-kid brother.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – user friendly and very good looking.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Buy! A CD of Spanish music from a music store in Barcelona.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Mmmmm, show me first!What piece of technology would you most like to own?An Apple Mac computer.•Jessica Hainesstars in Disgrace, now showing in UK cinemas
Here's a question that has bothered cultural commentators – and gamers - for the last thirty years. Can videogames be art? Of course, most of us blithely wave the matter away; 'they're just games,' we humph, before turning back to our controllers.But of course – the most profound new entertainment medium of the century can't be so easily dismissed – and as videogames deal in the same areas of aesthetics and representation as other audio visual media, it's impossible to say that games don't have artistic aims and merits. Hegel, one of the few modern philosophers to grapple extensively with the meaning of art, certainly would have seen videogames as an expression of the subjective spirit - and the worlds we see in games are certainly subjective. Miyamoto's Mushroom Kingdom is in no way an objective rendering of human life.But there have been famous detractors. Critic Jack Knoll once insisted in a Newsweek article that games, "can't transmit the emotional complexity that is the root of art." And film reviewer Roger Ebert prompted a flame war, when he declared that videogames could never be considered art,later explaining, "I am prepared to believe that video games can be elegant, subtle, sophisticated, challenging and visually wonderful. But I believe the nature of the medium prevents it from moving beyond craftsmanship to the stature of art."In reply, MIT professor and keen gamer Henry Jenkins has argued that games are, in fact, the artform of the digital age, and wrote an important piece entitledGames, The Lively Artexplaining his position. Horror writer and sometime game designer Clive Barker alsocountered the Ebert positionin a keynote at a Hollywood games convention. But regardless of high profile exponents, surely now it is difficult to look at games like Okami, Katamari Damacy or Shadow of the Colossus and not appreciate art in motion.The fact that a growing number of artists are turning to videogames as a form of expression also hints at the fact that these things are not just daft little diversions with no inherent aesthetic value. The likes ofRiley Harmon,Alison MealeyandWafaa Bilalhave all used videogame graphics, interfaces and/or tropes in their work, trading not only on the visual imagery and accepted conventions of games, but also their inherent meanings.Lisson Presents 7 exhibition. Arcagel's Photoshop piece is on the wall. In the foreground is Dan Graham's Model for Pavilion Influenced by Moon.One of the most widely recognised proponents of this emerging practice is New York-based artistCory Arcangel, who is currently curating a fascinating exhibition at London'sLisson Gallery. While studying music at the Oberlin Conservatory in the late-Nineties he joined an experimental programming collective namedBIEGEwhere he started hacking and altering games consoles like the Nintendo Entertainment System. From here he went on to create one of the most famed works of hack art –Super Mario Clouds(see above), a version of the legendary platformer in which all the graphics except the clouds have been removed."At the time I was thinking about the technical concerns, about getting in and hacking it myself – that was paramount," explains Cory as we wander around the Lisson exhibition, taking in his own latest works, as well as those of artists likeStephen WillatsandDaniel Buren. "I was using that game because it was cheap and it was the most recognisable. Why I picked the clouds and erased everything else? I have no concrete thoughts on that – I just knew to do it…"It's a weird thing to watch – some will see it as a situationist prank or a piece of digital Dadaism; gamers can get quite irate about it, with one YouTube comment stating, "Nice try Cory, but there are Propgrammers (sic) out there that actually program, not just erase what others have done. You're a joke". In some ways, though, it works simply as a deconstruction of videogame design - it makes you think about these background objects which usually pass by almost imperceptibly: what do they add to the experience? How important are they to the success of the games? Or maybe it's just a really relaxing, hypnotic animation. (His hack entitledF1 Racerachieves a similar effect by removing the cars from a racing simulation)In an office upstairs from the exhibition floor, Cory says he was interested in video artistBruce Naumanat the time, particularly hismeditation works, but stops short of calling it an influence. Looking back, he reckons what he was actually trying to do was create a meme, a cultural artifact that could be spread virally around the web. As Cory explains, "It was 2002, when the internet was just starting to blow up and you got these things emailed to you… I knew I wanted to participate in that, and at the time I was working with theContagious Media Groupwhich was an R&amp;D group sponsored byEyebeam. We were studying memes and viral marketing strategies, and through that I knew how to structure an idea that would then spread itself."I knew that the clouds would be simple enough for people to latch on to, and I knew that in order to make art that dealt with technology, you had to, in a way, have the art not directly be about specific technologies. I mean, we think everyone played Nintendo, but really, hardly anybody played Nintendo. Now looking back on it all – it's about… what do these pixelated clouds represent? It represents the whole progression of humans, communication and technology. But I couldn't write that down. And it became a meme slowly. I put it up and it took years for people to see it, but it worked…"In the same year he producedI Shot Andy Warhol, a hacked version of the NES light gun shooter Hogan's Alley in which the gangsters were replaced by blocky representations of Andy Warhol, while innocent bystanders were replaced by the pope, Flavor Flav, and Colonel Sanders. I ask what it's about. "It's not really about technology," he explains. "It's a meme again, well not a real meme… but the meme idea as it relates to the history of conceptual art…"His attention drifts to the laptop on which, bizarrely, we're scanning a website namedCute Overloadwhich has just featured Cory's workDrei Klavierstücke op. 11, a video of cats walking across piano keyboards which has been edited so that they play Arnold Schoenberg's piece of the same name. It got 50,000 hits over a couple of days and he's extremely proud of another successful infiltration of web culture. "What I do on the internet, it's like if I can figure that out I've figured everything else out. The internet represents all culture at this point, and how you put your work on the internet could be a reflection of how you feel about all contexts, all creative expression"When he was a kid, Cory's family first owned a Commodore 64, but he was too young to take notice. Later, they got an Apple IIGS and, through games like Bard's Tale and Sim City 2000, he was hooked. "I hit pretty hard on it," he says. "I was a bit of a computer nerd. I wasn't an internet nerd – I didn't get into that until college. It was a little scary back then – the modems… I lived in the suburbs and that information was not available, I didn't even know the technology existed except in that Matthew Broderick movie!"Arcangel doesn't work entirely with videogames. He's been making video art since he was a teenager and also has several music projects on the go, including the rather amusingBruce Springsteen Born to Run Glockenspiel Addendum, a version of the album played entirely on, yes, the glockenspiel. He actually studied classical guitar at the Oberlin Conservatory and tells me he only took programming as a minor subject because he knew it would make him more employable – "classical guitar and knowledge about the second Viennese school of composition was not going to get me a job…"In the background there has been a long-running interest in desktop art applications, from MacPaint to Paintshop, and two of the works Arcangel has on show at the Lisson - incredibly vibrant explosions of colour - have been created using the gradient tool in Adobe's application. "It's the printing you're reacting to," he says. "It's the technology – just to be able to make these would have been impossible a couple of years ago. It's really high-end LightJet printing. In ten years time they'll be tacky because the printers will be even better, but that's fun!"Right now, though, he's moving back to games with a typically eccentric project, which has only been shown in beta form at a gallery in Holland. "It's this little computer chip," he explains. "I've been working with this engineer, and you just solder it on to a videogame controller and it's like a Tivo – you can play a game and it'll record it and playback that same game over and over in a loop."His plan is to finish the prototype chip, get at least 100 of them manufactured, then play a series of games – badly, he points out pointedly – presenting the results in a cinematic setting. Interestingly, he's focusing on first-generation 3D games, from the PSone, Saturn and N64, and it's mostly going to be sports titles, the likes of PGA Tour and Madden. "I wanted early 3D games, that was a really important part because the representation of the human form is at a really awkward point – there's something really funny about it. It's technology as style. I don't know how people will react to it. It's a little bit slapstick…"I don't put the "videogames as art" quandary to Cory – it all seems a bit irrelevant here. Whatever you think of his work, he and his contemporaries are pushing game culture into the remit of the art establishment. But the important thing is the sense of fun behind it all. This isn't the pretentious conceptual quagmire of the Young British Artists and their acolytes.  "They're all experiments," Cory says dismissively at one point. "I'm not trying to grind home a point. It's just bumbling round in the dark. It's an enjoyable process."Later this month the FACT gallery in Liverpool is running a free exhibition entitled Space Invaders: Art in the Computer Game Environment, which will house works by the likes of Mark Essen, Yuichiro Katsumoto and Cao Fei who all explore the impact of games on our society. Alongside the art will be playable demos of commercial games such as Grand Theft Auto. The message is, both the art and the source material are legitimate. Or it could be that FACT knows people will come if they can play free games. It doesn't matter. Art wins either way.Lisson Presents 7is running at the Lisson Gallery in London until January 16. As well as Cory's works, there are pieces by Stephen Willats, Daniel Buren and Ceal Floyer. Go see it.
It's Christmas and your company has closed for the holiday. However, you are surprised to get a phone call from a senior colleague (not directly your boss) who says he needs access to some files in order to conclude an important business deal, but the log-on system is rejecting his password. He's tried phoning everyone he can think of, and you're his last resort. Can he borrow your ID and password?You are aware, of course, that this is a violation of your company's Acceptable Use policy, which you have read and signed. Any attempt to bypass network security, share passwords or make unauthorised use of passwords may be "subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment".How do you handle the situation?Note: we pose a query every week, and the best comments are excerpted and published in the Guardian's Technology section, which appears on Thursdays. It's up to you to avoid making any comment that you'd be embarrassed to see in print.
Electronic instruments have been a staple of the record industry since the 1970s, when the first synthesisers revolutionised the way music was made. But a group of students will be putting a new spin on the idea next week, when their 20-strong orchestra takes to the stage armed only with iPhones.The bizarre concert, which is due to take place next Wednesday at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, will feature no traditional instruments - with the participants opting instead for live music produced and performed exclusively on the best-selling Apple handset.The event is the culmination of a course taught in conjunction with the university's computer science, engineering and music departments.Overseen by assistant professor Georg Essl, a musician and engineer, the class encourages students to program applications that allow them to use the iPhone's various input sensors - including wireless radios, motion sensors and the handset's touchscreen - to produce various noises.TheMichigan Mobile Phone Ensemble, as the group is known, describes its work as "new, crazy, electronic ensemble music".Essl himself suggests that experiments with devices like the iPhone could help forge new avenues for the development of music in the future - in a genre he calls "MoPho"."The mobile phone is a very nice platform for exploring new forms of musical performance," he says."We're not tethered to the physics of traditional instruments. We can do interesting, weird, unusual things. This kind of technology is in its infancy, but it's a hot and growing area to use iPhones for artistic expression."The Michigan orchestra is not strictly the first of its type - Essl and colleagues have started similar groups during their work at other universities. But music applications have become a niche that has exploded with the success of the iPhone, with iTunes now boasting more than 100,000 different downloadable phone programs.Among the most inventive is the best-selling Ocarina - which Essl was involved with - which allows users to blow into the handset's microphone to mimic a traditional South American woodwind instrument.Musicians have experimented with electronics for many years, with advances including the development of instruments such as the synthesiser and theremin, as well as the work of classicists like Stockhausen and pop pioneers such as Brian Eno and New Order.In recent years, new ways of combining technology and music have increasingly emerged - sometimes with bizarre results.Last year the Detroit Symphony Orchestra linked up with Honda, for a performance of a song from the musical Man of La Manchaconducted by the Japanese company's Asimo robot.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
For most of us, social networking sites are just for fun - checking what our friends are doing, organising our weekends or playing games when the boss is not looking. But the stakes for users of sites like Facebook and Twitter are set to increase dramatically tomorrow, as the US government launches a competition that offers cunning web users the chance to win thousands of dollars.In a nine-day challenge run by Darpa, the US Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency, members of the public are being offered a grand prize of $40,000 if they successfully use the internet and social networks to track down a series of balloons hidden across America.Under the rules of the competition, known as theDarpa Network Challenge, 10 large red balloons will be launched simultaneously at secret location across the United States tomorrow. Players have until December 14 to find out where they were located, and the first person - or group of people - to track them all down will scoop the jackpot, the equivalent of more than £24,000.The rules are relatively loose: the balloons, which each measure eight feet in diameter, will be placed at fixed locations that are easily accessible and visible from nearby roads but will only be visible for one day. More than 300 teams have already signed up to take part and officials expect a number - from offering a reward online to sifting through various social networking sites to scan for sightings of the balloons."The most innovative ideas we probably haven't heard about yet, because there is an incentive to keep them secret," said Peter Lee, director of the agency's transformational convergence technology office.On the surface, the premise seems a little wacky for a government agency that uses its annual budget of more than $3bn to create technology for use by the US military. After all, the organisation, has helped fund technological breakthroughs such as the internet and unmanned aerial vehicles in its different incarnations over the years.But despite the whimsical nature of the task, Darpa officials say they are not running the challenge for fun.According to the event's organisers, the challenge is an attempt to find out more about how large-scale problems can be solved by using the net and social networks to enhance "timely communication, wide-area team building and urgent mobilisation".The idea is that through observing how the various groups attempting the task fare, the organisation will learn a significant amount about the way computer systems and popular websites can be used to harness collective intelligence."We are not interested in the balloons - we already know where those are," said the group's deputy director, Norman Whitaker. "It's the techniques people use to solve the challenge we're focused on."It is not the first time Darpa has taken an offbeat approach to its research for the Pentagon. In recent years, the agency has run a number of other competitions open to the public, including aseries of races pitting computer-controlled driverless carsagainst each other.The latest challenge has already attracted a wide spread of interest from academics and computer scientists, as well as from some more unexpected quarters.Record-breaking balloon artist Larry Moss has said that he will also be attempting to locate the targets. Moss, who is based in Rochester, New York, says that if he wins the top prize, he will spend his winnings making a special tribute balloon in the shape of a giant flying cupcake."It's a logical extension of my plans," he said.
Ok, it's not love but I am very fond of myPSPgo. Sony's download-only version of the PSP gets a lot of playtime, primarily because of convenience. I've got about 10 games installed on it all - including the excellent LittleBigPlanet - and it is obviously easier than carrying 10 UMD discs around. Yes, the iPhone gets its fair share too but real physical controls, rather than a touch screen, are always appealing. But there is no doubt that when it comes to game pricing the PSPgo has got a problem. 20 or even 30 pounds for a download game on PSP feels shockingly high when itunes has got consumers used to thinking a fiver is the premium price. Yes, the expensive PSP games are usually better quality than a cheapie iphone game but that may not be the point any more. Perception is everything. And now the developers have started to comment..Jon Burton, founder of Lego Star Wars developers Traveller's Tales, thinks thepricing is a major issue. *updated link to original source - Develop.*I own a PSPgo but don't want to buy LittleBigPlanet, for instance, as I can get it 20 per cent cheaper on UMD from Amazon and could resell it once I'm finished with it. But if I download it, I get no discount, and no chance to resell - how annoying is that?Burton then issues a stark warning to SonyI'm betting on Sony making PSPgo games much cheaper than the UMD versions, or the PSPgo will die.What do you think then? Agree with Burton's comments? Or happy with the convenience the PSPGo offers?
&bull; After a series of struggles,Nokiasays it's going tocut the number of smartphone models it makes in half. Why? Because of "unnecessary differentiation" that's leading companies like Apple and Research in Motion to give it a run for its money. It's hard to tell exactly whether this will be good news for customers - so let us know: are you confused by the number of different Nokias out there? Will fewer models make a difference to you?&bull; As if that wasn't enough,Googleset the cat among the pigeons yesterday byannouncing the launch of its own DNS(Domain Name System). That basically means it is offering to take charge of the process of connecting a website's name (like guardian.co.uk) with its IP address (which reads 77.91.249.30) - acting like a telephone directory for the web. Everyone uses DNS and your ISP usually does it for you - but Google suggests that it can do it be faster and with greater stability thanks to its immense resources. It's a very technical move, but one that places Google at yet another point in the stack (possibly ahead of integration with theforthcoming Chrome operating system) and has already drawn someinteresting comment from competitors such as OpenDNS.&bull; And to lead you into the weekend, how about some beautiful photography? I've always been a fan of theWorld Press Photoawards, which consistently deliver moving and powerful images.This year's winners are online now, and worth a look. Meanwhile, on a more informal note, a new photographic story magazine website has launched calledPictory. The idea is to showcase sequences of user-submitted photos and stories along a given theme. It's from Laura Brunow Miner, former editor of the similarish JPG magazine, and the first collaborative essay is entitledOverseas and Overwhelmed.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
If I had to make a list of people or institutions that I would trust to develop and deepen the internet, the New Labour government would probably be in the bottom three.Expanding the internet requires decisiveness, vision, a willingness to build new infrastructure, and an unshakeable respect for the (relative) freedom of speech and virtual association that web-users currently enjoy.Yet New Labour possesses none of these qualities. Isolated and discombobulated, it lacks the moral authority to take decisions or to make a vision a reality. And unable to shake off its authoritarian streak (in fact, its petty authoritarianism seems to increase as its political isolation intensifies), New Labour's only really "big idea" for the internet is to police more rigorously how people use it.Earlier this week was "Cyber Monday", and it confirmed – if any further confirmation were needed – that the internet is now so much more than a place where we read stuff and send emails. Rather, it has become central to many people's lives, a sphere of shopping, social interaction, global communication and entertainment consumption."Cyber Monday" is the first Monday in December, when people are most likely to buy their Christmas gifts online, confident that they will be delivered in time for the holiday. Americans spent an estimated $900m online on Monday, while we Brits clocked up sales of around £300m. In the UK Visa handled 1,600 transactions a minute. Industry experts reckon it was the internet's biggest-ever single shopping day.Yet as we use the internet to make more and more financial transactions – or to download documents, video and audio, to do business, to discuss politics, to upload photos and other social information – so we increase the strain on the infrastructure. The physical expansion of the internet, the laying down of more real-world fibre optics and the improvement of the internet's info-carrying capacity, has not kept pace with the numerous virtual breakthroughs.This has led some to warn of a coming "exaflood", where the relatively underdeveloped infrastructure will be swamped by too many exabytes of information. According to Bret Swanson of the Discovery Institute: "Without many tens of billions of dollars worth of new fibre optic networks, thousands of new business plans in communications, medicine, education, security, remote sensing, computing, the military and every mundane task that could soon move to the internet will be frustrated".Others argue that the warnings of an "exaflood" are exaggerated but recognise that, as more and more stuff is put online, our internet connections will inevitably slow down unless capacity is expanded. Today, the amount of traffic generated by YouTube in one month alone is equivalent to the traffic of theentire Internetin 2000. Web users face the prospect of "brownouts", experts warn, where their connections will become super-sluggish or be lost entirely.And what is New Labour's vision for dealing with this eminently fixable problem? It doesn't have one.When it comes to expanding the infrastructure, its big idea is a broadband tax to fund the expansion of broadband across Britain, including in rural areas.Taxing everyone who has a phone line £6, the government will raise around £175m a year. Yet BT estimates that a budget of £1.5bn is required to reach the target of having fibre in 40% of British homes by 2012, and that it will cost £5bn to put fibre in every home.It's also unclear what the government plans to do with its tax revenue. It's certainly not planning to take a lead in expanding broadband. Instead it says it will use the revenue as a "subsidy" to support commercial investment. The broadband tax looks more like a gesture than a vision, a sorry substitute for encouraging a positive climate of meaningful debate about, and commercial investment in, new-era infrastructure.And in terms of the vast virtual store that the internet is becoming, the government's main interests are control of information and punishment of information-abusers. For example, the Digital Economy Bill will allow copyright owners – music companies, film studios, etc – to obtain the IP addresses of "copyright abusers", and to put pressure on ISPs to harangue and possibly even disconnect these "abusers" without recourse to a court of law.As some campaigners have pointed out, this means copyright holders can circumvent due judicial process, giving rise to a law of "might is right" on the web that will protect the interests of big corporations and shrink the rights of individual Internet users.Under New Labour we end up with the worst of both worlds: the infrastructure is not being sufficiently expanded, while the online material that exists is being more closely policed. Surely we can do better than this?•Brendan O'Neillis the editor ofSpiked onlinemagazine
Joining forces is the big new trend in digital media. Recently,Twitter and LinkedIn linked their status updates, and today Yahoo and Facebook have announced that they will allow their users to combine their activity streams.Currently the Yahoo homepage lets Facebook users check their stream in a preview window without leaving the site. The plan is to establish some real cross-posting.At some point in the first half of 2010, Yahoo users will be able to see their friends' Facebook activities directly within "Yahoo updates", while activity on Yahoo sites like Flickr may be automatically re-posted to the Facebook news feed.So far, so good.More interesting, though, is reading between the lines of this integration.First, it seems to indicate that Facebook is now more powerful than Yahoo, which once upon a time had its own ambitions for social networking. Remember when Yahoo was buying delicious and flickr back in 2005? Well, these times are over. Now Yahoo has to bow for a little bit of Facebook. AsCharles Arthursaid, not exactly a position of strength.Indeed, Facebook answered the question of whether this is a partnership as follows: "Facebook Platform is an open platform, and as such any technology on or off Facebook can integrate with Facebook."Secondly, there might be a block war coming up. Well, there is a secret block war going on all the time, and asJack Schofieldput it: Facebook wants to be the hub of the social web, and (among many other things) Google wants to be the hub of the social web, the whole web, the deep web, the advertising web, and everything else.So, Yahoo's lack of power was exposed years ago when Microsoft started trying to take it over, but it probably still wants to be "your dashboard to the web". If it is so, then it is about time that Yahoo looked at integrating Twitter. We are waiting.What do you think of all of this integration? Do you like cross-posting? Or is it confusing, and it is better to keep the different platforms apart from each other?
It's the fourth day of our festive games-buying round-up which has already guided you toward the best PS3, Xbox 360 and Wii games of the season. Now it's the turn of the handheld formats, and as this is a somewhat traditional retail guide, I'll be concentrating on the DS and PSP rather than mobile or iPhone games (they're difficult to wrap up and put under the tree).I won't be placing these in order of preference as there's two formats involved and it just becomes completely arbitrary. Oh, and these are UK releases from the last few months - we wanted the games to be timely yet easily accessible to any relative who ends up having to buy one of these for you.Anyway, enough of the preamble, here's my selection...DS titlesMario and Luigi: Bowser's inside Story (AlphaDream, Nintendo)This is the one where Mario and Luigi have to fight, jump and puzzle their way through the interior of reformed enemy, Bowser. There are nowhere near enough videogames set inside the body of a long-running antagonist. I might even have persisted with Metal Gear Solid 4 if at some point Old Snake was to be miniaturised and injected into Liquid Ocelot. But this wonderful RPG platformer would be worth playing if it were set within the Basingstoke branch of WH Smiths, such is its warmth, charm and world-leading game design acumen. Also, the baddie says "I have chortles!" whenever he is amused.Professor Layton and Pandora's Box(Level-5, Nintendo)With this second title in the beguiling puzzle series, the faux-Victorian setting has become so delightfully whimsical, there's even a tea-making mini-game. Once again, the titular crime-solver and his assistant, Luke, must solve a range of brain teasers and logic problems to track down a criminal, but now there's a greater number of puzzles and the story is more sweeping in scope. So charming it should be immediately adapted into a BBC Sunday teatime serial starring Simon Callow.Scribblenauts(5th Cell, Warner Bros)The unexpected star of this year's giant E3 videogame show in Los Angeles is also one of the programming marvels of the year. In Scribblenauts, the aim is to help a character named Maxwell traverse a series of cartoon-style stages, by summoning up helpful objects from a possible range of 10,000. Need to reach a high ledge? Use the stylus to write ladder on the screen and one will appear. It gets a lot more complicated than that of course, and somehow the emergent system keeps delivering on your lateral demands. Astonishing.Nostalgia (Matrix Software/Red Entertainment, Ignition)A hugely traditional JRPG, which makes a virtue – and a name - of its nostalgic approach. Set within a steam punk-powered alternative Victorian era, you play gawd-blimey London town dweller Eddie as he searches the globe for his missing father. There is turn-based combat, leveling up, spells and dungeon hunting – all in reasonably impressive 3D. Provides many hours of pleasure for both hardened veterans of the genre and cautious newcomers who want to experience the salad days of Final Fantasy et al without getting bogged down in a lengthy series mythology.Space Invaders Extreme 2 (Taito, Square Enix)Taito's Extreme remakes of its seminal shooter have been an unexpected joy, and this sequel should definitely not be overlooked by those searching out bite-sized twitch gaming treats this winter. The familiar alien attack gameplay is enhanced with a pumping dance soundtrack that reacts in real-time to player actions, plus a tumult of hallucinogenic visuals effects light the way through the chaos. The Bingo sub-challenges, which take place in the top screen as you battle away in the bottom, are ridiculously rewarding.PSP titlesGTA Chinatown Wars(Rockstar Leeds, Rockstar. Also on DS)In some ways Chinatown Wars is to Grand Theft Auto, what the PSP version of Football Manager was to its PC big brother – a hark back to simpler days before things got waaaay too complicated. You play feckless layabout Huang Lee, son to a Liberty City triad boss whose murder sparks a major turf war. Now Lee must avenge his father's death, find an ancient family sword and make some cash – all through a series of fast-'n'-dirty shoot-out and driving missions. Deceptively deep, Chinatown Wars has been brilliantly designed with the limitations of the handheld format in mind and it's filled with action, idiocy and trademark Rockstar humour (i.e. swearing and nob gags. Tee hee).Beaterator (Rockstar Leeds, Rockstar)Beginning life as a Flash app on the Rockstar homepage, Beaterator gradually transformed into an impressively powerful music creation package sporting an eight-track recording studio, thousands of loops and samples, microphone compatibility to record your own sounds, and an export function, allowing you to share your masterpieces with the world. Even if the best you accomplish is a sub-Plastikman series of minimal techno bursts, it's enormous fun to mess about with. (Jealous DS owners should track down theKorg DS-10sim for a smiliar experience.)Gran Turismo(Polyphony Digital, Sony)Critics panned this translation of the legendary driving series for its lack of game modes and total neglect for online support in any form (even leaderboards). But this is still an enormous racing game with hundreds of cars, over 30 tracks and the ability to share cars with friends. Add in the sleek 60 frames-per-second visuals and it's got masses going for it.Soulcalibur: Broken Destiny(Project Soul, Namco Bandai)Dreamcast veterans will always hold a special place in their hearts for Soulcalibur, the weapon-based fighting game that should have single-handedly saved the system if there were any justice in this cold, unsentimental universe. Broken Destiny, brings us all our favourite characters, a tweaked combat mechanic, a guest appearance from God of War's Kratos and perhaps the most amazing visuals on the PSP so far. Although the lack of a proper arcade/story mode is galling, the tutorial-style Guantlet option is fun, and there's always ad-hoc two-player…LittleBigPlanet(Media Molecule/Sony Cambridge, Sony)An entire handheld approximation of the epoch-shattering do-it-yourself PS3 marvel? Surely not? But, yes, that's what you get here. On PSP, Media Molecule's physics-based platformer gets 30 new stages provided by the design team, plus a level design mode that packs in most of the features of its console predecessor. Anything you make can be uploaded to the communal site, or you can download dozens of user-generated creations to your memory stick. In short bursts, maybe across a week of commuting, you can construct a little gem of a level, then share it with the planet. How lovely is that?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.Quote of the moment:"HAHAHA! Well, that explains it.I was what, two streets away in The George. Typical."Fantomex realises why no-ne turned up for last night's 'Chatterboxer Meat Up'.  Turned out he was in The George and they were in The Royal George...
The original Mass Effect had its problems - loading times, graphical glitches - but was still a masterful RPG. It was a game that effortlessly sucked you into its inter-planetary sci-fi storyline and made you actually care about the characters and not just the weapon or ability they added to the party. The stunning facial animations helped here - way more impressive than Bioware's other recent title, Dragon Age - as did the script. And don't get me started on the fantastic Blade Runner/Vangelis-inspired soundtrack. So you could say I am just a little bit excited aboutMass Effect 2. The sequel launches on January 31st and thehype is building up nicely. The developer Bioware is promising better combat and - hurrah! - more varied and meaningful side missions...We made a few changes to the way you navigate the Normandy so you get a better sense of exploration, you actually move the position of the Normandy versus moving a crosshair for where you want to go. You have fuel and space probes you burn to explore deeper into space. And then we also added a mini-game that is a new way to get resources off of a planet. So instead of having to drive around on a planet in the vehicle as a mission, where you're just really picking up rocks and having to jump out and do that kind of stuff, now it's part of a really cool planet exploration mini-game where you're spinning the planet around underneath you, you can feel with the controller rumbling, you can hear the sound of anomalies and resources being picked up by your sensors and close in on them and send space probes. So that part is a lot more interesting. Running around and getting resources is now in a cool mini-game instead of you doing it on foot.The combat too has seen an overhaul.The two areas we've made the biggest improvements in is in combat, which again contains countless improvements, from the feel of how you aim, the way you track enemies, the way you move and take cover - a completely new cover system - and the weapons feel fantastic. So, all the stuff we've done in the combat area. But then all of the things we've done to make the RPG aspects a lot more intuitive. I wouldn't say they're simpler, because you can do a lot more - there's a lot more customisation, there's more research and upgrades, there's just generally more there in the RPG side of it too - but what we've done is we've moved things into interfaces and screens where you can realise the full potential of these things without them becoming cumbersome or it having too many items and all that kind of stuff.As you'd expect though, combat is only one part of the game. Relationships and romance are also key.Maybe in previous games you would talk to characters and there's a relationship there, but again, it might not tie back into the main storyline. Here, the reason you end up talking to your characters, outside of the fact that it's interesting and there's a relationship there, is that you can figure out what it is that's going to make them loyal to you. And then you go and do a mission where you learn a lot about their back story. It unfolds in a way you can learn about and appreciate that character. So you're developing their loyalty, you're developing their relationship, and then we also have a number of romance options in this game where if you develop a relationship over the course of the game, some of them will become love interests. Whereas in Mass Effect 1 there was a love interest for male or female, and then Liara was another option, in this one, male and female characters each have several love interests.There's lots morein the interview, including confirmation of downloadable content (anyone else already nostalgic for the days when games were released in one final form?) and some vague plot hints.Anyway, what do you think? Played the original and can't wait for Mass Effect 2? Or too busy shooting and scoring in Modern Warfare 2 and FIFA to even notice?
&bull; No sooner had theLarge Hadron Colliderofficially becomethe world's most powerful particle acceleratorthan the project - already plagued by a series of technical issues - once again fell foul of problems. Reports suggesta power cutapparently hit Cern's computer centre and caused the atom smasher to go offline, leaving physicists frustrated and end-of-the-worlders cheering themselves by staving off armageddon for another day.&bull; Next week Craigslist and eBay aredue to duke it out in court, with the auction giant suing over changes to its 25% shareholding in the classified advertising website. Craigslist has previously after claimed that its rival - but now eBay's coming out punching, with boss John Donahoeannouncing yesterday that he planned to expand more aggressively into online ads.&bull; And today's Thursday, so it's time for this week's printed Technology Guardian supplement to hit the streets, includingour guide to Christmas gifts, a look at whether Britain's games industryneeds tax breaksand a look at theareas that Wikipedia doesn't cover.Plus much more!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Some say we should delay buying PCs until they are built for Windows 7. Is there anything in that and, if so, when will the hardware catch up?Peter AtkinsThere's not much difference between Windows 7 hardware and Vista hardware. The main things to watch for are support forDirectX 11 graphics, and a motherboard able to handle 8GB or more memory, even if you don't need it at the moment. Windows 7 is designed to make better use of the GPU (graphics processor) and today's larger memories. A rough guide is that PCs intended for Vista will usually have the 32-bit version loaded, and will often have only 3GB of memory. The better Windows 7 models will have the 64-bit version loaded, and 4GB of memory. To do this, the PC manufacturer will need to have found and tested 64-bit drivers, which are less common than 32-bit drivers.But PC development is a continuous process, and Intel is preparing to release the32nm Arrandale platform for portable computers, and Clarkdale for desktops (PDF). It's not clear when these will arrive: the first chips are promised for the first half of next year, which could be as soon as January. However, this is of most concern to buyers of high-end systems: mainstream users may not know or care.
I have a Sony Ericsson mobile with call recording. After moving a file to my laptop, I can't hear it through Windows Media Player.Alkesh PatelAny media player can only play files if it has the right codec (coding-decoding) software installed. I'd guess that your Sony Ericsson phone uses Ericsson's AMR (Adaptive Multi-Rate) codec, and this seems to be a common compression system on mobiles. If Windows Media Player does not download a suitable codec for you, check the CD that probably came with your phone to see if that includes a player, or you could try Real Player or Apple's QuickTime player.Perhaps a better alternative would be to convert your recordings to a file format such as MP3, which plays on anything and is probably easier to edit.Miksoft's free Mobile Media Convertercan do the job, and it also handles the 3GP format. Converting between codecs will usually lead to a slight loss of quality, but I don't expect this matters with mobile phone recordings.
Do most people use separate Wi-Fi software or the software provided in the operating system? I have a Dell Latitude E6500 running XP and the broadband connection only stays up for five minutes.Rob TurrellUp-to-date versions of Windows XP support Wi-Fi via theWireless Zero Configuration Service, WZCSVC, and this generally works OK. Separate software is often provided with laptops and wireless cards, and may support extra buttons or offer other features. Independent Wi-Fi managers are also available. The alternatives will use a bit more memory, but I don't think people are bothered as long as they have something that works.When it comes to disconnections, there's a tendency to blame the Wi-Fi router. Go through the set-up pages and look for something that tells it to "disconnect after X minutes". If you can try your laptop at a public hotspot and it doesn't drop the connection, that would point to there being a router or broadband problem.It could also be the laptop's power-saving system that is turning the wireless card off after five minutes. Have a look atEthernet Device Problem in Dell E6500.
I installed PPC Web Spy and have now found it impossible to uninstall this software. It is slowing down my web browsing considerably.Peter RyanBrad Callen'sPPC Web Spyis a utility for people who advertise on Google and not something I'd expect individuals to use. It works as a Firefox add-on, so you should be able to uninstall it the normal way: click Tools on the Firefox menu and select Add-ons, select PPC Web Spy from the list and then click the button that says Uninstall.If that doesn't work, the best solution is to uninstall and remove Firefox, then download the latest version. Squidoo explains how to do this in itsPPC Web Spy Not Working Solution tutorial.
It was the social networking site that brought thousands of bands to music-hungry fans, credited with launching the careers of artists such asLily AllenandArctic Monkeys.ButMySpacewas comprehensively overshadowed by rival Facebook and then threatened  by the music-on-demand site Spotify. Today, with the launch ofMySpace Music, the site has returned to what it does best: bringing music to the masses. Pitching itself against music streaming websites such as Spotify and We7, MySpace Music offers unlimited free streaming while inviting them to create and share music with friends.Courtney Holt, president of MySpace Music, said the site was offering music lovers a comprehensive place to discover new music while connecting with their favourite artists. "There really aren't a lot of places were you can get a loud and large front door for all things music," he said.He dismissed comparisons with streaming sites. "We are not providing just a utility for streaming music, this isn't just passive. It's is a combination of a streaming service with a ton of information."Users can also watch video, buy tracks directly from iTunes and listen to play-lists created by artists. Current selections come from bands such asFlorence and the MachineandN-Dubzas well as – bizarrely – the Vatican, whose eclectic choices include Mozart and Tupac.The site will also have a large events database, listing events from local live music to who is on at the O2 while a charts area will show the most popular music from 27 countries and 22 genres, including unsigned bands.On individual music pages, users can track news, blogs and tweets from bands, while discovering friends' top tips. For musicians the "artist dashboard", a free analytics tool, will give in-depth knowledge of their fanbase. Unlike the sometimes untidy MySpace, the new site has uniform design in all main areas. Artists, however, can still design their home pages. "We want to provide consistent user experience but we also want to give artists the tools for self expression," said Holt.In the US, MySpace Music has doubled its unique users since launching in September 2008, but the UK version stalled after the company became locked in a licensing wrangle. Independent labels representing artists from Vampire Weekend to Radiohead initially refused to sign up, arguing they were being given worse terms than major labels.Some sceptics point out that while MySpace Music was in negotiations, others took the lead in the market. "It feels a bit late in the day," said Paul Brindley, chief executive of Music Ally. There is also doubt about the profitability of ad-funded streaming sites. "There is a lot of debate about the free model and the general view from rights owners is that it is unsustainable."Holt said he was confident MySpace Music– which will have only banner ads and video advertising and no premium subscription offer – was the right business model. But the site will also work with partners like iTunes and ticketing websites to create revenue, he said.Mark Mulligan, vice-president of Forrester Research, said MySpace Music was a "step in the right direction" for the music industry. "It's important that this is coming from a big established company with big backing – the industry can plan for a future with MySpace which it is less able to do with startups."Holt said the industry needed more investment, but the company was excited about the future. "We need more winners in the music business for the future of the music business," he said. "We need to make new stars."
A video of the fade-in posted on October 5The Official Google Blogsays the company has released a new homepage that "fades in — when the page first loads, it shows only our logo, the search box and the buttons". Links to other applications such as Gmail only appear when you move the mouse, apparently.I assume this wonderfully exciting new feature is being rolled out gradually because I still can't see it. (I also failed to see it when it was tested in October.) What I can see, of course, is the usual Google spam, such as the invitation to Install Google Chrome (which I have, several times) or "New! Discover Music using Google".To be frank, I'd rather Google just removed this intrusive rubbish instead of magically fading in links I often want to click.Of course, if the aim is to clean up the home page, there's also a line of links I could easily live without (Advertising Programs - Business Solutions - About Google - Go to Google UK). But I guess there's not much chance of that….
It is difficult to believe that YouTube, the video-sharing site that claims 1bn views every day, is not even five years old, such has been its pervasive influence. There are various versions of how it began. One is that it happened after two of the founders had difficulty sharing videos shot at a dinner party in early 2005. Another is that all three founders (Chad Hurley, Steve Chen and Jawed Karim) couldn't find theJanet Jackson exposure during the 2004 Super Bowl. Another is that it started as a dating site – Tune in Hook Up – that failed to catch on.It wasn't the only video-sharing site at the time. There were others, such as revver.com, which in theory had a better business model, as it gave users 50% of any income from adverts once the sum reached $20. I checked the other day and discovered that I have got to $18.59. Revver is still around but never got remotely near YouTube in reach: partly because YouTube achieved critical mass early and partly because users are more motivated by self-publicity than micropayments.YouTube's critical year was 2006, when Google bought it for $1.65bn and users turned a video  watching site into an interactive community. It is now&nbsp;the place to look for almost anything, a 21st-century version of the classic Victorian how-to guide Enquire Within Upon Everything, which helped inspire Sir Tim Berners-Lee's original ambitions for the web.The other day I couldn't find how to insert page numbers into an Open Office document. Frustrated, I typed "Open Office page numbering" into YouTube's search box and up came several videos, one of which I played as I followed its instructions. Problem solved. If you get an error message then just type it into YouTube or a search engine and up will come the answer. Whether it is knitting or physics, YouTube has a vast reservoir of answers waiting for questions. If you type in E = MC2 you get a choice ranging from&nbsp;a&nbsp;56-minute lecture from Berkeley Lab's Summer Lecturestoa 57-second explanation by someone called Albert Einstein.Such videos are not the main diet of YouTube, which is dominated by celebrity clips, excerpts from TV shows, films and personal experiences. These are fascinating and will be a treasure trove for future historians and sociologists about what life was like now. But underneath is a more interesting trend: YouTube is developing into a kind of University of the Grassroots. Instead of learning being a top-down process, dictated by institutions and governments, it is evolving into a bottom-up process driven by users.If you want to learn, say, the Python programming language (often used in mobile phones) then your first move may not be to sign up at a local educational institution but instead to look at one of the YouTube videos and benefit from the reactions of other viewers. Education has been slower than other sectors to respond to the digital revolution but, as elsewhere, the direction is being dictated by users. Nowadays, if you have a bad teacher you can find another one on YouTube or the plethora of other video sites still popping up.It is difficult to predict what effect all this will eventually have on education but it could be profound. It must be questionable whether you need three years to complete a PhD when you have instant access to so many archived books as a result of Google's book-scanning programme. The limiting factor is not technology but access. Those who haven't got broadband or a good smartphone are cut off from the outset. And, much more important, if you don't have the motivation then all the aids in the world won't help. But, increasingly, the basic street-wise skills people will need during the digital revolution may more easily, and certainly more quickly, be learned from the People's University of the Internet than from an academic institution.twitter.com/vickeegan
Top word: TwitterThe Texas-based Global Language Monitor says Twitter is the Top Word of 2009 in its annual global survey of the English language.Just the iRiver StoryiRiver is taking on the Kindle with its Story e-reader, available in the UK from Zavvi and advancedmp3players.co.uk.3D with subtitlesDisney's A Christmas Carol is the first 3D film made accessible in the UK to people who are deaf or hard of hearing: it has 3D subtitles and audio description by ITFC.Worst on the webAfrica's Cameroon (.cm) has overtaken Hong Kong (.hk) as the web's riskiest domain name, according to McAfee's Mapping the Mal Web report.Faster mobileVirgin Media has launched a 7.2Mbps mobile broadband USB modem for its new high-speed service.London from the airVirtual Aerial London provides helicopter views that simulate flying over central London – on the web, and free.Become a virtual builderGoogle Building Maker enables anyone to construct their own 3D buildings in 50 cities in Google Earth.Lifecycle careO&amp;O Software has assembled a bundle of seven PC programs to cover the lifecycle of a Windows PC, ending with migration and erasing the hard drive
PCs for Windows 7Some say we should delay buying PCs until they are built for Windows 7. Is there anything in that and, if so, when will the hardware catch up?Peter AtkinsJack Schofield replies:There's not much difference between Windows 7 hardware and Vista hardware. The main things to watch for are support for DirectX 11 graphics, and a motherboard able to handle 8GB or more memory, even if you don't need it at the moment. Windows 7 is designed to make better use of the GPU (graphics processor) and today's larger memories. A rough guide is that PCs intended for Vista will usually have the 32-bit version loaded, and will often have only 3GB of memory. The better Windows 7 models will have the 64-bit version loaded, and 4GB of memory. To do this, the PC manufacturer will need to have found and tested 64-bit drivers, which are less common than 32-bit drivers.But PC development is a continuous process, and Intel is preparing to release the 32nm Arrandale platform for portable computers, and Clarkdale for desktops. It's not clear when these will arrive: the first chips are promised for the first half of next year, which could be as soon as January. However, this is of most concern to buyers of high-end systems: mainstream users may not know or care.Phone recordingI have a Sony Ericsson mobile with call recording. After moving a file to my laptop, I can't hear it through Windows Media Player.Alkesh PatelJS:Any media player can only play files if it has the right codec (coding-decoding) software installed. I'd guess that your Sony Ericsson phone uses Ericsson's AMR (Adaptive Multi-Rate) codec, and this seems to be a common compression system on mobiles. If Windows Media Player does not download a suitable codec for you, check the CD that probably came with your phone to see if that includes a player, or you could try Real Player or Apple's QuickTime player. Perhaps a better alternative would be to convert your recordings to a file format such as MP3, which plays on anything and is probably easier to edit.Miksoft's free Mobile Media Convertercan do the job, and it also handles the 3GP format. Converting between codecs will usually lead to a slight loss of quality, but I don't expect this matters with mobile phone recordings.Wi-Fi disconnectsDo most people use separate Wi-Fi software or the software provided in the operating system? I have a Dell Latitude E6500 running XP and the broadband connection only stays up for five minutes.Rob TurrellJS:Up-to-date versions of Windows XP support Wi-Fi via the Wireless Zero Configuration Service, WZCSVC, and this generally works OK. Separate software is often provided with laptops and wireless cards, and may support extra buttons or offer other features. Independent Wi-Fi managers are also available. The alternatives will use a bit more memory, but I don't think people are bothered as long as they have something that works.When it comes to disconnections, there's a tendency to blame the Wi-Fi router. Go through the set-up pages and look for something that tells it to "disconnect after X minutes". It could also be the laptop's power-saving system that is turning the wireless card off after five minutes. Have a look atEthernet Device Problem in Dell E6500.Web Spy removalI installed PPC Web Spy and have now found it impossible to uninstall this software. It is slowing down my web browsing considerably.Peter RyanJS:Brad Callen'sPPC Web Spyis a utility for people who advertise on Google and not something I'd expect individuals to use. It works as a Firefox add-on, so you should be able to uninstall it the normal way: click Tools on the Firefox menu and select Add-ons, select PPC Web Spy from the list and then click the button that says Uninstall. If that doesn't work, the best solution is to uninstall and remove Firefox, then download the latest version. Squidoo explains how to do this in itsPPC Web Spy Not Working Solution tutorial.Backchat• Chris Dawes says that, as withDave Felton, he also had Windows update failure on an Acer PC, and he also spilled coffee over his keyboard, and had to replace it. He says: "After installing a Trust KB1400S keyboard, the problem went away and the whole operating system seemed rejuvenated. A badly behaving machine became docile, well behaved and speedier. Why?" Does anyone have a view?
Britain is one of the world's top video game producers, boasting nearly a quarter of the 100 most successful studios. However, recent years have seen a sharp increase in competition from overseas.Richard Wilson, the chief executive of The Games Industry Trade Association,Tiga, says: "Up until 2006 the UK was continuously the third largest developer of video games in the world. We lost that position in 2007, and this year we're likely to slip down another place to fifth in the world league table."While global video games sales rose 20% on year in 2008, around 15% of British games businesses went bust over the same period, with employment in the sector falling by 4%. Wilson says: "We believe that's a direct consequence of so many of our overseas competitors having tax breaks that put them at an advantage ahead of us."Give them a break"When I took over as CEO of Tiga last year, one of the things that struck me was that most of our competitors – those based in the US, Canada, France, South Korea, etc – have tax breaks for game production in their jurisdictions; and that was working to divert investment away from the UK and into these other territories."In June this year the publication of theDigital Britainreport indicated that the industry's complaints were being taken seriously. The paper laid out government plans to "collect and review the evidence for a tax relief to promote the sustainable production of culturally British video games". In response to this, Tiga produced a substantial document setting out the case for a cultural tax break, submitted to the creative industries minister Sion Simon on August 28."We're hoping to see an announcement from the chancellor in the pre-budget statement on 9 December," says Wilson, "with a commitment to a games tax relief in the March 2010 budget, and we hope that after the general election, whichever party wins will then implement it. Because we think the economic arguments are so convincing, and because government ministers have made much of the fact that they want to support digital creative industries, we are cautiously optimistic that they'll give it to us."Our proposals would cost the Treasury £192m over a five-year period. However, over that same period it would generate or safeguard £415m in tax receipts, encourage or promote new investments to the tune of £450m, and safeguard or create up to 3,500 graduate level jobs."This £192m, although pretty small for the Treasury, would have a disproportionally positive impact for the industry. It'll guarantee, over the next five years, that we'll see a 2-4% growth annually for the UK games industry. It'll help to ensure we remain one of the world's leading game producers, and it'll help to confirm the UK as the home of a leading digital creative industry."Tom Watson, MP for West Bromwich East, is a firm supporter of the games industry. He recently set upGamers' Voice, an online group representing the interests of the UK's gamers. Asked whether the games industry merited this kind of relief, he said: "I'm an evangelist, but I personally think games will be the dominant art form of this century – so the industry's got incalculable value. It's broadly the size of the music industry, with tens of thousands of jobs dependent on it, and millions of people in the UK use games recreationally."I've written to the Treasury in support of tax breaks, and there's an all party group on the computer and video game industry that I'm hoping will put in a submission. But times are quite tough at the moment; I think they've got a very strong case and I would hope they can get it through, but there's a lot of people knocking at the Treasury's door."The shadow culture minister,Ed Vaizey, speaking at the London Games Week in October, was similarly supportive of the gaming sector, describing it as "one of the great, unsung success stories of British industry". However, he went on to state that new tax breaks would be unlikely under a Conservative government.Wilson remains upbeat: "I have given Ed Vaizey a copy of our report, and when he reads it I think he'll change his mind. And if the government makes a commitment in the pre-budget report, I'd be very surprised if the Conservatives then said they're not going to go ahead with the tax relief."Watson responded: "Ed is just reflecting the difficult times we're in. I think both he and Sion Simon are very supportive, and both understand the games industry more than most politicians. There is a case for tax breaks as a way of supporting the industry, but I think more importantly it is for the industry to get locked in to the machinery of government."The only way that can happen is for some form of body akin to the UK Film Council, where publishers, developers, coders, consumers and government can really share the long term strategic challenges faced by the industry. In that way they can look at tax regimes, maybe R&amp;D credits, what you can do with the skills agenda, and rather than by taking up these piecemeal issues that have to be developed and won on every occasion, you can develop some work strands within government that make the job of supporting the industry so much easier."
So it seems the CrunchPad is no more. You haven't heard of the CrunchPad? And you didn't know it was dead? Oh, you've got so much catching up to do on what I've always felt looked (from a distance at least) like The Hunting of the Snark – the tale by Lewis Carroll that recounted "with infinite humour the impossible voyage of an improbable crew to find an inconceivable creature".The CrunchPad, which was the brainchild (pace legal settlements) of Michael Arrington, who runs the Silicon Valley-based technology news site TechCrunch, was intended to be a touchscreen tablet computer with a 12.1in screen. It does, of course, haveits own Wikipedia article, which explains that it began in July 2008 with the aim of producing a $200 tablet computer. To be precise, "We Want A Dead Simple Web Tablet For $200. Help Us Build It" as Arrington said.Hey, that should be simple, right? After all, the market's crowded with tablet computers, it's easy to source 12.1in touchscreens, and getting the operating system would be a cinch. Right?OK, so that's exaggerating it a bit, because the idea was that it would be open-sourced as far as possible. Except what is there to open source in the hardware? All the things you need to be standard already are; all the things you need to be special aren't – such as some really clever FPGA programming to get around the limits of the hardware that you've had to use because you're building down to a price ("Mr Arrington said $200!"). The cost moved up as well: by the time it was pronounced not alive any more, the price hit $400. Which is still a remarkably low price for a 12.1in touchscreen anything.Despite the fact that nobody outside TechCrunch seemed to have laid hands on the CrunchPad – which means we know nothing of its operating system, apart from that it was Linux (which one?), used WebKit, and booted directly into a browser, and that the"prototype" pictureslooked marvellously set up – there was tremendous excitement around it: so much so that in October, Popular Mechanics magazine gave it the award of one of the 10 Most Brilliant Products of 2009. Umm, so, storage, Wi-Fi, anything else? Somehow those details didn't get open-sourced.It may have been this piece of hubris that finally broke the snark's back. According to Arrington,posting miserably at TechCrunch, the hardware partner decided to hang on to the design and make the money on it. Lawsuits will, surely, follow (Arrington has legal training and experience). But the CrunchPad won't.Is the idea of a cheap tablet computer just a dream? For quite a few years, certainly. What's that? You're expecting a 12.1-inch touchscreen tablet from Apple next year? You're also waiting for something similar from Microsoft perhaps before Apple does its one? I'm sure you are (I think there's even the faintest chance that the Apple one will be interesting). But one thing is certain – the Apple tablet won't be cheap.I'm still puzzled how TechCrunch thought it was going to handle everything around the CrunchPad. Making a successful product is only a small part of making a product successful. You also need the pricing, the marketing, the sales channels, the customer support. Or were people meant to just accept it if they got a dud, which can happen with the best manufacturing will in the world? It's the cost of all those extra but essential elements that pushes up the cost of something, and against which companies fight so hard, not just the cost of hardware.After all, look at how many companies can't scratch a living on the web – a place where you pay next to nothing for each extra copy of whatever you make. Compare that to the cost of making tablet computers, where the only successes have been companies that have focused maniacally on niches such as medicine, and it starts to look as though the disputes that sank the CrunchPad actually did Arrington a favour of sorts. Now, he can always speak wistfully about the one that got away. But I'm not going to spend much time commiserating. It never sounded like a project that had a chance commercially.And so it has proved even before reaching the sales point. The lesson in this? Hardware is difficult. That's why so few companies succeed at it.
It's well known that putting an instant digital readout of your miles per gallon on a car dashboard makes people drive more economically, even if only unconsciously.Now something like that idea has come to watching how much energy we use, and British Gas is now offering customers who sign up to its (free) EnergySmart service a dynamic electricity usage monitor worth £35 for free, plus a consumption history and loyalty bonus.But more relevant is that it says trials have shown that customers can save £110 per year by seeing the real-time information on their monitor, and changing their behaviour.You don't have to be a British Gas customer to try it out – the meter is available fromGreen Energy Options, where it's the cheapest in its range, at £39. Installation is fabulously simple: find your meter, clip the supplied magnetic loop around an input wire, pair with your readout meter, take the meter somewhere and start fretting about how much energy you're using. (The device itself, by the way, uses about 0.25kWh per year.)The meter offers lots of different settings. The standard one is an immediate readout of how much energy you're using at the moment, with a total for the day below it. You can also see how much carbon dioxide you're producing to power that TV.You can set yourself a daily consumption target. Or, more attention-grabbingly, how much money you've burned today, or this month, or in this billing cycle, or against a target.To figure out your monetary consumption, you have to enter your tariffs, which is easy enough – except if, like me (with E.ON) you have tariffs that don't begin and end at times of day, but after you've used a certain number of kilowatt hours. Simple enough, though: take your last bill, put in the average price per kilowatt, you're away.So now you now much how energy you're using, and how much it costs. And this will obsess you. The numbers will harass you. Put the kettle on? Are you mad? That's 3 kilowatts in a burst!The most dangerous time is when you are left alone in the house, just you and the monitor. You will watch its ebb and flow and wonder: what the hell is using all that energy? It will certainly get you leaping to replace your incandescent bulbs with low-energy ones (and in time those with LEDs). Then you'll be wandering around turning off things to see how much energy they're using. (Sky+ boxes use more than 100W while on standby, I found to my surprise.)Will this change your behaviour? It may, but unlike the car dashboard readout, you have surprisingly little control over a lot of your energy use beyond a certain point. The fridge, the lights, some TV … sure, it adds up, but you can't do it more efficiently per se, unlike driving. Over time, you'll probably ignore it for the most part, and only notice it if something jumps in the consumption.In short: wonderful at first, and then part of the wallpaper. Which isn't to say that it's not useful.Pros:simple setup, clear readout, lot of choices; potential big savingsCons:may lead to mild obsessionbritishgas.co.uk
Today's announcement by Google that it willchange the way that subscription content is listed in Google Newsis nothing if not carefully timed. The internet's most powerful company hopes it canquieten some of the aggravation with newspaper groupsand shift the conversation about paywalls andpotential collaboration with its rivals.But underneath the headlines, it's worthunpacking the news- because while some paywall-happy publishers may feel giddy at forcing Google's hand, the truth is that the changes are actually a limitation, not an expansion, of what they can do.Here are a few points worth remembering.&bull;This change really only affects the small proportion of traffic coming through Google News. Despite the obsession that some media industry folk have with it, Google News is small fry compared to Google's main search index. A quick look at the traffic figures for the Guardian's technology pages, for example, suggests that Google News is responsible for around 2% of all the readers that come our way, while Google itself brings maybe a quarter of traffic. Those figures are pretty representative across the industry.&bull;Google News already allowed subscription content, but in the past a publisher had to agree to let Google privately index the entire article. That's why, if you search for some obscure term like "orange space camel" in Google News, you might end up getting a link back to a big subscription database or pay-per-article newspaper archive. Google knew your article included the terms you were looking for, but readers had to pay to find out why. This isn't a new thing.&bull;These changes reduce the visibility of subscription contentbecause Google News will now only index the content that readers can actually see. Whether that's the headline, the first paragraph or a summary of the article, it means your paywalled content is most likely going to becomemore obscurewith this move. It doesn't matter whether your story mentions the "orange space camel" somewhere - if it's not in the preview text, it won't appear in a search.&bull;First Click Free makes Google more powerful, not publishers. The scheme which allows Google's main search index tosend traffic to paywalled storiesis used by lots of publishers (including Rupert Murdoch's own Wall Street Journal). It lets readers get a taste of the product before bringing down the subscription curtain. Google says it's expanding FCF to give publishers finer controls, but the irony is that it actually makes Googling the news easier for casual drive-by readers without increasing the value to publishers. Just compare a visit to the WSJ for a subscriber and a casual Googler: if I'm a subscriber, I have to make sure I'm logged in or I can't see the page in question. If I come from Google, there's no sign-in, no barrier to entry, no annoying reminders. It's easier - and cheaper - for readers to use Google as an intermediary preciselybecausethe Wall Street Journal uses FCF.&bull;It's the job of the news business to fix its problems. There's a lot of rhetoric banging about that visitors from sites like Google are"worthless"or oflittle value. While that's true in one sense (in fact, serving millions of page impressions to people who don't bring you profit actually costs you money), the language shows that there's been a fundamental misdiagnosis of the problem. Readers who arrive at your website have the potential to be turned into more valuable customers, and it's a publisher's responsibility to convert their attention into profit. It isn't the fault of the referrer or the readers themselves that news companies are unable to do that to the same extent that they did in the past. If hundreds of people like your shop's window display so much that they come in, it's the owner's responsibility to sell your products to them - not the window dresser's.Ultimately, Google knows it has a bit of a PR problem with news publishers. Rupert Murdoch's banging the drum fiercely and trying to unite the troops, either in the hope of squeezing money out of Google or (on a more Machiavellian note) forcing everyone to bring in paywalls before launching a price war. That's why the internet giant is making this sort of announcement in an attempt to appease those who grow angry with it.But if publishers think today's news is a solution, then it's because they've misunderstood what's happening and how to fix it. It reminds me of an episode of House - a bizarre complication emerges that sends everyone into a tizzy; the medical team think they know what the issue is, but in treating for the wrong condition they actually make things worse; eventually, Hugh Laurie has a blinding insight that tells him what the real disease is - and suddenly curing it becomes the simplest thing.The truth is, you'll never fix something if you don't really understand what's going on.
Companies that create content, whether news, music or films, are looking for ways to make money, and one strategy is bundling content with an increasing range of electronic gear.Of course, this isn't new. You only have to think back to 2004 and thespecial edition U2 iPodthat was bundled with vouchers for special video content from the band and also a special offer on a U2 digital "box set". However, bundling content with devices is becoming more commonplace not only in terms of the types of content but also in terms of types of devices.In an attempt to put something new into national newspapers,the New York Times has recently announced a partnership with Samsung, offering $100 off the Go netbookif you sign up to a one-year subscription to the Times Reader 2.0, which costs $179.40.In terms of music, Logitech scored a coup when Queen agreed to release their Greatest Hits album seven weeks early to people who bought thecompany's Squeezebox radio. Buyers getexclusive commentary and images with the package. The radio can play internet radio stations, stream music stored on your computer and tap into services such as music community site Last.fm and the music recommendation service Pandora.Sony is a rare hybrid company boasting consumer electronics and content, which it's trying to use to its advantage. Sony will give owners of itsBravia networked TVs and connected Blu-ray players an early chance to watch a high-definition streamof Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs before the DVD is released. However, the early showing doesn't come cheap. It wants to charge $24.95, and that is only to rent the stream, not buy a digital file. Ouch! Are people going to pay £15 for the privilege of renting a movie a week early? Would you?We're going to see a lot of different mixes of material as content companies try to make money in the digital, networked world. The NY Times bundle is based on offering a discount with the bundle. Logitech chose offering exclusive content, and Sony is offering an early viewing to people who buy its networked video gear. Which are you going to put your money on?
Are Wikipedia contributors running out of topics to write about? Recently, much has been made of the fact that the growth in the number of new Wikipedia articles has been gradually slowing and thenumber of volunteers apparently falling. But Wikipedia still has much to do: the map above suggests there are still whole continents that remain a virtual "terra incognita" and the next explosive growth in the online encyclopedia will come from places that have not previously been represented.The maprepresents the roughly half million geotagged Wikipedia articles that fall within the boundaries of any one country. These geotagged articles are either about distinct places (such as cities, buildings, forests) or about events that occurred in distinct places.There is clearly a highly uneven geography of information in Wikipedia. The United States has the most articles about places or events (almost 100,000), while some smaller countries such as Tonga have fewer than 10.Stranger than fictionBut it's not just size that is correlated with extremely low levels of wiki representation. Almost the entire continent of Africa is geographically poorly represented in Wikipedia. Remarkably, there are more Wikipedia articles written about Antarctica than all but one of the 53 countries in Africa (or perhaps more amazingly, there are more Wikipedia articles written about the fictional places of Middle Earth and Discworld than about many countries in Africa, Asia, and the Americas).There are some countries that are crammed with a dense amount of floating virtual information, such as Germany (with an average of one article tagged for every 65 square km), while others remain as virtual deserts, such as Chad (with an average of one tagged article every 17,000 square km).Sharp divides between the Global North and the Global South can likewise be seen when looking at the number of geotagged articles per person. Austria, Iceland and Switzerland all have around one geotagged article for every 1,000 people, while in China or Guinea there is just over one article for every 500,000 people.It needs to be pointed out that only a relatively small number of Wikipedia articles are geotagged. The main reason for this is that a lot of information simply isn't geotaggable: It wouldn't make sense to assign co-ordinates to the vast majority of articles on topics such as apples or Teenage Ninja Mutant Turtles.Some explicitly spatial articles do remain untagged. The reason that Burkina Faso has more geotagged articles (1071) than South Africa (945), Kenya (217) and the rest of Africa is probably down to diligent editing rather than more actual content in Burkina Faso.However, in all cases, these numbers pale in comparison to the huge number of articles in places such as the US (89,549) and Germany (54,634). So, I'd argue that: (1) the geographic biases in tagged v untagged articles are relatively small; and (2) because those biases exist we should pay more attention to the general patterns of geographic inequalities in content (ie the fact that there is much more content in the Global North than the Global South) than to the relatively minor differences between places.Every day, countless decisions are made and countless opinions formed based on information available in Wikipedia. If this weren't the case, the articles on Israel, Kashmir and Taiwan would not host such hotly contested edit wars. Representations within the online encyclopaedia therefore undoubtedly have cultural, economic and political effects.Unexplored territoryBut what of the places that aren't even represented? We often hear claims that peer-produced information is broader in scope and more accurate than traditional methods of content creation. This is certainly true, particularly for topics that generate a lot of interest such as "Paris" or "New York". However, as we increasingly rely on (and trust) web 2.0 sources such as Wikipedia, what will be the effects of this new "terra incognita" in our shared map of knowledge?It may be that when broadband reaches more parts of Africa – helped by thelandfall of superfast cablesin August – that&nbsp;more people there will start discovering Wikipedia, and that the site will see a second explosion of new editors and articles about places that have so far been ignored. Or it may be that by then Wikipedia will be passed by in favour of something new.The answers are unclear, but we should nonetheless acknowledge the significant geographic gaps in an encyclopaedia that is described as having reached its limits. It is conceivable that it will only be a matter of time until a new generation of wannabe Wikipedia editors in Zambia, in Indonesia, and in much of the rest of the world begin to fill in the blank spots and construct dense layers of virtual representation.But it is equally conceivable that as peer-produced projects such as Wikipedia become our primary sources of knowledge, we could begin to see permanent information inequalities between different parts of the world. In any case, it is clear that we are far from running out of topics to write about.Mark Graham is a Research Fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute and blogs atzerogeography.blogspot.com
According to a report by the US market analystsRockhopper Researchand Peanut Labs (and with names like those we must take everything they say seriously) video game consoles will be among this year's most requested Christmas presents. It's not rocket science – the arrival ofModern Warfare 2now counts among the planet's most successful entertainment launches. People are waking up to the fact that video games are astonishingly good fun – perhaps even more fun than Jedward. If that's scientifically possible.But if you're thinking of buying a games system this Christmas, and haven't been in a similar position since seeing your best mate's ZX Spectrum twenty20 years ago, here are some classic pitfalls to watch out for …1. The bundle of doomHigh-street retailers like to offer exclusive bundle deals, which usually means a selection of games thrown in with your console of choice. This provides the illusion of good value, without the necessity of discounting the price of the hardware itself, on which margins are rather tight. The problem is, the games are often back-catalogue shovelware, which the shop couldn't give&nbsp;away&nbsp;if sold alone. If in doubt, check Metacritic for the review scores, or go for a package that includes an extra joypad rather than a free game: at least that'll come in useful though make sure it's a genuine peripheral made by the console manufacturer and not a cheap third-party one.2. The cable conundrumYou've unpacked your console and slid it beneath your state-of-the-art 42-inch LCD TV – now for some high-definition gaming action, right? Not necessarily. Both the PS3 and the basic Xbox 360 Arcade edition ship with standard definition AV cables, not the HDMI cables you'll need to get a 1080p or even 720p HD image. Gold-plated HDMI cables aren't particularly expensive, but that's no help on Christmas morning. Prospective Wii owners need not worry – Nintendo's console is standard definition only.3. Peripheral damageConsoles tend to come packaged with just one controller – unless you go for a bundle deal that provides more. So, if you're picturing a Christmas day Wii Sports Resort archery tournament involving your entire family, make sure you buy an extra three Wii Remotes – plus three more Motion Plus accessories (they clip to the remote to make the movement sensing more accurate) while you're at it. Similarly, with music games such as Rock Band and Guitar Hero, although you can buy bundles that include musical instruments make sure there's  enough to go round – do you need to buy an extra guitar so Uncle Jim can go on bass while you take lead? It's best to find that out before December 25th. Also, think about your budget v controller needs; Xbox 360 wired controllers are a few quid cheaper than the wireless ones: fine if you sit near your TV anyway. Also PS3 Sixaxis pads are cheaper than DualShock 3 versions – can you live without vibration? It's a question all of us have to face at some point.4. Getting wiredDo you have a Wi-Fi network in your home? You'll need one if you want to get your Wii online as it only comes with wireless broadband connectivity – you'll need to buy an adaptor if you only have a wired connection. The opposite is true of the Xbox 360 – it's wired as standard, and you'll need a Wi-Fi adaptor (available separately) if you want to go wireless. You might want to bear this in mind if your console is going to live miles away from your Ethernet socket. PS3 handles both.5. Extra problemsIf you're justifying your console purchase as an all-round entertainment device, make sure you understand its capabilities. Both the Xbox 360 and PS3 offer video-on-demand services allowing you to download movies; currently, the Nintendo Wii only offers this service in Japan. Both the PS3 and Wii offer official web browsers and support for the BBC iPlayer, the Xbox 360 doesn't. However, Xbox has a limited Sky TV player, allowing live viewing of selected Sky channels – Wii and PS3 don't have this, though there arerumoursthe latter might soon. Finally, both the PS3 and Xbox 360 will play DVDs out of the box, but only PS3 will play Blu-ray discs. Wii does neither.There, it's all perfectly clear now …
Leading internet companies including Google have written to business secretary Peter Mandelson urging him to change the newdigital economy billto throw out a controversial clause that could give future ministers sweeping powers to change copyright law.Their letter, sent to coincide with today's second reading of the recently announced bill in the Lords, voices support for parts of the bill and a "shared respect" for copyright. But Google, Facebook, Yahoo and eBay also express "grave concerns" over proposed measures "which risk stifling innovation and damaging the government's vision for a digital Britain."They highlight elements of Mandelson's bill introduced at the 11th hour: "In particular, we believe the bill's clause 17 – which gives any future secretary of state unprecedented and sweeping powers to amend theCopyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988– opens the way for arbitrary measures. This power could be used, for example, to introduce additional technical measures or increase monitoring of user data even where no illegal practice has taken place," the letter said.The internet companies warn that such an unclear copyright backdrop could run counter to former communications minister Stephen Carter'sDigital Britain report, which examined ways to ensure the UK remained at the leading edge of the global digital economy."This would discourage innovation, impose unnecessary costs, potentially unsettling the careful balance of responsibilities for enabling market change which Lord Carter outlined in the Digital Britain report," the letter said. "This clause is so wide that it could put at risk legitimate consumer use of current technology as well as future developments ... The industry as a whole had hoped that the outcome of Digital Britain would be a clear, workable set of principles by which the industry could operate. On the contrary, clause 17 creates uncertainty for consumers and businesses and puts at risk the UK's leading position in a digital Europe. We urge you to remove clause 17 from the bill."A spokesman for Mandelson's department sought to reassure the internet companies the government would not abuse any future powers."The law must keep pace with technology, so that the government can act if new ways of seriously infringing copyright develop in the future. However, business will not wake up one morning to a world in which government has taken extensive digital powers," he said.While the digital economy bill waswelcomed by many media companies,which feel their copyright on music, film and other content need better protection online, it has also faced a large amount of opposition from internet service providers and consumer groups.Carphone Warehouseboss Charles Dunstone recentlycondemned as "crazy"plans to combat online piracy by severing people's broadband connections. The group's broadband arm, TalkTalk, has threatened to take legal action if proposals to cut off persistent unlawful online file sharers make it into law.Ane-petition on the No 10 websiteagainst the law has already garnered more than 28,000 signatories and the support of such technophiles as Stephen Fry.
If you're planning to give someone a gadget or gizmo for Christmas, be careful, or, if you can't manage that, at least make it cheap. Gadget geeks tend to know what they want, and they can be unreasonably fussy about what are, to rational people, minor differences in specification. But if you do want to surprise someone with a tech gift, there are plenty of options.One is theKindle ebook reader, which Amazon.com – the US-based version of the  shopping site – says is "the most wished for, the most gifted, and the number one bestselling product across all product categories on Amazon". It hasn't taken off in the UK, because the original version wasn't available here, and the newer, $259 model has only been shipping to the UK for about a month. Why the delay? The system is based on the idea you can buy books from Amazon and they arrive on the Kindle, so it needs access to a mobile phone network. (You're not charged separately for this.)Feel the burnHaving tried a new Kindle, I can attest to the fact that it works well as a portable book reader, and in the UK it alsoprovides free access to Wikipedia. Also, while it has its limitations, it's both relatively rare and easily recognisable. This puts users one up on their fellow commuters.How many people actually need an ebook reader is another matter. Most of us have been getting by with a pocket organiser or PDA, or one of the newer mobile phones. In gift-giving terms, however, today's obvious alternative is theApple iPod touch. The small screen means it's arguably not quite as good as an ebook reader, at least for novel-length texts, but it's dramatically better as an MP3 music player, portable games console, movie and photo viewer, and web browser.The third-generation iPod touch is the more affordable alternative to an iPhone, though it lacks the iPhone's camera, GPS and telephone connectivity, and neither device supports Flash. And having an iPod touch means you can listen to music and send emails without worrying about running the iPhone's battery flat.For people who just want a music player there are more affordable alternatives, includingApple's iPod nanorange. Curiously, the fifth-generation nano includes the camera that the iPod touch lacks. But for music buffs,Sony's range of MP3 playersis now worth considering, as they generally sound better than iPods, and most or all of them ship with better earbuds.Sony has taken a bit of a beating over the past decade, for supporting its own Atrac audio compression (used in the MiniDisc system) and its unlovely PC software, Sonic Stage. The newer Sony MP3 players don't use either. Plug them into any computer's USB port and you can use drag-and-drop to copy music files across under Windows, Mac OS X or Linux. Playing a folder full of classical music tracks is easier than trying to manage them using iTunes, though you'll probably want to renumber the tracks in multidisc sets.While Sony has received lots of attention for its high-end X range of music players, it now has a small clip-style MP3 player that's hard to beat. TheNWZ B143B USB Walkmanstores 4GB of songs for £29.99 and works like a thumbdrive: you plug it into a USB port. Although you can get similar "off-brand" MP3 players for less, the Sony has a quick recharge feature: three minutes of USB recharging provides about three hours of play time.Mobile phones have also made a huge impact on the photographic business, and smartphones often include cameras that capture images with 5 megapixels or more. But they also tend to have very small image sensors, which means image quality doesn't really compare with compact cameras, let alone with consumer-level digital DLR cameras.Watching the detectivesAt the moment, one of the most attractive compacts is theSamsung ES55, a 10.2MP camera for under £75. It's a point-and-shoot model with a 2x optical zoom, but it also has face detection (to get people in focus), blink and smile detection, and image stabilisation (to reduce blur). It even has a Beauty Shot feature to lighten and smooth your subject's skin. Although it's also available in black, silver and grey, I suspect a lot of its users will want the pink version.Other compact cameras worth a look include the slimlineCanon Digital Ixus rangeand thePanasonic Lumixmodels, particularly theTZ7(£229). This has a 25mm wide-angle Leica lens with a 12x optical zoom and lots of electronic features for simple picture taking; it also takes high-def movies (1280 x 720 pixels) in AVCHD LiteFor people who just want to take simple movies, theFlipUltra HDis the popular choice. Flip, now owned by Cisco, popularised very small Flash-based point-and-shoot camcorders, and remains the market leader. The Ultra HD comes in two versions – you can have 4GB (£90) or 8GB (£120) of storage – and is small enough to carry everywhere. It's great for capturing things for sharing on YouTube, or posting on blogs, and even a child can use one.But the Flip Ultra's simplicity comes with a lack of versatility. The lens is fixed-focus, there's no optical zoom, and the camera is hard to hold still – there's no built-in image stabilisation. Someone who wants to make movies would be much better off buying a more conventional digital camcorder from Canon, Sony, Panasonic or similar company. ThePanasonic SDR-S26(£170), for example, has a 70x zoom lens, image stabilisation, face detection and a night-view mode. It uses SD cards for storage, so you don't need to be near a PC.There are also plenty of high-definition (HD) models around now, at more affordable prices. A good example is thePanasonic HDC-SD10(£313), but buying and using an HD camcorder needs a bit more research than picking up a Flip Ultra HD.Widening the netWhen it comes to computers, netbooks are an attractive option as they are relatively cheap and work as companion PCs for people who already have larger notebooks and desktops. It's also a market where model ranges change quickly, so older netbooks are often available at substantial discounts.This Christmas,Samsunglooks likely to continue the success it enjoyed with its first netbook, theNC10, which offered a good specification and decent build quality at a reasonable price. That has now been upgraded to theN130, which is available in black, white and pink, and still runs Windows XP. The keyboard, 10.1in screen and lightweight design (1.3kg) make it very good value at a discount price of around £229. There's also a slightly more luxuriousN140version with better battery life for an extra £50.Asus, which kicked off the netbook market with its Eee PC range, now has the thin ultraportable1005HA Seashell(£250), which offers an "isolated keyboard" – spaced out flat keys – and "up to 10 hours" battery life, against the Samsung's claimed six hours. In other respects, the systems are similar and neither would disappoint.The computer industry also provides thousands of peripherals that could be potential gifts, includingmonitors, keyboards, mice, webcams, and thumbdrives. But the one thing almost everyone wants is more external hard drive space, and terabyte (1TB) drives are now available for less than £70. An external hard drive isn't the most romantic gift, but it's one that will actually get used, rather than ending up in a drawer – or at Oxfam!
I must admit I was a tad jealous of Keith and Greg getting to sift through the Xmas Xbox and PS3 picks – on the face of it, there are slim pickings for Wii owners when it comes to Autumn releases. Dig a little deeper however and you'll see there are a few interesting titles out – and hey, if you're buying presents for someone whose sole console is a Wii, chances are they don't like games that much anyway ...1.Lego Indiana Jones 2You're probably familiar with the Lego game series by now – and this Indiana Jones themed sequel is possibly the best offering yet. Improved multiplayer gameplay, plus the opportunity to play through sections of all four Indy films (focusing on the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull) means this is a must for fans of the whip-wielding archeologist and the Lego games franchise.2.DJ HeroIt's a difficult choice between this and the Beatles Rock Band for a music game for the list, but let's assume you're a bit bored of pressing buttons on the big plastic guitar by now and fancy a different challenge – DJ Hero offers it. And if you're one of the neglected minority of adult gamers who wouldn't say rock music is their favourite genre, it's refreshing to be able to play with an entirely different (and, let's face it, cooler) type of music.3.New Super Mario Bros WiiMario back in 2D for a major console release for the first time in over 10 years. If that isn't enough to persuade you, expect more of the innovative level design and nostalgia-infused charm seen in Super Mario Galaxy, minus the head-spinning 3D bits. Okay, so it hasn't exactly reinvented the wheel, but for Wii owners who've missed out on Mario's DS adventures, this will provide some solid entertainment.4.Wii Fit PlusYou liked Wii Fit? You want more Wii Fit? Then this improved and expanded update of the original is probably exactly what you need. Got to start working off that Christmas dinner sometime.5.Dead Space ExtractionProclaimed by our own Steve Boxer as one of the best Wii games of the year, Dead Space Extraction offers adult horror action for a console sorely lacking such titles. Sure, if you're into this sort of thing you've probably got an Xbox but if you're a one console family, and fancy something darker than Mario Kart, this should be right up your alley.6.Mario and Sonic at the Winter OlympicsA game clearly so fun that Nintendo thought it would be cruel to make us wait a few months (until it actually was the Winter Olympics) to buy. Well, perhaps not, but this has all the right ingredients for Wii remote-waving family fun over the Christmas break – and it's still a thrill to see the plumber and hedgehog share the same screen. Even when they're figure skating ...7. Muramasa: The Demon BladeMuramasa has acquired something of a cult-following in the US where it's been out for a few months now. It's been seen as a bit of a niche title with it's subtitles and retro 2D-side scrolling action, but it looks like the gorgeous visuals and sound more than make up for it. Could be a good surprise choice for that Wii gamer who has (almost) everything.8. Tony Hawk: RideOkay, so this hasn't come out yet but couple the consistency of the Tony Hawk's franchise with a new 'revolutionary' skateboard shaped Wii remote (see this video (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5LOdDT6rZs8) from E3) means this could well breath new life into the genre. And if not, hey, just because it's not 2002 anymore doesn't mean you can't still enjoy skateboarding games.9. Spore HeroA fairly simple platformer but one with some pleasingly original touches, and if you enjoy character customisation you're really in for a treat. More for the kids, perhaps, but this version of Will Wright's evolution themed original should have something to offer grown-ups, too.10.Rabbids Go HomeMore zany action from the Rabbids franchise - which, if you're unaware, is actually a spinoff from Rayman, originally an underwhelming Playstation platformer. Promised to be more ambitious than its predecessors, the game has been remarkably well received, and could prove to be a sleeper hit. Apparently it's quite funny too.(11th obscure choice) We Wish You A Merry ChristmasI'm struggling to think of any strictly Christmas related console releases since the 80s – after all, it's a bit strange to make a game that's obsolete for 11 months of the year. Sadly, We Wish You A Merry Christmas only seems to be a US release. It's bound to fill a lot of stockings across the pond though (it's a very easy lazy present choice for parents), and promises sleigh-loads of puzzles and minigames. It even has an advent calendar function, because, hey, who hasn't looked at a regular advent calendar and hated how old-fashioned and tangible it is.
Titled "My name is John Martson", this is the second trailer from the forthcoming western shooter from Rockstar San Diego.Red Dead Redemptionis set in the early days of the twentieth century, over twenty years after 2004's Red Dead Revolver. The game follows ex-outlaw Marston as he journeys through the southern states and into a wartorn Mexico.I went to Rockstar's London HQ for a hands-on with the game last week - I'll be running that on the blog soon. For now, enjoy the Leone-inspired cinematics...
This is Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox. While you're here, why not check out thenew Red Dead Redemption trailer, or one of our Christmas buying guides (available inPS3andXboxflavours).Quote of the moment:"Wonderful scenes on MW2 last night, there were 18 of us at one point. Tremendous. Held my own in the deathmatch games and KDR too an absolute hammering in the domination ones. There are some tasty players out there now, one dude duel wielding sawn-off shotguns was a monster. He'll haunt my dreams for a long time."BigWorv discovering the wonder of Modern Warfare...
&bull;Facebookhas finally instituted new privacy settings and pulled the plug on local, city-based networks in its attempt. Co-founder Mark Zuckerbergexplains it a little in a post on the Facebook blog, suggesting that it is an attempt to "create a simpler model for privacy control" - though whether it pans out that way or not has yet to be seen. The change takes place as of now, but the announcement isn't strictly new - we first reported that this was due to happenback in the summer.&bull; For anyone who rolls their eyes at the idea of stories about Facebook, the next headline isn't going to make you any happier, given that it spins off the only startup that's more over-saturated in the media than Zuckerberg's baby.Twitterco-founder Jack Dorsey officially unveiled his new project,Square, on Tuesday - it's a little gizmo that turns an iPhone into a credit card scanner, with the idea that itgives anyone with a handset the ability to take physical payments. The company's already got $10m in funding (which TechCrunch says gives it a $40m valuation even before it launches anything).&bull; Oh, and you'll be pleased to hear that thelatest episode of the Guardian's Tech Weekly podcast is now live. In the host's chair, once again, is the inimitable Susi Weaser, who oversees a show in which we hear from Josh Harris -the internet entrepreneur whose obsession with surveillance turned him into the subject of award-winning documentary We Live in Public- and find out more about the (slightly odd) launch ofFreeview HD.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It's not often that the promotional game for a forthcoming movie interests me as much as the film itself, but this is certainly a case in point. To lead up to the release of Guy Ritchie's idiosyncratic Sherlock Holmes interpretation, Warner Bros has commissioned a fascinating co-operative experience entitled221B. Accessed via Facebook Connect, it's a sort of Myst-style graphical adventure, in which players must solve a series of crimes by reading witness reports, analysing evidence, interrogating suspects and occasionally chasing shadowy ne'er-do-wells through alleyways in Flash minigames.The really clever bit is that when you sign-up, you select whether you want to play as Holmes or Watson, then nominate a friend to take on the other role – both players need to work together as they'll receive different clue elements; Watson isn't privy to the crime scene data while Holmes doesn't have the stomach for interrogations. Players can swap theories via an in-game notebook before coming to a series of deductions about each crime scene. Correct deductions earn you reputation points, which can be spent on getting hints later on when your detection skills become unstuck.The presentation is absolutely beautiful, filled with authentic-looking Victorian documents, mini-movie segments and sepia-tinged photographs. The point-and-click interface is clear and intuitive, allowing you to discover and investigate multiple sources as well as filter evidence (focusing on certain characters or types of document, for example) to aid in your process of elimination and cross-referencing.New cases will be released every week up to the movie's Boxing Day release, and the game narrative leads neatly to the opening of the film, providing a few titbits about the film's antagonist, the Catacomb killer…221B is a great little game in its own right, but it's also an important exploration of new interactive storytelling possibilities. "Our intention," explains the game's creators in their press release, "is to take the things we love about ARG - the mystery, the excitement, the conversation and collaboration - and marry them with elements more traditionally found in adventure games - locations to explore, characters to interrogate (through natural language AI, which we're very proud of), even villains to pursue (in the form of flash games)." 221B was created for Warner Bros. Pictures by futuristic media agencyAKQAandHide&amp;seek, a social gaming collective, responsible for lots of interesting pervasive gaming projects as well as its own festival.Through the combination of social networking staples (there are Twitter feeds, too, includingthe amusing diary of Homes' landlady, Mrs Hudson) and the cooperative investigation techniques invited by the augmented reality gaming genre, it is doing some really cutting edge stuff with the notion of online narratives and meta-narratives. As with Smoking Gun Interactive's similarly intriguingExoriareit hints at a near-future in which demarcations between gaming, online socialising and web surfing become irrevocably blurred.Have a go yourself righthere...
Home secretary Alan Johnson has defended his decision not to step into the case of Pentagon hacker Gary McKinnon, who faces extradition to the United States for breaking into US government computers eight years ago.McKinnon, 43, is due to be extradited to Virginia amid allegations that he caused hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of damage to US government computers - but campaigners say he should be tried in the UK.Last week Johnson saidhe did not have the power to intervene, and today reiterated his reasoning after McKinnon's MP, David Burrowes, tabled an urgent question in parliament."I'm the only person who can make this decision and I have to make it on the basis of the facts and all the facts - and it is a quasi-judicial decision," Johnson told the house.The home secretary said he believed there was no chance that the unemployed systems administrator from north London would face serving any sentence in a high security prison, contrary to assertions made by McKinnon's lawyers. He also accused campaigners of a "faint anti-Americanism", but did indicate that he could give them more time to ask for a judicial review of the case."I am currently considering a request from Mr McKinnon's lawyers for an extension of the seven-day time limit," he added.Johnson's stance comes after a sequence of previous home secretaries also rejected calls to act on McKinnon's behalf - although one of them, David Blunkett,has since joined the campaign to protect himwhen it emerged that he has been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome.Burrowes was one of a number of MPs who attacked Johnson's position as "spineless", while Liberal Democrat Chris Huhne said the home secretary was "brave" to push through the decision given that McKinnon is thought to be a suicide risk.Johnson rejected those attacks and said he was merely following the law."I accept the vulnerability of Gary McKinnon, as I accept the vulnerability of many cases going through for extradition," he said. "It's a very heavy burden on any home secretary's shoulders, but nevertheless my job is to uphold the law."Although McKinnon has admitted to breaking into computers belonging to the Pentagon, Nasa and other US government agencies, he has contested the idea that his actions caused any damage. The self-confessed "bumbling nerd" says he was looking for evidence of alien activity, but US government lawyers have estimated the cost of his infiltration at $700,000 (£421,000).
James Cameron himself has emphasised the closeness between his first post-Titanic blockbuster and the accompanying game, pinpointing sharing of computer-generated assets and the game's role in fleshing out Avatar's back-story.This raised hopes that Avatar (the game) could strike a blow against the poor esteem in which games-of-films are held. The reality, although not without merit, is ultimately faintly disappointing. Avatar is a third-person shooter with some clever touches, most notably a storyline which branches at a crucial point, early in proceedings, letting you choose whether to play as the indigenous Na'vi or the US military-style RDA. This really lets you immerse yourself in the Avatar universe, experiencing the struggle between the two sides at first hand. Graphically, it is hugely impressive, and the planet, with its lush, alien flora and fauna, is rendered with incredible attention to detail. The difference between the heavily armed RDA and the Na'vi, with little but bows and arrows, powerful melee weapons and a knowledge of how to encourage the vegetation to turn against their oppressors, is also nicely observed.But one feels that the gameplay has suffered at the hands of such fidelity to the film, and the perennial problem of third-person shooters – losing track of enemies' whereabouts once they get close to you – is annoyingly present, although several devices are employed in attempt to ameliorate it, such as an evading roll and the ability to launch an attacker-repelling shockwave (which is too fiddly to launch regularly). The targeting system also feels oversimplified – it has an excessive amount of lock-on "snap", and it ought to give you a clearer indication of whether enemies are out of range.Avatar is also unduly reticent about hand-holding in the early stages – in order to find how to pilot the RDA vehicles (and Na'vi creatures), you have to delve around in the "Pandorapedia". As you progress, you acquire handy special abilities, such as rendering yourself invisible for a short burst or healing damage, which are key to making smooth progress through the game, but you have to work at arranging them, too. The result being that, early on, you tend to die with annoying frequency. It's a good job that the game is heavily checkpointed, and at least lack of ammo is never a problem. Once you work out how to maximise your special abilities, however, you find an immersive, easy-on-the-eye experience with a great storyline, especially if you play as the Na'vi – although it's a good idea to play as the RDA first, as the extra firepower makes it easier to survive.Avatar, then, won't trigger rapture among hardcore gamers – but fans of the film will delight in how it lets you get deep into the goings-on on the moon Pandora.
Bwaaaaaah! What's that noise? Just the rabbid in your Wiimote rattling about and bouncing off the walls, probably because you've spraypainted him orange, stamped on some tattoos, put his head in a vice, and topped the whole thing off with an octopus hat.You'd be bwaaaaah!ing too. Ubisoft's neat little trick of giving you three rabbids with which to complete your mission – one pushing an old supermarket trolley, one atop it, and that pesky one you're told is in your controller – sets the tone for Rabbids Go Home. A departure from the previous Rabbids titles in that it's more platform than minigame and doesn't rely so heavily on the novelty of the Wiimote, its characters are still every bit as anarchic - and this time there's no annoying Rayman to dilute their screen time.Using the nunchuck as your main controller, you guide the rabbids' trolley around the city's sewers, filling it with objects and junk to be delivered back to Rabbid HQ. The critters have it in their heads that they need to build a pile of rubbish to the moon, from where (they think) they came. Each area has lots of small bits of trash to be collected up, along with one big item that scores you the majority of your points. Get enough, and the prizes you win unlock extras to allow you to customise your rabbids with tattoos and the like. For the main point, all this collecting is lots of fun: repetitive fun at points, certainly, and without a decent difficulty curve which can be annoying as you do the same task over and over. It does sometimes feel that you're whizzing round the beginning part of the game just to get it done with, rather than because it's challenging – extra tasks and moves are introduced, but essentially you're really controlling the trolley (which doesn't have a jump button); bwaaaaah!ing at humans to shake all their clothes off, which you can then collect, or dogs to make them die, or objects to make them give up their junk; and shooting the rabbid cannonball that is inside your Wiimote.What makes Rabbids good is the goofy creatures themselves. There are lovely animations between areas, some great graphics (although, as you can't control the camera angle, they're not always shown off to their best), and a kind of anti-consumption message throughout. The rabbids, running about collecting tat basically, are juxtaposed with over consuming humans and their humdrum lives. Quite how that tallies with you going out and buying a) a(nother) console and b)the game, I'm not quite sure. And at times it gets preachy, particularly because while most of the areas are varied, they do repeat to an extent, leaving you overdosed on anticonsumerism. If you can cope with that, though, Rabbids Go Home gives the Wii a decent platform game of its own. Unlike its predecessors, it's not up to much if you're playing with a friend (the 2-player mode is frankly uninspiring), and the narrative arc is a little lacking. But it's absorbing, good looking, and as long as you share their taste in music, the rabbids are manic but sometimes hilarious gaming companions.
The Harvest Moon series has been going for 10 years now and its first outing on the Wii seems like the perfect opportunity for developer Natsume to blow the cobwebs off a solid, enjoyable but increasingly staid set of mechanics.Sadly, within minutes of slipping the disc into the machine any hopes of reinvention are quickly dashed. Tree of Tranquility's blurry graphics and uninspired motion controls reveal another third-party developer with no clear idea of how to exploit Nintendo's quirky machine beyond the desire to cash in on the huge userbase it commands.That's not to say that the game is without merit. Like its many forebears, Tree of Tranquility's familiar tale of a young boy or girl trying to make a success of their farm – carefully tending crops, rearing livestock and whiling away hours fishing, mining, looking for someone to settle down with and attending festivals – is gently compulsive and endearing. But in a world where Nintendo's own Animal Crossing has taken the community aspect and run with it, and Rare's Viva Pinata games have radically and enjoyably developed the animal and plant rearing elements, a traditional Harvest Moon game can't help but feel like substantial but reheated leftovers.It's particularly galling that the generous helping of gameplay is compromised by the laziness of its execution. There's no obvious graphical improvement over the series' last appearance on the Gamecube and for a game that offers obvious opportunities for the interesting application of motion controls, the refusal to imaginatively engage with the Wiimote's capabilities is disappointing. The fact that all of the motion controlled actions can be substituted with button presses tells you everything you need to know.If you're a die-hard Harvest Moon fan you're sure to enjoy this extra helping, while newcomers to the series should find a lot to divert them. But for anyone in between, Tree of Tranquility is unlikely to win them over.
To raise awareness, the sign-in screen of the Twitter homepage has been changed to red, and the tweets can change their colour. If the hashtags #red or #laceupsavelives are included in tweets they will turn the font red from its usual black.The US version of Google.com has a red Aids ribbon on its homepage and provides a link to various charities connected with fighting the disease.And Facebookhas also encouraged members to join redand change their profile pictures to a red logo, and to share a video about the low cost of the treatments it takes to keep patients with HIV alive.Facebook asks users to change their profile pictureDuring 2008 some 2.7 million people became newly infected with the virus and an estimated 2 million people died from Aids. According to figures of UNAIDS, estimated 33.4 million people live today worldwide with the HIV virus.The World Aids day is dedicated to raise awareness of the spread of HIV infection. It is a day when people who died of thedisease are commemorated. Since 1995 the President of the United States makes an official proclamation.What do you think, are these good or bad examples for today's five-minute-activism? Are they just empty online symbols of a good conscious while nothing will change. Or are they raising awareness?
Over the past couple of days a short essay by Aaron Swartz has been doing the rounds, in which he details theprocess he uses to hire programmers.I've mentioned Swartz in the past, not least for his stance as aWikipedia inclusionistin my August article on the future of the online encyclopedia (a piece which feedsback into the conversation about the site's editor numbersthat took place last week). Swartz's day job at the moment is as much about politics as it is programming - he works withWatchdog.netand Lawrence Lessig'sChange Congressgroup - but his approach is pretty sensible. As he says, it's aimed at smoothing over some of the processes that have evolved in the industry over the years.The traditional programmer hiring process consists of: a) reading a resume, b) asking some hard questions on the phone, and c) giving them a programming problem in person. I think this is a terrible system for hiring people. You learn very little from a resume and people get real nervous when you ask them tough questions in an interview. Programming isn't typically a job done under pressure, so seeing how people perform when nervous is pretty useless. And the interview questions usually asked seem chosen just to be cruel. I think I'm a pretty good programmer, but I've never passed one of these interviews and I doubt I ever could.A lot of this advice is pretty straightforward, but well reasoned: ask for a real-world sample of code they've worked on; ascertain whether they are knowledgeable, curious and capable of learning; and see if they're the kind of person you can work with. But it's also surprising how few people think through this stuff when they hire - often going on gut instinct, putting coders through a series of byzantine and inappropriate tests, or simply using bureaucracy to eradicate a sensible approach.Any tips of your own for making sure you give the right person a job? Or stories about the worst interviews you've ever been subjected to?
